At the end of the Tourism Industry Forum "Destination North", the member for Duplessis, Mrs. Lorraine Richard, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, the Côte-Nord Tourist Chair | Duplessis, Ms. Nicole Caron, and the Côte-Northern Tourism Chairman | Manicouagan, Ms. Parayse Deschênes, announced two important news for the North Shore tourism industry. This is the renewal of the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement for the Duplessis Region and the Envelope Enhancement for the Tourism Regional Partnership Agreement for the Manicouagan Tourism Region. In total, it's more than $ 1.4 million that will be invested by 2015 for the development of the offer for the tourist regions of Manicouagan and Duplessis. 
In front of more than a hundred regional actors of the tourism industry together for the tourism industry forum "Destination North", MP Richard confirmed the renewal of the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement for the Region Duplessis, with an envelope of $ 727,500.  According to the terms of the agreement, Tourisme Québec and Tourism Côte-Nord | Duplessis will each invest $ 315,000 until 2015. The other financial partners are the Ministry of Culture and Communications ($ 30,000), the Elected Regional Conference (Crés) of the North Shore ($ 37,500), the CLD of the MRC of Sept-Rivières ($ 15,000) and Caniapiscau ($ 15,000). Also signatories of the agreement, the MRCs of Sept-Rivières, the Gulf of St. Lawrence and Minganie, the CLDs of Lower North Shore and Minganie. 
"The renewal of this agreement rejoices, since the amount of investments increases from $ 600,000 to $ 727,500, thanks in particular to the participation of the Cre. This immense region is distinguished by natural attractions that are both spectacular and unique. The partnership agreement gives us the opportunity to invest in the development of these exceptional wealth, "said Minister Bérubé. 
"By this commitment we will once again demonstrate, the priority given to the tourism industry for the benefit of workers and communities. The renewal of the agreement is an excellent news because it turns out a significant financial leverage for the region. Each dollar invested generated $ 3.1 of investments within the industrial, "said the member for Duplessis. 
"The renewal of the agreement confirms the vision and willingness shared by our partners, to facilitate the development, renewal and sustainability of our tourist offer in Côte-Nord | Duplessis. This renewal is ground for the development and innovation efforts that have shown our tourist entrepreneurs, "said Côte-Nord Tourism Chair | Duplessis, Ms. Nicole Caron. 
"In the past year, significant work has been done for the structuring of the North Coastal tourism industry. The Crees and several partners have invested to promote the emergence of a regional vision where the tourism industry put on its strengths to develop at the height of its potential, "added the president of La Côte-Nord, Mr. Julien Boudreau, for whom today's announcement will allow the realization of this vision on the territory Côte-Nord-Duplessis. 
"We hope that this renewal of the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement allows the development of the tourist offer that is important for the economic diversification of our region. We also hope that entrepreneurs will benefit from this economic leverage to bring new projects to emerge and thus contribute to the development of entrepreneurial culture in the region, "supported the CLD President of the MRC of Sept-Rivières, Mr. Gaby Gauthier. . 
"The renewal of this funding will give the chance to further the orientations selected to achieve the economic diversification of our community," said CLD of Caniapiscau, Mrs. Lise Pelletier. 
On last October, Tourisme Québec and Tourisme North / Manicouagan announced the renewal of the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement for the MANICOUAGAN tourist region, with an envelope of $ 600,000, an investment of $ 300,000 per partner, By 2015. Grably graduated from the second edition of this agreement The Ministry of Culture and Communications (MCC), the Cree of the North Shore, the CLDs of Manicouagan and Haute-North Shore for Thus quantify the latter at $ 697,500. 
This contribution is distributed as follows: $ 30,000 from MCC, 37,500 of the North Shore, $ 15,000 of the CLD of Manicouagan and $ 15,000 from the CLD Haute-Côte-Nord. The Côte-Nord / Manicouagan Tourism Chair, positively hosts this envelope bonus. "This is an excellent new since this agreement is part of the continuity of efforts, in recent years to the development of our tourism offer," said Parayse Deschênes. 
"I want to emphasize the excellent work by the two regional tourism associations as well as the various regional partners who have chosen to bring together their strength to align their development and promotion strategy for the development of the North Coast region", concluded MP Richard. 
For the Duplessis region, a first call for projects is currently underway and interested tourist stakeholders have until August 16, 2013 to file their application. Information documents to send a request to the tourist development program are available at the Duplessis Tourist Office. 
For the Manicouagan region, the promoters have until June 14 to submit their request. Information documents to send a request to the tourist development program are available at the Manicouagan Tourist Office. 
