Quebec- The member for Taillon and sentence of the official opposition in terms of health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, strongly denounces the decision of the Minister of Health and Social Services, Gaétan Barrette, "normalize" The billing of expenses accessories to patients in Quebec. Thus, he officializes improvised and unreasonable gaps in the public health regime. This demonstrates, once again, that the minister does not make the right choices. 
"Not only does the minister try to trivialize the turn to privatization in which he entails our public health system, but, in addition, it openly minimizes the brake on access to the care that it is about to impose" standardizing " "Surfacturation, yet recognized by all as being contrary to our laws. If doctors believe that the amounts they receive from the government are insufficient to finance the devices and equipment they need to provide quality and advanced services in private clinics, it is up to them to renegotiate them with the government; Patients do not have to pay for that. Allow incidental charge billing, this is another minister's gift to specialist doctors, at the expense of all Quebec patients and increased access to health care, "said Diane Lamarre. 
"What about the Prime Minister's promise, made last December, not to increase the tax burden of Quebeckers and not to raise taxes and tariffs beyond inflation? The Alliance of Patients for Health assesses $ 50 million a year the amount of ancillary fees. In addition, the number of complaints lodged at the College of Physicians and Reimbursement Applications to the Quebec Health Insurance Régie is increasing. Yes, one asked for an action by the minister in the file, but certainly not to refuse the invoice to patients, "said the member. 
"The tripartite committee that will set the" reasonable "amount for the billing of ancillary fees will consist of representatives of the Ministry and the Medical Federations, and a single independent expert. There is still evidence that the method of remuneration of doctors poses a problem; It is high time that the formula is reviewed to promote better access to health care in the public system, "continued the spokesperson. 
Finally, Diane Lamarre claimed the minister that he deposits his overall health plan and ceases to improvise. "It would be desirable for him to stop making his decisions for his physician colleagues and places the patient at the heart of the health system once and for all," she concluded. 
