Québec- The member for Taillon and spokesman for the Quebecois health and accessibility of care, Diane Lamarre, today filed the petition requiring the end of ancillary fees. 
In the presence of Mr. Pierre-Paul Côté, President of the Retirees Association and Retirees for Education and Other Public Services of Quebec - AREQ (CSQ), Ms. Claire Montour, President of the Quebec Health Federation (FSQ-CSQ), Ms. Line Larocque, Vice-Chair of the Interprofessional Health Federation (FIQ), as well as Mr Stéphane Defoy, Mr. Louis Blouin and Ms. Geneviève Dorval, members of the Fight Committee. Health of the Community Clinic of Pointe-Saint-Charles, the member once again denounced the choice of the Liberal government to reflect to patients a $ 50 million invoice for health services already insured. 
"These are more than 10,500 people who have signed the petition I filed today and that had been initiated by Quebec doctors for the public scheme. The message is clear: authorize the billing of overloads to patients go against our laws and the public health system that we have given ourselves collectively. A register compiled by the Pointe-Saint-Charles Community Clinic also shows that the overload billed to patients for the same service increases from once to each other. The minister must hear right, backward and stop governing for his physician colleagues, to the detriment of patients, "said Diane Lamarre. 
Remember that yesterday, the alliance of patients for health and many partners, including the Cancer Protection Coalition, the Cancer Priority Coalition in Quebec, the grouping of general practitioners for engaged medicine and Mr. Jean-Pierre Ménard, have Vividly denounced the bills of the Minister Barrette as well as the legalization of ancillary fees, and they demanded a moratorium on all cuts in health services. 
"Today, together, we ask the minister to listen to the actors who express themselves in one voice: he must protect universal and free access to health services for all Quebeckers. I once again urge the government to call Bill 491, An Act to terminate ancillary fees, which I filed on October 21, "concluded the member. 
