Quebec- The Quebec Party spokesperson for health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, invites Quebeckers and Quebeckers to sign the petition demanding the abolition of ancillary fees.Celle is accessible on the website of the National Assembly. 
"I invite you to sign in large numbers this petition initiated by Quebec doctors for the public scheme. I will file it in the National Assembly in the coming weeks. Express once again the minister barrettes our deepest and total disagreement of his desire to charge patients for insured health services for whom they already pay, through their taxes and taxes, "said Diane Lamarre. 
Remember that the member has filed, last Wednesday, Bill 491, An Act to terminate ancillary costs by changing various legislative provisions. This bill has been supported by many groups and actors in the health community, including MRPP, Rome, AREQ, CSN, CSQ, the Health Solidarity Health Coalition and the FADOQ network. 
"It only takes the government to call this bill so that it is studied and discussed. The population wishes a debate around medical overloads, and the Minister Barrette unilaterally decides to tear the agreed health insurance contract with Quebecers. As for its bills 10 and 20, he works alone and refuses to consult the actors concerned. Yet the minister makes a serious mistake by creating this important breach in our public health system. We are asking him today to call our bill and have the courage and transparency of starting a real public discussion. Access to health care must be fair and just for all. The incidental fees deprive the poorest of essential access. This includes health risks and, as a result, cause additional costs, "added Diane Lamarre. 
"Finally, I would like to emphasize Quebec's support for Bill 491; The party also asks that the government call it so that the ancillary costs are abolished once and for all. What about CAQ and its health spokesperson, François Paradis? Will he recognize the inequity created by the Minister Barrette and his amendments? Who is silent consents. Will he, too, support the bill? ", Concluded the member. 
