Quebec- The member for Rosemont and spokespersons of the Quebecois Party on social services and youth protection, Jean-François Lisée, like his colleague MP for Taillon and spokesperson for health and accessibility to care , Diane Lamarre, finds that a true consensus is being profiled as to the prohibition of ancillary fees. 
"We are asking the Minister of Health to listen to the 14 political, social and healthcare players who claim that this unacceptable practice ceases. Last week, the citizen protector asked the Minister of Health to give up his desire to charge patients for insured services. Ms. Raymonde Saint-Germain, the Protector, says in his report that "this way of doing things may contribute to the emergence of a two-speed system: a rapidly clinical path for those who have the means to pay and a path Slow leading to the hospital for others ", and that" any change which aims to legalize a direct invoicing to users, for ancillary costs [...] constitutes an unfair avenue ". The minister must give up once and for all to charge an umpteenth increase in the remuneration of physicians by patients, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
The Parti Québécois is pleased that the Coalition Future Québec (CAQ) finally decides to oppose the legalization of ancillary fees. "When we proposed an amendment to prohibit the ancillary fees, in parliamentary committee last week, to our astonishment, the CAQ refused to pronounce and refrained from voting, claiming a consultation rather than the abolition of Overloads imposed on patients. We are looking forward to seeing today that the CAQ rallies to our request, and that it concedes that it is indecent that the same man who has admitted, in 2013, that the ancillary costs took the patients hostage, Gaétan barrette, Today, asks these same patients to release their credit card to pay them, "continued the spokesperson. 
"The minister has only one ally in his goal of rendering legal surfacturation, so allowing doctors to make profit thanks to these overloads: the Federation of Medical Specialists of Quebec. Gaétan barrette must stop being the representative of specialist doctors and act as the Minister of Health of Quebec patients. Currently, it makes us the demonstration that it is not able to get out of its FMSQ negotiator role. Perhaps he should have, as we had proposed at the time, let his colleague from the Treasury Board negotiate with the doctors, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
