Quebec- "How the Minister of Education, François Blais, he was able to reject a motion, tabled today at the National Assembly by the Parti Québécois, which simply asked him to visit a single school of The Montreal School Board? He sorry Alexander Cloutier, spokesman for the Quebecois Party in terms of education and educational perseverance. 
"The Minister of Education has been in office for 236 days and he still has not bothering to visit only one of the 191 schools of the biggest school board in Quebec, while he has not stopped criticizing his management. It's ridiculous, "said the member for Lac-Saint-Jean. 
Since his appointment, indeed, Minister Blais has been mostly illustrated by his refusal to go on the ground to see what's really going on in schools. "François Blais manages the education of the top of his office at the G complex, looking at the columns of numbers. Obviously, what is happening on the ground - what young people live, teachers, education professionals and school directors - it does not matter. He should defend education, rather than carrying the lodging of the President of the Treasury Board, Martin Caitous, and to say that he would be "clumsy" to reinvest in education, "said the member of the Quebecois. 
"If the minister took the trouble to go to the Montreal schools, it would see the decayed state of classes and gyms that are frequented by small Montrealers every day. It would also see temporary trailers that have been installed because of student overpopulation. Does he know that CSDM has a maintenance deficit of its $ 1 billion buildings? We do not understand why the minister continues to dwell ear, "concluded Alexander Cloutier. 
The motion rejected by the Liberal government reads as follows: 
"That the National Assembly stresses that the Minister of Education, Higher Education and Research has not yet visited the School of the Montreal School Board; 
She asks her to go on the ground and to visit primary and secondary schools from the Montreal School Board. » 
