Montreal- The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane de Courcy, is proud to announce that an advanced online-line course as well as new modules specialized are now accessible to people selected by Quebec. This is how the minister emphasized the fifth year of existence of French online courses (FEL), an original and innovative formula for the teaching of French. "I really believe in the contribution of new technologies for the francization and integration of immigrant people. Also, I am particularly happy with the success of French online courses. These courses are part of a set of means put in place to contribute to successful integration, in French, immigrants and their francization abroad, "said Madame de Courcy. 
In order to diversify its online course offer, the Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities has indeed proposed, in addition to the French-stage French course, an advanced French course and learning modules oriented towards precise professional domains. These specialized modules meet the French development needs of immigrant people who want to practice their profession in Quebec. 
"By deciding to come to work in Quebec, immigrants have chosen to adopt its common language, French. Bill 14, which is currently under discussion at the National Assembly, aims, in particular, to keep the promise made to immigrants, namely that they have the right to live and work in French in Quebec. The bill is also accompanied by measures to increase the offer of French online courses for immigrants, so that they can perfect their mastery of French, which is particularly important to me, "added the minister. Diane de Courcy. 
Recall that French online courses have been available abroad since 2008 and Quebec since 2009. Since their launch, thousands of people have been able to not only improve their knowledge of French, but also appropriate values and codes cultural society of Quebec. The first year, 2,012 people registered for online courses. During the fifth year, 5,537 students (including 1,549 immigrant people in Quebec) who took online courses. 
The minister would like to thank educational institutions that have designed for the Department a set of innovative products for online French teaching. Thus, the CEGEP @ distance has developed the advanced French course, the specialized health and nursing module and the computerized adaptive classification test with the collaboration of the Collegiate Center for the Development of Didactic Equipment. The Remote Training Innovation Center of Cégep de Matane has developed specialized engineering and applied science modules, as well as administration, law and business. 
Online francization has won numerous awards since its launch. She received the Online Government Award from the Quebec Institute of Public Administration in 2009. The Canadian Education Innovation Network also awarded two prizes: the price of excellence and innovation in pedagogical design In 2009 and Partnership and Collaboration in 2010. The Department's initiative was also subject to other prices and mentions over the years. 
Online teaching specialists, researchers, representatives of various institutions and organizations across the world communicated with the Department to better understand its online francization offer. This is recognized as a model for language teaching online. Several items were published on the subject in specialized journals, a sign of its high quality, its reputation and its success. 
To know the online francization, register or consult the admission requirements: www.franciseenligne.gouv.qc.ca. 
