Montreal- As the leader of the Coalition Future Québec (CAQ), François Legault, denounces the lamentable state of public finances for years, it does during this campaign unrealistic promises without saying where it will take the money. "François Legault has become populist. He wants to buy votes with Monopoly's money. Yesterday, he presented erroneous figures on the repayment of the debt, which would actually take 400 years to materialize, and today he spends $ 2.5 billion without saying where he will take the money, asking for more To the population to trust him blindly, "said Quebec's candidate in the riding riding, Nicolas Marceau. 
"It is totally irresponsible to spend $ 2.5 billion by simply claiming to be able to clear this amount by making household in the state. François Legault knows very well. He repeated him daily when he was a member of the Parti Québécois and spokesperson for finance. The head of the CAQ used to be much more rigorous than it is today, "he added, mentioning that the commitment to give $ 1,000 per family is about thought Magic. 
"In 2007, when the Liberal government proposed to lower taxes of $ 950 million, François Legault was the first to say that it was an irresponsible gesture by Jean Charest because Quebec did not have the means. Five years later, the situation of public finances has deteriorated: there is a deficit to be tested and a debt that has increased by $ 63 billion since the arrival of the Liberals in power, "said Nicolas Marceau, adding That François Legault became worse than Jean Charest. 
"To identify the room for maneuver to pay this measure of $ 2.5 billion, it would be necessary to cut 54,000 of the 63,000 Government of Quebec officials. Abolish school boards, health agencies and 7,000 positions in Hydro-Québec will not suffice to pay the cost of this promise. François Legault must tell Quebeckers where he will take the money to pay this unrealistic promise since he had already affected the hypothetical money of these cuts to pay the salary increase in physicians and teachers. He promises to use the same money to pay two different promises, "continued Nicolas Marceau. 
The Québécois Party has committed to abolishing the health tax on February 12, 2012 and to do so at zero cost by asking for additional contribution to taxpayers whose annual income is greater than $ 130,000 and by reducing tax privileges. certain financial assets. 
In February, the CAQ voted against a motion proposing the abolition of the health tax presented by the Parti Québécois at the National Assembly 
