Montreal- The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane de Courcy, wishes to let her positively host the concerns expressed by the Autonomous Federation of Education and the Organizations expressed at the press conference today, with regard to the francization of immigrant people and non-Francophones and their integration into Quebec society. "This concern joins my immigration mandate as well as that relating to the language. The vitality and quality of French, which includes the francization of newcomers, is clear for me a priority, "says the minister. 
The Government Services in Francization are offered by three partner departments: the Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities, the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport and Employment-Québec. French courses for adult immigrants are offered in various educational institutions and organizations in Quebec and abroad. Last year, nearly 45,000 people were able to enjoy the government service offer. As for the children of immigrant persons, they attend the French school, in accordance with the provisions of the Charter of the French language. 
"Despite the work done, we know that the needs are great and that efforts are going to do. My colleagues and I have the desire to significantly improve coordination between our departments and to achieve better results, "added the minister. 
The collaboration of departments is essential to join as many people as possible so that they acquire a practical knowledge of the French language, abroad or in Quebec, and so that they can deepen this knowledge so as to integrate quickly The labor market and participate fully in the life of society. 
The Minister receives the mobilization of the environment as an advantage for the success of the mandate that has just been entrusted by the Prime Minister. "One of my priorities will be to ensure that French will resume its place as an official language and language of use anywhere in Quebec. And immigration can contribute to the achievement of this goal. That is why she wants to meet with the representatives of the Autonomous Federation of Education and all stakeholders to chat with them what can be done to improve things. 
