Sarre, February 24, 2018 - It is in the presence of his relatives and friends, the political staff of Sespeaux, members of the Executive of the Parti Québécois of the district of Abitibi-West, the leader of the partickerbecois and Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the Head of Official Opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, Maires and Mayors, Members and Sympathizers Independentists that, when the Party General Assembly, the member d 'Abitibi West and Vice-President of the National Assembly, François GENDRON, officially announced that he will not solicit a new mandate in the electionBecoise of October 1st. 
After 42 years of intense political life, first as a member of Parliament for Abitibo West, after 11 electionsReeps, after heading 8 departments, including 4 with significant budgets and many diversified customers (Mr. Gendron was notably Minister. of Education, Minister of Natural Resources to 12, Minister of State for Development and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food), after hearing all parliamentary positions, including that of Head of Acting Party, the Dean of the National Assembly believes that it has done its large part in active and concrete politics, and that it is time to exceed the torch. 
"I am and will remain faithful to my independence convictions. I will continue to talk about the excellent democratic program that our party has endorsed at the last June National Congress and to the Promanvoir. At the same time, the members of the Parti Québécois unequivocally gave their trust in our leader. Jean-François deserves our full support; I assure him of mine, and I know he can count on the proud party of the Quebecois party, "said François Gendron.Compute the pace of life imposed by a political career, and saw the longevity of that of the deputétendron He considers that it is normal for some fatigue settled and manifested today. "I want to clarify that my decision is not motivated by the cases to be treated, the accompaniment of my world or the parliamentary and political responsibilities that are incumbent. It is rather and more of my many aircraft flights, my innumerable losses from the airports, the fact of being often in my suitcases, not to mention the incalculable number of Kilometers traveled who are in question, "he explained . 
The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, of course welcomed the immense career and the qualities of the esteemed colleague. "François has been perfect for more than 40 years, the example of a member of his world, near his region, in whom we can trust. We owe them great advances for the development of our regions, the protection of our natural resources and our sovereignty, among others. Unlimited activist of the independence of our nation and the place that owe our regions, its contribution to Quebec is invaluable. In the name of all the militants of the particiebois, thank you, François! ", did he declare. 
Le dictionary has to come to Cœurne Les Dwethers to Proficable Son remindefeed, Prince. 
