Quebec - "To Francize each of the immigrants who chooses to become Quebec, the government must give them the means. What we understand from Minister Weil is that she purely renounced. The minister ignores the finding that everyone does: our integration and francization measures are a failure. If it does not bother Kathleen Weil, Quebeckers want Montreal and Quebec remain French, "said the member for Drummond and the official opposition to the language opposition, Yves-François Blanchet. 
"Yesterday, the Minister confirmed the plan already announced before immigration consultations for 2012-2015. The number of new immigrants will remain the same for the next four years, or 50,000 people hosted by year. The Minister claims that there is no need to increase budgets devoted to the francization of immigrants. This statement is irresponsible, while the last figures published by the OQLF, known for the last five years, confirm that the French is receiving in Quebec, particularly in Montreal, "added the member for Drummond. 
"Knowledge of French to live in Quebec is not debatable. Our duty as a host society is to ensure that each immigrant has the first tool for his integration, a common language, the only official language, French. It is also to ensure that French is the language of work, education and living-together. The state must ensure that those who choose Quebec and do not already know our language will learn it before arriving or upon arrival. Currently, about 20% of newcomers who do not know French or speak little on their arrival in Quebec never register for a francization course. However, the minister refuses to give them the chance to integrate fully and to adequately increase the necessary means for their francization and their employment integration. It's deplorable, "added the member for Drummond. 
"The Parti Québécois will ensure that every immigrant masters French and Quebec will cease to see his collective life ride a little more every day. This is a clear commitment! Blanchet concluded Mr. Blanchet. 
