Quebec- The hon. Member for Bonaventure and the official opposition spokesman on informational resources, Sylvain Roy, is worried about the importance of the net by the permanent unit anti-corruption (UPAC) this morning, and Reiterates its request for a more comprehensive investigation into the IT contracts granted by the Government of Quebec. 
"Will the arrests of this morning, in connection with a computer contract at Revenu Québec, will they be sufficient for the President of the Treasury Board, Martin Coiteous, take his responsibilities in the file of the Computer Contracts? The problem persists. There is no vision among the Liberals as to how the Government of Quebec must manage IT. The consultants cost a billion dollars to Quebec citizens last year, and nothing seems to change this year. This is unacceptable! Martin Closedeux must seize the perch we tend him and trigger an investigation into the overall IT management in Quebec, "said Sylvain Roy. 
The hon. Member for Bonaventure recalls that immediate problems related to information resources, such as the lack of competition between biddown companies, the loss of internal expertise or lack of computer planning, are known. The time has come to develop a vision for the future. "The leaving and use of external expertise without limit have failed; The many computer skills, and now the arrests, demonstrate it. We must think more globally, not only for the future of government computer systems, but also for the money of the taxpayers who are wasted now, "added Sylvain Roy. 
"When the Parti Québécois has in power, two regional expertise centers in information resources have been created. We also started an important work of revision of contractual practices in computer science, in addition to setting up a series of measures to promote free software; Moreover, the application of these has been slowed by the Liberal government, but it has not proposed any alternatives. It's time to go further. The Coiteous Minister must trigger an investigation over all IT management in Quebec, "concluded the hon. Member for Bonaventure. 
