Quebec, on January 17, 2017- The spokesman of the Quebecois Environmental and Climate Change Party, Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as the Consumer Protection Spokesperson, Catherine Fournier, claim a sanctioning scheme More severe to counter fraud in motor vehicle emissions. 
In the wake of the Volkswagen scandal, the Canadian Competition Bureau has entered into a $ 2.1 billion agreement with the company last December. With regard to consumers, Volkswagen's offer in Canada is similar to that in the United States. However, in terms of environmental sanctions, the gap is enormous: because of the laws in force in the United States, the US agreement provided for an obligation, for the manufacturer, to invest the equivalent of $ 6.2 billion Canadians in transport pollution and electrification programs. Here, nothing oblige Volkswagen to do the same; The sanctions provided for in federal laws do not have enough teeth. Quebec must therefore accept the settlement without saying anything, when it could have imposed much more stringent sanctions. This right was recognized by the Supreme Court, provided that it is provided for in Quebec law. 
"It is time for Quebec to have a much more severe sanctions regime than the federal system to protect both the interests of citizens and those of the environment; Indeed, if the regulation obtained had been comparable to what the US plan provides, we could have reapped some $ 540 million more to fuel the Green Fund, of which $ 75 million would have been specifically reserved for investments in transportation. , in particular for charging infrastructures for zero emission vehicles, said, from the outset, Sylvain Gaudreault. 
For its part, Catherine Fournier believes that the consumer's interest will be needed. "If other manufacturers are faulty, there will likely be new recourse. The Parti Québécois will remain vigilant. We will continue to demand from the government that it adopts penalties similar to those imposed by the United States. Then, once these measures are in place, we will make sure that they make them apply, "she insisted. 
"Since the Paris Agreement on the climate, the Liberal government prides itself on being an environmental leader. Well, let him prove it! Quebec has any advantage in imposing more stringent sanctions, and to strengthen the application of vehicle engine emission laws as quickly as possible, "concluded Sylvain Gaudreault. 
