Quebec- The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, awarded the Knight's badge of the National Order of Quebec to the storyteller Fred Pellerin at a ceremony held today at the National Assembly. 
Colorful, authentic, atypical, Fred Pellerin is an exceptional multidisciplinary artist who has carried out an enviable place in the Quebec artistic community and, more and more, in Europe. He is an unparalleled ambassador for his country's corner. Thanks to his work, his native village has seen its sociocommunity life enriched and its economy whipped by tourism. In recent years, a bakery, a literature, a restaurant and even a cottage located in the old presbytery were born there. 
"Every day, Quebeckers are changing the world. It is done little by little. A step at a time. Science, Arts, Culture, Research, Medicine ... In all spheres of activity, these unique people repel the barriers of knowledge. Their exceptional work, passion and dedication open new horizons, have a positive influence beyond our borders. Their achievements often radiate national and internationally. These are decision makers, visionaries. They inspire us, make us proud and we want to pay tribute to them. That's why the national order exists, "said the premier at the ceremony. 
Note that some personalities in the artistic world, including the Jacques Lacombe C.Q orchestra leader. 2012, the Isabelle Boulay C.Q interpreter. 2012, the songwriter-songwriter Leonard Cohen G.O. 2008 and the theater man Wajdi Mouawad C.Q. 2010, were received at the national order but could not receive their badge, not being available at the annual remission ceremony, usually held in June. They were also invited to be decorated with the National Order by the Prime Minister on December 19, but they were all outside Quebec. 
Founded in 1984, the National Order of Quebec is the most prestigious recognition awarded by the Quebec state. Members of the Order are eminent personalities that have contributed to the building of a Creative, innovative and solidarity Quebec society. The order of 841 members including 790 Quebec personalities and 51 foreigners, named at the ranks of great officer, officer or knight. 
The biographical notes of Fred Pellerin, C.Q., are attached to this and can also be consulted atwww.ord-national.gouv.qc.ca. 
