Montréal- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, accompanied by the Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier , this morning, met the Office of the Partners - Bridge Champlain to share the strategic vision of the Quebec government for the Future Champlain Bridge 
Earlier this spring, the Ministry of Transport mandated the firm Hatch Mottonald (HMM) a firm of experts in rail and bridge engineering technologies, to offer an optimal configuration that will promote the best integration of the lightweight rail system (SLR ), the collective mode of transport retained by Quebec. 
Depending on the firm, a bridge with two superimposed aprons would be the most compatible configuration with the implementation of the SLR. This type of structure, estimated by the firm at $ 1.4 billion, would provide expanded opportunities and meet current and future needs for transporting people and goods. 
"We believe that it is our responsibility to translate the transport vision of Quebec into a concrete, realistic and rigorous proposal. What we propose today, with the support of the environment, is an integrated vision of transport that meets the interests and expectations of Quebecers for today and the next 100 years. This infrastructure would facilitate the exploitation of the SLR and would provide greater flexibility in terms of public transport in addition to offering interesting architectural opportunities, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
By making this choice, the lower level would be devoted exclusively to the rail network and other modes of collective transport, including buses. The higher level would be dedicated to the motorway circulation, with a total of six lanes and two shoulders, in addition to a space reserved for active transport. 
Present at this meeting, the renowned Roger Engineer Nicolet, has submitted his appreciation of the HMM study. "This is a serious and extremely well-documented work that takes into account the problems of operation, maintenance, quality and longevity of the work. 
The structure of a two-level bridge is beneficial, both in terms of engineering and public safety. In fact, it is an almost ideal project, "said Nicolet. 
With the support of the partners, obtained at the meeting, Minister Gaudreault has moved the HMM report to the Federal Minister for Infrastructure, Communities and Intergovernmental Affairs, Mr. Denis Lebel. 
The partners have stimulated, during this meeting, their concerns about financing the new infrastructure. "The introduction of a federal toll on the new bridge causes fears about the impacts that this may have on other bridges binding Montreal and the South Shore, while raising serious regional equity issues. The citizens of the South Shore are already the costs of congestion each morning to go to work, they must not pay alone alone the costs of the replacement of the bridge, "said Caroline St-Hilaire, Mayor of Longueuil and Vice- President of the Metropolitan Community of Montreal. 
"A bridge ensuring the efficiency and fluidity of displacements and the safety of users, will significantly support trade in the metropolitan region," Marc Cadieux, President and CEO of the Association of the Association. Trucking of Quebec. Mr. Cadieux also mentioned the importance of reducing as much as possible the level of construction of the infrastructure. 
A broader discussion on financing transport infrastructure is now needed with the federal government. "The financing of an infrastructure like the new Champlain Bridge deserves special attention and cooperation between the different levels of government. I am concerned about the position defended by the federal government since the announcement of the project, but I remain convinced that we will be able to collaborate in the development of a satisfactory solution for all the users of the bridge, "supported Minister Cloutier. 
The choice of SLR has consecrated among all members of the Partner Office. There is also consensus on the two-level structure project. "We believe that it is our responsibility to present an overview that meets the expectations of Quebecers. I therefore invite the federal government to receive the proposal that I submitted to him today so that we have frank and open discussions on this issue, "concluded Mr. Gaudreault. 
