Quebec- The Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltese, is pleased to announce the entry into force of a major overhaul of the Regulation. Guarantee of new residential buildings to better protect buyers. 
"These are years that citizens and media report important problems, difficult cases experienced by families. It is with the satisfaction of the work accomplished that I announce the adoption of the new regulation which will come into effect on January 1 to end these situations. This new guarantee plan is the result of discussions with industry stakeholders and hard work of the people of the Quebec Building Régie (RBQ). I can today say that the goal is achieved; The many improvements that have been made to respond to consumer concerns, "said Maltese minister. 
"The situation in the Trois-Rivières region has emphasized the need to review certain parameters of the mandatory guarantee plan and that is why I chose to make it public here," added the minister. Indeed, more than 1000 beneficiaries with pyrrhotite in the foundation of their residence used their guarantee, thus spreading the work until 2016. 
The kinship bond that existed between the guarantee administrators and the associations of entrepreneurs, died by the beneficiary representatives, will be the thing of the past. Only a non-profit organization (OSBL) will be entrusted with the administration of the warranty plan. "The Board of Directors (CA) of the OSBL will consist of 13 people, only 3 of which will be identified to entrepreneurial associations. Its goal will be twofold: adequately respond to consumers while ensuring the sustainability of the plan, "says the minister. 
"The new regulation brings better supervision and supervision of warranty administrators. It will allow the RBQ to impose on the policy administrator as the inspection and information to the beneficiaries and will give it the power to sanction the faultor ", mentions Stéphane Labrie, President and CEO of the RBQ. In addition to the increase in the bond required by the RBQ, the new Regulation provides for the introduction of new provisions relating to the probity of the leaders of a warranty director. 
The provisional administration of the new home guarantee (GMN) will need $ 34 million to respond to claims until 2016 and thus close the chapter of pyrrhotite, as well as most common claims at the GMN. "As a Trustee of the Guarantee Fund, the RBQ will advance the necessary sums so that this Fund can cover all ongoing claims with the NMM. Beneficiaries with pyrrhotite problems have a real assurance that their homes will be repaired, "says Agnès Maltais. 
The Regulation respecting the guarantee plan for new residential buildings has been adopted under the Building Act in 1998 and put into effect on 1 January 1999. It has already been amended in 2001 and in 2006. 
The RBQ recently carried out the evaluation of the guarantee plan for new residential buildings, including consultations, but also by the analysis of problematic situations observed in the current practice and concluded the need for that recast. "As soon as I took office, we started at work, now the new plan adopted and I call on everyone's responsibility to work to work," concluded Minister Maltese. 
