Quebec -The Parti Québécois strongly denounces the federal government that has just signed an agreement in principle to provide a loan guarantee to the Bas-Churchill hydroelectric project in Labrador, a $ 6.2 billion project. This agreement will be borne on the taxes that Quebeckers send to Ottawa. 
"By granting this warranty in Newfoundland, the Government of Canada will give a gold opportunity to our neighbors to compete unjustly Hydro-Québec in the export market. Quebeckers do not have to pay for that, while we have always funded our hydroelectric infrastructures ourselves! It is neither more nor less of the night reissue of long knives, but in broad daylight! "Said Sylvain Gaudreault, MP of Jonquiere and spokesman for the official opposition in terms of energy. 
"While the National Assembly ran unanimously last April a motion expressing its profound opposition on this subject, how the Prime Minister can tolerate Quebeckers to do so? Sylvain Gaudreault continued. 
"The beautiful words of Nathalie Normandeau and his boss, Jean Charest, in the last federal election had no resonance. Since they supported a Canadian energy framework a month ago, they have given the green light to this project that undermines the interests of Quebec. They have lost any power of power. In addition to being a direct intrusion into a provincial skill field, it is a demonstration of a lack of will in defense of our strategic resources, "added Bernard Drainville, Member of Parliament for Marie-Victorin and spokesman of the official opposition in the field of Canadian intergovernmental affairs. 
"What credibility remains to Jean Charest, he who claims from the title of the grand builder Quebec, while he leaves without sourcing the federal government debating what Quebeckers have decades to build? How can he leave Stephen Harper trampling the legacy of Jean Lesage and René Lévesque by not defending Quebec interests? Asked Bernard Drainville. "In addition to the Bloc, it is hard to bet that all the other parties will say word against that agreement that brimes Quebec. This is unacceptable! » 
"This loan guarantee will have the effect of changing the current rules on the transport and export of electricity in the markets. For these reasons, we ask Quebec Prime Minister to recover and make this decision before the courts without delay. The interests of Quebec and Quebeckers must be protected! , "Retorted Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"Yesterday, Quebeckers saw Jean Charest ask Stephen Harper for help for the reconstruction of a new Champlain bridge. This morning, the Prime Minister has his answer, Quebec's requests are ignored once again, "concluded the member for Marie-Victorin. 
