Today, private childcare funds close. Of all the messages conveyed, some details should be made. 
First, although the spokesperson is the Association of Private Daycare of Quebec (AGPQ), the stakeholders concerned by this new are the private childcares subsidized. The subsidized private childcare receives this year $ 436 million grants: an average grant of $ 675,000 per daycare per year. They have on average profits of about $ 100,000 (after tax) per year. 
The budgetary effort required is $ 21,000 for a 60-seat daycare. It is reasonable and possible for daycares to contribute without affecting services to children and working conditions. 
In all, subsidized private daycares, which account for 20% of the child care network, must make an effort of $ 14.9 million. 
80% of the network was therefore settled when the minister was able to agree with early childhood centers (CPEs), they have agreed to make a budgetary effort of $ 31.1 million. 
In order to conclude an agreement with the subsidized private daycares, the minister has always wanted to keep discussions with partners, including private child care, and seeks to continue negotiations. 
To this end, Ms. Léger has already accepted that important concessions are made to subsidized private childcare. 
The LapRoposition made by the Association of Private Day Care (AGPQ) about subsidized private childcare made Monday is not serious, it does not hold the road. 
Indeed, the AGPQ proposes the Department to amend the project call launched last February for the creation of 15,000 additional places at $ 7 and convert seven production projects of 80 places to early childhood centers (CPE). Creative projects of 80 places in subsidized daycares, so transferring CPEs to private child care. 
Two closing days are planned by the owners of subsidized private child care. The first takes place today, the second would take place on May 30th. It will therefore be the parents and the children who will be penalized by the closure of their daycare by the owner. 
If necessary, sanctions will apply if subsidized private daycares put their threat to execution. A letter advising the monetary consequences for closure has been sent to subsidized associations and private childcare. On average the loss will be $ 2500 per closing day; Grant reductions will also be added. 
The refusal to negotiate needs no one. The Minister of Family and the Government feel that it is not tolerable for parents and children of Quebec are penalized by subsidized private child care closures. 
To restore public finances left in a poor state by the previous Liberal government, everyone must do his part. The requested effort is nice for anyone, but is far from unreasonable. Through negotiation, the Minister of the Family has entered into an agreement with CEP - and is eager to conclude such an agreement with subsidized private child care, with firm on the budgetary objective, but flexible on the means. 
