Quebec- As a result of revelations published this morning in the media, according to which entrepreneurs would have resolved more than $ 2 million a free day care license for free from the state a few years ago, the member for Terrebonne and Porte- Official Family Opposition Word, Mathieu Trash, asked the Minister of Family, Francine Charbonneau, to act quickly to counter the speculation done on the back of the children. 
"The Liberals have created this problem of any room. There is speculation that is done on the back of the children of Quebec, and the risk of skidding are real. This situation must cease, the regulations must be tightened; what does the minister expect? ", Asked Mathieu Traversy. 
In a room, this morning, the minister refused to condemn the resale of the permits and the shameless enrichment of certain subsidized private day care owners, despite the three occasions that the spokesman gave him to do so. It has rather minimized the situation, which is particularly worrying, especially since it has openly suggested that it intends to convert non-subsidized private daycare into subsidized childcare. "If the minister goes ahead with this project, inevitably, speculation will grow. We will therefore have to remain particularly vigilant. The first thing to do will be to make sure she honors the commitment she took this morning, taking our motion, "added the member for Terrebonne. 
The motion adopted reads as follows: 
"That the National Assembly calls on the Committee on Relations with the Citizens to meet in working session, before the adjournment of the work of the National Assembly next June, in order to proceed to the study of the mechanisms surrounding the sale subsidized private daycares. » 
"The current situation is unacceptable, and the problem seems recurring. At the time of the scandal of the Liberal daycare, under the Government of Jean Charest, we had already raised it in parliamentary committee, and Minister Yoland James had assured us that the laws in force sufficiently framed the resale of the licenses. Obviously, this is not the case, and Minister Charbonneau must immediately bring fix ", concluded Mathieu Traversy. 
