Québec- The Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks announces that an interim agreement has been entered into with the National Railway Company of Canada (CN), which may continue its grinding activities of Used railway dormants on the site of the Garneau Train Station, in Shawinigan, according to certain conditions ensuring the protection of the environment. 
Recall that the minister issued an order (No. 618) to the National Railway Company of Canada (CN), pursuant to Articles 25 and 114 of the Environmental Quality Act (LQE), which aims at the cessation of the grinding and storage activities of used railway trails carried out at the Garneau Sorting station, until an action plan aimed at making it acceptable to Environmental plan These activities are deposited in the department. 
On February 10, 2014, CN disputed the order and requested its suspension. Thus, on February 19, 2014, at the end of discussions between prosecutors, the parties came to an Acting Off Court, which allows the essential elements of the order of the Ministry. 
"The discussions have allowed us to find a solution that offers no understanding about the protection of the environment and, moreover, takes into account the economic considerations of the situation. Interim measures will enable a company like Kruger inc., Whose crushed wood resulting from CN activities represents a significant portion of its procurement, to continue its activities. CN will have to minimize its environmental impacts since the agreement includes compliance with one of the essential conditions covered by the Ordinance, the supervision of grinding activities, "said the minister. 
In accordance with this agreement, all CN grinding operations at the Garneau Triage Station will have to comply with certain conditions to minimize the dispersion of contaminants in the environment, including: chips will have to be paid directly into maritime containers or Semi-Trailer Skins In order to avoid contact with water and floors, a canvas should be installed above the downting point of the conveyor and grinding during strong winds will have to be avoided. 
All other conditions of Ordinance No. 618 continue to apply. As stipulated in the order, the CN must file the Department, by June 2, 2014, a plan for action to make environmentally acceptable the warehousing and grinding of used railroads. 
