Quebec- The Minister Delegate to the Regions, Minister responsible for the Gaspé-Islands-de-la-Madeleine Region, Gaétan Lelièvre and the hon. Member for Bonaventure, Sylvain Roy confirm the support of the Government of the Parti Québécois. Quebec Forest Industry by granting a $ 15 million budget envelope to silvicultural companies in Gaspésie as well as Bas-Saint-Laurent. 
"Despite a $ 1.6 billion inherited deficit from the Liberal government, the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, has made every effort to continue investing in silvicultural work and preserving jobs in Gaspésie," said the Member of Parliament for Bonaventure, Mr. Sylvain Roy.  The Forest Job Creation Program (PCEF) is specifically $ 15 million for the Gaspésie and Bas-Saint-Laurent regions. "This program is important for both public forest and the private forest forest. This sum will meet the expectations of the silvicultural and forestry sector and represents out of any doubt the Government of Quebec's willingness to support the Gaspésie - La-Madeleine Islands region in its development, "comments on Minister Lelièvre. 
"We are proud to be able to announce the budgets in silvicultural works several months in advance this year, in April rather than in June compared to previous years. This will allow silvicultural companies to better plan their work and teams, "adds the Minister Delegate to the Regions, Gaétan Lelièvre. The Ministry of Natural Resources is also working with the Treasury Board to ensure better predictability of budgets and maintain an early announcement in the spring for the next few years. It will reassure forest workers about maintaining their jobs in the forest.
For the planning component of the types of work to be carried out, the department and the industry want to give an information mechanism over two to three years to allow the latter to better predict its work and the necessary adaptations. Indeed, the forest has greatly evolved in recent years. Over time, there are fewer clearing needs and more needs in commercial silvicultural work. Recall that, during the 1970s, Quebec has experienced an intensive planting period. In the 1990s, several brushing work was carried out to ensure the progress of these plantations. 
During the period of the crisis, the framework of the brushing work has been maintained and even increased, despite a decrease in harvest. A considerable advance has been taken in such a way that the surfaces that can be the subject of brushing work has greatly decreased. From now on, the industry is rendered at the stage where more commercial work will need to be performed. 
"The forest industry is a pillar of Quebec's economic development and its regions. Indeed, it represents more than 60,000 jobs in 140 municipalities in Quebec. We want to continue the dialogue started with the three associations to improve our mutual practices and thus ensure a strong future for the Quebec forest industry, "concludes Martine Ouellet. 
