Quebec- In the presence of representatives of Quebec doctors for the public scheme and the group of general practitioners for a committed medicine, the spokesperson for the Quebecois health and accessibility of care, Diane Lamarre, has arrested the Minister of Health, this morning, on the unilateral taxation of ancillary costs and its desire to undermine the concept of universality and free health care in Quebec. 
Diane Lamarre recalls that the Liberal Party did not receive the mandate to privatize our health system. "After officially allowing doctors to charge $ 50 million to patients for already insured services - a sum that could have been taken at the physician remuneration envelope - now the minister wants to review the very foundations of our system. public health. Where was it written in the Liberal Party platform that he would tackle the universality and privatize the health network? Probably on a page that we lack, right next to the one that mentioned the billing of ancillary costs and the disassurance of in vitro fertilization. What is the next service called to be privatized by the Liberal government? ", Questioned the member. 
Agreement with the FMSQ 
Surprisingly, ten days after the minister allowed doctors to charge ancillary fees, the agreement with the Promised FMSQ for months has occurred. More surprisingly, the minister proves to us, with this agreement, that the reshuffle of the mass of remuneration of specialist doctors, what we have asked for months, is indeed possible. "Quebeckers need to know what the minister has negotiated on their behalf. In addition to additional $ 30 million allocated to radiologists, what other gift has offered his former colleagues? And why, exactly, do we need an agreement so that specialists see patients, in short, that they do their job? What are the targets that have been set? Radio silence on the side of the minister. Remember that it is by consulting the agreement with the FMOQ last May, that we discovered the return of the bolduc premium, at a cost of $ 25 million, for the simple registration of new patients. This agreement with the specialists must therefore absolutely and imperatively be made public, "Claimed Ms Lamarre. 
Assisted Reproduction: Aniest Couples 
The end of the public coverage of in vitro fertilization (IVF), formalized on Tuesday by the sanction of Bill 20, came to upset the projects of thousands of infertile couples. "One in six couple in Quebec is infertile; These are as Quebeckers who have seen their project to found a compromised family with the disassurance of the IVF. "Anieiis" is a very weak word to describe how they feel against a minister who refused to listen to them and did not take into account the benefits of these births for families and the Quebec economy. He simply considered the abolition of the Quebec Assisted Processing Program as a column of numbers that would allow him to balance his budget, "deplored the member. 
