Montreal- Only two shale gas wells obtained a certificate of authorization for hydraulic fracturing, that of Gentilly and that of Bécancour. Yet in total, there are 18 fractured wells in Quebec. An unacceptable situation according to the Parti Québécois. 
"The Minister of the Environment does not apply the Environmental Quality Act to the shale gas industry. He must tell us why. For what reasons for hydraulic fractures were made without departmental certificate of authorization? How can the Liberal government continue to refuse to implement a moratorium by asserting that it is safe while the law is not even applied? The member for Vachon and spokesman for the official opposition in mines and shale gas, Martine Ouellet. 
For the Parti Québécois, citizens deserve to have the right time on the state of shale gas wells on their territory, particularly those of the presentation. "Mobilization is growing and the population is ready to defend the health and quality of their environment. This should also be the concern of the Liberal government, but that does not seem the case. Why does the government want to go, head down, without responding to citizens' fears? Ask the member for Verchères, Stéphane Bergeron. 
"Many people are mobilizing in Quebec currently, worried and concerned about their health and the quality of its environment. This situation is even brighter in Montérégie where thousands of posters have stormed the balconies of residences to show their complete disagreement towards the direct orientations of the Liberal government. To this, we must add another petition signed by 27,000 people and tabled Tuesday last morning in Saint-Hyacinthe, "said the hon. Member for Saint-Hyacinthe, Emilien Pelletier. 
Note that the members were accompanied by Gérard Montpetit of the Citizen Group not to Shale The presentation and Jacques Tétreault of the Committee of Citizens and Citizens for the protection of the Maskoutain environment. 
For the Parti Québécois, the case of the presentation well illustrates the non-respect of the law. This well was fractured without certificate of authorization. The Parti Québécois therefore asks that Minister Arcand explains the reasons for this omission and an infringement notice. "Section 22 of the Environmental Quality Act has not been respected. Sanctions must be taken, "claimed Martine Ouellet, noting that the gas that contravenes the law exposes itself to a fine of up to $ 20,000 per day of offense. 
Moreover, the well of the presentation has methane leaks. According to the inspection reports received following a request for access to information, these leaks have been noted since October 2010. "The MDDEP inspectors have presented itself at a decade over a period of a few months barely. Their evaluations are sometimes disturbing, even after the issuance of a notice of infringement in January 2011. It can be drawn from a dark story that confirms that the gas are not in control and proceeds by testing and errors on the Territory of the St. Lawrence Valley, "added the member for Vachon. 
Note also that the emission of methane leaks contravenes Article 20 of the Environmental Quality Act. "Methane leaks can contaminate groundwater and more contaminate air and increase GHGs significantly. In this case, the gas exposes itself to a fine that could reach $ 250,000 per day of offense. Minister Arcand has the duty to apply his law and act, "continued Martine Ouellet. 
The Québécois party is abnormal that the information owned by the MDDEP is transmitted to the dropper and that it must be obtained by multiple requests for access to information. For the Parti Québécois Transparency and information are the basis of knowledge. "What we will get as information, unlike the Liberal government, we will make it public," she said. Thus, the inspection reports of shale gas wells whose Parti Québécois will be accessible on the website: www.martineouellet.org. 
Also, as early as next week, Martine Ouellet will accompany citizens who will travel to Pennsylvania to see the effects of hydraulic fracturing on people's health and the impact on the quality of the environment. 
"The Parti Québécois will maintain pressure from the Liberal government, at the balance of the gas lobby. This is the commitment we take to the citizens who are rightly worried. You have to stop playing wizard apprentices. Technology is clearly not under control. Thus, as saying the adage, in doubt, we must abstain. Until that a moratorium be decreed, Minister Arcand must act to enforce his law, "concluded Martine Ouellet. 
