Québec- The National Assembly of Quebec will be called to vote tomorrow on a motion of the Parti Québécois which could finally establish a complete moratorium on exploration, hydraulic fracturing and the exploitation of shale gases. 
"Quebec and Quebeckers are currently guinea pigs. The Gas and the Liberal government is crumbling day by day. The risks to the health of citizens and the environment exist and are important, "said the member for Vachon and spokesperson for the official opposition on shale mines and gas, Martine Ouellet. 
The hon. Member stresses that thousands of citizens are currently mobilizing in Estrie, Montérégie, Center-du-Québec and in Chaudière-Appalaches, worried about shale gas impacts. "Our duty as elected is to make informed decisions, not under the influence of powerful lobbies," she added. 
A two-hour debate will take place tomorrow at the National Assembly on the following motion: 
"That the Quebec National Assembly requires that a moratorium on the exploration, exploitation and hydraulic fracturing of shale gases be decreed immediately until the adoption of a Framework Law on Hydrocarbons. » 
At the end of this debate, a vote will take place. "We must now hope that the support of the CAQ for unmoratory on the gas of schisten' is not just words in the air and that the nine Caquist MPs will listen to the population before the gas lobbies. If this is the case, the Liberals will be isolated and the moratorium could be at hand, "continued the member for Vachon. 
For its part, the member for the Assumption and Spokesman for the Official Opposition on Sustainable Development, Environment and Parks, Scott McKay, wishes to remember that the idea of a moratorium has nothing With a whim and relies on a vast reflection. The member has filed a bill in this direction, Bill 396, October 27, 2010. "The population is not in the shot, the social acceptability is not at the rendezvous, The concerns of citizens are legitimate and it is time to answer it. The strategic environmental study does not even have a specific plan of realization, the composition of its committee and its mandate are undermined by many representatives of civil society. Meanwhile, the gas always play the apprentices wizards and can carry out the hydraulic fracturing of the wells of the St. Lawrence Valley. It must cease, "concluded Scott McKay. 
