Quebec -The Parti Québécois notes the improvisation and confusion that reign to the Liberal government on the interpretation to be given to the scope of Bill 14. Interpellated by the member for Johnson, Etienne-Alexis Boucher, and to calm the Anxiety of citizens on the issue of shale gas in Estrie, the Monique Gagnon-Tremblay minister has suggested that Bill 14 would supervise shale gas exploration and exploitation activities and that municipalities will be able to subtract territories to any mining, including shale gases. 
"The citizens of Estrie are worried and the minister, with his casual attitude, does not help to calm their apprehensions. What's more, we see that it hurt Bill 14 by his delegated colleague to the Mines, Serge Simard, because what she would like to see in this bill does not appear, " said Etienne-Alexis Boucher. 
Yesterday, in the daily newspaper, Minister Gagnon-Tremblay argued that Bill 14 "will be the way to perfectly mark mining activities, including the exploration and exploitation of shale gas." It also added that "the amendments filed by my colleague Serge Simard in Bill 14 provide the necessary protection for the territories that municipalities wanted to escape any mining, including shale gases." 
"Through its statements, Minister Gagnon-Tremblay therefore states that it agrees with the official opposition and wants this issue to be included in Bill 14, which is not currently the case. She must therefore convince her colleague Serge Simard who states to say no since the beginning of the study of the bill, "said the hon. Member for Vachon and sentence of the official opposition in terms of mines. and shale gas, Martine Ouellet. 
The Liberal government refuses to improve its bill for obscure reasons 
She stresses that Minister Simard and Liberal members of the Parliamentary Committee rejected an amendment to enable municipalities to determine zones of exclusion to any exploration and exploitation of shale gases. Since the beginning of the study of Bill 14, the Liberal government systematically blocks the official opposition amendments to secure citizens, particularly with regard to the supervision of exploration activities. and exploitation of shale gases. 
"The fears of citizens are legitimate. It would be time for the Liberal government to calm down this concern and agrees to take action to achieve this. Bill 14 gives this opportunity and that's what the Quebec party wants, "concluded Martine Ouellet. 
