Quebec- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announces that he will mandate the Office of Public Hearings on the Environment (BAPE) so that it carries out An expanded consultation that will rely on studies commissioned as part of the strategic environmental assessment (EES) currently under way on shale gas. 
"It is in the center-du-Québec and Montérégie, in the vast agricultural region that covers the Shale d'Utica, that the issue of social acceptability has revealed its importance. Since then, it has been at the heart of all debates related to sustainable development. Only science, transparency, respect for the interests of the communities and the existence or not of a viable business model will allow, or not, that the file of shale gas is socially acceptable, "said the minister. 
The mandate of the Strategic Environmental Assessment Committee on Shale Gas will therefore be amended: "Since studies are carried out by independent third parties, in many cases academics, one can expect an objective diagnosis and scientific findings. rigorous. The Committee will, however, receive the directive to transfer to the BAPE the studies it has ordered ", continued the Minister Blanchet. 
In order to consistency, the minister also announces his intention to table, in the coming weeks, a bill to introduce a moratorium on the exploration and exploitation of shale gas. This suspension of licensing certificates issued and the postponement of any new grant would be in force until the National Assembly's adoption of a legislative framework on the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. "This will of the government is the subject of a broad consensus among the Quebec population. I will therefore solicit the support of the opposition parties, so that the vote on this suspension of authorizations is rapid and clear among the elected representatives of the National Assembly, "said the Minister Blanchet. 
For the Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, the decision to transfer to BAPE the studies of the EAS Committee and to file a bill in order to introduce a moratorium. "It is very clear that with current natural gas prices, profitability is not at the rendezvous for businesses," she said. 
"Quebec has clearly chosen to trust the rigor of the BAPE. Our government too. Pending an exhaustive report and legislative intervention that would seal the discussion, the establishment of a complete break in the development of the shale gas sector in Quebec appears to be essential. It is the rendezvous that Quebec and our government had given, and a commitment more than the government of the Parti Québécois realizes, "concluded the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks. 
