Quebec- The Parti Québécois is concerned about the recent publication of two studies that confirm the dangers of shale exploration and exploitation. 
"Whenever a credible study is published, it is a plus against the liberal government and gas argument that minimize the risks to the environment and for the health of citizens," said The member for Vachon and spokesperson for the official opposition on shale mines and gas, Martine Ouellet. 
"Regarding gas leaks, the gas do not recognize the real impacts. The methane escaping from the wells has a heating power that is 20 times higher than carbon dioxide over a period of 100 years. With a Quebec in operation mode by the next few years, it will be more than difficult to achieve greenhouse gas reduction targets for 2020 and respect the Kyoto Protocol, "said the Kyoto Protocol. Member of the Assumption and Spokesman for the Official Opposition on Environment, Sustainable Development and Parks, Scott McKay. 
"These new information requires more than ever that the Liberal government now imposes a moratorium on shale gas exploration and exploitation and put an end to hydraulic fracturing on the territory. Everywhere in Quebec, the population is mobilizing, undermines this sector, is imagining and innovation to stop the pollution of the gas that play wizard apprentices. It is high time that the liberal lobby of gas listens to the population! , Continued Martine Ouellet. 
Where does the CAQ house? 
In the face of these new evidence against the gas industry, the CAQ remains silent. "In this silence, should we see an approval of the liberal improvisation in this file? Should we understand that the CAQ stands behind the remarks of its parliamentary leader, Gérard Deltell, who said in August 2010 that Quebec had to exploit shale gases and not to be done by environmental lobbies? François Legault must tell us where he lodges, "said Martine Ouellet. 
"The Gérard Deltell Declaration against the Creation of Protected Areas Lets us Wengrail on the interest of the CAQ for environmental issues. Does the CAQ agree with the withdrawal of Kyoto Canada? Does she defend, like the Harper government, the interests of the oil and gas? If the Calciste Chef François Legault is for the achievement of Kyoto's goals by Quebec, he has to break the silence. We can not settle for one will see, "concluded Scott McKay. 
