The presentation - "at presentation, citizens are very worried. The shale gas well of Canbriam always flees. With methane leaks, there is a danger to contamination of the groundwater sheet and for air contamination. The government remains arms crossed and does nothing to remedy the situation. Worse, it seems that Minister Pierre Arcand relies on the follow-up of the gas for water quality and air quality. There would be no follow-up, no independent levy. It's unacceptable and incomprehensible! » 
This is what the member for Vachon and spokesman of the official opposition in terms of shale and shale gas, Martine Ouellet, at the side of the deputies of Vérchères and Saint-Hyacinthe, Stéphane Bergeron and Emilien Pelletier, all present at a press brief near the Schist gas well of the presentation. The members of the non-shale committee the presentation were also present. 
The Committee has made its concerns known in the end of September in a letter it sent to the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment and Parks (MDDEP), the Ministry of Natural Resources and Wildlife (MRNF) and Gas companies. The answers obtained are totally unsatisfactory. 
"To ensure the health, safety and well-being of citizens, the municipal authorities must know all the facts concerning the wells. The citizens of the presentation are entitled to know what's happening with their wells. They are worried about leaks and would like to minimize how direction the horizontal well has been dug. They want to be kept informed of all developments with respect to the exploration and exploitation of shale gas in the region, "said the members of the committee. 
The professor of retired geology at the Université du Québec à Montréal, Marc Durand, was also on the spot. He shares the fears of the Parti Québécois and the non-shale committee the presentation. "The hazards of the two wells of the presentation perfectly illustrate the gaps in the virtuous transparency announced by the industry and the government in the file of shale gas. Independent researchers and citizens can not obtain the minimum information required to analyze and assess the risks in this case. Despite the very different context created by the quasi-moratorium and the mandate given to a strategic environmental assessment, the MNRF maintains the current non-dissemination policy for three years of the essential data relating to these wells. For example: What is the orientation and what is the extent of the fractured zone over a distance of 1000 meters horizontally? What are the depths where leaks come from? What are the flows of these leaks before and after the corrective work? What measures does the MRNF and the MDDEP apply to monitor methane migration in the water table? ", Asked the geologist engineer, holder of a doctorate. 
