Quebec- "The more time passes, the more signals that let us believe that the Liberal Party does not play Frank-game with Quebeckers in the File of the Gentilly-2 Centrale," said the member for Marie-Victorin And spokesperson for the official energy opposition, Bernard Drainville, minutes before the start of the interpellation on this subject at the National Assembly this morning. "We are hoping to finally have clear answers about the future of the plant," he continued. 
"Everything suggests that the government seeks to postpone after the election the announcement of the dismantling of the Gentilly-2 power station. The minister responsible for Mauricie, Julie Boulet, suggests that the plant will be restored while his colleague, the Minister of the Environment, Pierre Arcand, says rather than Quebec has ended with nuclear power. What we understand is that the Liberals refuse to tell the truth about their real intention before an election campaign, "added Bernard Drainville. 
"Ministers play on words, blow the hot and cold while they should work on an economic diversification plan for Mauricie," the member continued. 
The Québécois party does not want Quebec to continue nuclear power for another 25 years. The plant should be downgraded sooner or later. The billions that will have to be engulfed in the renovation of Gentilly-2 would be better invested in renewable energies, for example. 
"The environmental risks associated with nuclear power are very large. It is obvious to us that to focus on energy production by other means is the only way forward. Especially since no solution is in place to safely and permanently arrange nuclear waste. This is a poisoned gift for future generations. The costs of provision of nuclear waste should be taken into account in the cost of electricity produced at Gentilly-2, "added the member for the Assumption and Spokesman for the Official Opposition in respect of Environment, Scott McKay. 
"The Parti Québécois has a clear position: close and declass Gentilly-2 and set up an economic diversification fund for the Center-du-Québec region-Mauricie. Quebeckers have the right to have the time just relative to the position of the Liberals, but also to that of the Cavoists on this issue. They must tell Quebeckers what are their real intentions regarding the future of Gentilly-2, "concluded Bernard Drainville. 
