Laval- The member for Sainte-Rose, Mrs. Suzanne Proulx, announced, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to the Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élaine Zakaib, the award, through the Investissement Québec, a $ 400,000 loan to GEO-Plus, a company specializing in the design of computer systems for surveying and civil engineering, to help expand its market offer outside Quebec. 
"Geo-Plus is active in a niche sector and can not only rely on the local market to remain competitive," said Suzanne Proulx. "This loan will therefore allow the company to continue its market expansion strategy in the United States, Europe, Africa and Asia. I am very proud that our government can contribute to the success of GEO-Plus, an SME of the region capable of competing with large global groups. » 
The loan granted will more specifically be used to finance a project to integrate geomatics software and market diversification activities. The company will participate in particular in various promotion and networking activities as well as meetings to conclude agreements with foreign specialty distributors. 
"The great region of Laval has an important basin of technology companies that radiate abroad," said the Minister Zakaïb. "The best way to get an advantageous position in international markets is to build on the development of niche products. That's why we support companies that, like GEO-Plus, invest in research and development as well as in opening up new markets. » 
Since 1987, Geo-Plus has specialized in the development of computerized tools for surveying and civil engineering. To maintain its state-of-the-art software and remain competitive, the company must constantly invest significant research and development. In addition, in order to finance its investments and avoid the cyclical variations of the construction sector and major road projects, it must diversify its presence in the markets outside Quebec. 
"Today's announcement is part of the steps taken for the Laval region," said the Minister of Family and Minister responsible for the Laval region, Ms. Nicole Léger. "The government is acting to support businesses and create jobs, while continuing its hard work in other issues in the region. » 
"We offer a suite of integrated software that can easily be adapted to meet the different needs of our customers, regardless of their geographical location," said Geo-Plus President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Wilfrid Beaupré . "The diversification of our markets is essential to the pursuit of our growth, and this loan will allow us to increase our presence abroad. » 
Investissement Québec's mission is to promote investment growth in Quebec, thus contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The company puts companies with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity capital investment, in order to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, it is responsible for the administration of tax measures and prospecting investments abroad. 
