Quebec- The member for Berthier and official opposition spokesman for agriculture, food, SMEs, entrepreneurship and innovation, André Villeneuve, reiterated the support of the Quebec party to Quebec farmers And denounces the federally veiled desire to put an end to the management of the offer. 
"History has shown it several times: the federal government is always ready to jeopardize in Quebec farmers and farmers to promote the rest of Canada. This time, to conclude a trade agreement with Europe, the federal government has accepted that 1700 additional tonnes of European cheese have access to the Canadian market, so that the beef of Western Canada can be exported to Europe. . However, Ottawa has not guaranteed any compensation for producers, mainly Quebec, who will suffer from this increased competition, while they can not expect any profit, "Abstract André Villeneuve. 
"The full maintenance of supply management is essential for the future of the Quebec dairy sector, one of the flowers of our economy. Half of Quebec's 6000 dairy farms would be jeopardized if we were abandoned. The Harper Government, like its potential successors, must absolutely be sure to preserve this system that has allowed the development of dairy farms and guaranteed market stability, "added the spokesman. 
Whereas, today, the debate of the leaders in French, Quebec milk producers have expressed concern at the various party leaders, inviting them to pronounce on the federal intention to abandon the management of the 'Offer in a new round of transpacific partnership negotiations. André Villeneuve walked alongside 1500 producers of milk, eggs and poultry from all parts of Quebec mobilized for the occasion. 
The member had invited Quebec Minister of Agriculture, Pierre Paradis, to join the event, just as he asked to commit to refusing to ratify the Trans-Pacific Partnership if the supply management is sacrificed. "The Quebec elected officials of all parties must make a common front before Ottawa's intention to end the supply management. For the moment, when one question Pierre Paradis about it, we never get an answer. Never mind; We invite Liberal Prime Minister Philippe Couillard to join the Parti Québécois and defend, high and strong, Quebec producers, "he concluded. 
