Québec - two years after the filing of a critical report on the management of the Green Fund, the Commissioner for Sustainable Development has submitted a new report today, which confirms not only that the problems of the Green Fund persist but, than More, the Government now threatens the achievement of the Quebec Target for Reduction of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) for 2020. The Commissioner is of the opinion that the government's approach to climate change and transitional change energy is neither clear nor credible. 
The member for Terrebonne and spokesman for the Quebecois on sustainable development, the environment and the fight against climate change, Mathieu Traversy, finds that the Government remains unable to measure the contribution of the Green Fund to the achievement of Its 2020 GHG reduction target, or make a list of projects with the best cost-benefit performance for Québec taxpayers. It is also very concerned that the reform of the Green Fund accumulates delays. 
The member for Terrebonne requires the Minister of the Environment that the reform of the Green Fund is carried out immediately, not postponed by one year, as the minister recently announced. Mathieu Traversy also calls for David Hurtel to quickly produce a 2013-2020's mid-term mid-term climate change, to assess the fixes to be made as soon as possible, and to proceed immediately to the unveiling of the inventory Quebec's greenhouse gas emissions of the year 2013. "It is essential that Quebeckers can know if the investments of the Green Fund have concretely reduced GHG emissions in Quebec," he added. 
Mathieu Traversy invites the Liberals to spend speech to the acts. "The government must unlock the sums of the Green Fund as quickly as possible to finance the improvement of the public transport offer. It is important for achieving the targets 2020 and 2030 of GHG reduction. Then, there is zero emission law. After speeches, it is time for the government to act on this issue by calling our bill, "he concluded. 
