Quebec, October 8, 2020 - The member for Rimouski and spokesman for the Quebecois party for seniors and close caregivers, Harold Lebel, said that he sponsored a petition claiming the holding of a commission of inquiry public and independent on the management of the CVIV-19 pandemic in CHSLD and private residences for seniors (RPPs); He invites all citizens of course to sign it. 
IN SHORT 
"Last week, during our interpellation, my colleague from the Îles-de-la-Madeleine and I once again asked the Minister responsible for seniors and close caregivers, Marguerite Blais, to take the necessary means to make All the light on what happened last spring in the CHSLDs, the RPPs and other places of accommodation for seniors. We never want it to happen, "first recalled the hon. Member for Rimouski. 
In this request, however, the minister opposed an end to non-reception. "She has continued to repeat that the investigation of the Commissioner for Health and Wellbeing is sufficient. However, if we do not doubt the competence or independence of the CSBE, we respectfully remind the minister that this proceeding has only accounts to the government; The ongoing investigation is not public, it stands behind closed doors, "said the member. 
Harold Lebel argues that the drama that has played this spring in seniors' hosting institutions deeply marked Quebeckers. "We are talking about thousands of deaths. Deficient care, solitude, inhuman conditions. All that leaves traces, and the healing process will be long and difficult. In such a context, people feel the need to share what they have experienced, to testify publicly, "he added. 
The hon. Member for Rimouski also argued that such an exercise is not unusual in the case of equally striking tragedies. "The fire of Isle-Verte has had its public inquiry. The viaduct of La Concorde also. Hécatomb in the CHSLDs in the spring of 2020 is indoor measurement; A public inquiry would certainly be relevant, if only to collect transparently the information we have collected in recent months, or to give the population the tribune and the answers it claims ", has He insists. 
Harold Lebel invites all Quebeckers to sign the petition for the holding of such a public inquiry by going to the addressHTTPS: //www.assnat.qc.ca/en/exprimez-your-opinion/petition/petition -8607 / Index.html 
