Quebec- This morning in the House, the member for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, asked for three times at Prime Minister Philippe Couillard to undertake not to ratify the Trans-Pacific Partnership if the management of The offer was not fully maintained. In vain. 
"In the framework of the Trans-Pacific Partnership Negotiations, the Federal Government, which exclusively owns the competence for the signing of international treaties, is preparing to make major concessions as to our economic model in agriculture. In particular, it is question that Ottawa opens significantly our market, which will weaken our agricultural industry and its entrepreneurs. We can then easily provide for serious consequences for some 14,000 agricultural producers in Quebec, "said the leader of the official opposition. 
"The Prime Minister has the duty to prevent this from happening. But this morning, three times, Philippe Couillard refused to answer my questions about it; So I understand that he would sign the agreement, even if it means and leads to significant negative consequences for our farmers, "he continued. 
Wishing the Government to act, the member for Berthier and spokesman of the Parti Québécois in agriculture, food, SMEs, entrepreneurship and innovation, "André Villeneuve, filed this after- Noon a motion claiming that the National Assembly speaks with one voice to require the federal government to maintain the supply management, as requested by Quebec farmers. 
"We hope, thus send a unanimous message to Ottawa. However, the Government of Quebec must go further and indicate, right now that if the federal government does not respect the will expressed by the agricultural producers by, Quebec will not be able to subscribe to the agreement, "concluded André Villeneuve. 
Finally remember that Laloi on the Ministry of International RelationsRevits that "[] Government must, in order to be bound by an international agreement for the constitutional jurisdiction of Quebec and to give its consent to that Canada expresses its consent to be bound by Such an agreement, take a decree for this purpose. " 
