Quebec- The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food of Quebec, François Gendron, and the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, M. Yves-François Blanchet, are concerned about the use of neonicotinoid treated seeds and its possible consequences on the colonies of bees and other pollinators. Thus, in concert with the Union of Agricultural Producers (UPA), they invite the agricultural environment to reasonably use the neonicotinoid seeds, substances used, mainly in cropping, in the fight against soil pests. 
"We know that the use of neonicotinoids has consequences for the environment, and possibly on the rapid decline of bee populations that are observed in Europe and America. We must continue research to document the phenomenon and its consequences. While farmers, the MAPAQ and the MDDEFP are working to find sustainable solutions, in a context where pesticide approval is under federal jurisdiction, we call for the goodwill of seed distributors and agricultural enterprises to Reduce the use of neonicotinoids, "said Minister Yves-François Blanchet. 
For its part, Minister François Gendron emphasizes that the government is concerned about bee mortality, as they play a vital role in agriculture. "It is important to protect pollinators. The use of coated seeds should be done in a reasoned way, only when there is the presence of pest insects in the soil, and not systematically. In addition, it should be known that pesticide approval is the responsibility of the federal government. So I asked the Federal Minister of Agriculture to accelerate the revision, "he said. 
"The Union of Agricultural Farmers shares the government's concerns about the use of neonicotinoids and the pollinators should be protected. However, it must be ensured that producers have access to untreated seeds and all the accompaniment, expertise and skills needed to adopt good practices in the integrated struggle against crop enemies and That the required efforts will be invested in research and the development of replacement methods, "added the President of the UPA, Mr. Marcel Groleau. 
The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (MAPAQ) has just made a sending of awareness letters to growing producers informing them of the problem of bee mortality and risks associated with use Neonicotinoids and reminding them of the importance of using the latter by relying on the principles of integrated management of crop enemies. A letter was also shipped to the Quebec Seed Merchant Association and its members, in which they are invited to increase the supply of untreated seeds to neonicotinoids. Finally, an application was addressed to the Order of Agriculturals of Quebec to make tools that guide the advice provided by its members on the use of these seeds. Also mention that information on this problem will be broadcast through the Phytosanitary Warning Network (RAP). 
Minister François Gendron announces special financial assistance will be offered under the Prime Green Program. This aid will aim to support the diagnosis and screening of soil pest insects in the context of the reasoned use of neonicotinoid treated seeds. To obtain services related to this help, producers and producers will need to address the AgricultureLeils network in their region. The Prime-Green program also provides assistance to finance the installation on deflectors for reducing the amount of dust from treated seeds and thus reduce the risk of exposure of pollinators to insecticides. 
To learn more about neonicotinoid treated seeds, one can go to the department's website at address www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca / neonicotinoids. For more information on the policy of food sovereignty, the blogwww.politicalsa.gouv.qc.caou can be visited regularly. It is also possible to follow it on Twitter at emailTwitter.com / Mapaquebec. 
