Quebec - Minister Delegate to the Regions, Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-de-la-Madeleine Region and MP Gaétan Lelièvre, the Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs and MP Abitibeth, Ms. Elizabeth Larouche, and the Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (Northern Affairs Component) and MP for Ungava, Mr. Luc Ferland, in the presence of the Grand Chief of the Grand Council of Cree, Mr. Matthew Coon Come, are happy to Announce that the National Assembly today adopted the Program of Law No.42- An Act to establish the Regional Government of Eeyou Istchee Baie-James and providing certain legislative amendments concerning the Government of the Cree Nation. 
Under this law, the Regional Government of Eeyou Istchee Baie-James will replace the municipality of James Bay on the Lands of Category III and will be composed in parity number of Cree and Jamesian representatives. 
"This law represents a historical initiative to harmonize relations between the Government of Quebec, the Jamesians and the Cree on the governance of the territory of the current Bay-James municipality, municipality incorporated in 1971 in the wake of the large Hydroelectric projects. I am confident that the entry into force of this law will enable Cree and James to realize their willingness to work together to the success of this company with the future, "said Mr. Lelièvre. 
The Regional Government of Eeyou Istchee Baie-James may exercise the skills, functions and powers conferred on a local municipality, a regional county municipality, a regional conference of elected representatives and a Regional Commission for Natural Resources and the Territory .  The law also introduces amendments to the powers of the Cree Regional Administration, which will become the Government of the Cree Nation. This body will exercise some municipal skills provided for by Quebec laws on Class II Lands as well as responsibilities for planning and use of the territory and resources. 
The amendments made by Bill No.42, which have been broadly consensus among Jamesians, are also aimed at ensuring significant participation of cries for municipal governance of the territory and to intensify constructive relationships and partnerships with All communities in the region. 
"The bill that we have just adopted will allow the establishment, not only of the Regional Government of Eeyou Istchee Baie-James, but also a Regional Bay-James administration which will bring together the Cree and Jamesian representatives around the The same table for the first time in the history of our region and which will make possible the establishment of a Jamesian structure adapted to the current stakes and challenges of the territory. This really reflects the will of our government to support our communities with respect to Nordic development, "said Ferland. 
In addition, the Regional Conference of the elected representatives of James (La Creev) will be replaced by the Regional Administration Baie-James, whose board of directors will consist of the mayors of the cities of Chapais, Chibougamau, Lebel-sur -Quevillon and Matagami, as well as presidents of Radisson, Valcanton and Villebois localities. 
"This regional government will constitute the very first public municipal management structure explicitly providing for aboriginal and non-Aboriginal representation. It is an important step in the new "nation-to-nation" relationship, a relationship that is open, respectful and promoting a greater participation of the Cree Nation in its own development, "said Madame Larouche. 
