Québec- Partician members today participated in the Grand Montreal gathering and regional gatherings for the safeguarding of CPEs, throughout Quebec. The Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the spokesman for the Quebecois Family Party, Sylvain Pagé, asked the Liberal Prime Minister to give up the cuts in the Custody Services Network to preserve the mission CPE. 
"We ask the Prime Minister to stop the dismantling of CEPs. This network is a great Quebec success we need to be proud. CPEs provide our children a better start as well as equal opportunities, and have allowed tens of thousands of women to integrate the labor market. It is a network consisting of competent and dedicated workers who offer quality educational services to our children, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"The Liberal government must stop harming families, it must stop undermine the CPE network. We will continue to be with his craftsmen to defend this Quebec pride. The Minister of the Family, Sébastien Proulx, must give the CPEs to continue their educational, screening and prevention mission. He must also meet aqcpe quickly. We want to know where the minister lodges: Will he defend the network of public custodial services and listen to the demands of Quebec families? Between the CAQ program, which advocates more private, and that of the Liberals, which no longer believes in CPEs, where the minister is? ", Questioned Sylvain Pagé. 
Line 434 
The Leader of the Official Opposition recalls that the government has imposed an increase in custody rates, and that parents will see the devastating effects this year when they meet their income tax. "Line 434 of the tax return symbolizes the breakage of a liberal promise, while the Prime Minister had committed to limiting rising rates to inflation. Now, not only, in some cases up to 174%, but, in addition, the cuts directly affect the services. Pay more for less services. The Prime Minister, the families ask you to retreat and cancel the CPE 120 million cuts because early childhood centers are a wealth for Quebec, "concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
