Montreal- The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, took advantage of the first large gathering of the Quebecois party in the riding of Gouin to officially launch the Parti Québécois campaign and its platform. "We chose to campaign on the ideas we defend. We have an enclosing platform with bold proposals for Quebecers. We have a very clear vision for Quebec. We have a solid team, ready to govern, "said Pauline Marois, surrounded by a hundred candidates. 
The member and candidate of the Québécois Party of Gouin, Nicolas Girard, host of this first great gathering, greeted the leadership qualities of his leader. "We offer the Quebec population a first minister who has gathered the best team. Competent, integrity and determined, Pauline Marois is the only person in Quebec to have an experience of the state as vast. She is listening and she has the ability to make the decisions that are needed in the interest of all. This is Pauline Marois's leadership, that's the leadership we need, "said Nicolas Girard, a member of the Parti Québécois. 
The political program presented by the Parti Québécois is divided into three components: assert itself, enrich themselves and help each other. The first component, assert itself, proposes to stand in front of Ottawa, to promote and protect French, to affirm our identity and values. The second component, enrich themselves, proposes to resume the control of our natural wealth so that Quebeckers collectively enrich themselves. Finally, the third component, helping each other, presents proposals to help the families of the middle class, including the abolition of the health tax. 
Above all, the Parti Québécois is committed to acting honestly and forming an integral and transparent government in order to restore confidence between the state and citizens. Measures are proposed to clean up the financing of political parties, introducing fixed date elections, limiting the term of the mandates and give more powers to the Auditor General. 
"The program we propose is realistic, innovative and clearly shows that the Québécois party is best able to govern and advance Quebec. We can choose honesty. We can choose to assert itself, get rich and help each other. It's up to us to choose! ", Concluded Pauline Marois. 
