Québec -Cinq MPs Quebecois will team up to participate, next June, with the big Pierre Lavoie Challenge. The athletes who will break their bike at the cycling marathon are François Gendron, a member of Parliament for Abitibo West, who will be captain of the team, Sylvain Pagé, MP, Sylvain Gaudreault, MP, MP, MP, MP, deputy, And Etienne-Alexis Boucher, member for Johnson. 
"I have been training since last December to take up this brilliant challenge and I hope that the example given by our team will find echo in the population," said Francois Gendron. "The importance of the Quebecois Party to physical activity and sport is just one of the factors that have wanted to get involved in Pierre Lavoie's challenge," he has for follow-up. 
Beyond the sports feat which consists of traveling 1000 km in relay behind Pierre Lavoie, the big challenge is mainly a forum to educate the whole of Quebec to the importance of physical activity for a future. health. This event is all the more important as all surveys in recent years demonstrate that Quebeckers do not do enough physical activity. It is generally recommended to practice about 60 minutes of physical activity a day. 
For the message conveyed by the Grand Challenge Pierre Lavoie to join the young people and their families, each cyclist team is twinned at a primary school. Students will be invited during the month of May to participate in the show up and moves that promotes physical activity during and after school. "We are particularly proud to sponsor the Sainte-Bernadette School, located in the Arvida sector in Jonquière. We are confident that participation in this competition will inculporate good youth habits, "said the member for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"I am very pleased to be able to count on the members of the Parti Québécois to support the values of the big challenge. The big challenge is for everyone, not just athletes and it is important to have healthy lifestyle ambassadors in all the spheres of society, "said Pierre Lavoie. 
The announcement of the participation of the challenges in the challenge occurs on this national day of physical activity and sport. For a third year, this day reminds the population that a physically active way of life is the central element of good health. "The sound of healthy lifestyles is essential for me," said official leisure and sports opposition spokesperson, Etienne-Alexis Boucher. 
