Quebec- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, accompanied by the Minister Delegate to the Regions, Gaétan Lelièvre, reiterated his support for the niche of excellence Agreement (concerted action of regional cooperation of Development) as a regional development engine, on the occasion of the fourth major appointment of the nicks of excellence, which began yesterday and concludes today in Quebec City. Some 300 economic speakers from all regions of Quebec, including more than 200 people from the business community participate in this annual appointment. 
"Our government deeply believes that Quebec's prosperity goes through that of each of its regions," said Zakaïb Élain. "This is why the government of the Parti Québécois has put in place the agreement in 2002 and continues today to bet on these dynamic and carrier networks that are the niches of excellence." 
The success of the Agreement is attributable to the great mobilization of the business community in each region. Indeed, this approach now includes nearly 6,000 companies in the different niches and the Point of Excellence, and more than 500 business leaders actively participate in its governance. 
"Agreements contribute to maximizing the specific forces and potential of each region by allowing companies to seize business opportunities that lead to job creation and the recognition of Quebec expertise in foreign markets, "Said Minister Lelièvre for his part. "For more than ten years, they have played a major role for regional development." 
The great appointment of the niches of excellence promotes networking between regions and niches so that they can maintain and build business ties. This is an opportunity for participants to share their knowledge and experiences, discuss their successes and challenges and strengthen or build partnerships. It is also an opportunity to highlight outstanding achievements by prices delivered in four categories: the niche of the year; the personality agreement, director of niche; The personality agreement, contractor; And, finally, the realization of the year. 
"Entrepreneurs are the true creators of wealth and jobs: they are best placed to understand the issues related to the economic development of their region and, above all, to provide sustainable solutions. We must provide them with effective and adapted support for their needs, "said Zakaïb. 
Quebec industrial lapolitics 2013-2017, made public on October 10, provides an increase in funding granted to the Agreement approach. Thus, by 2017, the government will inject $ 22 million additional dollars to support projects from niches of excellence. 
Ms. Zakaïb benefited from the great appointment of the niches of excellence to say a few words about this industrial policy that will act on the main determinants of productivity to increase the competitiveness of Quebec manufacturing companies in global markets. A policy that will build on the modernization and verdation of activities, innovation, the idea of marketing, and the emergence of florets in all regions. 
Ms. Zakaïb officially announced a new measure, put in place as part of this policy, to accompany the niches of excellence in carrying out collaborative innovation projects. This measure will be driven by the Quebec Industrial Research Center (CRIQ), which has already undertaken a pilot project with the Center-du-Québec's technical textile niche. The goal is to make it accessible to all niches from the spring of 2014. 
For more information on the Agreement, consult LEHTTP: //www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/accord. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
