Quebec- In the aftermath of the Grand Appointment of the Regions, an initiative of the Quebec Federation of Municipalities (FQM), the member for Gaspé and the official opposition on the matters of municipal affairs and development of Regions, Gaétan Lelièvre, claimed that the Liberal government quickly gives the requests expressed by the FQM and that the Prime Minister appoints a minister truly and exclusively dedicated to the regions so that someone, within the Council of Ministers and that Government, defending major issues related to regions, including resource regions and rural areas. 
"Yesterday, some 400 municipal delegates have spoken heavily against the demolition site of the current Liberal government. It is clear that we are witnessing a musically in good standing of the regions; In addition to being confronted with the merger of government regional directorates, they face the abolition of the boards of health centers, as well as that of local development centers, regional elected representatives, Regional Youth Forums and the Rural Solidarity of Quebec, "said the deputy of Gaspé. 
"The municipal world is cornered at the foot of the wall. Only he loses his traditional territorial partners. Who can, from now on, second the municipal elected officials in the defense of the interests of citizens and citizens of the regions and Quebec? Let's remember that only, we go faster, but together we go further, "he continued. 
At the end of this important appointment, the FQM sent four requests to the Government: 
The Parti Québécois supports these claims of municipal delegates and the FQM. In this respect, the very short-term conclusion of a multi-year tax pact is essential. Gaétan Lelièvre also press the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Pierre Moreau, to activate the work and negotiations for the renewal of the tax pact with municipalities. "One meeting took place this year. Is this file really a priority for the minister? Does the Liberal government have an interest in repelling the deadlines and the conclusion of a real multiannual pact, in order to keep the municipalities pending and dependence against the government? A third consecutive annual fiscal pact would be an affront in the municipal world and confirmed the lack of government consideration for municipal elected officials, "said Gaétan Lelièvre. 
Unlike the current government, which improvises its many devastating reforms in all regions, municipal elected officials require, in particular, more predictability of their sources of income from the government, as well as more autonomy and measures adapted to their reality. Thus, they will be able to better plan and achieve the development of their environment. Municipal elected officials and managers want to be considered real partners in local governance. 
Finally, Gaétan Lelièvre wanted to emphasize the unveiling this week of a study conducted by the coalition not affects my regions! Recsenting 51 laws on the law to ensure the occupation and vitality of the territories (adopted by the Liberal government of Jean Charest, in 2011) and the 2011-2016 strategy resulting from it. "This study confirms that the government carries very little about the consequences of its arbitrary decisions on the reality of the regions of Quebec. It does not even use the tools it has set up! Indeed, on the 71 measuring commitments concretely that the law contains, 51 have been neglected. We are very far from the discourse on the decentralization we serve by the current Liberal government, "concluded Gaétan Lelièvre, who also invited municipal stakeholders and their partners in local and regional development to pursue long-term work to provide citizens. and citizens of all regions of Quebec, both urban and rural, a quality environment of quality and the future. 
