The Parti Québécois team is ready to bring the voice of the population to the National Assembly and to propose solutions to the government to respond to the many challenges facing Quebec. To do this, the parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois, Pascal Bérubé, unveiled the parliamentary responsibilities of each member of the Caucus. 
"We train a team both renewed and seasoned. Quebeckers can count on us to remind the new Prime Minister and his government that the expectations of the population to them are very high. Accessibility to health care and social services must be expanded quickly, and seniors must be insured to live under worthy conditions. In addition, a large school renovation site and adding resources to promote student success is needed and urgent, and it is necessary to respond without delay to the stirring issue of labor shortage, which brakes Our economic development, "first declared Pascal Bérubé. 
The chief also emphasized the importance of the issue of the climate crisis. "Ignored by the Prime Minister at the recent election campaign, the environment must become a priority of all the moments for Quebec. We have a duty to combine the fight against the climate crisis with the pillars of our regional development that agriculture, fisheries and responsible exploitation of our natural resources, "he said. 
As for the people to become the Caucus officers, Pascal Bérubé spoke of two exceptional colleagues: "Martin Ouellet has already demonstrated, in a short time, his ease in parliamentary work, his hard work and his team spirit. We rely on him to occupy the position of parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois. Harold Lebel, for his part, has always distinguished himself by his wisdom, his ability to gather and mobilize the troops, as well as for his great knowledge of the workings of the National Assembly. He therefore finds a function he knows, that of whip of our parliamentary group. He will also chair the meetings of our caucus, "concluded the parliamentary manager. 
Here, in detail, the files will defend the members of the Parti Québécois, in addition to their parliamentary responsibilities: 
Pascal Bérubé (Matane-Matapédia) 
Sylvain Roy (Bonaventure) 
Lorraine Richard (Duplessis) 
Megan Perry-Melançon (Gaspé) 
Joël Arseneau (Islands-de-la-Madeleine) 
Véronique Hivon (Joliette) 
Sylvain Gaudreault (Jonquière) 
Catherine Fournier (Marie-Victorin) 
Martin Ouellet (René-Lévesque) 
Harold LeBel (Rimouski) 
