Québec- The Deonge of the Commonio Afféré of Prêts and of Trêts and De Boourns and d'Orians new Mediterranean 
"Last Thursday, they were 200,000 people in the street to manifest peacefully with a clear message: the draconian rise in tuition fees is unacceptable. The mobilization is impressive and largely exceeds student networks. But the Liberal government has been turning a deaf ear for too long. The hour is in dialogue, "said Marie Malavoy. 
The Parti Québécois criticizes the Minister of Education, Line Beauchamp, to throw oil on fire by systematically refusing to meet student representatives. "The stubbornness of Minister Beauchamp makes it today of overflowing. It's time for it to cease, "added the member for Terrebonne and official opposition spokesman for youth and student affairs, Mathieu Traversy. 
Marie Malavoy is also referring to the intentions of the Liberal government as to the possible bonuses to be made to the Loans and Scholarship Plan. "Minister Beauchamp closed the Double Tour door while the Minister of Finance, Raymond Bachand, and the Prime Minister opened it. It would be time to have the right time, "said Quebec's spokesperson. 
In order to untie the crisis, the Parti Québécois intends to adopt this week a motion by the National Assembly. All members will have to pronounce on the following motion: 
"That the National Assembly of Quebec requires the Liberal government that as soon as possible it negotiates with opening up with the elected representatives of the student movement in order to untie the current stalemate as to the increase in tuition fees. That this motion becomes an order of the room. » 
The hon. Member recalls that the liberal increase in tuition fees directly affects the families of the middle class. They will have to pay up to $ 3800 a year per child at the university in addition to related costs and livelios. For a family with two, three or four children, accessibility to higher education may be compromised. "After three weeks of crisis, a government and a responsible prime minister must seize this common-way offer," Marie Malavoy concluded. 
Remember that the Parti Québécois opposes the liberal decision to raise 75% tuition fees and undertakes to hold a summit on higher education and the adoption of a framework law that will govern tuition fees. and other related expenses, which will preserve the economic accessibility and regional accessibility, which will respect the ability to pay students and aim to reduce student debt. 
