Quebec- The Minister of the Family, Ms. Nicole Léger, is pleased to announce that as a result of the call for proposals launched in September 2013 and ended on November 15th, the Family Childhood Cooperative was chosen for Ensure the implementation and management of the Unique Access to the reduced contribution places in the educational custody services of Quebec. The proposal of this body has best responded to ministerial requirements. The Minister of Family has made this announcement, in particular, of Ms. Marie-Claude Sévigny, Executive Director of the Family Childhood Cooperative. 
The Family Childhood Cooperative will be responsible for setting up the one-stop shop and the management of all its activities. The one-stop shop will become the only parents' entrance door to enroll their children with childcare services offering reduced contribution in the different regions of Quebec. 
"Parents looking for a subsidized guard service often have to bang on several doors, without having the assurance of getting a place when they need it. Also, with the aim of simplifying their approaches, I recently announced the creation of a one-stop shop for access to reduced contribution in the subsidized childcare services across Quebec. Today, by the unveiling of the organization responsible for its implementation and management, an essential step is crossed in the realization of this major project, which will allow us to better support families and to facilitate their life " , said Minister Nicole Léger. 
The implementation of the one-stop shop will be done in several stages and will aim, in a first phase, the early childhood centers (CPE) and subsidized daycares. The Family Childhood Cooperative will first have to integrate data from the regional counters and waiting lists of non-registered providers to one or other regional counters. The integration of these data will be made in accordance with the rank occupied by the parent on the original list. As of June 1, 2014 until December 31, 2014, the one-stop shop will carry out the role of the data from the regional counters. As of June 1, 2014, the first parents' inscriptions can be done. As soon as the data from a regional window will be integrated, the parents of this region will have access to the one-stop services. As at December 31, 2014, the integration of the regional counters will be completed. 
"Throughout the process, we will notify the parents of the different stages of the setting up of the one-stop shop and their implications in the steps they need to undertake to register their child with a CPE or a subsidized daycare. In the end, parents will only have one step to register their child at a reduced contribution service in Quebec. And I want to emphasize that they can register at the one-stop shop and consult their file quite free, "said Minister Nicole Léger. 
The establishment of a single window of access to reduced contribution places in the educational custody services of Quebec is part of the government orientations, on which the "solidarity" pillar rests, one of the Four pillars of government action, with integrity, prosperity and identity. These guidelines, made public on October 30 by the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, will guide the government's action in the implementation of measures aimed at improving the well-being of the most vulnerable people and families. The government wants to give a new impetus to solidarity, an inseparable value of collective wealth. 
