Quebec -The Parti Québécois notes that it took 20 years to the federal government to grant Quebec a similar treatment to other provinces for the harmonization of sales taxes. 
"Finally, but there is nothing to rejoice since it is not a preferential treatment, said the deputy Mémé de Marie-Victorin and spokesman for the official opposition in respect of Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Bernard Drainville. These months of negotiations to obtain equivalent treatment are all months lost to obtain specific agreements for Quebec to get more powers, "he added. 
That said, the Parti Québécois believes that this check that comes from Ottawa allows the taxpayers of Quebec to hope that Quebec returns to fiscal balance faster. "The 2.2 billion dollar compensation remains a non-recurring amount. The government must therefore make sure to maximize the impacts, "supported the member for Rousseau and the official opposition spokesman in Finance, Nicolas Marceau. 
The member for Rousseau believes that the Minister of Finance, Raymond Bachand, must also provide assurance that the tax amendments that derive from this agreement will not argue to penalize taxpayers. For example, the federal government agrees to repay large companies for the GST paid on certain properties while the Quebec government does not give these refunds. If Minister Bachand now agrees to calm these federal provisions, the Quebec government will undergo recurring losses of $ 500 million each year. 
"We are now announced the payment of $ 2.2 billion for Quebec. However, if on the other hand the changes required by the federal government make us lose $ 500 million a year, in four and a half years, we will have lost everything and we will have to pay for this harmonization, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
In addition, the Minister of Finance of Quebec must, in today, specify whether the QST will increase more than expected in the 2010-2011 budget, since the tax tax phenomenon will no longer apply. "On January 1, will taxpayers pay a 9.5% or 10% QQ, referred to the member for Rousseau, recalling that a half-point percentage for the QST reports to the Quebec state of Additional income of $ 750 million. If this is the case, Minister Bachand will pass one quickly to taxpayers, because he will seek more in their pockets than with tax on the tax, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
If the announced agreement today reduces the overall invoice that Ottawa must pay to Quebec, it still remains $ 4 billion to receive for various disputes for which Quebec is treated unfairly by the federal government. "We still do not have the same treatment as Ontario for Equalization; We have still not been compensated for ice; We always expect the restoration of transfers for post-secondary education; We still have not obtained the federal contribution for the CHUM. In short, there are still many unresolved files for which the federal government penalizes Quebec, "says Bernard Drainville. 
He stressed, moreover, that the recent decision of the federal government to increase prison sentences for minor offenses may result in rising costs for Quebec detention centers. "How many prisons will we have to build because we imprison, in a québécoise jurisdiction, all citizens who refuse to float the Canadian uniflué?, IONISE THE MEAN OF MARIE-VICTORIN. Nevertheless, the simple abolition of the stay for most crimes represents between 400 and 500 million dollars for Quebec. It is far from banal and we will need answers quickly, "concluded Bernard Drainville. 
