Montreal- Partician candidates Bernard Drainville (Marie-Victorin) and Nicolas Marceau (Rousseau) denounce the attitude of the leader of the Coalition Future Québec, who refused to tell the truth to Quebecers last night during the debate of the chiefs. In a hurry of questions by the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, François Legault had to admit on the end of the lips he resumed on his account the increases in electricity tariffs planned by the Liberal government. 
As soon as the debate completed, the CAQ candidate in Chauveau, Gérard Deltell, confirmed that a prospective Caquist government would increase electricity rates, arbitrarily thawing the Hydro-Québec's heritage bloc. This is an increase of $ 1.6 billion in total, an increase of $ 377 a year, per family. "Quebeckers have been surcharged by the Government of Jean Charest since 2003 with excessive rate increases. This is unacceptable. Families need oxygen, "exclaimed Nicolas Marceau, denouncing the comments of the head of the CAQ, which, however, swore does not want to increase taxes and tariffs. 
The Parti Québécois undertakes to maintain the gel of the electricity rates of the heritage block during its mandate. Instead, we will use additional mining royalties obtained by the application of a new more demanding mining regime to accentuate the debt reimbursement effort. 
"Why did François Legault wanted to hide these rates ramps yesterday during the debate, even if they appear in its financial framework? The CAQ, like the Liberals, wants to increase the electricity rates from the Hydro-Québec's heritage bloc since 2000. Why did François Legault tell Quebeckers? Bernard Drainville added, by wondering how François Legault can say that Quebeckers are too taxed, while wanting to impose a new rate increase. It's just not credible. 
"Quebeckers are already taxed enough. It's time to let them breathe and maintain tariffs in the current state, as we propose. In the meantime, François Legault must explain why he refused to tell the truth to Quebeckers last night, "concluded Bernard Drainville. 
