Quebec- The Quebec Party Spokesperson in Agriculture and Food, André Villeneuve, asks the Liberal government to seize the tools available to amortize the vertiginous rise in food prices and relieving Quebec families. 
"The rise in the price of the Québécois grocery shopping cart, particularly with regard to fresh fruits and vegetables, is considerable. Some products, such as celery or broccoli, saw their price double in one year. The situation affects many poor families. CPEs, already struggling with important compressions, and hospitals must make difficult choices. As for food banks, they also feel the effects, donations that are rarer, "illustrated André Villeneuve. 
The spokesman recalls that the government of the Parti Québécois had launched the policy of food sovereignty, Tablette since by the Liberals. This policy had yet been applauded from all sides since it came to restructure the entire agricultural sector of Quebec. "The Québécois party understood that everyone would gain if Quebeckers consumed more local products. We had made an important first step, also reducing electricity rates for greenhouse producers by 40%. Other means are also conceivable to help our producers, so consumers: cogeneration from wood chips and conversion of residual waste into biogas, among others. A crowd of solutions exist. As the Québécois party before him, the Liberal government must act, to help both our farmers and Quebec consumers, "he continued. 
According to André Villeneuve, the government goes wrong when it makes the hypothesis that farmers and processors are not listening to their markets. "All the Minister of Agriculture, Pierre Paradis, is a discussion! But what the industry really needs is concrete measures and a real strategy for developing agribusiness; For 5 years, the production in Serre, Quebec, decreased by 3.7%, while it climbed from 27.3% in Ontario, "he argued. 
"Obviously, the weakness of the Canadian dollar and the weather in California are factors that partly explain the increase in the grocery shopping cart price of Quebec, but it should be known that the state has levers of action to correct the situation. He must use them. The liberal leaner has lasted enough, "concluded the member for Berthier. 
