Quebec- The member for Sanguinet and official opposition spokesman for the Treasury Board, Alain Therrien, reproach the Liberal government to deny the commitment he had taken to the population last December, that of not impose new rates of tariffs to Quebec families. 
"We remember: in December, Philippe Couillard was trying to reassure Quebeckers by telling them that they had done their large part to achieve the fiscal balance, that they did not have to fear others increases of tariffs. Since then, the school child care rate has been revised upwards, such as the one for obtaining a hunting or fishing license. So, what does the future reserve us? This is the question we can ask ourselves, "said a press point, Alain Therien. 
The hon. Member, moreover, reminds that at the last election campaign in 2014 the Liberals had committed not to weigh down the tax burden of Quebecers. "What did they do, once elected? They increased electricity rates, municipal and school taxes, day care fees, and I've passed. However, thanks to the vigilance of the Parti Québécois, the Government had to recoil its willingness to impose an increase in seniors in CHSLDs, persons with disabilities, for their adapted transportation service, and the users of day centers ", a- he pursued. 
These gains for the population, the CAQ could not have obtained them, supports Alain Therrien. "François Legault and his team improvise and try to make Quebeckers believe in their interest. But what results did they get? No. The CAQ can not reduce the government, since it applies its ideas! Let's remember that in 2012, MM. Legault and Bonnardel were in favor of up 83% of tuition fees and that of electricity rates of $ 1.6 billion, that the Charest government wished to impose, increases the government of the Parti Québécois canceled ", underlined the spokesman. 
"As the saying wants," who drank, Boire ". With the Government of Philippe Couillard, Quebeckers can and should expect other price increases. Already, Minister Pierre Arcand has recognized that they have been less money in their pockets since the Liberals have resumed power. And this morning we were learning that a dark committee was still studying the recommendations of the Quebec Tax Review Panel which, I recall, proposed, in its report, several inventive ways to further tax Quebeckers, including the one. to raise the QST, "concluded Alain Therien. 
