Quebec - Member for Taillon and spokesperson for the official opposition in higher education and loans and scholarships, Marie Malavoy, and the member for Terrebonne and sentence of the official opposition for the youth, Mathieu Traversy , today went to the camp organized by the Federation College Student of Quebec (FECQ) and the Federation University Student of Quebec (FEAQ) in front of the offices of the Ministry of Education in Montreal to signify the support of the Parti Québécois. to combat the rise in tuition fees. 
The member for Taillon reminds that it is at the end of a consultation simulacre last December that the Government of Jean Charest announced a $ 1625 increase in tuition fees over the next five years. "The Liberal government has made the unacceptable decision to charge the current generation the non-indexing tuition fees in recent decades. In addition, instead of reinvesting in universities, it will gradually disengage their funding, leaving students the burden of reinvestment, "Marie Malavoy denounced. 
For its part, the member for Terrebonne deplores the head of the youth files to the Liberal government, the Prime Minister himself, has accepted a drastic increase in tuition fees. "Jean Charest has awarded the youth files in 2003 so-called to make a priority and before this inconsiderate rise in tuition fees, we are entitled to ask if there is really anyone who is concerned about Youth in this government. The increase in tuition fees will have impacts on accessibility to studies. While Quebec needs all its succession, it is a very risky bet that Jean Charest takes, "denounced Mathieu Traversy. 
MEPs have stimulated that in its program adopted last April, the Parti Québécois proposes the holding of a higher education summit to participate in the academic community, employers and civil society. This summit will focus on the quality of education, the management of universities, the adequacy between the training and the needs of the economy, a general quality training as well as the financing of the network of Quebec universities. 
