I took advantage today the unveiling of the monument in tribute to women in politics to honor pioneering, bold and courageous women. The ascent of women in politics looks like a long and difficult crossing. 
In all the democracies of the world, it was necessary to count on these pioneers so that women can contribute to political life. Idola Saint-Jean, Marie Lacoste Gérin-Lajoie, Thérèse Casgrain and Marie-Claire Kirkland played this role, for us, in Quebec. I look at them, I admire them and I thank them from the bottom of the heart. 
It is very moving to think about the fights they have led with determination, daring and strength. Women obtained the right to vote and eligibility in Quebec in 1940, much later than in many Western democracies. Even once this right is acquired, it was necessary to wait 21 years before one of us, Marie-Claire Kirkland, make his entry into Parliament. When I myself became a member of Parliament, 20 years later, we were still eight ... 
Today, we are 41 women in the National Assembly. Will it be necessary to wait for the 100th anniversary to reach parity in our Parliament? I hope not. 
Women now know with certainty that they can aspire to the highest political functions in Quebec. There are obstacles, of course, but the movement is on and nothing can stop the progress of women today. 
This monument that we have unveiled today, I hope all the young girls in Quebec will see it. I have noticed that there are still fears and constraints that hinder the coming of women in politics. Yet our contribution is essential. 
It is thanks to the work of women that some ambitious social policies have emerged, as the child care network, pay equity. 
There is still the way to do. There remains realities to counter, such as spousal violence. There remains unacceptable situations, such as poverty, which strikes women even more. It remains room for women. 
The pioneers have made so many possible things for us who have followed. From now on, it's our turn to open new paths for those who will follow. Let us pay tribute to all these women and, together, continue the work towards more solidarity, trust and equality. 
