Quebec- On the occasion of the 350AnSaire of the arrival of the first contingent of the King's girls in New France, the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for The Capitale-Nationale Region and the Chaudière-Appalaches Region, Agnès Maltese, in its name and that of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announced the appointment of the arrival of the king's daughters in New France as a historic event under LALOI on cultural heritage, in force since October 19th. 
"We have a duty to remember these young French young people. We also have the duty to express our pride in these admirable women, at the origin of many of our stem families. This recognition is all the more relevant as it reminds an important part of Quebec's history for today's generations and those of tomorrow, "said Minister Maltese. 
"The arrival of the king's daughters in New France is a historical event that has helped to forge the identity of our people. The appointment of the arrival of the king's daughters in New France and his registration in the register of cultural heritage will make it possible to raise awareness of this event in the history of Quebec and to remind us that our grandfather have competed to populate the territory of the New France and to ensure its demographic growth or survival, "said Minister Kotto. 
It is to solve the problem of the demographic imbalance to which New France faces during the 18th century that King Louis XIV decides to promote the passage of young single women, called the King's daughters from France to the colony. , to marry settlers and encourage family training. The immigration of the king's girls in New France is a royal policy that begins in 1663. 
That year, 38 girls from the king come to be established in New France; 36 of them are part of the first quota arrived on September 22nd, 1663. From 1663 to 1673, between 770 and 1,000 young women thus agree to migrate to New France in exchange for benefits granted by the King. The latter assures not only their crossing at its expense, but undertakes to clothe them and, for some, to provide them with a dowry of at least 50 pounds to facilitate their union. 
The king's girls come from disadvantaged backgrounds; About one-third of them are chosen from the orphans of the Salpêtrière, in Paris. Others come from orphanages, convents and charitable institutions in northwestern France. Some young women from the bourgeoisie and the little nobility are among the girls of the king. 
Because of their modest origins, the king's girls have often been mistakenly represented as women of bad life. The most recent research demonstrates, on the contrary, that these young women wishing to immigrate to New France have been selected according to fairly strict criteria. For the first cohorts, we even demanded certificates of good conduct testifying to the moral rigor of the candidate. 
This highly symbolic exercise of the appointment of the arrival of the king's daughters in New France is part of the descents of New France Saq. The Quebec government is pleased to contribute $ 542,000 to the holding of these festivities. Government assistance is divided as follows: the Secretariat at the Capitale-Nationale grants $ 257,000, the Ministry of Culture and Communications pays $ 110,000; Tourisme Québec grants $ 135,000; And finally, the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, $ 40,000. 
Additional information on the first contingent of King's girls in New Françainesi will be found that all heritage elements entered in the cultural heritage register on the website of the Cultural Heritage of Quebec (RPCQ), Auhttp: // www.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca. This dissemination tool of the Ministry of Culture and Communications makes it possible to discover the richness and diversity of the Quebec cultural heritage by making it accessible to all. Part of the RPCQ content is now on the Open Data Portal of the Government of Quebec, atwww.donnes.gouv.qc.ca. 
The Capitale-Nationale, attached to the Department of the Executive Board, advises the Government and the Minister responsible for the Region, Agnès Maltese, on any matter or measure having a significant impact on the region and its social, cultural development, tourism. than economic. The Secretariat acts in consultation with its various governmental and regional partners, while financially supporting the implementation of projects contributing to the growth of the Capitale-Nationale for a mobilized, innovative, festive and international region. 
