We have made public today the synthesis of our 2019 action plan proposal for a new Quebecois party. The choice of words is not trivial; At the conclusion of this approach, it is indeed a new Quebecois party that we wish to have set up, a new Quebecois party that will be ready for its recovery, and entirely in the service of independence. The vote on this proposal will be held at the National Council of 23 and 24 March. 
We want reflections to be done in depth before members are called upon to elect their new Cheffe or new leader. That's why we will keep our national congress before the running race, a first in the history of our party. Thus, we will break with our practices of the past. 
Some key elements are at the heart of this approach. First - and mainly -, put the independence of Quebec at the heart of our speech and our actions. From this year, we will hold two symposia on independence, and we will propose that political animation and mobilization around the country project become the main functions of our local, regional and national teams. Our MPs and MPs will continue to propose measures to increase Quebec freedom and pride, as well as support all initiatives in this direction. 
In November 2019, we will hold an extraordinary national congress in which everything will be on the table, with the exception of our independence beliefs. We will propose a declaration of principle, short and precise, which will put forward our project of society. It will be a new way to approach the political debate: rather than promoting methods and "measurettes", we will focus on objectives and vision.There will also be an opportunity to review and modernize our operation. sustainable way. 
Several people questioned: even the name of our party could change? For us, the priority is to work on fundamental changes, the political project, the functioning and approach of the Parti Québécois, well before to change the name. Before attacking the facade, we want to work on the foundations, on the basics. And if, at the end of this exercise, it appears that a modification of name or public image is necessary, we will evaluate it, together. That's it, "put everything on the table". 
We invite all the independence of Quebec to participate in these projects. And we will provide them with the necessary tools for these debates to be held within the Parti Québécois. 
The National Executive Board of the Québécois sincerely believes that this is the avenue that will allow us to draw up a lucid state of places, to identify concrete solutions, and to develop spaces open to all. Ultimately, this course will lead us to the launch of the new Parti Québécois - in time for the management race, which will take place in 2020. 
To view the synthesis of this action plan, visit Lehttps: //go.pq.org/vzd 
