Montreal- While several hospitals receive the evaluation note e following the inspections carried out by the Ministry of Health, the member for Rosemont, Jean-François Lisée, the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, and the door -Parole of the Parti Québécois in the field of health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, strongly denounce the abandonment by the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, of the promise of the Liberal Party to renovate the Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital ( HMR). 
"In the election campaign, in 2014, the Liberal Party has promised to act quickly to implement the Reconversion Plan of Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital, claimed by all East of Montreal - and supported by the Parti Québécois. Now that the survey on the obsolescence of hospitals gives the worst note to HMR, how can the minister explain his decision to give priority to all other projects in his programming of the last three budgets? , "Said Jean-François Lisée. 
"Indeed, while the HMR plan has passed all the validation stages, the minister has deliberately chosen to devote zero dollar in his 2014 infrastructure program, zero in 2015, and zero in that of 2016. . Thus, no money is available for the preparatory phase of a project that must spread over eight to ten years and has taken, because of the minister, three years late. For all those who work in HMR and those who receive care, the minister, who likes to speak often in the media, must also respect his word, "added Diane Lamarre. 
In the countryside, Yves Bolduc and Philippe Couillard said, however, that: 
"This modernization project is more than necessary. The facilities of the Maisonneuve-Rosemont hospital are mostly built there are about 60 years ago. It is necessary to be able to offer doctors, nurses, attendants, as well as to all other health professionals, modern and functional facilities that allow them to better serve patients. [...] The Maisonneuve-Rosemont hospital project is at the junction of the two priorities of a Liberal government, the revival of the Quebec economy with significant investments in our infrastructure and the modernization of our health facilities . (Source: Liberaltp Party Website: //www.plq.org/en/article/hopital-maisonneuve-rosemont-le-plq-reitere-son-appu-a-projet-de-modernization) 
"This is another broken promise by the Liberal Party. Out of respect for the 670,000 citizens served by this establishment, the minister must stop devoting his energies to always give his friends doctors and reindeer the commitments that his party has taken in election campaign. The eastern population has been waiting for this modernization for several years and has enough to make it laugh, "concluded Carole Poirier. 
Profession of Hmerme, Italy, Fome Entrance St Right, Event Rédecis De Ré-Calencis de Réaltis breaks Debténal 
