Saguenay- Chicoutimi's Health and Social Services Center will be authorized to undertake the design phase of the construction project of a sterilization unit of medical devices at Chicoutimi Hospital. This is announced today by the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert, and the member for Chicoutimi, President of the Treasury Board and Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac region -Saint-Jean, Stéphane Bédard. In the short term, the property will be able to develop the concept and prepare preliminary plans and estimates for this priority project for the region. 
"The current organization of the places has significant disadvantages under the angles of the available space, functionality and optimization of hygiene and sanitary practices. A new construction will provide the hospital from modern and well-equipped premises, compliant with contemporary standards for such clinical facilities. Moreover, in the wake of this work, premises will be released for the inhalotherapy service and the pathology laboratory, "said Dr. Hébert. 
For the moment, it is planned to build, for the reprocessing of medical devices, premises of 1,575 square meters, at a cost of about $ 10 million. Funding will be of local origin, including the commitment of the Foundation of My Life and the St. Vallier Corporation, which will each provide $ 2 million. In a later phase, the operating room could be arranged on a higher floor. 
This project is part of the envelopes of functional renovations and maintenance of Quebec afflicted assets of infrastructure. The current plan for the 2013-2023 period will eventually lead to investments of nearly $ 19.4 billion for the health and social services component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
"This plan marks a turn in the way of investing in public infrastructure and managing them. This new way of doing things prospectively assessing needs, depending on the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the associated costs and thus make informed choices, "said Minister Stéphane Bédard . 
The two ministers also announced the extension until March 31, 2014 of the genetic testing services for four hereditary diseases present in the region, thanks to an additional $ 120,000 envelope from the Ministry of Health and Social Services.. By then, the National Institute of Public Health of Quebec will have completed the evaluation of the program currently underway. 
These tests make it possible to detect the defective genes which are involved in congenital lactic acidosis, the spastic recessive ataxia of Charlevoix-Saguenay, the hereditary tyrosinemia of type 1 and the hereditary sensitomotor neuropathy. Nearly 5,000 people have benefited since 2010. 
"If the two members of a couple are simultaneously carriers of one or the other of these diseases, they may transmit it to their offspring. In such a case, personalized accompaniment is offered by a genetic advisor and, if necessary, by a psychosocial speaker, "said the Minister of Health and Social Services. "In order to ensure a continuity of services, we are pleased to extend this offer of genetic tests for people in the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region," he added. 
Finally, the Hébert Ministers and Bédard officially inaugurated the new multi-purpose ambulatory clinic of medical specialties, which opened its doors a few months ago. Thus, it will be 128 students in total attending the Hospital Center this fall to take part in their academic and clinical activities. 
"Dedicated to clinical education, under supervision, specialties such as internal medicine, gynecology-obstetrics, psychiatry and pediatrics, the clinic inaugurated today will allow students to see patients at their own pace, in a environment conducive to learning, "explained the Minister of Health and Social Services 
The dozen counseling rooms, the teaching room and the waiting room have been set up due to a down payment of nearly $ 1.3 million from the Ministry of Health and Social Services. 
Since September 2006, the Faculty of Medicine and Sherbrooke Health Sciences provides the medical training program in Saguenay, under a partnership between the University of Sherbrooke, the University of Quebec in Chicoutimi and the Health Center and social services of Chicoutimi. 
"The Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean now partly participates in the formation of medical succession. This approach will benefit not only the region itself, but also in Quebec as a whole, "concluded Minister Bédard. 
