Montréal- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, accompanied by the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Minister responsible for the Montreal and MP Region of Rosemont, sir. Jean-François Lisée, today announced that the amounts necessary for the permanent redevelopment of the hemodialysis service of Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital are reserved for the Quebec Infrastructure Program. 
"I am very pleased to announce this morning that Maisonneuve-Rosemont will be able to go ahead with the construction of a new building reserved exclusively for dialysis service. The relocation of this service was a priority, for several reasons: the obsolescence of temporary infrastructures, clearly insufficient spaces, but also the aging of the population and the ever-increasing demand for dialysis services. It became essential that the population of Montreal have quickly access to quality services and that the Maisonneuve-Rosemont hospital has the ability to meet the needs of its users so that they can be treated as close as possible to their environment. life. » 
The Dialysis Service of Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital, which occupies, in addition to the ground floor of the Rachel-Tourigny Pavilion, trailers at the back of the pavilion, currently has an area of approximately 2,000 m2. . The draft ongoing redevelopment provides for the construction of a new building of approximately 7,000 m2, which will bother the west facade of the ambulatory care center. These additional spaces will bring together services and add hemodialysis stations. In addition, the terrain being available, the erection of the new pavilion will not result in any interruption of service during the work. The revised functional and technical program and the beginning of the government authorization process are scheduled for September 2013. 
"I am pleased to announce today the realization of this project. This very awaited ad is a great news for the patients and users of this establishment, but also for the entire population of Greater Montreal. Our government has made access to specialized and front-line health care a priority. For us, this accessibility does not only mean that services are available, but also that they are in the right place and in the right conditions. This will be the case from now on hemodialysis at Maisonneuve-Rosemont hospital, "concluded Minister Jean-François Lisée. 
The contribution of the Ministry of Health and Social Services to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Infrastructure Québec Framework, which was released in April. It should be remembered that this decennial plan will eventually lead to investments by nearly $ 19.4 billion for the health and social services component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
