The new premises of the Hyperbaric Medicine and the Emergency of the Hotel-Dieu de Lévis were inaugurated today by the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert, and the Minister Head of the Chaudière-Appalaches region, Agnès Maltese, at the end of the work of $ 46.6 million. 
The hospital, which is attached to the Alphonse-Desjardins Health Center and Social Services, now has a hyperbaric room that can accommodate 18 people at a time, which replaces the two-seater room that was used since 1999. "Service Hyperbaric medicine from Lévis becomes the largest in Canada's hospital. Thanks to the remarkable expertise of its doctors specializing in hyperbaric and diving medicine, as well as its hyperbaric technicians, the Hotel-Dieu de Lévis will be able to process up to 5,000 patients a year, compared to about 1,500 with the old Equipment, "said Minister Réjean Hébert. 
Hyperbaric oxygen therapy is a therapeutic method of delivering, by respiratory, a large amount of oxygen to treat injury or diseases, for example carbon monoxide poisoning, anemia or the radioncrosis of soft tissues to the rest of radiotherapy treatments. 
The new emergency has 37 stretchers, as well as a shock area of 4 stretchers for the most unstable cases. "The number of emergency visits has doubled since the last expansion made twenty years ago, especially for demographic reasons. Moreover, a spacious, modern and well-equipped emergency is essential in the context of the regional and university mission of the Hotel-Dieu de Lévis, "said Minister Agnès Maltese. 
From the real estate angle, an enlargement of more than 6,500 square meters. In addition, the existing premises, with an area of about 1,600 square meters, were redeveloped. The work has been completed by providing for the possible addition of two additional floors above the urgency and the hyperbaric medicine service for future clinical developments. 
The project was funded for the largest part by the Ministry of Health and Social Services, with complementary contributions from the Alphonse-Desjardins Health and Social Services Center and the Foundation of the Hôtel-Dieu de Lévis. 
