The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert, and the Minister responsible for the Chaudière-Appalaches Region, Agnès Maltais, confirmed today that the new Regional Center integrated in Cancerology at the Hotel-Dieu de Lévis is allowed to move forward. The sums needed to carry out this project, currently estimated at $ 117 million, are reserved for the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. 
"Aware of the growth growth in the region and sensitive to the expressed concerns, our government has acted quickly on this issue, deemed to be a priority. This cancer center will become the thirteenth in Quebec to offer radiotherapy. We confirm the importance we provide to the fight against cancer, both for local services and for highly specialized radio-oncology care, which are required in half of the cases, "said Minister Réjean Hébert . 
The Regional Cancer Center will include prevention and screening services and specialized care in the fields of oncological surgery, chemotherapy, oncological pharmacy and radiotherapy. It will intervene in terms of palliative care, for the relief of symptoms and end-of-life care. The Center will also play an important role in training and supporting local cancer teams. 
Minister Agnès Maltais added: "This project has the great merit of being developed with the CHU of Quebec, which is currently serving the Boiler-Appalaches region. It can be seen that the facilities of the Hotel-Dieu de Québec are over-solicited, especially in radio-oncology. The project will promote an excellent balance of care offered to patients in both regions. »
Under the real estate angle, we plan to build a building of about 8,800 square meters on the lands of the Hotel-Dieu de Lévis. The project also aims at the acquisition of advanced radio-oncology equipment (linear accelerators), as well as the consolidation of the equipment fleet in medical imaging, particularly in the fields of magnetic resonance and the emission tomography of positrons .
Note that today's announcement allows the Alphonse-Desjardins Health and Social Services Center to develop the initial business record, with the Collaboration of Infrastructure Québec. Costs, schedule and other details of this project will be detailed as a result of the development of the initial business record. The Regional Integrated Cancer Center should open its doors in five years. 
The project will be fully funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services, as part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan, which was released in April. This ten-year plan will eventually lead to investments by nearly $ 19.4 billion for the Health and Social Services component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
