Quebec, May 5, 2020 - The member for Joliette and spokespersons of the Parti Québécois in terms of end-of-life care, Véronique Hivon, wishes to remind the government that he put forward a directive for visits to seniors in end of life. In addition, he has also made a commitment, there are already three weeks, to ensure a permanent link between hosted seniors and their loved ones, and this promise had two components: the circulation of information concerning the state of Resident health, and the contribution of caregivers to care provided. 
IN SHORT 
First, the Parti Québécois emphasizes that despite the existence of a directive authorizing relatives of relatives to end-of-life, it is noted that it is not applied consistently. "Some places allow tours, others are reluctant to do so. I invite the Government to reiterate clearly that in such circumstances, one must allocate the presence of up to three members of the family, alternately, with the person who lives his last moments, a modality of elsewhere already expressly planned, although not followed. It is a right that appears to us, with an essential condition for a departure in peace and dignity, for both the person at the end of life and for his relatives. We have been precursors, in Quebec, for the whole issue of dying in dignity; It is up to us to show that it means something, even in time of pandemic, "considers Véronique Hivon. 
In addition, the situation that has been paying for several weeks in the CHSLDs to worry, especially when a member of our family resides there. But many testimonials report on the difficulties encountered by relatives attempting to learn more about the health status of a hosted person. "Residence staff, overflowed, simply does not happen to follow suitable. In some places, the problem has been overlooked by designating those responsible for maintaining a link between residents and their families, but it is not systematic. However, all families in Quebec must have access to this information; It is absolutely essential, and the government was formally committed, by communiqué, on April 14, "Véronique Hivon recalled. 
The member for Joliette continues with the second part of this commitment. "Prime Minister Legault and Minister McCann had also assured that caregivers could soon give basic care to their relatives hosted under certain conditions. What about? It seems that we are waited to take the plunge, while this form of support would be more than welcome to the institutions. New staff do not necessarily experience comes generously serving every day in institutions. Why refuse this possibility to caregivers, who are the best placed to offer accompaniment made of humanity and proximity to the people they love? She asked. 
"As everyone else is called to show solidarity and mutual help, we must act. The sufferings of the soul are just as important as physical suffering. Let us let us know more about leaving seniors alone and disoriented, and anxious relatives, left to themselves, who will sometimes have to survive an extremely difficult mourning, in the absence of last farewell. We must collectively ensure the seniors of humanity and dignity, and to respond to the legitimate concerns of their loved ones, has concluded the spokesman for the Parti Québécois. 
