Quebec- For the Parti Québécois, the decision of the city of Huntingdon to escape from the Charter of the French language is a pure and simple affront and explained by the negligence of the Liberal government to protect our language. "The government can not allow anyone officially to make fun of law 101 because he knows that the state will do nothing," said the member for Drummond and the official opposition on language, Yves-François Blanchet. 
The Charter of the French Language confers on the Quebec Office of the French Language (OQLF) the power to transmit to the Director of Criminal and Criminal Prosecutions the records of offenders in the provisions of the Act 101. Fines can reach $ 20,000 per offense , double in case of recurrence. "The government has the means to force compliance with the law. The city of Huntingdon voted a challenge to the law, the Mayor already announces that it will challenge the decisions of the Court and the minister tells us that the OQLF investigation. The OQLF investigates what? Is not the resolution of the city not sufficient proof?, Wonders Yves-François Blanchet. The Liberal Party is not bad more energetic to impose English at school than to protect French in public administration, "he added. 
The Parti Québécois believes that the Government renounces any moral authority by not severing immediately with severity. Minister St-Pierre has the power to sanction the Huntingdon affront. Moreover, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory may also intervene since its holder may make an application to cancel a municipal decision. "If we let Huntingdon, it will be who after? We already know that several other municipalities do not know the law 101 on a daily basis. It is an illegal gesture, so the minister must act accordingly, "continued the member for Drummond. 
For him, it is the passive method chosen by the minister St-Pierre, who is constantly behind the OQLF, which leads to such situations. "Clearly, Minister Christine St-Pierre is scared. Does it fear compromising the privileged relationship between the English-speaking community and the Liberal Party? Now, it lasts for ten years. On the display is moved back on the working language to the Crown corporations, we move back on the gateways and now we allow entire cities, without embarrassment, to laugh at the face of the most popular law. In Quebec, is the member. Again this morning, we learn that it is English that dominates and which is imposed on the site of the Chum. It's time for it to cease, "said Quebec's spokesperson. 
Finally, the member for Drummond claims that Jean Charest lacks legitimacy to fly to Paris in the coming days to speak French with the Secretary General of La Francophonie, Abdou Diouf. "French is trampled at the feet in Quebec itself. Jean Charest's duty and Christine St-Pierre is to stop talking and acting with firmness. Do not do anything is an accomplice of those who violate our French, "concluded Yves-François Blanchet. 
