Quebec- The hon. Member for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the member for Chicoutimi, Parliamentary Leader and Party Spokesman in Economics, Entrepreneurship, SMEs and Exports , Stéphane Bédard, and the member for Marie-Victorin and spokesperson for energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, interpellate Hydro-Québec about the extension of a call for tenders for the acquisition of cables necessary for its network. 
As of August 4, 2015, end of the designated period for the call for tenders, Hydro-Québec had received only a proposal, that of General Cable, a company in Saint-Jérôme which is the only factory in Quebec able to provide isolated low and medium voltages cables. However, at the request of American competitors, Hydro-Québec prolonged the call for tenders until 8 September. 
"The Crown corporation should have as priority Quebec purchases. In its policy our acquisitions of movable property and services and the conditions of contracts, in force since 17 August 2009, Hydro-Québec clearly stipulates that in order to maximize the economic benefits in Quebec, it undertakes to use its power of Purchase to promote the maintenance and development of Quebec's economic activity. Does the Liberal government read this policy? Asked Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
The hon. Member for Chicoutimi calls for explanations to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources: "Why does this decision that disadvantage a Quebec business in a strategic sector? Philippe Couillard and Pierre Arcand must correct the situation as soon as possible. Hydro-Québec has always had the responsibility to develop, in Quebec, the channels related to its activities. This is one thing not to act to support job creation but, at least, it should not be harmful! Especially now, while Desjardins once again revises the GDP growth projection, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
"Minister Pierre Arcand, by his silence, is accompliced by the decision of Hydro-Québec. What did he have to say to the new CEO? Will he invite him to take note of the Hydro-Québec's policy on the acquisitions of movable property and services? Started Bernard Drainville. 
Last May, the member for Saint-Jérôme filed at the National Assembly a petition that required Hydro-Québec supplies cable from the General Cable plant in Saint-Jérôme, to maintain a hundred jobs, and that it uses its purchasing power to promote the economic activity of Quebec. In response to this petition, Minister Arcand mentioned that Hydro? Quebec was busy defining its cable procurement strategy for the next few years. "The new strategy of the Crown corporation is? It therefore to promote foreign companies, to the detriment of a Quebec company? ", Concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
Remember that as part of the negotiation of the Free Trade Agreement with Europe, the Government of the Parti Québécois had ensured to preserve the right of Québec to adopt or maintain any measure encouraging local subcontracting In the case of construction contracts granted by Hydro-Québec, namely with regard to pylons, turbines, transformers, electrical wires and electricity dispensing or control devices. 
