Quebec- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the President of the Caucus of the Party of Quebec, Maka Kotto, the spokesman for secularism, Agnès Maltais, as well as the Chief Opposition whip Official and spokesperson for immigration and cultural communities, Carole Poirier, present the proposal of the parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois in identity. 
"The Parti Québécois has always been at the rendezvous of Quebec identity. And if it was a defensive fight, it must now be a positive, serene and inclusive affirmation. That's why the Parti Québécois makes identity, with shared prosperity and solidarity, a priority for the coming years, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
The document sets out the necessary measures to better train our young people at committed and enlightened citizenship around our shared values; Tangibly walking towards a secular state; establish an immigration policy on healthier bases; and ensure the success of each of the Quebeckers and each of Quebeckers of various origins. 
Ensure the success of adoption Quebeckers 
A first action, coordinated by Carole Poirier, aims to identify and guide current members of the Quebecois party from these communities to revive the Quebec's committee of these issues and to better organize its action on the ground. A second action, coordinated by Paul St-Pierre Plamondon, aims to engage in dialogue with Quebecois from various origins to listen to their reflections on the Parti Québécois and invite them to participate in its renewal. 
The Parti Québécois offers a series of measures in order to make the arrival of each Quebecker of adoption a real success. These measures include: ensuring a much better collaboration between immigration and employment services; reduce a few days the issue of issuing a comparative evaluation of diplomas; Ensuring a full course, including employed and job internships, foreign graduates in Quebec occupations; ensure a more just presence of Quebeckers of all origins in the Quebec public service; Fight firmly against racism and discrimination in hiring, housing and elsewhere. 
"The regulation will be adapted to achieve the 100% francization objective. Among other things, it is necessary to: ensure an intermediate or advanced knowledge of French for each qualified worker now selected; ensure refugees a period of francization and paid adaptation; Enter the law the right to francization for everyone. These are structuring measures that will allow more successful integration. This means that the funding and organization of Francization in Quebec should significantly be improved, "said Carole Poirier. 
Upon the arrival of a government of the Parti Québécois, its desire to ensure the success of all will be reaffirmed by concrete and visible gestures, before opening debates on the rules of living-together. Rigorous monitoring of measures aimed at the success of the integration of Quebec from various origins and the decline in discrimination will be made, and a progress report will be presented to the National Assembly annually. 
The Auditor General, assisted by the Quebec Institute of Statistics and Experts in Demography, Employment and Integration, will receive the mandate to prepare recommendations on the issue of immigration thresholds. These recommendations will allow the Government of the Parti Québécois to develop a proposal in the fall of 2019 a proposal for the success of immigration and inclusion, in a new five-year plan that will integrate the Quebec tradition of hospitality and solidarity into the refugees. Adequate funding for this plan will be provided. 
Clarify rules on religious signs 
"A government of the Parti Québécois will deposit legislation to enroll in the law the elements that make consensus on secularism in Quebec. We must clearly mark, in the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, the parameters framing religious accommodations and exclude accommodations incompatible with equality between men and women, "said Agnès Maltese. 
The state needs to develop clear tags for school institutions to respond to accommodations. All officials, employees and state agents must have the face discovered as part of their duties. This must also be the case for citizens when they receive state services. The Chador must also be prohibited for all state employees. 
As proposed by the Bouchard-Taylor report, we believe that people who have a power of constraint - judges, prison guards - should in no way post their convictions, including religious. This must be the case, too, for other authority figures that are primary and secondary teachers, as well as child care educators. Since the world of daycares is very diverse, a committee will look at the applicability of this general rule in the various forms of child care, including family environment. This measure will gradually apply; Current employees will preserve their acquired rights. 
"In their training and in the ethical guide that will be awarded each year to each employee of the State, the Government will promote a reserve duty, affirming its clear preference for the largest possible reserve in the display. Convictions, policies, social, religious or other, state employees in the performance of their duties, by respect for the diversity of citizens' convictions, "said Agnès Maltese. 
A team of parliamentarians and experts will be responsible for examining foreign experiences with respect to the port of the full veil, Niqab and Burqa, and submit its proposals to the government. 
Success is based on equilibrium 
In total, with these proposals, the Parti Québécois wants to allow Quebec to finally go out of immobility and hesitation on these crucial issues. "On the one hand, the action for the successful integration of adoption Quebeckers must be real, tangible, measurable. Failure to immigration and integration have lasted too much, generating too many frustrations in our new citizens. Discrimination on hiring and access to housing must disappear. Quebec must live up to its real desire to open and welcome. The Parti Québécois wishes to draw a clear, coherent, resolved route, based on a collective will, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
All the details of the Québécois party proposal in the appendix. 
