Montreal, August 10, 2017- The leader of the Parti Québécois and spokesperson for the official opposition on the French language, Jean-François Lisée, announces that a government of the Parti Québécois will file a law 202 on the language and the language Immigration in the first 101 days of its mandate. "We must make strong gestures to give back to the Quebec nation the vigor that it absolutely need! "Said Mr. Lisée. 
IN SHORT 
"The summer of 2017 ends while clouds accumulate above the Quebec national identity. It is therefore necessary to respond with force and operate a recovery that requires the return of a real and structuring national will to the orders in Quebec. This law would consolidate our linguistic positions, including our reception, integration and francization measures, "said the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
The 2016 census data are without appeal: the decline of French in Quebec is indisputable, especially as to the proportion of citizens whose main language is at home. On the island of Montreal, in Laval and on the South Shore, the decline has been significant for ten years. 
"Among these different measures, it is imperative to require that 100% of future immigrants and their spouse are admitted to the territory only if they demonstrate a good knowledge of French. In particular, the right to be restored to work in French, poorly placed by the Canadian courts, extend the law 101 to companies from 25 to 50 employees - what is always refusing the PLQ and the CAQ - and require A real knowledge of French graduates of CEGEPs and English-speaking universities in Quebec. Several other measures have the objective of reaffirming that the official and common Quebec language is French and will remain so, "continued Jean-François Lisée. 
The leader of the Parti Québécois also insists on the importance of ensuring real integration of neo-Quebec at work, regions and occupations, and that of an equally real decline in discrimination. "The Liberals have accustomed us to public relations operations that have no concrete effect," he added. 
"The Parti Québécois, as it did in the past, offers innovative and structuring avenues for the many challenges in Quebec today. The October 2018 election will be the one in which Quebeckers will have the choice between amplifying the decline of Quebec with the Liberals, supported by the Solidarities, or opt for a government that will offer the nation the pride and confidence to deal with These challenges, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
