Montréal - the Quebec party asks the Quebec Elections Director General (DGE) to take steps to ensure that the electoral list revision process is consistent and that the electoral law is followed, so that only those who fulfill the conditions. voter are eligible to vote. 
"What we have learned from yesterday is deeply worrying. If it is true that people are listed on the electoral list without having the right to vote, they therefore cancel the vote of citizens who have a legitimate right to speak. The right to vote is fundamental: democracy can not be stolen, "said Leo Bureau-Blouin, Quebec's candidate in the riding of Laval-des-Rapides. 
Indeed, the testimony of a resigning commissioner in Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques is disturbing. It seems that the members of some revision committees are unable to deal with surprising affluence. It is also learned today that Ontario students are part of the list of electors for the general elections of April 7. 
"In the past, such situations have occurred and we want to prevent them from happening again. What is happening now in the constituencies of Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Sherbrooke and Saint-François worries us, and we expect the integrity of the electoral process to be guaranteed, "said Nicole Léger, candidate In Pointe-aux-Trembles and Minister of the Family. 
"There is another week to register on the list of electors. Today, we ask the DGE a full and daily report of registration applications - in order to follow the phenomenon -, tight and adequate accompaniment for the revision committees and a post-record audit. The electoral law allows the DGE to take exceptional measures; We ask him to intervene before the general ballot, "concluded Bertrand St-Arnaud, candidate in Chambly and Minister of Justice. 
Remember that the list of electors is permanently and updated from information transmitted to the DGE by voters or public bodies, such as the Régie of Quebec Health Insurance. 
Listen to an extract from the press conference. 
