Québec - "The Vision of the Quebec Agricultural Financial and the Liberal Government seems to be based on an industrial model in the American: large agricultural enterprises where farmers are no longer owners of their farm or have no control over the decisions. At the Parti Québécois, we want to ensure the sustainability of human scale farms throughout Quebec. It is the future of Quebec agriculture in question. " 
This is said today to the National Assembly, the member for Iberville and spokesman for the official opposition on agriculture, Marie Bouille, after having questioned the Minister of the Agriculture, fisheries and food, Pierre Corbeil, on the major crisis in the agricultural environment. 
Since last week, the Parti Québécois has been trying to make Minister Corbeil that the current agricultural crisis is not exaggerated and asks him what he intends to do to help agricultural producers who are at the edge of the chasm. "The productions of pigs, oxen, lambs and sheep are in a very precarious situation. The crisis is so serious that the best producers simply arrive and have to put the key in the door. Quebec's agricultural financial financial, an accomplice of the Liberal government, lets you disappear thousands of farms without flinching, "said Ms. Bouille. 
Since 2008, Quebec has lost 20% of its pig farms (430 farms), 20% of its staggered calf farms (940 farms), 23% of its production of slaughter steers and 10% of its farms sheep (nearly 100 farms). "We must immediately stop this hemorrhage, but obviously, the minister does not seem to know how to do it because he talks about cheeses! He must wake up as soon as possible and stop trivializing the misfortune of farmers, "said the member for Iberville. 
"The crisis in the agricultural environment is dramatic. Our regions are empty of their producers. Social and economic impacts are catastrophic. The minister must take note of it quickly rather than to do denial, just like Quebec's agricultural financial financial, "concluded Marie Bouille. 
