Québec- The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, announces the creation of the Task Force on the Protection of Quebec companies. This working group will focus on the measures to be put in place to enable Quebec companies to better protect themselves against unwanted control and to promote the maintenance of social seats in Quebec. 
"We want to act concretely to promote our economic development, protect our florets and ensure the maintenance of our headquarters in Quebec. To do this, the rules that frame the business acquisition and give more resources to boards to exercise their free will in hostile shopping offers. The Working Group will review the current supervision and submit proposals for legislative amendments to that effect. While supporting an open and welcoming economy for foreign investment, it is time to study the adoption of measures similar to those in many US and elsewhere in the world, "said the minister. 
The mandate of the Working Group will be to address the nature, scale and the medium and long-term impact of measures promoting the maintenance of head offices, which could lead to the modification of various laws applicable in Quebec. It will also consider the question of the intervention of the boards of directors and the free exercise of their duties of a fiduciary nature in unsolicited purchasing offers. 
The Group Presidency will be provided by Claude Séguin, Senior Vice President, Business Development and Strategic Investments at CGI. He will be accompanied in his mandate by: 
"Headquarters are strategic decision centers whose presence is a crucial issue for the economic growth of Quebec. That's why I agreed to participate in this exercise. I am convinced that the group's work will identify many avenues carriers both for our businesses and for Quebec, "said Séguin. 
"I want to commend the skills and experience of the members of the Working Group and to thank them for accepting the government's invitation. I will carefully follow the progress of the work of the Committee, "the minister concluded. 
The working group must submit its report in the fall of 2013. 
