Laval- It is under the theme "bring the policy of citizens" that the member for Laval-des-Rapides and Parliamentary Assistant to the Prime Minister (Youth Freight), Leo Bureau-Blouin, completed his first year at the meeting national. 
"What motivates me and inspires me in my duties, it is the proximity to the citizens. When I came into office on September 4th, I saw a significant cleavage between the population and politics. I arrived in an office where all the citizens' files had been destroyed. It was necessary to restore confidence in the population, "explains Mr. Bureau-Blouin. 
To emphasize this year to stimulate citizen participation, Leo Bureau-Blouin organized a special day by beginner by its traditional Saturday citizen. "Saturday citizens are appreciated by the public. We are already at our sixth day of this type, which allowed me to meet several hundred citizens, in addition to daily meetings and public meetings. It is a tool available to residents of Laval-des-Rapides to be heard by their deputy, "adds Bureau-Blouin. 
As promised during the election campaign, Mr. Bureau-Blouin recently moved to the Cartier Metro sector. In order to meet the neighborhood and discuss the government's balance sheet, the member took the initiative to organize an India wheat peeler in the area after the citizen Saturday. He also took the opportunity to announce that the next Public Assembly of Laval-des-Rapides will take place on Thursday, November 7th. 
Moreover, at the national level, Mr. Bureau-Blouin has been very active in promoting the participation of young people in the development of the company of tomorrow. In conjunction with the minister responsible for democratic institutions and citizen participation, Bernard Drainville, he initiated Bill 13, which will allow students to vote in their school at the next election. Last May, Quebec's Prime Minister Pauline Marois told him the mandate to reflect the 2030 company with youth. Since then, a website 2.0 (http://www.destination2030.gouv.qc.ca) has been set up and more than 1500 young people have been encountered for coconstuire the next Quebec Youth Policy. 
"For a year, I have tried to put concrete gestures to bring citizens closer together. My first gesture was to abolish the practice of burnt land and allow the transfer of files between the elections, regardless of the color of the new elected. Then I introduced SATEDI CITIZENS and public meetings to allow Lavalians to express themselves on the issues that affect them. In addition, a citizen web platform has been developed to allow me to probe the population on different topics. I also organized an important consultation on collective transport in Laval and a report was tabled by the Minister of Transport. Finally, in partnership with the community community, I set up the 1st evening of volunteers to highlight the commitment to the community. After a year, I am proud of the path traveled and to have the privilege of representing the riding of Laval-des-Rapides, "concluded Mr. Bureau-Blouin. 
