Quebec, October 19, 2016 -The new head of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisé, gave the signal that with him, the regions will have a strong voice in Quebec City. As proof, the first motion filed calls for a countercut to any centralization of services that affects the regions of Quebec. "We also require that ministers to watch over the regions, currently all elected representatives of Montreal, be replaced Illico by one or more Ministers members from the regions and possessing a real knowledge of their realities," he said. this morning in a press point. On this occasion, Mr. Lisée was surrounded by several members representing the resources regions and having as a mandate to reach out to the regional decision-makers, a team coordinated by Sylvain Gaudreault, the member for Jonquière, also spokesman for the Parti Quebec. decentralization and development of the regions. 
"The Couillard government is the most centralizing government that Quebec has experienced from the tranquil revolution. It is he who abolished the regional conferences of the elected officials. He also removed CLDs, local development centers, and closed regional office directions from several ministries. The Liberals also centralized the health sector, operating the largest centralizing reform that Quebec has known. And they were about to impose the same kind of reform to school boards; Fortunately, the opposition has made them sound on this issue. In short, with the Liberal government, it is the total abandonment of decentralization and resources, "summed up Sylvain Gaudreault. 
In addition, the Leader of the Official Opposition denounced that the Prime Minister Couillard did not deign to appoint a responsible minister of the regions, as had all his predecessors had done. "Ministers who are responsible for taking care of the regions - Either Martin Coiteous, the Municipal Affairs and the occupation of the territory, Lise Thériault, the regional economic development, and, to a certain extent, Pierre Arcand, to natural resources - are three elected representatives of the Montreal area. They can not have the sensitivity specific to the elected representatives of the regions. The Prime Minister must correct the shot and appoint a Minister of Regions who actually come from a region; It is crucial that regional issues are adequately represented on the Executive Board, "he added. 
Finally, Jeanfrançois listed asks the Government to change the composition of its Advisory Committee on Economy and Innovation, so that it includes an appropriate representation of the regions of Quebec, including that of the Capitale-Nationale. "It's inescapable; It's a matter of respect for the Greater Quebec City and the know-how of its entrepreneurs, "he insisted. Mr. Lisée has also returned to the charge, during the question period, to the defense of the economy of the regions. "Every time, the Prime Minister has changed the subject, unable to defend his regional assessment indefensible," he concluded. 
