In 1976, the Parti Québécois defeated a liberal government undermined by cynicism and allegations of corruption. 
On November 15, 1976 goes to history as one of the most important moments in Quebec's history. Having obtained 41.37% of the votes and elected 71 deputies, René Lévesque declares, "I never thought I could be as proud to be Quebec that tonight. » 
It is on this occasion that the first MPs members of the Parti Québécois are elected. This is Lise Payette, Denise Leblanc, Jocelyne Ouellette and Louise Cuerrier-Sauvé. While he was no longer an elected since 1967, René Lévesque wins the riding of taillon with 41% of the votes. He becomes the 23rd Prime Minister of Quebec. 
Then puts on one of the most innovative governments that Quebec has known. The law of financing political parties is set up. Law 101 makes French the normal language of the public life of Quebec. One creates one of the first ministries of the environment in the world. Protection of the Agricultural Territory, Consumer Protection, Auto Insurance Act, Occupational Health and Safety Commission, Labor Standards Act: The government is committed to defending Quebeckers and winning Quebec. 
Photo credit: The Canadian Day Press is not just a great time for our political training, it has also been for all Quebec. The Levesque government has been one of the most reformed governments in Quebec's history. The great social and political advances that followed are a pride for each and every Quebecers. 
While the progress made continues to improve our lives, let's take a moment today to make the road traveled by Quebec and be grateful to this inheritance. 
This place that the Parti Québécois has in Quebec's history, it evokes our ability to make miracles when we work together to meet the challenges of Quebec. 
40 years later, before another liberal government undermined by cynicism and allegations of corruption, are we inspired by this past to build a future where it is still possible to win victories for Quebec. 
Celebrate the 40th anniversary of the election of the Parti Québécois with us! Several activities are available to you: 
