The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the Spokesperson for Immigration and Diversity, Catherine Fournier, and the spokesperson for the development of regions and decentralization, Sylvain Gaudreault, presented today The proposals of the Parti Québécois in immigration, including those aimed at promoting regionalization of immigration. Concrete gestures will be needed to reverse the trend, while more than 90% of new Quebeckers settled in the metropolitan area, despite a labor shortage and a population decline mainly affecting the regions of Quebec. 
They presented to the media a major document on the subject: "Immigration, the Québécois party proposals to really change success", available atwww.pq.org/immigration.en Brefnos proposals aim to: 
"For 15 years, the liberal immigration policy is a complete failure: in terms of labor, francization, recognition of acquired and diplomas, regionalization and retention, particularly. We have concrete proposals, applicable immediately, towards real successes. A true immigration success policy must now meet several simple objectives: responding to job shortages, particularly in the region; Ensure sufficient knowledge of French; Well check, at the point of entry, that candidates for immigration undertake to respect Québec values and laws; and rely only on the tools available in Quebec. That's what we're committed to, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
Regionalization of immigration 
"By far, the best filter to choose a future employee from abroad is the employer, whether private, public, cooperative or institutional. At the moment, employers hire these workers temporarily and once in Quebec, they have a quick lane to obtain their certificate of selection through the Quebec experience program (PEQ). The same process applies to foreign students who wish to stay in Quebec. A government of the Parti Québécois will generalize this winning practice that has been proven. But he will go further. In the sectors and regions where a labor shortage is observed, the existence of a validated employer and candidate job offer before arrival in Quebec will also put its file in an expressway. Approval and verification of other criteria, including linguistic, "said Catherine Fournier. 
"It's an aberration to see that in the current selection grid, an immigrant who tells you want to work in the region just receives two points more than an immigrant who tells you want to work in Montreal. With the shortage of current labor that affects all regions of Quebec, this situation can no longer last. If we really want to reverse the trend, you have to give a stroke, now. A citizen government will act rapidly by changing the selection grid so that 16 points are granted to immigrants with a validated job offer in the region, which is twice the points currently granted to a validative job offer in the region. Metropolitan of Montreal. In addition, we will create a new category to provide additional points to an immigrant who is committed to being permanently in the region, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The Parti Québécois also wishes to extend the program "A Québec soil employment", which encourages immigrants settled in the metropolis, where their unemployment rate is greater, to fill vacant jobs in the region. Led by the Quebec Chamber Federation, this program will be extended to the three regions that do not have access (Bas-Saint-Laurent, Gaspésie, North Shore) and will be made permanent. "Employment in Quebec" has given excellent results. Only for the pilot project, these are 2,500 jobs made available from more than 260 participating regional companies. MEPs also commit to that a government of the Parti Québécois reopens the regional offices of the Ministry of Immigration and to implant others in the regions affected by the labor shortage. 
To counter the failures of francization: to ensure sufficient knowledge of French at the point of entry 
It is illusory to believe that the mere increase in francization budgets will remove by magic a failure rate of 90% and a starting rate of Quebec from 40 to 50% of immigrants who come to us before discovering that they have neither the linguistic competence necessary for integration, nor sometimes the desire to acquire it, preferring to go elsewhere. The waste of money and time, for Quebec society and for the immigrant, is a huge mess. Several European countries have a solution to this problem: to ensure that immigrants know the national language at the point of entry, so before arriving. As of 2013, 17 countries in the European area on 27, so 63%, demanded the knowledge of their national language before entering their country. This of course excludes refugees and asylum seekers. 
Some say that it would be impossible to recruit a few tens of thousands of qualified immigrants with their arrival, a knowledge of French language or second language. The document revealed today shows that the global basin of French speaking citizens exceeds 270 million people, spread over all continents. 
It is noted that, among other things, the proportion of Portuguese (23%), Dutch (21%), British (16%) and Germans (14%) who speak French is greater than the number of Canadians outside Quebec speak (10%). Not to mention, of course, the 63 million French, the 8 million Belgians and the 117 million Francophones in Africa. There are also important concentrations in Vietnam (650,000), Thailand (556,000) and elsewhere. In the United States, each year, 1.3 million students learn it in high school and 216,000 higher education students. In Asia, between 2009 and 2013, the number of people learning French only in the supply of French alliances has increased by a million! The number of Chinese and Indians who learn French to higher education is growing marked. 20 years ago, 32 Chinese universities taught French. In 2014, we had 142! 
The document released today explains how the requirement of knowledge of French at the point of entry would be modulated according to the qualification of coveted or obtained employment. As for the fears sometimes mentioned on the attraction of highly qualified personnel, the document returns to the exceptions currently in force that cover these specific and ad hoc needs, and undertakes to keep them for the future. 
Check that candidates adhere to Québec values and laws 
"The CAQ has launched an absurd debate on a" values test "that it would like to pass to the candidates for immigration three or four years after their arrival on the territory. Otherwise, the person would be denied his certificate of selection of Quebec and would become "without status", therefore subject to expulsion by Canada. This proposal is inapplicable because ever a Canadian government would only change its immigration policy to meet the CAQ will. It would also have serious human consequences, lacking in respect of the approach of integrating the candidate for immigration, that of his spouse or his spouse, as well as that of His children - possibly born here - or the links they have developed in their use as outside of it. 
For several years, Quebec requires all adult immigration candidates to sign a declaration of values. This signature is mandatory for the application to be valid. We will improve this statement, including the respect of the rights of LGBTQ + and the ban on the port of religious signs in the position of authority, as soon as our government puts it in place, "said Catherine Fournier. 
Use the tools available here and avoid the federal sky 
"It is perfectly illusory to conceive, in 2018, a Quebec immigration policy relying on the goodwill of the federal government, as does the CAQ. The imperatives of the labor shortage, the needs of the regions for the attraction of foreign students, and strong measures to curb the decline of French in the metropolis can not wait for the goodwill of Ottawa. The Immigration Party Program completely avoids the federal pitfall. Its measures are applicable immediately and completely change the game for employment, for regions and for French, "concluded the official opposition. 
