Quebec- This morning, during the Quebec immigration policy, the member for Bourget and the official opposition for the immigration opposition, Maka Kotto, reiterated his strong opposition to the simplistic proposal What did the CAQ do about this earlier this week. 
"Not only does the CAQ proposal is currently inapplicable, since Quebec does not fully control its immigration policy, but it represents in addition a simplistic solution to a much more complex problem: the integration of newcomers. As usual, the CAQ surfs on a populist problem, filled with intellectual shortcuts. We reiterate our opposition to its proposal; Quebec will not turn a person at home because it does not meet the requirements of the Legault test! The CAQ scraps and goes far too far. Return newcomers established is a totally devoid of humanity. Obviously, this party is looking for a new identity, the Liberal government that stole the austerity and blind cuts, "said Maka Kotto. 
"Obviously, newcomers must have access to better francization services; It is therefore essential to improve the number and availability of courses in this matter. Now, if the CAQ was really in favor of a better francization, why did not she support the improvements we had proposed when we were in the government at the Charter of the French language? , Added the member for Bourget. 
Clear solution tracks 
The hon. Member took advantage of the interpellation to submit the Québécois Party's proposals as part of the reflection on the new immigration policy in Quebec. Unfortunately, the nine recommendations he made at Minister Kathleen Weil were all rejected by the Liberals. 
"We are in favor of greater availability of resources in the region for the integration of immigrants, the dissociation of the immigration policy of the fight against fundamentalism, and the maintenance of the requirements for the mastery French. We could have considerably improved the new immigration policy, but the minister had an idea in mind. She made her decisions alone, without listening to most of the groups heard in parliamentary committee, "concluded Maka Kotto. 
