Saint-Eustache- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, and the hon. Member for Deux-Montagnes, Mr. Daniel Goyer, announce the establishment of a new unit of family medicine (UMF ) Affiliated with the Université de Montréal at the Health and Social Services Center (CSSS) of the Lac-des-Deux-Montagnes. 
"We have made a commitment to improve the accessibility of care and services by consolidating the first line and increasing the number of family physicians. This announcement is precisely for this purpose, since this new UMF increases the family medicine capacity of the Université de Montréal's network while accentuating the offer of service to the population of the territory, "said the Minister Hébert. 
The new UMF, which will adhere to the Family Medicine Group (GMF) model, will be able to accommodate six residents next July and, from 2016-2017, will have a capacity of sixteen residents, three external and a nursing trainee Practitioner specialized in front-line care. 
"I am pleased that our government responds to its commitment to strengthen front-line care. In addition to contributing to the training of the succession in medicine and in the health sciences, which will benefit the whole of the Quebec population, this new UMF will improve, here and now, access to High quality care and proximity services, "said the member for Deux-Montagnes, Mr. Daniel Goyer. 
For the establishment of this family medicine unit, the Department grants a maximum annualized allowance of $ 712,640, of which $ 370,000 will be allocated to rental costs and facilities. The balance will be dedicated to human resources, computer resources, as well as various other functional expenses. 
Currently, about 45% of medical students are heading for family medicine, while 55% are moving towards other specialties. The implementation of this new UMF is part of the government's willingness to increase the number of graduates in family medicine to reverse these proportions, and thus to better meet the current and future health needs of Quebec. 
