Québec- favorable to learning a second language for the largest number of young Quebeckers, the Parti Québécois denounces and deplores the improvisation of the Liberal regime for a year for the implementation of intensive English in 6th year. 
"The implementation of the Intensive English Program in 6th year arouses strong concerns with Quebec parents. The Government must reassure them by responding to their questions, "said the hon. Member for Jonquière and the official opposition spokeswoman in primary and secondary education and literacy, Sylvain Gaudreault, who today filed The National Assembly, with the member for Champlain, Noëlta Champagne, a petition signed by several thousand people. 
"We are particularly concerned about the consequences for students clinging in their learning and students with an invasive development disorder (TED) or with attention deficit disorder with or without hyperactivity (ADHD)", A Prosecuted Sylvain Gaudreault. 
For the member for Champlain, the Liberal government is lacking its responsibilities by maintaining parents in worry. "Quebec parents argue legitimate questions and the government has to answer them clearly. What kind of teaching will be provided to their children in such a context of improvisation? "Wonders Christmas Champagne. 
Remember that the partners of the Minister of Education, the Federation of Education Trade Unions and the Autonomous Federation of Education, withdrew from the Working Committee to ensure the implantation of intensive English; They believe that the environment consultation has been poorly done. 
"The former Minister of Education, Line Beauchamp, said during the study of appropriations last April that she would take contact with these unions to return to the committee. Two months later, it happened many things in education, but on this plan, nothing has moved. Minister has changed minister and crisis crisis. With the problems of the current minister, we can fear the worst and nothing will change, "concluded the hon. Member for Jonquière. 
