Reluctally - the member for Vachon and the official opposition spokesman for transport, transport and maritime strategy, Martine Ouellet, the member for Vérchères, Stéphane Bergeron, the member for Saint-Jean and President of the Regional Montérégie Caucus, Dave Turcotte, and the Québécois candidate in the riding of Richelieu, Sylvain Rochon, keep to remember that the establishment of a reluctant logistical hub remains an essential choice for Quebec to maximize the benefits. related to the projected increase in the transport of goods by sea. 
"Due to its geographical position, Quebec has an undeniable comparative advantage to become a world leader in the field of container maritime transport. In addition, maximizing transportation by train and by boat makes it possible to minimize our carbon footprint. In the context of the Canada-Europe Agreement and the Enlargement of the Panama Canal, containerized transportation will take an increasingly important place in the Quebec economy. A reluctant logistic pole will allow us to be ready to meet the demand, "said Martine Ouellet. 
"No one can question the region's ability to host an intermodal logistics cluster of International Caliber. The reluctant site is an accessible port 12 months a year, lands already in the industrial zone, a well-established regional social acceptability and the presence of a major partner in this type of project: the port of Montreal. With a reluctant logistical pole, the port of Montreal could process up to 3.5 million containers annually, which represents nearly double its current capacity. It would become one of the three largest ports in North America, "added Stéphane Bergeron. 
"A study by Lemay + DAA Strategies and E & B Data, and made public last December, confirmed that the reluctant site has significant advantages. The study is clear; The logistics division could generate direct and indirect benefits of the order of $ 8 billion over a 20-year horizon. In November 2013, the National Council of the Québécois Party unanimously adopted a resolution supporting the establishment of a modern intermodal pole, "said Dave Turcotte. 
"The government must go ahead with the reluctant site. People in the region are ready to face the challenges that are offered. It should not be a partisan issue; We are talking about an important decision for the entire Quebec economy. This is the creation of more than 24,000 jobs and potential tax benefits up to $ 249 million. As the Lemay + Daa Strategies and E & B Data study says, to maximize the benefits, the government must acquire "quickly and aggressively" of a coherent strategy. Does the Liberal candidate in Richelieu, Benedict Théroux, agreed with the population? Will it position itself on its side or side of the government? ", Concluded Sylvain Rochon. 
Watch press clause. 
