Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu- The deputy of Saint-Jean and Deputy Whip of the Government, Mr. Dave Turcotte, and the hon. Member for Iberville, Ms. Marie Bouille, announce on behalf of the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, the establishment of a new family medicine unit (UMF) affiliated with the University of Sherbrooke at the Health and Social Services Center (CSSS) High-Richelieu-Rouville. 
"Our government has made a commitment to improve the accessibility of care and services by consolidating the first line and increasing the number of family physicians. This announcement is precisely for this purpose, since this new UMF will increase the capacity for family medicine of the University of Sherbrooke, while accentuating the offer of service to the people of the territory, "said Minister Hébert. 
The new UMF, which will adhere to the Family Medicine Group (GMF) model, can accommodate four residents and four clinical immersion trainees next July. From 2017-2018, it will have a capacity of sixteen residents, two external and four nurse practitioners specialized in front-line care. 
"It is essential that in training, family physicians have access to well-structured internships, where they are supervised by experience physicians. In addition to contributing to the training of medical and health sciences, this new UMF has improved access to high quality local care and services in our region. At the same time, by being trained here, our future professionals are sensitized to the particularities of medical practice in environments like ours, "said Mr. Turcotte. 
Ms. Bouillé added, "I believe in the importance of local health services for the citizens of the riding that I represent. In this sense, I worked tirelessly to attract doctors to Iberville to provide better access to the first line. The upcoming opening of a UMF will provide our area of an attractive pole for new family physicians who after their training may choose to settle here, in a monterégie, definitively. And we all work in this direction. » 
The hon. Member for Chambly and Minister of Justice, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, said: "I am pleased that our government responds to its first-line service commitments with such a judicious choice. The number of family physicians increases every year, which can only benefit the population of Montérégie and other regions of Quebec. » 
For the establishment of this new family medicine unit, the Department grants a maximum annualized allocation of $ 748,600, of which $ 304,500 will be allocated to rental costs and facilities. The balance will be devoted to human resources, computer resources, as well as various other operating expenses. 
Currently, about 45% of medical students are heading for family medicine, while 55% are moving towards other specialties. The implementation of this new UMF is part of the government's willingness to increase the number of graduates in family medicine to reverse these proportions, and thus to better meet the current and future health needs of Quebec. 
