Sainte-Claire- Minister Delegate to the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine Region, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, announces, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Development Bank Québec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the award of non-refundable financial assistance of $ 600,000 to Baldor Electré Canada (Baldor). The $ 6 million project is to modernize the facilities of the Sainte-Claire plant and thus increase its production capacity. For its part, Baldor invests massively in the project, mainly funded by its internal funds. 
In October 2011, the possibility of transferring the production of certain products from its factory located in Mexico to another factory in the group was studied at the head office of Baldor. To rank first, the Sainte-Clair plant was to demonstrate that it was the best cost and production capacity option. In August 2012, the parent company officially announced that four types of pulleys were now being made at the Sainte-Claire plant. To date, about half of Mexican production has been transferred to Sainte-Claire. 
"The Baldor subsidiary is an important orders donor in Quebec," said Minister Gaétan Lelièvre. "We are delighted that it continues to invest heavily in Quebec, and that is why the Government of Quebec encourages foreign companies to solidify their sitting here. The competitiveness of a company requires increased productivity that goes mainly through innovation and modernization of its equipment. This intervention will enable the company to consolidate all of the 175 existing jobs and to create new ones, which is an excellent news for the economic development of the Chaudière-Appalaches region. » 
Founded in 1964 under the name Pulleys Maska inc., The Baldor plant in St. Clair was acquired by the American company Baldor Electric Co. in 2008, then by the Swiss ABB group in 2011. It is part of the US division. Baldor, herself, member of the discreet Division Automation and Motion of the Swiss ABB Group. Specialized in the design, manufacture and marketing of high-end mechanical power transmission products designed for a wide variety of industrial applications, the plant employs 175 people. 
"Our production capacity was superior and the investment needed to manufacture the products in us was less important than the investment required to produce them in Mexico or transfer them into North Carolina," said Pierre Boutin, Director of the Sainte-Claire Factory. "We have also worked in partnership with Investisse Québec and received support from the foreign companies' branch, which has accompanied us in our steps to our senior executives. We have also obtained financial assistance of $ 600,000; This element has certainly played in our favor. » 
Thanks to new equipment, the Sainte-Claire plant is now more efficient. The new range of value-added products will allow the company to access a growing market, increase its sales volume and continue to develop its know-how. 
