Quebec- The member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesman for the Quebec's international relations, Carole Poirier, denounces the new liberal compressions in the field of diplomacy and international relations, which will force the abolition of nearly a quarter. Posts of representatives of Quebec abroad. 
"I find, and even embarrassing, to note that the Liberal government suffers from such a lack of vision, ambition and pride when it comes to ensuring the presence and influence of Quebec on the international scene, or developing and maintaining relationships with other nations. The Minister of International Relations and Francophonie, Christine St-Pierre, did not even attempted to save the budgets allocated to his ministry, "lamented the spokesperson. 
Carole Poirier is worried about the abdication of the Couillard government in the field of international relations. "The Liberals prefer, once again, to delegate this lever to the federal level, as if we were unable to highlight ourselves, or as if we had no particularity to showcase, no potential to develop. This attitude of withdrawal on oneself is purely ideological! At the end of the day, it is our entrepreneurs, our artists, our researchers and our young people who will pay the price of the abdication of the Liberals as to the international influence of Quebec, "she added. 
The member urges the St-Peter minister to return to his decision. "The Minister applies to ratify 60 years of work devoted to ensuring a presence of Quebec abroad. Moreover, if it firm, liquid or sword all the Quebec diplomacy, what, exactly, will she be minister? The very relevance of his position is questioned by his decisions! Then, is not it important, for the liberals of Philippe Couillard, that Quebec suggests his voice abroad? Minister St-Pierre unfortunately has used to act first, and then apologize; But this time, when the harmful effects of his decision will be felt, in 5, 10 or 15 years, it will be too late to regret, "she concluded. 
