Québec-The member for Jonquiere and the official opposition for the energy opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, totally rejects the ambilic explanations provided by Hydro-Québec regarding the significant cost overruns observed for computing contracts. He also deplores the attitude of the Minister responsible for the Crown corporation, Nathalie Normandeau, who preferred today to play the spokesperson for Hydro-Québec rather than worry about the $ 400 million of exceedances. costs on a total expenditure of a billion dollars. 
"The Defense of the Hydro-Québec's senior management is indecent! After passing close to a contempt in Parliament, it is that his leaders suggest that parliamentarians do not make their work properly and we are inventing stories. It is shameful. It is time for the Auditor General to have access to the books of the Crown corporation and examines processes, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The member for Jonquière does not come back from the press release issued today by the Crown corporation who wishes to pass cost overruns of $ 400 million as anodin. "We want an effective and well-managed state society, not a Crown corporation that wants to suggest that $ 400 million in cost overruns is normal. When the final disbursement exceeds 40% the initial value of the contract is that there is a problem, he insisted. In addition, it is disturbing to note that the majority of contracts granted it has been without a call for tenders. Once again, for Thierry Vandal, it's normal, "added Mr. Gaudreault. 
The Quebecois Party therefore challenges Minister Nathalie Normandeau and the Hydro-Québec Board of Directors to authorize the Auditor General to investigate. "For months, the Liberal government and the rulers of the Crown corporation refuse to open the books. If it is so normal, as they claim today, they will therefore have no fear to say yes to this quite legitimate request, "concluded Sylvain Gaudreault. 
Remember that the Quebec party has filed a bill a few months ago to give access to the Auditor General of Quebec to the books of the Crown corporation, but the Liberal government strongly opposes it, just as the Council of Hydro-Québec administration. 
