Drummondville- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the regions of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, confirmed, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the allocation of two loans totaling $ 1,450,000 to the company Structure BRL 2000. Granted by Investissement Québec, financial support been devoted to the construction of a new assembly plant and adding new equipment. The realization of this project, which required investments totaling $ 4.6 million, will create a fifteen new jobs. 
"We have in Quebec, especially in our beautiful region, dynamic companies that contribute to the development of the manufacturing industry," said Minister Yves-François Blanchet. "BRL 2000 Steel Structure can meet the challenges that come to it and actively participates in the growth of our regional economy. With its project, it consolidates the industrial vocation of Center-du-Québec, in addition to creating quality jobs. » 
BRL 2000 steel structure specializes in the design, manufacture and installation of metal frames. It has erected a new 50,000 square foot building on a plot of 300,000 square feet. It will house all the company's services as well as the new modern and efficient factory. It is expected to double the number of assembly stations in order to meet the increase in production capacity and reduce the use of subcontracting. 
"The manufacturing sector is a major spearhead of our economy," held underligns the Deputy Minister Zakaïb. "Thanks to the Quebec industrial plant, we have put in place measures that are aimed at manufacturing companies in all regions and aim to help them modernize, innovate, grow and become the Fleurons of tomorrow. » 
Minister Yves-François Blanchet confirms the allocation of two loans totaling $ 1,450,000 to the company Structure of Steel BRL 2000. // (c) Yves-François Blanchet (source) 
