Victoriaville- Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the regions of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, on behalf of the Minister Delegate at the Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, confirmed, at the inauguration of the Victoriaville Industrial EcoPARC, the award of a $ 31,500 grant to the economic development corporation of Victoriaville and its region (local development center) (cdevr (CLD)). 
The industrial ecoparc, arranged in a new section of the faithful industrial park-Edouard-Alain of Victoriaville, aims to create an area for companies wishing to adopt a sustainable development approach as part of their daily activities. Government support will enhance a resource to implement the concept and implement an accompanying approach. 
"The Victoriaville Industrial Ecoparc is a promising addition to the Manufacturer sector of Victoriaville and for that of the Center-du-Québec," said Yves-François Blanchet. "Already, the three industrial parks of Victoriaville forcefully contribute to the economic dynamism of the region. They represent locations of choice for companies. Now the industrial ecopark will bring them to adopt new business practices that take into account the principles of sustainable development, an initiative that I greet. » 
The accompanying approach, baptized D2, aims to support companies that want to adopt new practices that respect the principles of sustainable development. It will therefore be mandatory for companies that will decide to settle in the industrial ecoparc. However, it will also address, on a voluntary basis, to those of the industrial sector of Victoriaville located outside the ecoparc but interested in applying new business practices more responsible. A guide for Victoriaville Industrial EcoLus companies will also be developed to explain, in particular, urban planning standards, rainwater management and energy resources, infrastructure sharing and protection. natural environments. 
"The Industrial ECOPARC project reflects our government's desire to promote the growth of a sustainable development approach that combines economic prosperity, environmental protection and social progress for the benefit of current and future generations", The Minister delegated to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élain Zakaïb. "The concept of ECOPARC, which uses everyone's commitment to put in place responsible business practices, is an initiative of the economic actors of Victoriaville, and our government is proud to support it. » 
"I want to emphasize the exemplary participation of the various actors who have made possible the opening of the Victoriaville industrial ecoparc," said the Mayor of Victoriaville, Mr. Alain Rayes. "This initiative revokes the vision of our municipal and economic stakeholders and their commitment to sustainable development. » 
"The ECOPARC and the accompanying approach are primarily on a change in behavior and ways of doing things; The accompaniment of companies is therefore essential, "said the President of the CDEVR (CLD), Mr. Johnny Izzi. "In order to plan this project well, we consulted about sixty businesses and stakeholders for their expectations of such an approach. The Victoriaville industrial ecoparc and the D2 approach are therefore in the image of their needs and suggest interesting benefits, in terms of sustainable development, for the region. » 
The cdevr (CLD) is a non-profit organization whose mission is to support economic development and increase the international influence of Victoriaville and its region. It collaborates with the organizations, institutions and community working committees to put in place tools favorable to business growth. It also works for prospecting and achieving foreign investment projects in the territory. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
