Wendake- On the occasion of the inauguration of the long house, the minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale, Ms. Agnès Maltese, the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, and the Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs, Mrs ELIZABETH LAROUCHE , wish to highlight the historical, cultural, economic and tourist contribution of the Huron-Wendat community for the Capitale-Nationale and for all Quebec. 
Symbol par excellence of the legendary culture and hospitality of the Huron-Wendat nation, the long house, which is added to the many attractions of the First Nations historic site, helps to enrich the cultural and tourist offer of the capital. National. 
"Our two nations have built this region through a strong partnership based on mutual respect. The inauguration of the long house once again demonstrates the dynamism of your nation and your willingness to share with us the various facets of your culture, "said Minister Maltese. 
"The addition of the long house reinforces Wendake's exceptional tourist offer and, as a result, from the Quebec City region. While proposing to visitors genuine WENDAT living experiences, it highlights the rich Aboriginal culture and testifies to the important legacy of the Huron-Wendat Nation. That's exactly what kind of attraction that needs to be based on international markets, "said Minister Bérubé. 
"Open the door of his home is to welcome people, make them discover what we are, which sets us apart. With the inauguration of its long house, the Huron-Wendat nation makes us penetrate in use in its universe, allowing us to discover its history and customs. This is an original initiative that will enrich our knowledge of First Nations and will help consolidate the relations of friendship between the Quebec people and Aboriginal people, "rejoices Minister Larouche. 
The contribution of the Government of Quebec of $ 140,000 is distributed as follows: $ 100,000 comes from the Secretariat to the Capitale-Nationale, of which $ 50,000 is derived from the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement, and $ 40,000 come from Tourisme Québec. 
Attached to the Ministry of the Executive Board, the Secretariat advises the Government and the Minister responsible for the region, Ms. Agnès Malteis, on any question or measure with a significant impact on the region and its social, cultural, tourism and economic development. The Secretariat acts in consultation with its various governmental and regional partners, while financially supporting the realization of projects that contribute to the growth of the capital-national for a mobilized, innovative, festive and international region. 
