Gatineau - the population of the Outaouais sector now benefits from a versatile sports complex of the most modern thanks to joint funding from the Government of Canada and the Government of Quebec. 
This is announced today, on the occasion of the inauguration of the Branchaud-Brière complex, the Minister of State (democratic reform) and deputy of Nepean-Carleton, the Honorable Pierre Poilievre, on behalf of From the Minister of Infrastructure, Communities and Intergovernmental Affairs and Minister of the Canada Economic Development Agency for the Regions of Quebec, the Honorable Denis Lebel, as well as the Minister of Public Safety, Minister responsible for the Region of the Outaouais and MP, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister of the Minister. Education, leisure and sport and deputy of Taillon, Mrs Marie Malavoy. They also took the opportunity to recall the Canada-Québec's joint financial assistance up to $ 12 million given to Vision Multisports Outaouais, for the completion of this project, in addition to a contribution from the Government of Quebec of 4 million. of dollars. 
"This new complex offers Outaouais residents the opportunity to be active and will contribute to the well-being of young people, families and residents for several years," said Minister of State Pierre Poilievre. Our government is proud to invest in infrastructure projects like this because we focus on job creation, growth and the development of strong and prosperous communities across Canada. » 
"It's a privilege for our government to participate in the inauguration of this new sports infrastructure in Gatineau. By supporting the Branchaud-Brièu complex project, it thus contributes to the socio-economic development of the region. Indeed, for the city of Gatineau, this sports complex allows to offer a center of excellence in ice sports and promotes, by the very fact, the development and progression of local and regional athletes. In addition, the new complex offers an alternative of choice for physical activity followers, among other things, to encourage the population, mainly young people, to be active and to adopt sound habits of life, "said Minister Stéphane Bergeron. . 
Remember that the Branchaud-Brière complex consists of two sections: a first sheltering two iced surfaces and the steps of about 1,400 seats and comprising common service areas including a sports shop, locker room, a physiotherapy center, a restaurant. family and administrative offices. As for the second section, it offers a synthetic soccer football field adjacent to the polyvalent Nicolas-Gatineau and integrated into the complex. 
The joint assistance of the governments of Canada and Quebec, up to $ 12 million, is granted to Vision Multisports Outaouais for both icegrole surfaces. It comes from the Major Projects Component of the Canada-Quebec Chantiers Fund, which aims to finance the realization of major infrastructure projects of national and regional importance and contributes to the growth of the economy, the sanitation of the environment. and the prosperity of communities. 
In addition, $ 4 million financial assistance is granted for the development of social soccer-football field, which comes from the Fund for Sport Development and Physical Activity as part of the Facilities Support Program sports and recreation of the Ministry of Education, Leisure and Sport. By creating this fund, the Quebec government wanted to enable its regions to benefit from quality sports facilities. 
Let us mention that Vision Multisports Outaouais, the city of Gatineau and the draving school board also contribute to the realization of this new sports complex. 
The 2013 Economic Action Plan sets up a new Building Canada plan to build roads, bridges, metros, suburban trains and other public infrastructure in collaboration with provinces, territories and municipalities. Thanks to the Government of Canada leadership and strong economic and financial seats, the Canadian economy has recovered better from the global recession than most other industrialized countries. Canada has been a leader among G-7 countries during this period by generating more than 965,000 net new jobs since July 2009. The new Building Canada plan, combined with other federal investments in infrastructure, allows for Maintain Canada's infrastructure benefit, which is a key catalyst for economic growth and job creation. 
The contribution of the Government of Quebec to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) released in April. It should be remembered that this decennial plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
For more information on federal infrastructure investments and to track web yarns, visit SiteInfrastructure Canada. 
For more information on the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, visit www.infrastructures.gouv.qc.ca/plan-infrastructure/index.asp. 
For more information on Canada's Economic Action Plan, visit the Canada Economic Action Duplan website. 
Also available in English atInfrastructure Canada. 
