Sherbrooke- On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and Minister Delegate to Tourism, Pascal Bérubé, the Minister responsible for the Estrie Region, Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for seniors , Réjean Hébert, today participated in the inauguration of the new permanent exhibition of the Museum of Nature and Sciences of Sherbrooke, EtitleErtanima, unusual meetings. 
"The new permanent exhibition dynamically addresses the natural and environmental issues. This renewal in its museum offer will certainly allow the institution to maintain itself as a cultural lever of importance for the region. I want to emphasize the desire to dare and the concern for high quality in the activities demonstrated by the museum. This spirit of openness in the field of scientific popularization can only be beneficial to win new audiences, "said Minister Hébert. 
"I welcome the result of this original and daring collaboration between the Museum and the Director General of the Quat'sous Theater of Montreal, Éric Jean, as part of this new exhibition. There is no doubt that visitors of all ages will appreciate. This novelty will return from the breath to the cultural offer of the museum that will remain, without a doubt, a reference and a leader in the sphere of diffusion of scientific culture in Quebec, "said Minister Kotto. 
"Bold and visionary, this invitation to discover nature will seduce the population as well as the tourists amateurs of unpublished places. CANADA SUMMER GAMES IN SHERBROOKE This year is an exceptional opportunity for the museum to make themselves known and distinguish across Canada. I am convinced that this new exhibition will contribute to the cultural and tourist influence of the destination of the Townships, "said Minister Bérubé. 
Remember that the creation of the exhibitionalteranima, unusual meetings was made possible thanks to a $ 500,000 grant from the Quebec government. This financial assistance has been distributed as follows: $ 400,000 from the implementation and renewal of the permanent exhibitions of the Museum Institutions of the Québec Cultural Heritage Fund of the Ministry of Culture and Communications and $ 100,000 were allocated under the program of Support for tourism development and promotion, strategic assistance component to tourism tourism projects. 
