Thetford Mines- The Minister of International Development and Minister of Francophonie and MP Mégantic - The Honorable Christian Paradis, as well as the member for Repentigny and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks (National Water Politics Component), Mr. Scott McKay, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, celebrate Today the inauguration of the thetford mine filtration plant. 
"Water is essential to life and our government is proud to support the construction of the drinking water treatment plant in Thetford Mines, which will provide clean and healthy water to the community for years to come , said Minister Paradis. Investments in infrastructure, such as this, create jobs, support economic growth and contribute to Canada's long-term prosperity. » 
"I am very proud to participate today at the inauguration of the new filtration plant in Thetford Mines, which is now equipped with a most modern infrastructure. Thus, the government assistance granted for this new infrastructure makes it possible to offer quality consumption water, thus promoting the health and well-being of citizens, in addition to enhancing public services to the community. Access to quality drinking water is a fundamental right, an essential service for all, "said MP Scott McKay. 
"I am very pleased with the realization of this important infrastructure project that will improve the drinking water infrastructures and will strengthen the attraction power of Thetford Mines," the Mayor said, Mr. Luc Berthold, who thanked The two levels of government of their tangible support to the new thetford mine filtration plant. 
Remember that the entire plan for the standards of drinking water supply facilities includes, among other things, the construction of a filtering plant with a water intake in Greater Lac Saint-François, various connection works On the aqueduct networks of the Thetford Mines Center, Pontbriand and Robertsonville and the refurbishment of drinking water tanks. Protection work on groundwater supply and renovation of the pumping station and drinking water tanks are also provided for in the Black Lake sector. Some work is under way and the project is planned to be completed by spring 2014. All of these interventions will help improve public health and the quality of life of citizens. 
Federal and provincial funding comes from the Major Projects Component of the Building Canada Fund, which aims to finance the public infrastructure with a national or regional impact. Eligible costs for carrying out this project are estimated at more than $ 57.3 million. The maximum contribution of the governments of Canada and Quebec is nearly $ 25.1 million each, in addition to the contribution of the city of Thetford Mines of just over $ 7 million. 
The 2013 Economic Action Plan sets up a new Building Canada plan to build roads, bridges, metros, suburban trains and other public infrastructure in collaboration with provinces, territories and municipalities. Thanks to the Government of Canada leadership and the country's economic and financial seats, the Canadian economy has better restored the global recession than most other industrialized countries. Canada has been a leader among G-7 countries during the economic recovery period through the creation of more than one million net new jobs since July 2009. The new Building Canada plan, combined with Other federal investments in infrastructure, helps maintain Canada's infrastructure benefit, which is a key catalyst for economic growth and job creation. 
Remember that the contribution of the Government of Quebec is part of the Cébécois Infrastructure (PQI) framework. 
