Montreal- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, accompanied by the member for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques and Parliamentary Assistant to the Prime Minister (Transport Electrification Component), M. Daniel Breton, confirmed the non-refundable financial contribution of $ 1 million from the Government of Quebec to ADM Agri-Industries, a subsidiary of ADM mills. This financial assistance, allocated through Investissement Québec, aimed at the acquisition of new production equipment in Montreal, an investment of more than $ 20 million. The minister made this announcement at the time of the inauguration of the new facilities. 
"Productivity is at the heart of the survival of Quebec companies, since it is the very basis of better competitiveness in the agro-industrial sector as a whole manufacturing sector," said Zakaïb. "Automation improves the productivity of the business while strengthening its sustainability and consolidating quality jobs. ADM Agri-Industries has made the right choice by deciding to automate its production. In addition, this project fits perfectly with the objectives of the food sovereignty policy. » 
"By supporting this important project, our government promotes the maintenance of Quebec expertise in the food processing sector and keeps 75 quality jobs in the region," said Daniel Breton. "This investment will have significant economic benefits for the area and the metropolitan area, but also for all Quebec. » 
Also called the Royal Moulin, the ADM mill exploits three mills for the manufacture of wheat flour and semolina, and its daily production capacity is 900 metric tonnes. The revitalization project, which required investments over $ 20 million, mainly targeted the replacement of the flour mill 2 with a completely automated unit. The extraction capacity of the milling mill, greatly improved, will ensure better returns. 
"I would like to thank the Government of Quebec for its support for our Montreal modernization project," said Mark Kolkhorst, president of ADM mills. "We have been able to erect a whole new factory inside existing facilities, which has made the Royal Moulin a model installation. Our gains in productivity and competitiveness will benefit from ADM Agri-Industries and our customers across Canada. » 
