Saint-Rémi-hour was at the celebration today for the tenants and the artisans of the residential complex La Rémoise, whose installations of the second phase were inaugurated by the member for Sanguinet and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Finance And the economy, Mr. Alain Therrien. The 24 homes, for seniors, slightly loss of autonomy, were built through the AccessLogis Québec program of the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ). More than $ 3.2 million have been invested by the Government of Quebec and its partners in the environment for the realization of this project very expected by the Community of Saint-Rémi. 
"Thanks to the construction of these affordable housing, the deans of Saint-Rémi and the surroundings benefit from a stimulating, safe and adapted living environment. Going forward with projects like this, the Government of Quebec promotes the autonomy of tenants and home maintenance of seniors, delays or avoids the use of public accommodation services, "said MP Alain Therrien, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault. 
In addition to the SHQ, which granted a subsidy of nearly $ 1.5 million and ensures the organization's mortgage loan, community partners contributed to the project for more than $ 627,000. Of this amount, some $ 577,000 comes from the city of Saint-Rémi, while more than $ 50,000 have been granted by the Office of Efficiency and Energy Innovation of the Department of Natural Resources to ensure that The building meets the Novoclimat program standards. 
"Projects like this one never realizes without the consultation of the interveners of the community, both political and Community, and a perseverant board of directors. Thus, 24 households composed of people aged 65 and over can age in a healthy and safe environment that encourages their commitment, makes it possible to break their isolation and promotes the development of their potential. It is the whole of the community that welcomes the realization of this project, "said François Trudeau, Chairman of the Board of Habitations La Rémoise. 
Monsiday additional financial assistance of more than $ 413,000, spread over five years and 90% granted by the SHQ and 10% by the City, currently allows more than half of tenants to benefit from the rent. Rent supplement . Thus, these low-income households pay a rent similar to that of a modest rent housing, or 25% of their income. 
It should be noted that the first phase of the Rémoise, a few steps from the building inaugurated today, also benefited from a grant of nearly $ 1.2 million granted through the AccessLogis Québec program of the SHQ. This dwelling set of 24 homes for families welcomed its first tenants in 2008. 
Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000. households each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Habitat Espace, the WEB magazine of the SHQ, which deals with the spin-offs of the interventions of it on the whole of Quebec society. 
