Sherbrooke- Persons in difficulty or at risk of homelessness now have access to 22 affordable homes, distributed in two buildings in Sherbrooke. The Solidarity Coop The other-roof, built through the AccessLogis Québec program of the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), was inaugurated today by the member for Sherbrooke, Mr. Serge Cardin, on behalf of the Minister of Business Municipalities, regions and occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The Quebec government and its community partners invested more than $ 3.2 million for the construction of both buildings. In addition to the SHQ that granted a grant of more than $ 1.4 million, the city of Sherbrooke contributed to the realization of the coop of solidarity the other-roof by investing nearly $ 584,000. Also note that the SHQ guarantees the organization's mortgage lending to supplement project funding. 
"Thanks to this project resulting from the consultation and mobilization of the environment, people with great vulnerability now have access to affordable quality apartments in addition to the support of qualified stakeholders. These dwellings contribute to combating social exclusion and fighting homelessness, which is why our government is very proud to be associated with this local initiative, "said the Deputy Serge Cardin, in the presence of the substitute mayor of Sherbrooke , Mr. Robert Y. Pouliot, and community partners. 
All the tenants of the Coop of Solidarity The other-roof benefit from the rent supplement program, which allows them to pay a rent similar to that of a low rent dwelling, or 25% of their income. This additional financial assistance represents nearly $ 379,000, spread over five years and assumed 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the City of Sherbrooke. 
Finally note that the project has received a grant of more than $ 36,000 from the Office of Energy Efficiency and Innovation of the Ministry of Natural Resources to ensure that it meets the ProgramMenovoclimate standards, which provides tenants. An appreciable economy on the heating costs of their housing. 
Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230000Menages each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. That is why the Quebec government has announced, in its most recent budget, a $ 231M budget envelope for the construction of 3000 affordable in the coming years. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. You will also be able to consult Habitat, the WEB magazine of the SHQ, which deals with the spin-offs of the interventions of it on the whole of Quebec society. 
