Saint-Joachim-de-Montmorency- Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, took part today at the inauguration of the AMEXCO proximity slaughterhouse Inc. From the Farm Blondel. This is the fourth establishment to comply with the law on the adjustment and development of local slaughterhouses (chapter R-19.1) and to obtain a local slaughter license. 
Recall that this permit allows the operator to exercise two types of activity, namely the slaughter and preparation of meat for exclusive retail and consumer retail purposes. It also offers the possibility for companies to have a second meat preparation workshop that aims, in particular, to promote local purchase. 
The minister took the opportunity to congratulate the leaders and the slaughterhouse team from the Farm Blondel and thanking them for their collaboration. "You have every reason to be proud of your success and be optimistic about the future of your business. The transition from a transitional slaughterhouse to a proximity slaughterhouse is a rigorous approach that requires compliance with specific standards and significant investments. You have been able to meet this challenge with Brio, "he mentioned. 
The slaughterhouse of the Farm Blondel is one of the 61 Quebec institutions that have benefited in 2010 with a transitional slaughterhouse license and which must complete the necessary amenities to obtain the proximity slaughter title before the month of June 2015 . The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food provides financial assistance to operators through the Support Program for the Standardization of Québec slaughterhouses. 
In the case of the Blondel farm slaughterhouse, a financial assistance of $ 216,000 was paid to the company, on the one hand, to carry out a draft technical audit and an environmental compliance assessment project and, on the other hand, to perform physical arrangements and acquire the necessary equipment with respect to environmental setting and compliance. 
"I want to thank all the partners who made possible the realization of this project, two years before the deadlines prescribed by law. We look forward to discovering our clientele quality products slaughtered and prepared in state-of-the-art facilities and according to the highest standards of safety, "said Gilles Rivard, owner of the Farm Blondel. 
"In the wake of our policy of food sovereignty, support for transitional and proximity slaughterhouses reflects the importance of our government to maintain slaughter services that are essential for both producers and the development of our bioalimentary industry. In addition, the activities these institutions are consistent with government guidelines for promoting short marketing circuits and local markets and support the maintenance and development of animal production in the region, "said François Gendron. 
To learn more about the Support Program for the Standardization of Québec slaughterhouses, we can visit the Ministry's website at address www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca / panaq. For more information on the policy of food sovereignty, the blogwww.politicalsa.gouv.qc.caou can be visited regularly. It is also possible to follow it on Twitter at emailTwitter.com / Mapaquebec. 
