Rivière-Route-Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, and MP Scott McKay, attended today. Inauguration of the regional tax of the Kiamika tank, in the Laurentians, less than 200 kilometers from Montreal. The inauguration took place in River Rivière in the presence of the various governmental and regional partners who played a role in the creation of this regional park. "We are now witnessing the concretization and the culmination of a common vision that aims to preserve the biodiversity of the region and to improve the quality of life of the population in the long term. I am convinced that visitors of all ages will find their behalf, "said MP Scott McKay. 
The Kiamika Reservoir Regional Park will provide a wide range of activities to users, who will be able to discover a unique biodiversity. Designed through a partnership between the Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR), the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupancy (Mamrot) and the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Wildlife. Parks (MDDEFP), this park is as much as the needs of visitors as well as those of the residents of the sector. 
With an area of 184 km2, the Kiamika Reservoir Regional Park is located on the lands of the state domain. It constitutes a single territory in Quebec because of its strong recreational potential and the proximity of Mont-Tremblant International Airport. Visitors will appreciate its sandy beaches and wild nature. They can go hiking, camping, canoeing and sea kayaking. The park will offer tourist products such as nature cruises and activities in the summer of the day. 
"This event crowns all efforts invested in the development of the Kiamika tank. There are already ten years that the regional community and the ministries concerned are actively engaged in this approach. The new regional park will be a real leverage and generate long-term economic, environmental and social benefits, "McKay concluded. 
