Val-d'Or- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, proceeded today, with the Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs and MP Abitibi East, Mrs. Elizabeth Larouche, at the inauguration of the new bridge spanning the Louvicourt River, on Highway 117. "The renewal of our road infrastructure is at the heart of the priorities of the Ministry of Transport of Quebec. This new infrastructure is not only adapted to the needs of all users, but it is a very important asset not only for Abitibi-Témiscamingue, but also for all Quebec, "said Minister Gaudreault during the 'event. 
Started in February 2013, the construction of the new Louvicourt bridge required investments of $ 6.4 million. To enable the completion of this work, the development of a temporary bridge was necessary. The demolition of the former bridge was initiated on February 11, 2013 and the road users were able to circulate on two ways, on the new bridge, starting from mid-October 2013. 
From left to right: Yves Coutu, Sylvain Gaudreault, Elisabeth Larouche. // (c) MTQ Mamrot. 
"The new bridge replaces the former concrete bridge, built in 1949, which had all reached the end of its useful life. With an average daily rate of the order of 3,200 vehicles, including 28% of trucks, the Louvicourt Bridge therefore plays a key role in the economic growth of our vast and rich region, as well as its supply. It is considered more strategic since it is located on a very important axis, the route 117 which connects the Abitibi-Témiscamingue to the south of the province, "said Madame Larouche. 
The new Louvicourt bridge has two traffic lanes with asphalt asphalt. Lighting has been installed to accommodate pedestrians and cyclists, the bridge that is part of the green road. 
"I am particularly pleased that timelines and the budget have been rigorously respected in the realization of this project. You can all be very proud of the work accomplished, "concluded Minister Gaudreault. 
