Sherbrooke- Housing Mont-Bellevue, which has 16 new affordable housing for families and single people, was officially inaugurated today by the member for Sherbrooke and Vice-President of the Public Administration Commission, Mr Serge Cardin, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, in the presence of the Mayor of Sherbrooke , Mr. Bernard Sévigny, and many community partners. 
This project, achieved through the AccessLogis Québec program of the SHQ, required investments of more than $ 2 million. The Government of Quebec, through the SHQ, has made financial assistance of more than $ 869,000 for the realization of this real estate complex. The total contribution of the environment is nearly $ 480,000, of which some $ 252,000 comes from the city of Sherbrooke. Finally, the SHQ also guarantees the organization's mortgage contracted by the body's parallel of the social housing to complete the funding of this unique project that allowed for a second life to an old church. 
"It's a real pleasure to inaugurate the Mont-Bellevue home, because this type of project makes it possible to counter the devitalization and promotes the dynamism of our community. Our government is proud to have contributed to transforming this place abandoned into a stable and affordable living environment for 16 households in the region, "said MP Serge Cardin. 
"Convert this church to affordable housing for families and people alone is to allow this significant building to once again affirm its presence in the community. It is a great pride for our organization to contribute to the safeguarding of this heritage, "said Robert Pouliot, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Sherbrooke Municipal Housing Office and Administrator of the Board of Directors of the Parallel social home. 
Half of Mont-Bellevue housing households benefit from the rent supplement program, which allows them to pay only 25% of their income to accommodate. This additional assistance represents an investment of nearly $ 138,000 over five years, 90% assumed by the SHQ and 10% by the city. 
Quebec Housing Corporation  Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000. households each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Habitat Espace, the WEB magazine of the SHQ, which deals with the spin-offs of the interventions of it on the whole of Quebec society. 
