Amqui- the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region and MP Pascal Bérubé, today, on behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and occupation of the territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, at the inauguration of the new Gateway André Blouin, furnished for off-road vehicles and located above the Matapédia River, in downtown Amqui. 
This multifunctional gateway, a rigid steel structure equipped with a roof and measuring 49 meters in length, will replace the old whose maintenance had become difficult, especially because of the flood of waters. This trail stretch is shared with the Trans-Québec road and the Matapiad MTB Quad Trails Network. This project comes from a partnership between the Ministry of Transport, the Federation of Québec Snowmobile Clubs, and the Mousticists and Quads Clubs of the Valley under the Financial Assistance Program for Trail Infrastructures and the Protection of wildlife. 
All the work represents an investment of $ 161,000, $ 61,000 from the Department of Transport, $ 15,000 from the Department of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupancy of the Territory (Congonctural Development Fund), and 85,000 $ from various local and regional partners. 
"The off-road vehicle industry generates in Quebec's economic benefits of more than $ 2 billion annually. The amounts invested in this project fully justify the commitment of the Government of Quebec to support this leisure, which is also a major tourist attraction contributing to the economic vitality of our regions, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
"I am delighted with the realization of this carrier project for our region. This new gateway ensures the accessibility and safety of users while greatly contributing to mitigating the disadvantages caused by the passage of VHR near the residential areas of the city, "said the delegated minister. 
"In addition, the practice of snowmobiling and quad is an important tourist lever. It is therefore essential to put in place quality trail infrastructures, in the greatest respect for local residents and wildlife habitats, "said Mr. Bérubé. 
For the 2012-2013 fiscal year, nearly $ 4 million have been awarded to various promoters under the Financial Assistance Program for Trail Infrastructure and Wildlife Protection. In June 2013, the Government of Quebec announced additional financial support of $ 1 million a year over 3 years, allowing among other things to assist VHR federations in the implementation of sustainable trail projects. In total, more than $ 7.2 million will be allocated in 2013-2014. 
