Quebec- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, takes stock of the situation of forest fires. "My Government has made the decision to enlarge the prohibition zone to make open fires in the forest or nearby and the forest restriction area to completely integrate the MRC of the Upper Côte- North as well as the regions of Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie. In the case of the prohibition area to make open fires, it is necessary to add the MRC of the Saguenay Fjord to northern Saguenay, "said the premier. 
"Although precipitation is expected in some areas over the next few days, we are asking citizens to be extremely vigilant in this period when several people are on summer vacations. Too few rainfall were observed throughout the country in recent days and flammability indices are very high in all regions. The measures put in place and the planned absence of lightning for the next two days should contribute to improving the situation, "continued the Prime Minister. 
Most of the fight efforts are currently focused on the most worrying fires, especially those near the Wemindji community, James Bay, and near the Toulnustouc road in the River-Aux-Outardes sector in the Côte-Nord region. 
The road to James Bay between Matagami and Radisson remains closed. The Toulnustouc road is also closed since this morning. However, the North Route, which had been closed between Kilometer 200 and the Albanel Post, was reopened today at 1 pm. In addition, several convoys are organized under the supervision of the safety of Quebec. All supervised trips unfold well. 
Preventive interventions were carried out in particular in the Wemindji region and in the Churchill-Manic corridor. The Hydro-Québec network has remained stable in recent days. The Crown corporation continues to monitor its facilities closely and, with the expected arrival of winds in the territory, the wind farm located in southern Quebec could support the hydroelectric network, if it is required. 
"More than 650 forest firefighters supported by a tank and helicopter aircraft fleet are deployed on the territory including teams from outside Quebec come to reinforce. We are confident that the constant efforts of these resources and the consultation of all partners make it possible to keep the situation under control, "concluded the Prime Minister.  Remember that the current preventive measures aimed at a large portion of the territory, including Nord-du-Québec, Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, North Shore, Gaspésie and Bas-Saint-Laurent. Citizens can consult the following government website for the status of the situation and the instructions in force: www.urgencequebec.gouv.qc.ca. 
