Quebec- In order to hold the people informed, the Prime Minister of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, takes stock of the situation of forest fires in many places in northern Quebec. 
"Although the situation remains critical in some sectors, it remains contained for the whole Quebec, thanks in particular to the concerted efforts of all partners who have been working for several days. Today, some regions, including that of Eastmain, have received good amounts of rain, which has helped to improve the situation. We were able to refuel in food and fuel the villages of Radisson, LG2, LG3 and LG4 and Chisasibi through a road convoy, "said the Prime Minister. 
With respect to the Hydro-Québec network, despite the preventive evacuation of 100 people from the Eastmain camp near Baie-James this morning, our electricity transport network is in better posture than yesterday in this sector. Hydro-Québec continues to monitor its facilities closely, particularly in the North Shore region. 
In addition, the return of the members of the Aboriginal community of Eastmain began in the afternoon. 
Currently, there are forty forty fires on the territory of Quebec, all north of the 49eparallel, including a dozen new detected today. Three of these fires are not yet controlled. 
"A major mobilization to combat these fires is marked by all partners, including through the Forest Forest Protection Corporation. Across Quebec, 322 forest firefighters supported by 13 tankers and 33 helicopters currently working on the ground. In addition, there are 247 other forest firefighters and 25 helicopters mobilized and ready to intervene at any time, "added the Prime Minister. 
Additional resource requests have also been transmitted to the provinces and neighboring states, for which Quebec has received positive responses. Thus, from today, 2 sections of 21 Forest Firefighters each from New Brunswick and New Hampshire are responsible for teams in place. 
"Even if the situation has improved in terms of James Bay, it remains worrying. I assure you that we are making every effort to ensure the safety of Quebec people and infrastructure and I will keep the population regularly informed of the evolution of these forest fires, "concluded the Prime Minister. 
It should be remembered that it is important for all citizens to respect the prohibition to make open fires on a large portion of the territory, including Nord-du-Québec, Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean and the North Shore . Citizens can consult the following government website for the status of the situation and the instructions in force: www.urgencequebec.gouv.qc.ca. 
