Quebec- The Quebec government informs the population that fire 388 in the Bay-Johan-Beetz sector does not progress despite the strong winds that strike the region right now and that everything is implemented to combat this fire. The North Shore. Fire is not very active due to rainfall since Friday. Its area should not change significantly. 
Yesterday, six tank planes worked in rotation, mainly in the eastern sectors. In addition to support staff, it's more than 100 fighters who were assigned to this fire. Ten helicopters have been involved in support of interventions. 
Four additional sections of 21 people were called for reinforcement and will soon be at work. It is almost 200 fighters and 50 people in support that will work to control fire. 
In addition, about forty Firefighters from Ontario are expected tonight. 
The Sopfeu mapped all fires in the North Shore. They were all little active and no smoke was visible on those found in the north where rainfall were observed. Proactively, five tank planes have intervened on targeted sectors on Saturday in the afternoon.  Hydro-Québec does not bring any major problem on the network. Electricity has been restored in the villages of the North Shore. A tanker truck joined a convoy to refuel certain fuel villages. He went to Natashquan without problem. 
Route 138 is still in controlled circulation. The safety of Quebec does not report any problem and collaborates on convoys with the Ministry of Transport. The blocking points are maintained but convoys are organized between Johan-Beetz Bay and Aguanish. An average of 20 vehicles by convoy. These will be extended until 5 pm. 
The Director General of the Ministry of Natural Resources, Ms. Linda Tremblay, holds regular meetings with local authorities and ensures that the people are constantly informed. The intervention commander, Mr. Gaétan Lemaire, will give him a hand itself today to accompany the environment. 
The fireproof cards are kept up to date, as well as those of the sectors targeted by the prohibition to make open fires in the forest or nearby. The same goes for the map of the sector targeted by a closure of the forest located on the territory of Baie-Johan-Beetz. This map is displayed at the municipal centers of Baie-Johan-Beetz, Aguanish and Havre-Saint-Pierre. The population is invited to consult it.  A message of public interest will be broadcast on the radio to invite citizens to collaborate so that the prohibition order to circulate in the forest is respected. 
In the intensive protection zone, south of 51Eparallel, a fire is now content and eight others are mastered, for a total of nine. In the restricted area, north of 51eparallel, 46 lights are under observation, two are contained and one is mastered, for a total of 49 lights. 
In short, everything is implemented to ensure the safety of the population and the maintenance of strategic infrastructures.  Citizens can consult the following government website for the status of the situation and the instructions in force: www.urgencequebec.gouv.qc.ca. 
