Quebec- In order to hold the people informed, the Prime Minister of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, takes stock of the situation of forest fires in many places in northern Quebec. 
Since Sunday morning, no precipitation has fallen on the territories affected by forest fires. The authorities are concerned about the fires that are more active, especially near the community of Wemindji and northeastern seven-Îles in the North Shore region. It is therefore necessary to strengthen our surveillance. 
"We have taken the necessary means to increase our resources and interventions in the most neuralgical sectors. Thus, two tanker planes from Saskatchewan have been deployed in the Wemindji sector to combat fires that could approach the community and electricity lines. In addition, 250 resources are currently fighting forest fires on the North Shore. We monitor the location closely and all partners are in charge of protecting people and infrastructure, "said the Prime Minister. 
With respect to electricity transport, the Hydro-Québec network remains strong and reliable. The Crown Corporation continues to closely monitor its facilities, both in James and North Shore. Air interventions were carried out today on fires near energy transport lines in the Churchill-Manic corridor. A heavy helicopter will arrive today to lend a hand to the resources already deployed on the ground. 
In addition, it was necessary to evacuate some residents in the Moisie River sector, Sept-Îles, yesterday at the end of the day. A fire that fifteen kilometers was quickly contained by forest firefighters of the Forest Forest Protection Corporation (Sopfeu). Route 138 is still under surveillance. 
Two roads are currently closed to traffic. Thus, the road to James Bay between Matagami and Radisson remains closed. The North Route is closed between Kilometer 200 and Albanel Post. Convoices, under the supervision of the safety of Quebec, have been organized to promote the movement of persons and to ensure the supply of communities isolated by closed roads. Route 389 giving access to Fermont, Wabush and Labrador City has been reopened. 
"Although the situation has improved with regard to the Eastmain sector, however, we must remain very vigilant because the situation is of concern for other regions of Quebec. This is why our government has made the decision to enlarge the prohibition zone to make open fires in the forest or nearby and the forest restriction area in the Gaspésie region. This preventive measure will be effective as long as the fire hazard indices remain high, "the premier concluded. 
Preventive measures are a major portion of the territory, including Nord-du-Québec, Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, North Shore and Gaspésie. Citizens can consult the following government website for the status of the situation and the instructions in force: www.urgencequebec.gouv.qc.ca. 
