Quebec- In order to hold the people informed, the Prime Minister of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, takes stock of the situation of forest fires in many places in northern Quebec.  "Currently, there are about fifty forest fires on the territory of Quebec, all north of the 49eparallel. Precipitation fell on Abitibi, James Bay and Northern Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean. These ensure that the most worrying fires in northwestern Quebec, particularly near the Eastmain community, will not progress today. This improvement in the situation allows us to organize refreshments and reopen some roads. However, some sectors remain critical and remain under high surveillance, particularly in the northeastern seven-islands and in the Wemindji region, "said the Prime Minister. 
With respect to electricity transport infrastructure, the James Bay sector is functional, including the transportation line serving the Eastmain village that has been reactivated. As for the region of the North Shore, Hydro-Québec continues to monitor its facilities closely and it is possible that fire interventions are needed to protect them.  The return by the road of some of the members of the Aboriginal community of Eastmain has been a problem yesterday. A hundred evacuees reinstated their village by air today from Val-d'Or. 
A significant mobilization to combat these fires is still in progress: 590 Forestry Firefighters, supported by 14 tankers and 65 helicopters, are currently on the ground or ready to intervene at any time. Quebec also receives support from some Canadian provinces and New Hampshire in this struggle. 
One hundred and five forest firefighters from British Columbia will arrive today in the evening. This assistance reinforces the workforce and allows a little respite to some forest firefighters who have been working hard for 25 consecutive days. In addition, two tanks and a Saskatchewan aircraper will arrive at the end of the afternoon and will be based at LG2 to cover the Nordic territory. 
"Weather has been favorable to us and the situation has improved for James Bay. However, we must remain vigilant because several sectors remain a concern. I assure you that we are making every effort to ensure the safety of Quebec people and infrastructure and I will continue to keep the people regularly informed of the evolution of these forest fires, "concluded the Prime Minister. 
Despite the precipitation observed in several sectors of Northern Quebec, the decision to maintain the prohibition to make open fires in the forest or nearby as well as the restriction on forest operations was taken. These two preventive measures are aimed at a large portion of the territory, including Nord-du-Québec, the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean and the North Shore. Citizens can consult the following government website for the status of the situation and the instructions in force: www.urgencequebec.gouv.qc.ca. 
