Quebec- The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, informs the population that the situation on the North Shore is under control. There are currently 55 forest fires in Quebec territory including 10 in intensive protection zone. These are all controlled or content. 
"The Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, provided the protection of the entire territory of Lower North Shore. We have deployed all the necessary means to attack and contain fire in the Baie-Johan-Beetz area. Moreover, almost all resources north of the 51st parallel are already mobilized in this sector. The teams are on work and lead intensive fights to ensure the safety of the population. Tank planes and additional staff are reinforced, "said Marois. 
Contractors are on site to conduct operations are round in the coming days. The Director General of the North Coast region of the Ministry of Natural Resources is in Havre-Saint-Pierre and ensures that everything is in place to meet the needs of the population. The protection of the Aguanish sector is ensured. Precipitation is observed in the sector and fire is maintained about 32 kilometers away. Encouraging, the wind blows north, which should remove the fire from communities. In Natashquan, there is no threat. 
"Combined with the hard work of our forest firefighters, the weather should reduce the activity of forest fires in the coming days. So there is any place to be confident. That said, it is essential to comply with preventive measures so as not to light new fire homes and facilitate the work of our firefighters, "added the Prime Minister. 
Recall that the government has prohibited access and traffic in the forest in the Bay-Johan-Beetz area yesterday. This community is no longer threatened and Route 138 has been opened to allow the reintegration of the population. 
Even if no installation of Hydro-Québec is threatened, the Crown corporation continues to monitor them closely. 
"I want to congratulate our forest firefighters who perform remarkable work under extremely difficult conditions. The population of Quebec is aware of your efforts and is grateful to you, "the Prime Minister concluded. 
Citizens can consult the following government website for the status of the situation and the instructions in force: www.urgencequebec.gouv.qc.ca. 
