Havre-Saint-Pierre - Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, on behalf of the Government of Quebec, went today on the North Shore to note the damage, and to support the municipalities concerned as well as Stakeholders in the tourism industry. 
The minister, from Havre-Saint-Pierre, met with the mayors of the municipalities affected by the forest fires of the last weeks as well as the leaders of the Côte-Nord Regional Tourist Association | Duplessis. It has been able to realize that the different attractions of the region are ready to welcome visitors despite the forest fires that have raged in the region in recent days and that multiple activities remain available from Tadoussac to Natashquan. 
In addition, the minister has made it possible to recall that the efforts of the many firefighters of the Mobilized Sopfeu in the region and the rain of the last hours have helped stop the progression of the fire located in the area of Baie-Johan-Beetz. Everything is implemented through the partners involved in the regional civil security organization to combat this forest fire from the North Shore. Minister Bérubé recalls that Route 138 is re-accessible to automotive traffic, which electricity has been restored across all villages in the North Shore and that fuel supply is normally done in the territory. All conditions are currently gathered for visitors to go to the region safely and enjoy the reception of North Côtes. 
Mr. Bérubé stressed that the government's priority is to protect people and communities, which has been done, in particular by securing the Eastmain communities near James Bay and Baie-Johan-Beetz on the North Coast. 
"The region, which has beenyond 435 tourist companies, offers diversified products with exceptional natural environments. All industry players work in collegiality to ensure the renewal and sustainability of the tourist offer in the region. Tourist entrepreneurs make an important work every day to develop and innovate and to ensure that the tourism industry is growing at the height of its potential, "said the minister. He invites people to visit the various attractions of the North Shore and to support the tourist environment in large numbers. 
