Quebec- The Leader of the Official Opposition and MP from Saint-Jérôme, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the member for Taillon and spokesman for the Quebecois Health and Accessibility of Care, Diane Lamarre, the member for Labelle and President of the Laurentian Caucus, Sylvain Pagé, and the member for Bertrand, Claude Cousineau, denounce the refusal of the Minister of Health to respect the law and to ensure the independence of the complaints process in Quebec hospitals. 
At the request of the Committee of the CSSS Summits in the Laurentians, the Protector of the Citizen conducted an investigation and concluded that the complaints advisers of health facilities no longer have the independence required to perform their duties, since , with the entry into force of Bill 10, they became employees of the new CISHS. Remember that the lawyer Jean-Pierre Ménard also denounced the minister's reform, warning him that she compromised the rights of users of the health and social services network. 
"The Protector of the Citizen tells the Minister that his reform violates the law, and he replies that the law will have to be changed to respect his reform. It's the world upside down! This reasoning is unacceptable and absolutely undemocratic. The minister must rectify shooting and immediately put in place a truly independent complaints, "demanded Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"We welcome the vigilance of the members of the CSSS Summit users committee for users' rights to be respected. In the major regions of Quebec, like that of the Laurentians, these devoted and generous citizens are our eyes and our ears to identify the needs of a population often dispersed on very large territories. With his law 10, the minister practically put them aside. I ask him to be worthy of his function; It must now make corrective actions to its reform so that it is in line with our laws, such as the citizen's protector. He must also hear and take into account the words of these volunteers who seek only the well-being of citizens facing the disease and suffering, "said Sylvain Pagé. 
"Users' committees and complaint commissioners are indispensable sentinels in the health system. In addition, Bill 10 remained the users of decision-making centers, which adds an obstacle for those who would like to file a complaint. The processing of complaints must guarantee independence and confidentiality. The attitude of the minister worries because he should at any time be concerned about the safety of the population. Its closure proves that it is ready to challenge the fundamental rules of good governance and that it imposes a culture of silence, to the detriment of the protection of the most vulnerable, "added Diane Lamarre. 
"It is deplorable than users, especially those in the Laurentian region, can no longer be able to adequately hear their voices within the decision-making bodies of the new CISS and CIUSS. We will continue to support them and work for their concerns to be heard, "concluded Claude Cousineau. 
