Québec- Following parliamentary consultations on the taxi industry, which ended last Thursday, MEP Martine Ouellet, spokesperson for the Parti Québécois on transport, maritime strategy, electrification of transport and Digital strategy, has expressed the expectations of the Parti Québécois to the Minister of Transport, Jacques Daoust. 
"The Parliamentary Committee on the Taxi has allowed us to hear more than thirty stakeholders from several horizons. We have thus obtain a more real and current portrait of the state of play in the taxi industry, both in terms of technological developments, which have been made since 2009, but in an unequal way, only on the financial aspects , security and insurance, "said the member. 
Minister Daoust must suspend illegal transport now
"Despite the indignation of the Minister of Transport, UberX refused to suspend his activities during the Parliamentary Committee. In what other industry does the Liberal government tolerate illegal activities done in the open? It is essential that Minister Daoust takes the means that are at his disposal to suspend illegal transport, as did the city of Calgary, with his injunction, or by calling Bill 593, filed by the Parti Québécois and aimed at countering the illegal taxi. Paris also did it, like Spain and several cities in Germany. There is no reason that justifies the inaction of the Liberal Party. This suspension, in the absence of a voluntary, must be in effect until the adoption of a new bill. If not, how to guarantee social peace and respect for the new rules? Asked Martine Ouellet. 
Improvement of customer experience and service offer 
The Québécois party asks the minister to make: 
to facilitate experience for customers; 
By generalizing the implementation of digital technologies that integrate, in the same mobile application, geolocation, electronic payment, the Quebec income module for taxes and an assessment of the customer experience; 
By making available a single mobile umbrella application for all Quebec or large territories, which would allow customers to choose between different taxi companies or the closer taxi. In addition, independent owners could have access to a mobile distribution system. This avenue seems particularly interesting to us; 
to ensure better offer on the territory; 
By allowing the Quebec Transportation Commission to set incentive rates, for example for evenings, weekends and holidays; 
Finally, Martine Ouellet asks Minister Daoust to clarify his thought. "The minister has already argued on the buyback of license, but nothing is clear. How many permits does he want to buy back? At what price? And who? Who will pay? Does the minister intend to engage in the business acquisition and rental rental of taxi? All this is blurred and requires clarification. We must make sure that the drivers receive a fair indemnity, up to the investments they have made to acquire their license, "she concluded. 
