Montreal- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élain Zakaïb, welcomes the report filed by the Fashion Working Group. 
In addition to drawing up a portrait of the fashion and clothing industry in Quebec, the report proposes solutions to the challenges it faces. The Seven Recommendations of the Fashion Working Group concern adaptation to new demands and trends in the global market, recruitment and training of the workforce, the updating of the industry brand image as well as The harmonization and intensification of the mesh between industry companies and those of other sectors. 
"In a context of fierce competition, our fashion and clothing industry should be given ways to address the issues currently prevailing in markets, both at the local and international level," said Élaine Zakaïb. "I am pleased to see the long-term vision adopted by the industry and its willingness to mobilize to ensure its sustainability and prosperity. » 
The Fashion Working Group is composed of twelve corporate executives. It is co-chaired by Anna Martini, Vice-President of the Dynamite Group, and Mr. Elliot Lifson, Vice President of the Peerless Clothing Board. The mandate was to establish the diagnosis of the industry and to list its needs, with the aim of increasing its competitiveness. He also proposed concrete actions aimed at supporting creators and businesses in the implementation of winning business strategies. 
"Our fashion and clothing industry has begun an important turn to respond to changes in recent years, and it will have to continue to take up challenges to be wealth generating," added Zakaïb Élain. "I want to thank the members of the Fashion Working Group for them valuable in this demanding approach to reflection and consultation. We will proceed with the complete analysis of the report and give appropriate follow-up, with the greatest benefit of the industry. » 
"With our working report, we want to allow the fashion and clothing industry to grow and take the place that comes back to Quebec and at the international level," jointly indicated the co-chairs of the Fashion Working Group. , Anna Martini and Mr. Elliot Lifson. "We are convinced that our proposals will enable this growing industry to address today's challenges and that they will be creating prosperity for Quebec. » 
