Quebec- The member of the Madeleine Islands and Parliamentary Assistant (Fisheries component) of the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Ms. Jeannine Richard, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, Announces Funding Assistance of $ 56,183 for the implementation of two projects in support of the development of the seal industry. 
On the one hand, $ 40,000 financial assistance is granted to the Willie-Deraspe Foundation, the Madeleine Islands, for the realization of a traveling exhibition aimed at raising awareness among the general public about the issues and realities of The seal industry. The Communities of the Madeleine Islands, Newfoundland and Labrador and Nunavut are engaged in the implementation of this project that will be staggered over three years. The exhibition will offer a different look at the seal industry, including putting in context the reality and prospects of this industry. The design and organization of the exhibition have been entrusted to Mr. Raoul Jomph, director and screenwriter of the documentary titled Filmet author of the seal exhibition controversy. Five regions of Quebec, Nunavut and Newfoundland and Labrador will host the exhibition. 
"The misinformation practiced by some animalist groups greatly hurts the viability of this industry. It is important to educate the population and raise awareness of the realities of this industry as well as the repercussions of this mammal on fisheries resources and communities, "said Francois Gendron. 
On the other hand, the Association of Seals of the Islands-de-la-Madeleine receives financial assistance of $ 16,183 for the realization of an experimental project that will consist of checking the efficiency of meat and fat residues From Loup-Marin as bait for crustaceans fishing. The decline in species stocks such as herring and mackerel, which are traditionally used as baits in crustacean fishing, leads to higher operating costs of fishing companies. "This project could lead to an interesting alternative for archipelago fishermen: it would promote the profitability of their business and would be an important lever for the development of the seal industry in the archipelago," said the Minister . 
"The loup hunting represents a traditional activity for the Madeleine Islands and Lower North Communities and contributes to the vitality and economy of these communities. It is important to maintain and encourage initiatives to demystify the controversy about this industry and to promote the potential of an abundant species around the Madeleine Islands, "highlighted Ms. Jeannine Richard. 
Financial assistance is, in a respective manner, the financial support program to collective initiatives in the commercial and aquaculture sector and the Innovamer program. These financial assistance measures marry the objectives set out in the Food Sovereignty Policy by contributing to the rise and prosperity of the bioalimentary sector. 
For further information on food sovereignty policy, please consult the blog dedicated to it (www.politicsa.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food ( www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa). It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
