Quebec- The member for Sanguinet and official opposition spokesman for the Treasury Board and Information Resource, Alain Therrien, calls into question the formation of a committee by the President of the Treasury Board, Martin Caiteous, In which private computing companies will be called, in conjunction with the government and the largest IT clients of the state (CSST, RAMQ, SAAQ, health and education networks ...), to define the orientations, the policies and priorities for action on information technology. 
"At least six of the ten largest IT providers in the Quebec public sector are among associations that will sit on the committee with the government. The proximity between the needs of government agencies and service providers is worrying. Indeed, there is a good chance that the guidance, policies and priorities are supportive of these same suppliers. The minister even excluded the representatives of the public sector professionals, which demonstrates his bias for external suppliers. I'm wondering about the real desire of the minister to bring home expertise back, "said Alain Therien. 
Remember that the government of the Parti Québécois had worked to increase government autonomy in computer science, conversely on what is being done. To do this, he had planned to create two computing centers in Rimouski and Saguenay. The government of the Parti Québécois also planned the establishment of a center of expertise for free software. Unfortunately, all these initiatives have been hampered by the Liberal government. 
In 2004, the Charest government sat at the same table the largest consulting firms and the Ministry of Transport, with the aim of developing a vision of partnership. The story seems to be repeated. "The committee formed by Martin Coiteseux recalls exactly that of 2004, and we know the following: loss of major expertise for the state, a sharp rise in contracts granted to private, cost overruns, collusion, corruption and, finally, the outfit of the Charbonneau commission, which splashed the Liberal Party. This is not a good idea to entrust the development of the orientations and priorities of action to the private sector; Quebeckers will still lose, "concluded the hon. Member for Sanguinet. 
