Montréal - Faving the proliferation of the rules of the pilot project committed by Uber and its drivers, the Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the spokesman of the Parti Québécois on transport, Alain Therrien, ask Minister of Transport, Laurent Lessard, apply clause 5 of the agreement he himself signed on September 9 with Uber and immediately end the pilot project. 
"So far, the Liberal government and Minister Lessard have been very complacent with Uber. Since mid-January, the minister has a report on his office. He could act, but he has nothing yet. Not only by the Government by order by decree the usual procedure of the Quebec Transport Commission but, in addition, it refuses to apply the agreement in its entirety. However, the clause 5 of the agreement signed by Minister Lessard and Uber provides that "the failure to comply with all the rules or to any of the rules [will result in the agreement] End will end automatically and Uber will have to stop all of its operations in Quebec, without further notice, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
"We are not even at the stage where the minister has to invoke the clause; We are on the one where he must see the end of the agreement. It is abnormal that the pilot project is still in effect, while the agreement that governs its functioning has been violated for weeks, "added Alain Therien. 
Indeed, according to the latest statistics of the Office of the Taxi of Montreal, dated March 10, no less than 473 Uber drivers had been controlled in the territory of Montreal since the beginning of the pilot project, and 195 (41%) of between them were judged non-compliant. More specifically and dated March 20th: 
"Uber even had the indecency to multiply by four rates to better exploit Quebeckers who composed with execrable weather during the ice storm of 24 January, which is a blatant violation of Clause 2.10 of the agreement. Minister Lessard must regain his column and enforce the law, otherwise it's his own signature that does not value! , Has decided the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
