Quebec -The MP for Drummond and official opposition spokesperson in terms of language and immigration, Yves-François Blanchet, joined his voice to that of the Saint-Jean-Baptiste Society of Montreal to denounce the nonchalance and the the minister responsible for the application of the Charter of the French language. "It is deplorable to have to wait for a citizen to take the initiative to identify the offenses under Law 101 in the constituency of the Minister so that it becomes aware of the problem. No less than 76 offenses have been identified in commercial display. How can the minister have ignored this problem all that time while she has done her eyes every day? When will she finally remove her pink glasses and watch reality in front? "Said Yves-François Blanchet. 
The hon. Member for Drummond also denounces vigorously the reaction of the minister who, again, is complained in denial and minimizes a finding that is obvious. "Yesterday, she even crateled on a television plateau that some posters in her riding were probably temporary by leaving the viewer thinking that finally the situation is not so serious. Should we teach the minister that we do not place a display for one or two weeks? A sign, normally, it's not really temporary, Madam Minister, "added the member. 
"This government makes fun of protecting French and to give it the means to truly flourish in Quebec and especially in Montreal. Why such a renouncement? The Quebec Office of the French language lacks resources to do its work and complaints on display now account for 46.5% of the complaints received, according to the annual 2010-2011 annual report of this organization. It takes without delay to give the means of its ambitions. The Québécois party will take care! , "Said the spokesperson. 
Finally, Yves-François Blanchet mentions that the minister has shown intellectual dishonesty by stating yesterday that the Parti Québécois had refused last year to vote for the increase in fines planned in case of infringement of the Charter of the Language. French. "What Mrs. St-Pierre has forgotten to clarify is that these measures have been sneakingly placed by his government in Bill 115 on gags imposed on us. How can we lack intellectual probity? Instead of participating in its laxity with the Anglicization of Montreal and Quebec, the minister would better get to work and propose real measures to strengthen the Charter of the French language. It presses !!! ", Concluded the member for Drummond. 
