Laval- Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, and the Minister of Family and Minister responsible for the Laval Region, Ms. Nicole Léger, announce a government investment of $ 35.08 million in this region. This sum will allow the construction of two schools ($ 23.24 million), the expansion of a school building ($ 8.14 million), the acquisition of a building ($ 2.80 million) as well as that the financing of furniture ($ 900,000). 
"These important investments demonstrate although education is a priority for our government. The announced projects will have the effect of adding 85 classes for students from the Laval School Board. That's enough to taste and the pleasure of learning! In total, this year, we will build 23 schools and financerons 46 enlargements for a global sum of $ 460 million, the double of last year! Ms. Malavoy said. 
"These infrastructure investments will have direct benefits on the services to the population of the Laval region as well as on the well-being and quality of life of the families of different neighborhoods. By responding to important needs of premises and space for students and school staff in this region, our government demonstrates a real vision for Quebec, "said Minister Nicole Léger. 
Thanks to this government aid of $ 35.08 million, the Laval School Board will be able to carry out five projects. 
Amounts of $ 12.91 million and $ 10.33 million will allow the construction of two primary schools. The first will be located in the eastern sector of Laval, in the riding of Thousand Islands. The second will be located in the Vimont sector, in the riding of the same name. 
In addition, an amount of $ 8.14 million is allocated for the expansion of Jean-Lemonde School in the riding of Fabre.  Another $ 2.80 million is granted for the acquisition of Vanguard Private School Laval Campus, in the riding of Laval-des-Rapides, and for funding for furniture. 
Finally, an amount of $ 900,000 is allocated to allow funding for furniture at Jean-Piaget School, in the Chomedey riding. 
In total, in the next ten years, nearly $ 8.1 billion in investments will be used to improve Quebec's school infrastructure. Whether it's adding space, holding assets or other initiatives, these investments testify to the government's desire to provide quality educational services to students, in environments conducive to learning and fulfillment, while ensuring sound management of public funds. 
With the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, the government ensures renewing and improving infrastructure in all sectors, including educational institutions, road network, public transit, health facilities and social services, Municipal infrastructure, cultural equipment, social housing and public safety institutions. 
As soon as it comes to power, the government of the Parti Québécois has taken up cleaning in investment projects. The ten-year horizon of the 2013-2023 Infrastructure Plan to evaluate the needs prospectively, depending on the priorities of Quebeckers, to measure the associated costs and thus to make the right choices for Quebec. This new way of planning and managing infrastructure is based on honesty, integrity and rigor. 
