Quebec, January 25, 2017- Martine Ouellet, spokesperson for the Taxi industry, as well as Catherine Fournier, spokesperson for consumer protection, ask the Minister of Transport, Laurent Lessard, to cease To be complacent with UberX and to impose compliance with the agreement, last falls, by the application of planned sanctions. 
Indeed, yesterday morning, while the citizens of the Greater Montreal region made up with execrable weather conditions, streets transformed into paralyzed rinks and buses, UberX took the opportunity to increase its usual rates by four. However, it is a flagrant violation of the pilot project, which limited such a rise in basic tariffs at once and a half, in case of force majeure. 
"Minister Lessard demonstrates unjustified complacency for UberX since his entry. Not only has he agreed to negotiate with a firm accused of tax evasion but, in addition, he has changed the law to guarantee the culmination of the pilot project, in particular to allow the company to short-circuit the whole process hearings before the Transport Committee which would otherwise have been for her a obligatory passage. The minister must recover and protect consumers against UberX abuse, "said Martine Ouellet. 
"On the one hand, the Driver Project Agreement provides for the purpose of non-compliance with UBERX conditions. On the other hand, the guidelines provide for the imposition of fines for these violations. Minister Lessard therefore has all the necessary tools to intervene and enforce the law. He must sanction UberX for his offenses, "added the spokesman. 
"Before the multiplication of infringements of the pilot project, recently revealed by the inspections of the Office of the Taxi of Montreal, the least of the things would be that the Minister of Transportation finally devotes as much energy to defend the law and the consumers to accommodate Uber . It is unacceptable that after taxi drivers, consumers now make the costs of UberX practices, as we have seen yesterday! , Concluded Catherine Fournier. 
