Montreal- The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, and the Minister of Culture and Communications and Member of Parliament for Bourget, Mr. Maka Kotto, are proud to announce a government investment of $ 110.50 million in the Montreal area. This sum will allow the construction of a primary school ($ 11.96 million), the expansion of 17 school buildings ($ 91.93 million) and a complement to the funding of projects already authorized ($ 6.61 million ) 
"These important investments demonstrate that education is the priority of our government. The announced projects will add 184 classes, which will welcome students from three school boards. That's enough to taste and the pleasure of learning! In total, this year, we will build 23 schools and financerons 46 enlargements for a global sum of $ 460 million, the double of last year! Ms. Malavoy said. 
"I am very happy to participate in this ad and I look forward to Montrealers and Montreal! These infrastructure investments will have direct benefits on the services offered to them as well as the well-being and quality of life for family-owned families. By responding to important needs of premises and space for students and school staff in the metropolitan area, our government demonstrates a real vision for Quebec, "added the minister. 
"As a member of Parliament for Bourget, I am pleased to take part in this announcement that aims for my riding. Students from Louis-Dupire School will benefit from a class addition, like many others in the Montreal area. In my view, our government is showing that it is listening to the population and that it poses concrete gestures to offer accessible school buildings and in sufficient numbers, "said Kotto. 
Thanks to this government assistance, the Montreal School Board obtains $ 11.96 million for the construction of a primary school. It can also achieve seven school expansion projects: Saint-Gérard ($ 5 million), Bedford ($ 3.58 million), Saint-Noël-Chabanel, Discoverers' Pavilion ($ 3.05 million) , Ahuntsic ($ 3.96 million), Leonardo-de Vinci, Preschool and Undergraduate Pavilion ($ 8.5 million), Guillaume-Couture ($ 6.08 million) and Louis-Dupire (6, $ 54 million). 
The same school board also obtains $ 6.61 million in addition to funding for already authorized projects. In total, students from the Montreal School Board will benefit from the addition of 83 classes and gymnasiums. 
For its part, the School Board of the Point-de-L'Île will be able to carry out five school expansion projects: René-Guenette ($ 5.72 million), Roserays ($ 5.31 million), Jacques-Rousseau ($ 5.04 million), PIE-XII ($ 6.84 million) and Jean-Nicolet ($ 5.04 million). In total, students in this school board will benefit from the addition of 66 classes and a gym. 
Finally, for the Marguerite-Bourgeoys School Board, it will be able to expand five schools: Children-du-World ($ 1.52 million), Vanguard ($ 11.07 million), Paul-Jarry (5 , $ 81 million), John-F.-Kennedy ($ 3.15 million) and Children-Soleil ($ 5.72 million). Students in this school board will benefit from the addition of 35 classes, gymnasiums and service premises. 
In total, in the next ten years, nearly $ 8.1 billion in investments will be used to improve Quebec's school infrastructure. Whether it's adding space, holding assets or other initiatives, these investments testify to the government's desire to provide quality educational services to students, in environments conducive to learning and fulfillment, while ensuring sound management of public funds. 
With the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, the government ensures renewing and improving infrastructure in all sectors, including educational institutions, road network, public transit, health facilities and social services, Municipal infrastructure, cultural equipment, social housing and public safety institutions. 
As soon as it comes to power, the government of the Parti Québécois has taken up cleaning in investment projects. The ten-year horizon of the 2013-2023 Infrastructure Plan to evaluate the needs prospectively, depending on the priorities of Quebeckers, to measure the associated costs and thus to make the right choices for Quebec. This new way of planning and managing infrastructure is based on honesty, integrity and rigor. 
