Terrebonne- Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, and the Minister Delegate to Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Minister responsible for the Lanaudière Region and MP to Joliette, Ms. Véronique Hivon, Announce the construction of three schools and the expansion of eight school buildings for a government investment of $ 59.08 million in Lanaudière. 
"It is with great pleasure that I announce, in the Lanaudière region, the construction of three schools, for a government investment of $ 27.23 million, and the expansion of eight school buildings, for 31.85 million of dollars. These investments demonstrate that education is a priority for our government. The announced projects will have the effect of adding 112 classes and gyms, which will host students from 2 school boards. That's enough to communicate the taste and pleasure of learning! Ms. Malavoy said. 
"This year, continued the minister, we will build 23 schools in Quebec and finance 46 enlargements, for an overall sum of $ 460 million, more than double last year. » 
Thanks to these investments, the cities of Repentigny, Terrebonne and St. Paul may each have a new school to serve families. Moreover, still in Terrebonne, as well as Mascouche and the Assumption, the tributary school board will benefit from substantial additions in eight schools. 
"Today, I can only rejoice for the citizens of the communities covered by these eleven projects. A local school for children, in the heart of their living environment, it makes all the difference for them and for their families. These major investments will have direct benefits on people's services as well as the quality of life of people here. Our government recognizes the important demographic increase in our region and strongly responds to the needs of Lanaudois, "said Minister Hivon. 
In total, in the next 10 years, is nearly $ 8.1 billion in investments that will be used to improve Quebec's school infrastructure. Whether it's addressed, as for projects announced today, supporting assets or other initiatives, this investment testifies to the government's desire to provide quality educational services to students, in environments conducive to learning and fulfillment, while ensuring sound management of public funds. 
With LePlan Québécois infrastructure, the government ensures renewing and improving infrastructure in all sectors, including educational institutions, road network, public transit, health and social services institutions. Municipal infrastructures, cultural equipment, social housing and public safety institutions. 
As soon as it comes to power, the government of the Parti Québécois has taken up cleaning in investment projects. The ten-year horizon of the 2013-2023 Infrastructure Plan to assess the needs prospectively according to the priorities of the Quebec population, to measure the associated costs and thus to make the right choices for the Quebec. This new way of planning and managing infrastructure is based on honesty, integrity and rigor. 
