Saint-Jerome - Minister of Finance and the Economy and MP in Rousseau, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, a Government investment of $ 29.37 million for school boards in the North River and Laurentians. This sum will allow the construction of a primary school ($ 10.05 million), the expansion of three school buildings ($ 13.76 million) and two financing supplements for the completion of two already authorized projects (5, 5, $ 56 million). 
"These important investments demonstrate although education is a priority for our government. The announced projects will have the effect of adding 55 classes and gymnasiums for students from the School Boards of the North River and Laurentians. That's enough to taste and the pleasure of learning! In total, this year, we will build 23 schools and financerons 46 enlargements for a global sum of $ 460 million, the double of last year! Marceau said. 
It should be noted that in total, for the Laurentians region, the investment will amount to $ 48.73 million. Indeed, aid of $ 19.36 million is allocated to the School Board of the Seigneurie-des-Mille-Isles for the construction of two primary schools. 
"Investing in such infrastructure will have direct benefits on the services to the population of the Laurentians region as well as the well-being and quality of life of the families of different neighborhoods. By meeting the important needs of premises and space for students and school staff in this region, our government demonstrates a real vision for Quebec, "said MPs present, Ms. Denise Beaudoin, Mirabel, M . Daniel GOYER, two-mountains, and Mr. Roland Richer, Argenteuil. 
The School Board of the North River is given $ 10.05 million for the construction of a 21-class primary school in Sainte-Sophie. 
This school board also obtains sums totaling $ 10.84 million for the expansion of Sainte-Anne, Mirabel, and Belfeuille School in Saint-Jérôme. Additional funding totaling $ 5.56 million will also enable two already allowed projects, one in Saint-Jérôme and the other in Mirabel. 
For its part, the Laurentian School Board obtains $ 2.92 million to enlarge the Carrefour School, located in Amherst. 
In total, in the next ten years, nearly $ 8.1 billion in investments will be used to improve Quebec's school infrastructure. Whether it's adding space, holding assets or other initiatives, these investments testify to the government's desire to provide quality educational services to students, in environments conducive to learning and fulfillment, while ensuring sound management of public funds. 
With the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, the government ensures renewing and improving infrastructure in all sectors, including educational institutions, road network, public transit, health facilities and social services, Municipal infrastructure, cultural equipment, social housing and public safety institutions. 
As soon as it comes to power, the government of the Parti Québécois has taken up cleaning in investment projects. The ten-year horizon of the 2013-2023 Infrastructure Plan to evaluate the needs prospectively, depending on the priorities of Quebeckers, to measure the associated costs and thus to make the right choices for Quebec. This new way of planning and managing infrastructure is based on honesty, integrity and rigor. 
