Quebec- The Minister of Finance and the Economy and Deputy of Rousseau, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, and the hon. Member for Mirabel, Ms. Denise Beaudoin, are pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Education, the Leisure and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, a government investment of $ 19.36 million that will allow the School Board of the seigneurie-des-mille-Îles to build two primary schools. 
"These important investments demonstrate that education is a priority for our government. The announced projects will have the effect of adding 42 classes for students from the School Board of the Seigneurie-des-Mille-Îles. That's enough to taste and the pleasure of learning! In total, this year, we will build 23 schools and financerons 46 enlargements for a global sum of $ 460 million, the double of last year! Marceau said. 
It should be noted that in total, for the Laurentians region, the investment will amount to $ 48.73 million. Indeed, the minister announced a little earlier today $ 29.37 million to the school boards of the North River and Laurentides for construction and expansion projects. 
"Investing in such infrastructure will have direct benefits on the services to the population of the Laurentians region as well as the well-being and quality of life of the families of different neighborhoods. As a member of Mirabel, I look forward to my fellow citizens! By responding to important needs of premises and space for students and school staff, our government demonstrates a real vision for Quebec, "added Mrs. Denise Beaudoin, Mirabel MP and M. Daniel Goyer, MP Deux-Montagnes. 
The School Board of the Seigneurie-des-Mille-Îles obtains $ 9.68 million for the construction of a 21-class primary school, which will be located in Saint-Joseph-du-Lac. 
It also refers to another $ 9.68 million for the construction of a second elementary school of 21 classes, this time in Mirabel, in the sector of St. Augustine. 
In total, in the next ten years, nearly $ 8.1 billion in investments will be used to improve Quebec's school infrastructure. Whether it's adding space, holding assets or other initiatives, these investments testify to the government's desire to provide quality educational services to students, in environments conducive to learning and fulfillment, while ensuring sound management of public funds. 
With the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, the government ensures renewing and improving infrastructure in all sectors, including educational institutions, road network, public transit, health facilities and social services, Municipal infrastructure, cultural equipment, social housing and public safety institutions. 
As soon as it comes to power, the government of the Parti Québécois has taken up cleaning in investment projects. The ten-year horizon of the 2013-2023 Infrastructure Plan to evaluate the needs prospectively, depending on the priorities of Quebeckers, to measure the associated costs and thus to make the right choices for Quebec. This new way of planning and managing infrastructure is based on honesty, integrity and rigor. 
