Québec- Minister responsible for the Government Administration and President of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, today tabled the Bill No.38, An Act respecting the governance of public infrastructure, constituting Quebec society. infrastructure and amending various legislative provisions. 
"This bill is part of our initiative approach to last fall to review our ways to do, as a result of the overwhelming Report Secor-KPMG on the management of infrastructure under the Liberal government. After introducing the integrity and probity in the granting of public contracts with the adoption of LALOI No1, our Government now wants to provide public administration with best practices in the management of infrastructure projects, "said the Minister Bédard. 
As planned by Bill 38, the Government is now committed to filing an investment plan covering a ten-year horizon. Rendered Public Last Week, NewPlan Quebec Infrastructure (PQI) provides for investments of $ 92.3 billion and the creation or maintenance of nearly 60,000 jobs per year across Quebec. This plan proposes a true vision based on honesty and rigor. It will ensure better cohesion between our investment choices and our ability to pay. 
The new PQI will integrate all public investments into infrastructure. All will now be subject to the same rigorous planning and monitoring process. In addition, to be registered in the PQI, any $ 40 million and higher public infrastructure project should be allowed. 
The bill also provides, as announced last December, the merger of the Quebec Real Estate Corporation (ISL) and Infrastructure Québec, so as to share their respective know-how. The new Quebec Infrastructure Corporation (SQI) will provide better support for public bodies by providing supervision and quality monitoring in project planning and implementation. The government will see optimal risk management, costs and schedules for projects. 
The bill also provides for the filing of an annual investment management plan (PAGI) by each Minister for the investments of his department and agencies under his responsibility. These plans will present a forecast of the effect of public investments in infrastructure on the achievement of the objectives and guidance of each public body in terms of infrastructure as well as on government spending, the resorption of the deficit. assets and sustainability of infrastructure. This approach is part of a perspective of transparency and accountability against the public and the elected officials. 
"Our roads, our schools, our hospitals are a real collective wealth. These are tangible investments for our fellow citizens. We must therefore pose the right gestures to ensure a better process of planning and monitoring infrastructure investments. At the same time we must ensure that we have a healthy management of public resources, "concluded Minister Bédard. 
Bill 38 may be consulted on the National Assembly's website at www.assnat.qc.ca. 
