Islands-de-la-Madeleine - the member for the Madeleine Islands and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Fisheries Component), Ms. Jeannine Richard, on behalf of the Deputy Premier Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron, Announces Investments Estimated to more than $ 3.5 million from the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food for the Rehabilitation of the Ice Manufacturing and Distribution Factory located in Cap-aux-Meules in the Madeleine Islands. 
This indispensable infrastructure for the fishing industry in the archipelago produces nearly 2,000 tonnes of ice used in particular for the conservation of fish and crustaceans on board fishing boats and refrigeration of marine products during their transformation. 
"All the equipment of the plant built in 1975 had become obsolete and could not adequately meet the needs of its users. For fishing, marine product processing and archipelago wholesalers to continue to benefit from this service, it was necessary to improve the plant's equipment, "said Richard. 
The work that is ongoing should end in March 2014 before the new fishing season begins. In particular, they will install new equipment for the manufacture of ice, a system of payment and continuous ice distribution, safer and versatile. The project also provides for the replacement of the air conveyor through a sub-field conveyor, as well as the construction of two food grade ice reserves. 
This project reaches the objectives of the Food Sovereignty Lapinic allowing the Fisheries Sector to benefit from favorable conditions for the development and sustainable development of the bioalimentary industry. 
With investments of $ 2.3 billion and an annual food demand of nearly $ 34 billion generating 475,000 jobs, the biofood industry is an engine of the Quebec economy. 
For more information on food sovereignty policy, we invite you to regularly consult the blog (www.politicsa.gouv.qc.ca) of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and its website (www .mapaq.gouv.qc.ca / Policya), or to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
