Montreal - "What happened this week exceeds the terminals. People are worried, discouraged and exasperated by this government that refuses to take responsibility and Minister Hamad who is in denial. How can Minister HamaD declare that the roads are all safe while the Prime Minister himself declared that it was a miracle that no one was injured? It is time to put an end to the improvisation, laxity and lack of Leadership of the Charest government, "said the leader of the official and deputy opposition of Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the spokesman for the official opposition In terms of transport and deputy of Gouin, Nicolas Girard, and the hon. Member for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Martin Lemay. 
"The Minister of Transport of Quebec is obviously exceeded by the events. The Prime Minister is laving his hands, he shows no leadership. Still, the situation is serious and, in a few days, people will come back from vacation and it will be chaos on the roads. I therefore ask the Prime Minister to abandon the public relations of the North Plan and to move to the "South Plan", "said Marois. 
"The collapse of the beam in the Tunnel Ville-Marie has unfortunately demonstrated the inability of the Charest government to manage an important crisis, thus breaking the bond of trust towards Quebeckers. There is a flagrant lack of transparency and monitoring on construction sites. It is absolutely deplorable that Minister Hamad, with the complicity of Jean Charest, denies any responsibility whereas we have learned since Sunday that the Ministry of Transport had not allowed plans and quotes for the work in the Tunnel Ville-Marie. How does the minister explain that no employee of the Ministry of Transportation did not survend the site surveillance at the time of the incident last Sunday? Ms. Marois added. 
"As for transparency, without the insistence of the Parti Québécois and the work of journalists, Quebecers would have been kept in ignorance. In the road infrastructure record in the Montreal area, opacity has become the trademark of this government. I believe that Montrealers and Quebeckers are smart enough to understand the issues related to road transport in our metropolis. We demand again that all road infrastructure inspection reports are made public, "said Nicolas Girard. 
"This new incident on our road network directly affects the lives of Montrealers and residents of my riding. This also has a significant impact on the economy of the metropolis. Improvisation must stop, "said Martin Lemay. 
"In order to avoid future problems with citizens and businesses in the Montreal area, we are willing to collaborate with the government. Here are some proposals: 
"After the problems known on the Champlain Bridge, the Turcot exchanger, the Dorval exchanger, the Mercier Bridge and now the Ville-Marie highway, the state must give confidence to the citizens, which it resumes the control of Project planning and evaluation. Finally, it takes leadership and transparency, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
