Quebec- The member for Verchères and official opposition spokesperson for ethics and integrity, Stéphane Bergeron, as well as the member for Taillon and spokesperson for health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre denounce the Refusal of the Prime Minister to act as a result of allegations that the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, would have shown political interference and abuse of power at the place of the management of the Center. Hospital of the Université de Montréal (CHUM). The minister must resign or show the door by his leader. 
"In his management of the crisis at the CHUM, the only motivation of the Prime Minister is to avoid at all costs of having to resolve his minister. By refusing to hold an independent investigation into the gestures that are criticized with Gaétan barrette, he is ready to tolerate the blackmail and intimidation that his minister faces to leaders, favoring public relations to the sound management of the health network. . The methods that would have used Gaétan barrette with the CHUM leaders are unacceptable and unworthy behaviors of a minister. Three resignations were added to those of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of the Chum Board, and the resigners all corroborated the allegations revealed last Thursday. These ways of doing things are inadmissible; Whether or not there is a return to Chum Director General as a result of Philippe Couillard's pressures, the minister can not stay in, "said Stéphane Bergeron. 
Suspension of law 10 and independent investigation 
"The Prime Minister shall immediately suspend the entry into force, scheduled for April 1, of the law 10, adopted under gag, because too many powers are concentrated in the hands of the Minister of Health. Given the ways to make Gaétan barrette, we can question potential other cases of interference. The Prime Minister must absolutely launch an independent investigation to shed light on all the minister's potential interference situations in the appointment of executives. Otherwise, Philippe Couillard's message to his minister will be clear: he can continue, with impunity, to exercise interference and abuse of power, Chum as in the entire health system, "concluded Diane Lamarre. 
