Saguenay- Minister responsible for Government Administration, President of the Treasury Board, Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean Region and Government House Leader, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, announced, on behalf of the Minister Delegate In industrial policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, a grant of $ 52,000 to the Aluminum Valley Corporation for the Export-Equipment Project. 
This first phase of the project allowed, on the one hand, to determine the products and services of five aluminum smelters in the Middle East, in the Persian Gulf region, and on the other hand to present the offer of services specialized in the Saguenay equipment manufacturers? Lac-Saint-Jean participating in the process. 
"The Export-Equipment Project contributes significantly to the rise of the niche of excellence aluminum processing from the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region," said Stéphane Bédard. "It is therefore with great enthusiasm that our government supports this project, which allows to recognize the expertise and potential of our regional companies all over the world. » 
Financial assistance is granted as part of the strategic sector development support program and niches of excellence, support support for structuring activities and projects. It has allowed the hiring of a consultant who has identified business opportunities in the Middle East and commercial activities where participation was desirable. 
"This project comes from a common reflection between the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, Export Québec, the Aluminum Valley Society as well as various organizations and companies in the aluminum industry," did Knowing Élaine Zakaïb. "It is therefore a unifying project that responds to two main objectives, or to increase the presence of equipment manufacturers outside Quebec and to promote the growth of equipment manufacturers in the hollow of the cycle that is currently experiencing the global aluminum industry. . » 
Ten OEMs participate in the project: MECFOR INC., Dynamic Concept, NYX Dimensions inc., Morin Enertech Inc., Refraco Group Inc., The Genitic Group Inc., Filtrartech Inc., Maestria Solutions, Canmec Group inc. and Equibras inc. 
"This approach is part of Quebec's industrial lapolitics, which aims to encourage manufacturing companies to innovate and modernize in order to be more competitive in global markets," sued Zakaïb. 
Founded in 2001, the Aluminum Valley Corporation is dedicated to making the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region one of the world's leading centers in the aluminum industry in Quebec and around the world. Its presence promotes the success of SMEs already present in the territory and facilitates the creation of new businesses as well as the development of partnerships. The organization also ensures the management of the niche of excellence aluminum transformation from the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region. 
"Thanks to the financial support of the Government of Quebec, we have benefited from the expertise of a consultant, who has found successful business opportunities for our equipment manufacturers," supported the President of the Valley of the Valley of the Valley Aluminum, Mr. Arthur Gobeil. "Export-Equipment is a project that will contribute to the growth and dynamism of our businesses, in addition to carrying out major economic benefits for our region. » 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
