Saguenay- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, and the Minister of Transport, Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory and MP, Mr. Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, confirmed the assignment of non-refundable financial assistance of $ 400,000 to the Intel'Eau-PompAction company, located in Saguenay (Jonquière District), for an innovative project related to the treatment of water, which will allow energy savings. 
The Intel'Eau-PompAction company specializes in the design, manufacture, start-up, maintenance, repair, instrumentation and control of water pumping and processing systems. This assistance, granted as part of the Innovation Support Program, will be used for the design and marketing of the Aquavision controller. It is an integrated system of unique control and supervision for various pumping, dosing, overpressure, analysis and water treatment equipment and other related or complementary equipment. 
"Our government is particularly proud to encourage the growth of dynamic and innovative companies that contribute to the economic vitality of our regions," said Élaine Zakaïb. "It is with enthusiasm that we support the project of Intel'Eau-PompAction, which will maximize energy savings while integrating automation into the pumping equipment and water treatment equipment. Green, more modern and innovative businesses, these are the ones to promote Quebec industrial policy 2013-2017, made last Thursday last Thursday. » 
Sylvain Gaudreault welcomed support for this Jonquière company and its project with significant economic benefits for the city and its region. "The company proposes an innovative approach that meets the needs of the market by maximizing energy savings while minimizing installation and maintenance costs," he said. "It is therefore a project that will contribute to sustainable development, for a brighter Quebec, turned towards the future. » 
"With the support of the Government of Quebec, we will be able to accelerate the achievement of market research, the development of the marketing plan and the development of our new integrated control product: Aquavision", supported the President of Intel. Water-PompAction, Mr. Yannick Beauli. "Our controller aims to optimize all water pumping and processing systems offered by different manufacturers. Thanks to Aquavision, we will be able to offer users of municipal, industrial and mining markets of substantial energy savings while optimizing the management of their systems. This innovation will allow Intelleau-PompAction to become a leader in this sector and thus conquer foreign markets. » 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicidustrielle. 
