Quebec, September 12, 2017 -The official opposition for the public safety opposition, Pascal Bérubé, denounces the slowness of the government process and the coffering in the management of the suites to give the floods last spring. Indeed, four months after the events, hundreds of victims are still waiting for a permit, a check or authorization from the government to destroy, repair or rebuild their home. 
IN SHORT 
"On July 11, the Minister of Public Security was no longer clear: he promised to pay all cases in a maximum of five weeks, or at the latest for August 15. However, not only did the minister have kept his promise, but he has, in addition, bankrupt to his original duty, who was to ensure that the process put in place by his government was as simple as possible for citizens . What we have announced today, that is, personalized meetings and a partnership between the different governmental bodies, could have - and should have been done for a very long time, "said Pascal Bérubé. 
"It took a hundred citizens gathered in front of the Minister's constituency office to react. This government reacts only when it is at the foot of the wall and it no longer has the choice. Yet yesterday, the minister did not learn anything again! For several months, we have known that there is a lack of communication between municipalities and ministries of public safety and municipal affairs. Citizens tell us without stopping! They tell us, too, that the process suffers from severe bureaucratic gaps. Public safety, for example, escaped several particularly complicated cases; Instead of trying to find a solution, she chose to tablette, as if they miraculously went to settle alone! Finally, we realize that the most complex situations will have to be evaluated in the room ... what a shameful coffering, "continued the spokesperson. 
"It's total improvisation. It is also a serious lack of respect for the victims, many of whom have been waiting for more than four months. While winter is approaching, people remain in uncertainty; Will the government wait for the next catastrophe to take responsibility? ", Concluded Pascal Bérubé. 
