Quebec, May 17, 2017- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesman for the Parti Québécois on the environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, and the spokesman in terms of municipal affairs, Martin Ouellet , proposed short, medium- and long-term solution tracks to better manage flood risks and improve prevention in this area. 
IN SHORT 
Towards a Scientific and Technical Commission "We need to think about lessons to draw floods from 2017, and best practices to adopt in the future. That is why we ask the government to create an independent scientific and technical commission responsible for analyzing the actions made before, during and after the spring 2017 floods and, more generally, to reflect on ways to better manage the risk of flooding and improve prevention, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
The Commission would mainly be used to make recommendations on the means to make Quebec a leader in these subjects. It should be able to put in place an enlarged consultation approach throughout Quebec to hear citizens, elected officials, experts and specialists belonging to different disciplines. 
Information on flood zonesPas Less than 94% of owners whose residence is in a flood zone ... ignore it. This is at least the conclusion of a study published last month by the University of Waterloo, Ontario. The same study indicates that inaction follows first of the lack of information as to the risk of flooding. 
"We believe that people have the right to know if they live in a territory where the risk of flooding is important; Thus, illuminated, they will be able to decide if they settle there. The information must be disseminated: centralized and easy-to-access government website, mandatory reports at real estate transactions, role of notaries, banks and CMHC ... knowledge of floodbounds, and integrate Climate and water models. Of course, it goes through the refurbishment of a mapping program, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
Consultation with watershed organizations  "We believe that the best way to proceed is to apply integrated management at the watershed scale. Why? Because the natural boundaries of water flow do not know the borders of the MRCs and municipalities. Consultation at the watershed scale applies to both integrated water management and the management of wetlands or flooding, "said Martin Ouellet on his side. 
The key is prevention 
Ultimately, it is on the principle of prevention that Quebec must insist if it wishes to learn from recent extreme climate events. Among other things, we must: 
