Quebec- The member for Terrebonne and spokesman for the Quebecois on the environment and the fight against climate change, Mathieu Traversy, denounces the fact that in the case of pesticide monitoring, the Ministry of the Environment has chosen Disclosing only partial data, which has the effect of embellishing the assessment of inspections it has led, including controlling the use of pesticides in Quebec. 
"The Minister of the Environment, David Heurtel, has the duty to present a reliable, detailed and comprehensive portrait of environmental inspections in Quebec, but it shows a lack of appalling rigor. Unlike those transmitted to the Commissioner for Sustainable Development, the Ministry's internal data indicate that in 2015-2016, 9 out of 10 interventions were conducted by students rather than by inspectors. And barely 10% of these interventions were followed by the visit of an inspector, "lamented Mathieu Traversy. 
"With regard to inspection programs, in three out of five cases, no follow-up was carried out in 2015-16, the annual inspection target was missed by 20% to 35%. The only program that presents satisfactory results is the one whose data is apparently truncated. There is therefore no precise portrait of the use of pesticides in Quebec, "continued the member for Terrebonne. 
Mathieu Traversy also denounces the budget restrictions imposed on the Ministry of the Environment for 10 years, which, together, represent a loss of 5% of its total budget. In addition, the Department's workforce decreased by 20% between 2003 and 2011. Only for the Quebec Environmental Control Center, in total, the government has cut 6.6% its financial resources. 
"These budget cuts compromise the Department's ability to effectively fulfill its missions, and increase the risk to the environment and human health. However, this will necessarily have unfortunate economic consequences with medium and long term. It is inadmissible that the department thus tries to make up the numbers to hide its inefficiency, "concluded Mathieu Traversy. 
