Montreal- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, today confirmed the government's green light to the project of Translational Research Center on Mood Disorders and Suicide The University Institute in Douglas Mental Health, located in the district of Verdun. This project is estimated at $ 9.8 million. 
"This announcement falls to point, while the National Suicide Prevention Week is currently taking place. Support for this Douglas Institute's project testifies to the priority we give to mental health, the theme around which has been held a week, a forum bringing together our partners in question, "has declared Doctor Hébert. 
The 4th floor of the West Wing Pavillon Perry will be redeveloped in depth to host the teams of the Research Center, and the facilities of the Quebec brain bank will be modernized. "This project will better understand the mechanisms generating mood disorders or suicidal intentions in people at risk. It will promote optimal integration of clinical research, epigenetics, neuroanatomy as well as molecular and cellular biology, "said Dr. Hébert. 
The total project cost, including the construction and purchase of the equipment, is estimated at $ 9.8 million. This achievement is made possible thanks to contributions of $ 7.2 million from the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology and $ 2.6 million from the Foundation of The University Mental Health Institute Douglas. A financing tranche of 2.2 million is immediately made available to the establishment in order to launch the work. 
"Research is essential in this field of medicine, especially since one in five people will suffer from a mental health problem during his life. This achievement is in continuity with the national research and innovation of the fall in autumn. The establishment of the Translational Neuroscience Center will enhance a new expertise in Quebec, which we are very proud of, "said the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology , Mr. Pierre Duchesne. 
