Quebec- On the occasion of an interpellation on private investment, the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb, has been restoring the facts to demonstrate that the total costs of projects. Investments, from September 2012 to March 2013, were greater than the average of the last four years for the same period. 
"Many falsehoods have been carried by the CAQ recently; I find it important to restore the facts, "said Minister Zakaïb. "Thus the average total cost of investment projects for this period (September to March) from the four years of 2008 to 2011 amounted to nearly $ 3.1 billion, while since the arrival of our Government last September, the total costs of investment projects reach almost $ 3.3 billion. " 
"In addition, our significant actions have allowed us to increase the number of interventions promoting private investment in Quebec. This number increased from 867 for the period from September 2011 to March 2012, nearly 900 interventions since we had to power last September. » 
For their part, the financial aid granted from September 2012 to March 31, 2013 reached $ 1.7 billion compared to $ 908 million at the same period in 2011-2012. 
"I regret that the CAQ come out of such falsehoods on the basis of a superficial journal of the press coverage and thus tries to blacken Quebec's economic development, while behind this development there are entrepreneurs who work very hard. As you can see, we have demonstrated today that private investment and job creation in Quebec have not declined on the contrary. Despite the economic situation, our government does everything in its power to support entrepreneurs from here and set up an attractive business environment. In addition, the next implementation of the Quebec Economic Development Bank will come to support more than ever those who invest, which innovate and take place in world markets. For us, the work started last September intensifies to set up the development bank as soon as possible. We have a vision and especially the political will to advance all regions of Quebec. " 
