Québec- The member for Taillon and spokesman for the Quebecois health and accessibility of care, Diane Lamarre, and the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for social services and the protection of youth, Jean- François Lisée, welcome the opinion of the Protecteur du citoyen on ancillary expenses for health and social services published today. MEPs require that the Minister of Health renounce to legalize and expand the overloads imposed on patients. 
"We are asking the Minister of Health to listen to the citizen's protector and to give up his desire to charge patients for insured services while ensuring additional profit margin for physicians. We totally agree with the Protector, Ms. Raymonde Saint-Germain, who, in his report, affirms that "this way of doing things may contribute to the emergence of a two-speed system: a rapidly clinical path for Those who have the means to pay and a slow way leading to the hospital for others ", and that" any change that aims to legalize a direct invoicing to users, for ancillary costs for which physicians participating in the public plan are already paid, and for some services not covered by the public scheme, constitutes an unfair avenue ". The minister must give up once and to charge an umpteenth increase in physician remuneration by patients, "said members. 
Several other excerpts from this notice confirm the concerns of groups and stakeholders in the health and civil society network that has risen in recent months to denounce the liberal strategy, including: 
"A direct invoicing to the user incorporates to the insured services compromises the principles of universality and accessibility at the base of the public scheme. It would be introduced here, in fact, financial barriers that would limit access to medically required services. Affecting the entire population, these constraints would further penalize certain [more vulnerable] segments of the population "(page 5). 
"The reflection on the incorporating fees of the Minister of Health and Social Services must be transparent and openly [and] this reflection can not progress according to camera mechanisms, ignoring the public interest in its sense. wider "(page 21). 
"This voice is not the least: it is that of the ombudsman of all Quebeckers. It must be heard by the government and, in this sense, we invite all citizens and all Liberal members to put pressure on the minister to bring it back to reason. For the Parti Québécois, there is no doubt that the only viable solution is, as recommended by Ms. Saint-Germain, to completely prohibit the billing of fees incidental to patients, "have concluded members. 
