Quebec- The member for Gaspé and sentence of the official opposition on municipal affairs and regional development, Gaétan Lelèvre, as well as the hon. Member for Rimouski and spokesperson for poverty, solidarity , of social economy and for the elders, Harold Lebel, have called the Minister Jean d'Amour today about the Liberal government's offensive against the regions of Quebec. In particular, they denounced its sustained actions against local and regional development. 
"We have been saying it since the arrival of the Liberals: government policies have a devastating impact on the regions of Quebec. The list of attacks extends from day to day. Families and middle class pay the price. Liberal policies could have an irreversible effect on the regional development model we have put more than 50 years to build. We cut instances, we cut budgets and we say to the new officials: do you manage. It is unacceptable, in addition to being totally illogical and unproductive, "said Gaétan Lelièvre. 
The hon. Member stresses that only this week, we learn that regional offices of the Staff Regulations Council will be closed, that the regional editions of the Hat, girls! Will be canceled, and that the government is considering centralizing the accommodation tax, cutting food and decision-making power to regional tourism associations. 
A mandate of initiative in parliamentary committee to discuss the future of the regions 
In response to the grumbling in the region, Harold Lebel has formally asked the Minister of Love a parliamentary committee looks at the future of the regions. "Yesterday, in a rare public exit, more than forty researchers from 11 Quebec universities have denounced liberal actions in the region. According to them, more than 40 years of consultation, dynamism and economic development are threatened by the government, whose decisions do not rely on any facts or needs analysis. The researchers expressed the wish that a bill should be tabled in order to discuss a new regional development model. An initiative mandate would be the first step towards establishing a respectful dialogue between Quebec and the Regions, "he added. 
In addition, the member requested that researchers be heard in the framework of the Parliamentary Committee studying Bill 28, which redefines regional governance, which the Liberals have refused to them so far. 
The minister remains deaf sense 
"The Minister of Love is responsible for two regions, the Bas-Saint-Laurent and the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine, having important and urgent needs. Yet, it is limited to being the spokesperson for his government, instead of defending their interests. Moreover, who defends the regions within the Council of Ministers? The Parti Québécois is no longer the only one to affirm that liberal policies are harmful to the regions; Several actors of the company, as the coalition does not affect my regions!, also denounce them. More than 10,000 people from any source oppose the demolition site of the regions led by the Liberal government, "continued Gaétan Lelièvre. 
"While the love minister tries to deflect the debate on structures, the local and regional development budget increases from $ 181 million to $ 100 million. How MRCs and municipal elected officials can assume their new responsibilities with only 55% of the budget? This is a lack of respect for regional leaders and citizens in the regions, "concluded the member for Gaspé. 
