Québec- The three opposition parties to the National Assembly - the Parti Québécois (PQ), the Coalition Future Québec (CAQ) and Quebec Solidarity (QS) - unite their voices to those of hundreds of parents from across Quebec in order to Ask the Minister of Education to cease his cuts in student services and reinvest in education. 
Exceptionally, MPs Françoise David (QS), Jean-François Roberge (CAQ) and Alexandre Cloutier (PQ) caused the National Assembly, today, by questioning the Minister of Education for two hours. , François Blais, at a transparent interpellation session. For the occasion, hundreds of parents, citizens and actors from the education community have gathered before the National Assembly to demonstrate against the repeated cuts of the Liberal government in public schools in Quebec. 
"The Prime Minister of Quebec had committed to making education a priority. However, we do not count the cuts whose impact is felt in schools across Quebec. Today, all opposition parties and citizens from all walks of life have joined their voices to ask the Liberal government to respect its commitment. The Minister of Education must hear this appeal and rectify the shot, "said the official opposition speech on education, research and educational perseverance, Alexandre Cloutier. 
"It is because we can no longer see the Minister of Education remain impassive in front of the budget cuts in the education system we decided today to add our voices to those of our Colleagues of the Parti Québécois and Quebec Solidaire to challenge François Blais. Quebec youth do not need a puppet ready to do all the cabrioles than the Prime Minister and the President of the Treasury Board ask him to do. They need a real Minister of Education, able to truly defend student services. The minister must come out of his ivory tour and listen to the testimonies of parents throughout Quebec. He has the duty to help students who suffer from his service cuts, "said Jean-François Roberge. 
"To save our system of education really weakened by the liberal cuts, the three opposition parties have chosen to unite their voices at a quasi historical moment. The President of the Treasury Board decided to balance his columns of figures on the back of education and François Blais is unable to defend his department. Worse, he looks elsewhere while public schools are overflowing and the student services go to the hatch. It is unable to recognize that the cuts will aggravate school dropout in disadvantaged circles. He even refuses to meet students, teachers and school directions. Today, we bring school to him. Minister Blais will be obliged to face the eyes of parents who fear for the future of their children. Mr. Blais, take your responsibilities; The future is now! For his part, said Françoise David. 
