Quebec- During an interpellation at the National Assembly, the member for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, and the hon. Member for Joliette, Véronique Hivon, argued to the Liberal government the need for Quebec to dispose of Of all his decision-making levers to make his own budget choices and for his economic, social and cultural development. 
"We will have all the benefits to deciding ourselves with the use of the 50 billion than Quebeckers send to Ottawa each year. For example, the country of Quebec would build on a real energy and industrial policy that would be faithful to its image and forces and which would build on its strategic advantages. Talking about freedom, to make all our choices, to assume our future, it is not to be disconnected. Like Scotland, Catalonia and several other nations around the world, we believe that the issue of freedom will always be relevant. The federal government does not consider Quebec, does not consider what we are. He makes choices that disadvantage us. Quebeckers are rich. With all our powers, we could build the best family policy in the world, be the champions of equal opportunities and sustainable development. We could also develop an energy policy in which the river would be a real vector of development, not a motorway for the transport of oil sands oil, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
Véronique Hivon has illustrated the reasons to independent with the image of a three-story house: "First, there is the base: the defense and the promotion of our culture, of our identity and of our language; Then come the reasons for freedom to make our own political and economic choices; Finally, on the top floor, it is the international space, where Quebec must be able to be argued, not just whispering in the ear of the Canadian representative. For all these reasons, among others, Quebec must become a country. » 
In addition, in addition to reminding the many duplication between the Federal and the Quebec government, the member pointed out that in health and social services, the federal government does not interfere with encroaching about Quebec jurisdiction. In addition, she pointed out that in the social field, more often than not, the federal vision brakes the full deployment of Quebec. 
"Independence is a normal and legitimate issue for a people. We asked the Liberal and Federalist Government what benefits can be, for Quebec, to remain in Canada; Again, he could not answer. When it is time to question the future of Quebeckers, the Cavoists are absent and the Liberals play cynicism by multiplying quotes from the past. They are unable to provide us with arguments for the thesis that stay within Canada is a guarantee of a better future for Quebec. We have demonstrated that independence, in itself, can never be negative, "concluded Stéphane Bédard. 
