Quebec- The hon. Member for Matane-Matapédia and official opposition on public safety, Pascal Bérubé, the member for Pointe-aux-Trembles and spokesperson in terms of primary and secondary education, Nicole Léger, And the member for Taschereau and spokesperson in secularism, Agnès Maltese, responded to the information published in the media that well established educational institutions in Quebec would have links with recognized terrorist organizations. 
"A year ago today that Fatima Houda-Pepin was expelled from the Liberal caucus; What assessment does the government trace of its actions against religious fundamentalism? What will be done about these issues and facts that are reported in the media? Will he continue to drag his feet in this folder? Asked the deputy Pascal Bérubé. 
"The Minister of Education says the situation is worrying and that it is necessary to act quickly, but the Prime Minister is embarrassed and hesitant every time we evoke the presence and influence of religious fundamentalists in Quebec. However, there is urgency to act; It's not ning the problem it will disappear! Philippe Couillard must be clear and categorical; He has the duty to guarantee the people that schools are places where Islamist propaganda can circulate, "added Nicole light. 
Minister of Justice Lacks Leadership 
The member for Taschereau, Agnès Maltese, once again launched the lack of leadership of the Minister of Justice, Stephanie Vallée, who lets him say his agenda by a prime minister who drags his feet on the stakes of secularism and the equality between men and women. Indeed, while she said that a bill was going to be tabled before the end of the last parliamentary session, the Prime Minister pushed back at the end of the mandate, and then closer. 
"The government broke its promise to act on these issues. Since the opening speech, Philippe Couillard continues to find pretexts to retreat, no doubt because he has clear discomfort when dealing with these issues. The Minister of Justice should be able to show more firmness and convince him to move forward, "Agnès Maltais concluded. 
