Québec- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, presented his action plan for the improvement of contract management and project monitoring. 
In response to the independent magazine of the Secor-KPMG firm on the cost overruns of construction contracts and professional services, the minister has committed, with the various teams of the department, in a strategy to improve his practices from the point of view of contract management and follow-up. 
The action plan plans to target four areas of intervention: 
"By March 31, 2015, the Department has put in place a series of actions that will have significant benefits for the entire population. By following a stricter monitoring of projects, by planning them better, by making better tools to prevent any form of collusion, Quebecers will pay the right cost for road work, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
Measures have already been deployed in this direction. Note the adoption of the programming of roadworks over two years, the use of the performance rating for engineering firms for the allocation of professional service contracts or the strengthening of internal expertise through the allocation closely 360 new resources related to the protection of the integrity of public contracts. 
"In the spirit of Laloi on the integrity of public contracts and in the perspective of the creation of a transport agency, but especially in the interest of all Quebeckers, I reiterate the determination of our government to Ensure rigorous, transparent and efficient management of public investments in road projects, "reiterated the minister. 
All the measures mentioned take into account a bill currently under development, with a view to establishing a transport agency. "The establishment of the Transportation Agency will be the centerpiece of all of our strategy. This agency will focus more specifically on developing and maintaining state-of-road state expertise, move the policy of administrative decisions and provide the state of an independent and efficient organization, whose expertise will be at the service of the population, "concluded the minister. 
The Public Contracts Integrity Protection Action Plan is accessible in its entirety in the Quebec Ministry of Transportation website at addressing www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca. 
Link URL of PDF: http: //stream1.newswire.ca/media/2013/11/12/20131112_c6556_doc_en_33271.pdf 
