Montréal - Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the spokesperson for the Quebec's immigration, cultural communities and for the metropolis, Carole Poirier, today submitted their proposals to Ensure the success of the integration of immigrant and refugee people. Twenty concrete measures on four main axes form the essence of this action plan. 
"There is no better way to integrate than employment. But, a good year, Mal year, the unemployment rate of immigrants stagnates around 11% and, among those who succeed in finding a job, too are overqualified. Each story must be a success. We therefore believe that it is necessary to act quickly on discrimination on hiring, in the housing and elsewhere, by launching a vast awareness campaign and a robust action plan in four axes: better recognizing the achievements, end Structural obstacles to hiring, combating firmly against racism and discrimination, and take the means to include. These measures should be implemented immediately, but the dialogue must continue with civil society, communities and experts, in an ongoing process of bonus and adjustment of measures, identification of problems and solutions, " Indicated the leader of the official opposition. 
Axis 1: Integrating, it is better recognizing the achievements 
Studies reveal that Montreal immigrants are more graduate than other cities, but their unemployment rate is worse than elsewhere. Recognition of achievements is one of the key factors that make it possible to find a qualified job. Unfortunately, too often, people do not know what door to bump or lose themselves in the various steps to follow. So, we propose: 
Axis 2: Integrating is to put an end to the structural obstacles to hiring 
Despite all the required skills, several structural barriers remain to be taken for an immigrant person who is looking for a job. Too often, businesses require, in their job offer, a first Canadian work experience. 
With regard to the public sector Quebec, the obstacles are still present; It employs an average of 5% of people from visible minorities, while Quebec society has 11%. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the public service is better representative of the population. We propose : 
Axis 3: Integrating, Fight Firmly Against Racism and Discrimination 
In Quebec, according to the Quebec Institute of Statistics, 13% of the population stated to be discriminated against because of ethnocultural factors. This discrimination is more sustained in the context of work, either on the job, during a job application or advancement, or in services. 
With regard to housing, the situation is similar. "One-third of the complaints received at the Human Rights and Youth Rights Commission on dwelling discrimination are related to the status of immigrant or visible minority. Immigrants find themselves discriminated against in their search for housing, and some communities more than others. We must act to end racism and discrimination, "said Carole Poirier. 
So, here's what we are proposing: 
Axis 4: integrate is to take the means to include 
Several important aspects of integration must also be part of the actions to be performed. Francization, as well as measures promoting the increased participation of Quebeckers from diversity, in particular, must have the means required. 
We propose : 
"Quebec must live up to its real desire to open and welcome. As a society, we can no longer accept qualified and competent people find themselves unemployed. Ensure access to quality use represents the best way to succeed in integration. The measures we present today will guarantee the success of every adoption Quebecker and will allow everyone to reach its full potential, "concluded Jean-François Lisée.For more information, see our data sheet: http : //go.pq.org/tq6 and our action plan: http: ///go.pq.org/tq7 
