Quebec, on November 2, 2017- The official opposition spokesperson for the metropolis as well as in immigration and cultural communities, Carole Poirier, introduced Bill 998, aimed primarily to facilitate the Access to the labor market for people who are part of a visible minority because of their ethnic origin or color of their skin and to combat discrimination and racism. This bill aims at the implementation of the 20 concrete measures for the integration and the fight against discrimination and racism presented by the Quebecois party last February. 
IN SHORT 
"The Liberals have been in power for 15 years. On several occasions, we asked them to act for the success of diversity. Several consultations on discrimination on hiring and racism have been held, but no concrete action has come out. When we first submitted our measures, the former minister offered us an end to non-reception, to keep his consultation on systemic discrimination and racism. Yet the Liberal government could now send a clear signal to promote the integration of newcomers, recognize their learning and skills, fight against discrimination on employment and housing, and support the francization of all Quebeckers ", Supported Carole Poirier. 
Bill 998 proposes three plans of action to set up immediately: awareness of discrimination on hiring, integration and francization, and fight against illiteracy. It also proposes to institute a permanent monitoring committee on the integration and the fight against discrimination and racism, which would be responsible for the follow-up, proposals and possible studies on these issues. 
Several other concrete measures contained in the bill aim to promote better integration into employment, including: 
"The under-representation of adopted Quebeckers within the public service is alarming. Only 38 of the 6000 employees that the SAQ count comes from a visible minority. At Hydro-Québec, it is 903 out of 20,000. In total, more than 25,000 employees derived from diversity in public bodies. Before this failure of the Liberal government, we propose the courage of the action! , Brought the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve. 
In terms of francization, the bill includes the following measures: 
o Apply Law 101 to businesses from 25 to 50 employees as well as federally businesses and organizations; 
o Putting a Stop Cran at the practice of many employers calling for English knowledge for tasks where it is not indicated. 
"Every immigration history must be a success. The government has the opportunity, calling our bill, to demonstrate its commitment to the success of all adopted Quebeckers. The ball is in the camp of the new immigration minister, David Heurtel, "concluded Carole Poirier. 
