Montréal- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation, Sylvain Gaudreault, announces a government investment of $ 26.5 million for collective transit measures to facilitate travel in The Montreal area. Most of these measures will be put forward gradually throughout the 2013 road construction season. 
"The announced measures will reduce the repercussions of road projects throughout the metropolitan area. We must all help reduce these implications, and the solution of public transit is a winning option, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
The measures deployed since 2011 have been very successful. More people have opted for collective transport, as evidenced by the increase in annual subscriptions of transport companies. For example, for the title of January 2012, the Transport Metropolitan Association noted an increase of 28% of annual subscribers compared to 2011. For its part, the Montreal transport company notes that the number of subscribers A Bondi, from 15,580 in August 2012 to 24 139 in October of the same year. This increase is attributable to the promotion of the free month offered by the Ministry. 
Just over $ 13 million will be invested, including improving user service offering. Thus, a reserved lane will be converted to Montreal on the way to the Côte-Saint-Luc, west of the Décarie Highway. In addition, the route reserved on Highway 440, in Laval, will be prolonged 1.5 km between the Montée Saint-François and the Boulevard Pie-IX. 
During the year, 840 new parking spaces at some commuter train stations, such as Blainville and Saint-Jérôme, and several bus terminals will be created. Of these, about fifty places will be reserved for carpooling, parking near Highway 15 in Mirabel. The bonus of the bus transportation service and metro will also promote the fluidity of traffic and will make it possible to better serve the metropolitan population. 
"I am very pleased to participate in today's announcement because the metropolis has an advantage in diversifying and improving its service offering to encourage more Montrealers and Montrealers to opt for collective transportation. This is a goal that we have set ourselves as a government, and this investment contributes greatly, "said the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the region of the metropolis, M . Jean-François Lisée. 
"With my colleagues from Montérégie, we have made collective transportation a regional priority. These measures are added to the significant investments unveiled in recent weeks of transportation for our region. As Minister responsible for the Montérégie Region, I am very pleased to see that the region will have 440 incentive parking places as well as a bonus of the bus service offer for the municipalities of Candiac and From Vaudreuil, which are among the spin-offs for citizens of our region, "said Marie Malavoy, Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport and Minister responsible for the Montérégie region. 
Announced measures also have an increased place for active transportation. Indeed, the redevelopment of bicycle parking spaces will allow the addition of 112 sheltered places and 52 bike racks, all over the metropolitan area. In addition, a bicycle will be converted to Lionel-Groulx station. 
Finally, the Ministry of Transport will again fund a free month to purchase a first annual subscription with transport companies. A free month will also be offered subscribers who subscribe a family member or friend. 
"With the arrival of summer and the decrease in traffic in trains and buses, the period is quite indicated to invite the public to discover these options. A great way to tame a new mode of transport during the work season, "said Gaudreault. 
Several 2011-2012 measures that demonstrated their effectiveness will be renewed for 2013. For example, the six additional departures of trains on the CANDIAC line are maintained. The same goes for different bus lines serving roads where road construction sites are still in progress. 
All announced measures are fully funded by the Department of Transport and add up to $ 136 million invested since 2011. 
"These are immediate and targeted measures to create, on the one hand, an incentive environment to facilitate the migration of citizens to collective transport and change the location in solo for a more green mode of transport and, on the other hand, mitigate the Traffic problems, particularly around the roads, "concluded Minister Gaudreault. 
The list of measures put in place is accessible in the newsroom of the Quebec Ministry of Transportation website at: http: //www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca/portal/page/portal/accueil/ Salle_press. 
