Danville- Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, announced the award of $ 540,000 financial assistance, repayable without interest from the Economic Diversification Fund- MRC Sources, to the company's Greenhouses of St. Lawrence Inc., producer of Tomato Savoura. 
This financial assistance will support an investment project of $ 909,000, which will be implemented at the greenhouses of the company located in Danville, Estrie. The planned work concerns insulation and greenhouse irrigation systems. These investments will help reduce operating costs and increase the profitability of the business. 
"With this major project, the company Greenhouses of the St. Lawrence ensures the sustainability of its facilities in Danville and contributes to the economic vitality of the RCM des Sources and the region of Estrie," said Élain Zakaïb . "I want to remind you that our government is committed to providing all the necessary tools for the Sources to boost its economy. Thanks to the establishment of a $ 50 million economic diversification fund, the MRC has the means to ensure the construction of structuring projects. » 
Founded in 1988, the company The Greenhouses of St. Lawrence is the largest serricole company in Quebec. It produces nearly 8 million kilograms of greenhouse tomatoes a year and generates 206 jobs in four production sites, two in Danville, one in Portneuf and one in Saint-Étienne-des-Grès. 
"This project will allow us to reduce our production costs, in addition to ensuring our competitiveness in a growing sector," Marie Gosselin said, President and Chief Executive Officer of the company Greenhouses of St. Lawrence. "We are pleased to benefit from the support of the Government of Quebec, which will contribute to the growth of our activities. » 
The Source Economic Diversification Fund is an effective and accessible financial tool aimed at promoting the realization of structuring projects and improve the competitiveness of companies. In particular, this fund is eligible for feasibility studies, investment projects and product development projects or processes aimed at supporting business growth. Financial interventions are in the form of loans, loan guarantees, participation and subsidies. 
