Saint-Jérôme - On behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, his Parliamentary Assistant for the Response and Sport and Head of the Laurentian Region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, today announced today Investments totaling $ 3,279,208, which will enhance the provision of vocational training in the Laurentides region. 
Most of these investments, $ 2,821,044, will be conducted at the North River School Board. This assistance will allow it to support the implementation of the Precision Sheller Study Program (5244), which it now has permission to offer on a permanent basis. Thanks to this sum, the school board will be able to carry out a project aimed at the redevelopment of an area of 1,099 m² of the Center for Professional Studies of Saint-Jérôme, where the curriculum is offered, as well as acquiring the equipment that is attached to it. The project, the total cost of which is estimated at $ 3,313,896, should be completed for the fall of 2015. 
This project is part of the five-year capital plans, which provide for projects totaling more than $ 24.3 million will be achieved to improve the supply of vocational training in Quebec. Various other projects aimed at expanding and redeveloping existing vocational training centers and the updating and implementation of new curricula will be implemented in several regions of Quebec. 
"Possessing quality training in an area that we love and has good job prospects, is not the best way to approach the labor market? Vocational training is a skills development tool that benefits both individuals and regional economies. I am very happy to associate with this decision, "said Mr. Pagé. 
In addition, Mr. Pagé took advantage of his visit to announce that additional investments of $ 458,164 would also be carried out in vocational training infrastructures in the region. This aid will allow the school boards of the Laurentides, Pierre-Neveu, the North River and the Lordship-des-Mille-Isles to acquire the required equipment to meet the requirements of different programs of study in progress. 'update. 
It should be noted that this financial assistance is planned as part of economic lapolitics: employment priority, which aims, in particular, to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, short and medium term. 
In addition to the $ 23.6 million for vocational training, this policy provides for some $ 401 million to educate healthier learning infrastructure and more than $ 130 million allocated to the modernization of sports and recreational infrastructure. this, to the grandeur of Quebec. 
"These investments announced today, we do them for young people in Quebec. We have every advantage that vocational training attracts them more. We must also bring even more adults to explore the multiple possibilities it offers. Vocational training is not only essential for the development of our economy, but it allows young people who follow her to be accomplished in areas that are important to them, "Malavoy said. 
