Montréal - Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, today announced an investment of $ 63.1 million for the project of refurbishment and expansion of the building. Wilder. 
Part of this financial assistance is devoted to an agreement in principle that will integrate the dance agora in this building, in addition to the other three agencies already announced, the major Canadian ballets of Montreal, the school of dance. Contemporary Montreal and Tangent. Regrouping four Montreal organizations under the same roof, this location of creation, production, training and broadcast will be called Espace Danse Québec. The Montreal offices of the Ministry of Culture and Communications (MCC), the Council of Arts and Letters of Quebec and the Cinema Régie will also be developed in this recycled building for cultural and artistic purposes. In total, nearly 300 people from the cultural environment will work there. 
"The wealth of Quebec's dance is based in part on the talent and dynamism of women and men working tirelessly, by love of art, within organizations like those who will stay in the Danse Québec space. This project illustrates the Government of Quebec's willingness to support the creation, production and dissemination in the field of performing arts. These new premises will allow these creators and exceptional trainers to continue their mission and increase their artistic development as well as their influence, both in Quebec and abroad, "said the Prime Minister. 
"It is rejoiced to see together in a spirit of camaraderie and synergy these organizations that embody the staggering creativity and originality of the arts of dance in Quebec. The addition of an experienced diffuser as the agora of dance only makes the reconversion of the even more structuring Wilder building for all Montreal and Quebec dance environments, "added Minister Maka Kotto. 
The Wilder Building, located in the heart of the show district, is the property of the Quebec Real Estate Company (SIQ). The investment of $ 63.1 million is therefore distributed between the MCC, which will pay $ 43 million in subsidies to the four organizations, and the ISB, which will incur $ 20.1 million in the project. The contribution of the agencies will be $ 24.7 million. 
In addition, the SIQ will launch public tenders for the rehabilitation and expansion of the building in June, while organizations will continue their financing activities to achieve financial assembly. Note that 50% of the amounts needed have already been enlarged through contributions and major private sector donations. 
MCC and SIQ contributions to this project are part of the 2013-2023 Infrastructure Plan, released in April. Recall that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 2 billion investments for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebeckers, to measure the associated costs and to make informed choices. 
Major Ballets from Montreal 
Montreal's Contemporary Dance School 
Spouse space tangent and agora of dance 
Tangent 
Agora de la 
COMMON SPACES 
* These spaces are not eligible for the Ministry of Culture and Communications grant. 
