Quebec, on April 19, 2017- The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in immigration and cultural communities, Carole Poirier, welcomes the additional investments in the francization of immigrants, as well as the intent expressed by the government to create a door unique input for access. She claims, however, that the Liberals demonstrate a more comprehensive vision of integrating newcomers, as this is not limited to francization. 
In short - the additional amounts announced as well as the intention of creating a single gateway for francization services are a step in the right direction. However, the government should not be limited to francization; He must act on all fronts, as proposed by the Parti Québécois with its 20 measures forming a global vision in the integration of immigrants. ** 
"Considering that in recent years, the Liberal government has made repeated cuts, a significant reinvestment has become indispensable for the proper functioning of francization programs. We welcome the addition of sums; However, we must not forget all the neo-Quebec who could not have access to decent francization services. For many of them, the point of no return has been reached. The investments announced today will help, but they remain significantly insufficient to clog the breach open by the Liberals. But that they fully integrate into society, newcomers have to speak French. We must aim to Francize them all, 100%; That's what Quebeckers expect, "said Carole Poirier. 
That said, the government effort should not be limited to francization, has insisted the spokesperson. "The action at the room does not work. In terms of integration, the government must show a global vision and act on all fronts. At the Parti Québécois, we proposed 20 measures in this direction, to set up immediately. Anonymous CV pilot projects, the prohibition to request a first work experience in Canada to obtain a position, the establishment of a common university course of recognition of the acquis and the hiring of Quebec's diversity in the Public service, as many measures to which the government has opposed an end to do not receive, "she lamented. 
