Shawinigan- Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Pierre Duchesne, Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Region of Mauricie, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, and the member for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, are pleased to announce the announcement of the projects that were selected from the CEGEP of Trois-Rivières and College Shawinigan as part of From the contest of the College-Industry Fund for Innovation (FCII). The Government of Quebec contributes financially to $ 480,200 and $ 514,086 for the realization of these projects, which represent total investments of $ 1,203,000 and $ 1,285,215. 
"These investments allow Mauricie students to have access to quality infrastructure while promoting higher education. Support the excellence of research and innovation is important for our government. The research infrastructures, made available to colleges and groups of researchers who work there, make it possible to acquire a know-how, including applied research and technological development. Colleges can thus contribute, with their partners, to make Quebec a brightest knowledge society, "said Minister Duchesne. 
The Cealulosic Products Innovation Center (innoviber), Trois-Rivières CEGEP Cégep Technology Transfer Center will build a molding and pulp thermoforming infrastructure of all kinds. This infrastructure will make it possible to develop more products with high added value and innovative services in the fields of molded and thermoformed pulp. 
The field of molded pulp products is poorly exploited in Quebec and has great growth potential for the forest industry. With the addition of this equipment, the Cellulosian Product Innovation Center will provide a unique pilot plant in Canada for reproducing industrial processes. The new facilities will, without a doubt, be adapted to help the industry to revitalize and diversify its economic sector, among others, by the development of new products. 
"Prosperity is based more and more about its ability to innovate. This is true for Quebec but also for all regions. Colleges must have the necessary resources and tools at their disposal to refocus their priorities, deepen their knowledge and generate new ideas. I am proud to see that this is the case at Cégep de Trois-Rivières, "said the Minister Blanchet. 
"The acquisition of a thermomarled pulp system represents an essential complement to innofiber facilities. This expanding field will make it possible to diversify certain paper productions in addition to providing a privileged solution for the valorization of residual fibrous materials of all kinds. This addition is part of the innoviber strategic plan that aims to respond to companies looking for biosourced ingredients for their products or packaging, "said Mario Parentau, director of innoviber. 
The project focuses on the development of the Technology and Environment Laboratory, electrochemistry slots and gas filtration. The advanced equipment acquired will be installed at the National Electrochemistry and Environmental Technology Center (CNEE) of the Shawinigan College. With this project, the CNETE targets the acquisition of a pre-industrial scale electrodiallysis membrane test bench and a pilot scale membrane test bench for gas filtration. 
The electrodialysis test bench will test the smaller scale technology. This will allow partners such as Northex Environment, Magnus and BioMer chemicals to obtain the technical information required to ensure the successful transfer of laboratory stadium technology to industry.  The laboratory scale test bench for membrane gas filtration will develop techniques, technologies and applications that will provide inexpensive new avenues for the treatment of gaseous emissions and the purification of biogas. Terix EnviGaz, Biothermica and OCO Technologies companies are associated with this project. 
The expertise of the CNETE makes it possible to accompany companies in the development of innovations for the valuation of waste or industrial processes, or the treatment and reduction of industrial emissions and pollutants of all kinds. This work is directly related to sustainable development. 
"This important grant will allow the College Technology Transfer Center to purchase advanced equipment and expand its service offering. The ckete knows a dazzling phase of growth, thanks in particular to the strong dynamism of the research team and the director, Ms. Nancy Deziel. Today, my government recognizes this work by this first gesture, "said the member Trudel. 
"Obtaining a grant from the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology at the College-Industry Fund for Innovation Fund is a major asset for our college institution. Indeed, this grant will allow the realization of projects carrying technological innovations, while taking advantage of the state-of-the-art equipment! Such announcements result in the most favorable impacts for college teachers and students, "said Sylvie Le Sieur, Director of Studies at Shawinigan College and Chair of the Research Committee at the educational institution. 
The contributions of $ 480,200 and $ 514,086 are part of the overall sum of $ 4,434,179, the payment of which was announced on April 16 by Minister Duchesne for the acquisition of equipment in colleges and college centers. technology transfer. The projects were selected as part of the 2012 FCII competition. 
This fund allows college institutions to develop partnerships with the private sector, and therefore support innovation in companies. The fund gives colleges the opportunity to benefit from the infrastructure needed for the realization of avant-garde research.  The selected projects are co-financed equally by the Government of Quebec and the Canadian Foundation for Innovation. Added to this is a 20% financial contribution from institutions or private partners. 
The Department is currently developing the next National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI). This policy will be the result of many consultations with actors from all sectors concerned by research and innovation: companies, educational institutions, state and society. PNRI will meet the common goal of advancing Quebec on the World Knowledge Exchequer. This policy is a reflection of an open society and concerned about its future. The deposit is planned shortly. 
