Jolitte- The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, and the member for Joliette, Minister Delegate to Social Services and the Protection of Youth and Minister responsible for the Lanaudière Region, Ms. Véronique Hivon, announced Today the awarding of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 3 million to Bridgestone Canada for the completion of an investment plan of $ 38.4 million to increase the productivity of the facilities of its Joliette plant. . 
"Tire production is an important industry for the economy of the Lanaudière region. The bridgestone plant of Joliette, however, faces significant competition from North American manufacturers. For them to continue to obtain manufacturing mandates and thus guarantee the sustainability of their activities, Joliette's facilities must be modernized. By participating in the company's investment plan, which will continue until 2015, the Government of Quebec helps to ensure the future of the Joliette plant and helps to position themselves favorably against its competitors ", said Nicolas Marceau. 
"Bridgestone currently employs nearly 1,300 people and is a major economic actor in Lanaudière. The realization of this investment plan will consolidate these jobs here in Joliette, and will contribute to the maintenance of activities at its suppliers in the region and from across Quebec. The Bridgestone Modernization Project will be structuring and beneficial for the local economy, and we are very proud, as a government, to contribute, "added Minister Hivon. 
The investments planned by Bridgestone will be used to automate certain tasks, while ensuring a tighter control of quality. In addition, the new equipment will reduce the factory's greenhouse gas emissions. This investment plan will increase the productivity of the plant while reducing production costs. 
"For many years, significant investments have been made at our Joliette plant to enhance its competitiveness. The confidence of the Government of Quebec will help us to consolidate our reputation for excellence in our productivity and to ensure the success of our modernization projects, "said Robert Verreault, Director General of the Bridgestone Canada Factory of Joliette . 
"Economic Lapolitics Priority Employees and Quebec Industrial Lapolics, filed by the Government last week, make an important place to increase productivity with concrete measures that will promote the modernization of businesses and their equipment. These policies demonstrate the will of our government to tackle this issue, "concluded Minister Marceau. 
