Chapais- Seniors in slight loss of Chapais autonomy will soon be able to benefit from 16 affordable homes adapted to their needs. The hon. Member for Ungava, Mr. Luc Ferland, accompanied by the Mayor of Chapais, Mr. Steve Gamache, and many partners of the community, today proceeded to the excitement of official land marking the beginning of the construction of Manor Pierre-Guénette . This project, which will see the day with the AccessLogis Québec program of the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), required a total investment of more than $ 4.1 million. 
The Government of Quebec, through the SHQ, has granted a grant of more than $ 2.4 million for the realization of the Pierre-Guénette mansion. In addition, the SHQ guarantees the mortgage lending contracted by the Municipal Chapais Housing Office. The total contribution of the environment is approximately $ 1.9 million, of which more than $ 1.5 million comes from the city of Chapais. 
"The whole community of Chapais has mobilized to allow the construction of this residence that will allow seniors to stay in a living environment that is expensive, close to their family and friends. I think we can be proud of this great success! Thank all partners who contributed to this local initiative, "said MP Luc Ferland, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"Thank the Manor Pierre-Guénette, our community can now keep its seniors longer. This is our entire region, "said Ms. Denise Larouche, President of the Board of Directors of the municipal housing of Chapais. 
Monsiday additional financial assistance from nearly $ 138,000, spread over five years and 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the city of Chapais, will allow 8 tenants of Manor Pierre-Guénette to benefit from the Rent supplement program. Thus, these low-income households will pay a rent similar to that of a low rent dwelling, or 25% of their income. 
Among the community contributions, note that the project received a subsidy of nearly $ 32,000 from the Department of Natural Resources Efficiency and Energy Innovation Bureau to ensure that it meets the Novoclimat Program. What will provide tenants with a significant savings on the heating costs of their housing. 
Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230000 households every year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. That is why the Quebec government has announced, in its most recent budget, a $ 231M budget envelope for the construction of 3000 affordable housing over the next few years. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. You will also be able to consult Habitat, the WEB magazine of the SHQ, which deals with the spin-offs of the interventions of it on the whole of Quebec society. 
