Saint-Roch-de-l'achignan- The Minister of Finance and the Economy and MP in Rousseau, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, today announced the allocation of non-refundable financial assistance of $ 400,000 to L 'Enterprise Acoustic speakers unison from Saint-Roch-de-L'achigan. This company creates, designs, manufactures and installs scenes and aluminum structures. The government contribution will be used to achieve a new type of mobile external scene, a project estimated at $ 1,626,000 that will create fifteen jobs. 
"The company The unison acoustic speakers has developed a product that will significantly reduce the constraints of carrying out external shows. The unique design inspired by aeronautics will significantly reduce transportation costs and improve safety during the performances. For us, it is imperative to support the bold promoters who dare to innovate. In addition, business opportunities are numerous, and the expertise of the promoters of this innovative project suggests great achievements. Our government is pleased to contribute to its development to further stimulate the economy of the Lanaudière region, "said Nicolas Marceau.
The new Mobile Outdoor Scene Model Unison Acoustic Speakers will use walls composed of swivel sections in the manner of an airplane wing. These "blades" will automatically adjust according to the orientation and intensity of the wind. 
"The scene itself will consist of a fully removable aluminum structure, made from folding beams, which will reduce by ten the number of trucks required for trips. In addition, the latter can support a weight five times more than the current mobile structures. With its new scene type, unison acoustic speakers will become the sole Canadian large-scale mobile vessel, 27,000 square feet, which can withstand winds 120 km / h, at competitive production costs. Look of traditional moving scenes, "added the vice-president of the unison acoustic enclosures, Mr. Olivier Jobin. 
"Unison acoustic speakers is supported favorably to further grow. The manufacture, transportation and installation of this new equipment will lead the company to double its turnover within two years of the launch of the product, "said the minister. 
