Sainte-Lucie-des-Laurentides, QC, Oct. 18, 2013 / CNW Telbec / - A new residence of 12 affordable dwellings for seniors on a slight loss of autonomy will soon open its doors in Saint Lucia-des-Laurentides. The kickoff of the construction work of the house of the fireflies was given today by the member for Bertrand and Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Claude Cousineau, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and of the occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ). 
This project, carried out through the AccessLogis Québec program of the SHQ, will result in an investment of nearly $ 2.5 million from the Government of Quebec and its community partners. 
The SHQ has granted a grant of more than $ 896,000, in addition to guaranteeing the mortgage contracted by the organization La Maison des Lucioles. The total contribution of the environment is about $ 260,000, of which more than $ 190,000 is invested by the municipality of Saint Lucia-des-Laurentides and nearly $ 24,000 by the Effective Effective and Effective Bureau. Energy Innovation of the Department of Natural Resources so that the project meets the Novoclimat standards, which provides tenants with a significant savings on the heating costs of their housing. 
"One of the forces of the AccessLogis Québec program is that it is based on the active engagement of the people of the community. Here is the whole community that has mobilized to build this residence that will allow its tenants to stay in a living environment that is expensive, in a safe environment and close to their family and friends. We can be proud of this beautiful local initiative, "said the member Claude Cousineau. 
"Thanks to the luciole house, our community can now provide its elderly with the opportunity to not expand when they can not live in their home. This residence will also provide services not only to its tenants, but to the entire elderly population of the municipality, "said Mr. André Vena, Chairman of the Board of the House of Lucioles. 
Note that additional financial assistance of more than $ 103,000, spread over five years and at 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the municipality, will allow 6 tenants of this residence to benefit from the rent supplement. Rent. Thus, these low-income households will pay a rent similar to that of a low rent dwelling, or 25% of their income. 
Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000. households each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Habitat Espace, the WEB magazine of the SHQ, which deals with the spin-offs of the interventions of it on the whole of Quebec society. 
