Baie-Comeau - Thanks to joint investments of more than $ 5.2 million from the governments of Canada and Quebec, 107 Baie-Comeau's social housing units, divided into 21 buildings, have been refurbished. Passage to Baie-Comeau, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, said today The end of the major renovation of the Habitat 72 housing complex, managed by the Municipal Housing Office (OMH) of Baie-Comeau. 
Financial assistance has been granted under the replacement, improvement and modernization budget (RAM) of the SHQ. Of total investment, more than $ 2.6 million have been granted by the Government of Canada while the Quebec government has granted nearly $ 2.1 million. The city of Baie-Comeau, has invested some $ 523,000 in the project. 
"The objective of this vast revitalization plan was to make every effort to provide families with a healthy and safe environment in these buildings. Today we can say: Mission accomplished. In addition to improving the quality of life and housing conditions of many households, this major work ensure the sustainability of the Baie-Comeau's social housing stock, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault, at the announcement. Was held in the presence of the member for René-Lévesque and head of the North Shore Region, Mr. Marjolain Dufour, and the Mayor of Baie-Comeau, Mr. Claude Martel. 
"Our government is committed to strengthening communities. Considerable sums are invested in Quebec for the modernization and improvement of social housing to enhance the quality of life of families, single people and seniors throughout the province, "said the Honorable Denis Lebel, Minister of Infrastructure, Communities and Intergovernmental Affairs, Minister of the Economic Development Agency of Canada for the Regions of Quebec and MP for Roberval-Lac-Saint-Jean, on behalf of the Honorable Candice Bergen, Minister of State (Social development). 
"The sums invested clearly refers to the importance of our government's well-being of the Citizens of the North Shore and I am delighted. In my opinion, it is essential to support the work of those who deploy all the necessary efforts to offer less favored households from the region an adequate living environment in which they can flourish, "said the member Marjorain. From the oven. 
These investments made it possible to renovate the housing and the external renovation of the buildings of this real estate park built in 1971. The sums were also used to redevelop land and improve the safety of buildings. 
"This work was very expected by our clientele. They increased the quality of life of tenants, but also to embellish the neighborhood, "mentioned the Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Baie-Comeau OMH, Mr. Jean-Paul Fouquet. 
This year, through CMHC, the Government of Canada will invest approximately $ 2 billion in housing. Of this amount, $ 1.7 billion will be devoted to supporting nearly 600,000 households living in social housing. In Quebec, this represents some 127 150 households. These investments improve the quality of life of low-income Canadians and households living in social housing, including homelessness and people at risk, seniors, people with disabilities, recent immigrants and Aboriginal people. 
To learn more about how CMHC supports the development of solid houses and prosperous communities for all Canadians, contact CMHC at 1-800-668-2642 or visitwww.cmhc-schl.gc.ca. 
