Montreal- The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, accompanied by the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, and the Mayor of Montreal, Michael Applebaum, today announced that the City of Montreal will be able to create, through From the AccessLogis Québec program of the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), 1150 community and affordable housing in its territory over the next year. This is an investment of nearly $ 90 million from the Government of Quebec. 
"This ad is an excellent news for Montreal households. They will benefit from better housing conditions, which will generate many other positive effects; Because by investing in affordable housing, the government contributes to combating poverty. In the past, we have demonstrated, in the past, that it is possible and paying for the company to fight against poverty. It is the conjugation of the heart and reason, "said the Prime Minister. 
Today's announcement took place at the residential cooperative station # 1, a complex of 74 affordable housing for families and single people. Realized with the AccessLogis Québec program of the SHQ, this inspiring project revealed a former industrial district of the Mercier-Hochelaga-Maisonneuve district, by the recycling of a building built in 1903 and dedicated to the demolition. The Housing Cooperative Station No. 1 has received several distinctions greeting its development of the heritage, its architecture and its contribution to sustainable development. 
"Thanks to the investment announced today, we can aspire for beautiful and major community and affordable housing projects. The Habitation Cooperative Station No. 1, which is a concrete example, has helped to boost the sector and to densify it, in the respect of its past and its cultural heritage. I am very hopeful to see also born of such original and structuring projects everywhere on the territory of the City of Montreal, "said the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier. 
"Today's announcement is certainly good news for Montreal. The creation of 1150 dwellings through the AccessLogis program will enable us to achieve our social mix goals, in addition to contributing to the revitalization of our neighborhoods and, above all, to meet the housing needs of our fellow citizens with low or modest income. . We are pleased with this renewed commitment from the Government of Quebec to support the City of Montreal in our efforts on social and community housing, "said the Mayor of Montreal, Michael Applebaum. 
"It is with enthusiasm that we receive the announcement of this 2013 contribution of the AccessLogis program. These new financial resources for Montreal will support our efforts in the application of our social and community housing inclusion strategy. In Montreal, the needs are great and these new access unitsLogis will allow us to ensure harmonious redevelopment of the boroughs with a production of housing for families, elders and vulnerable people, including homeless people, "added. Chairman of the Executive Committee of the City of Montreal and Head of Housing and Social Housing, Benoit Dorais. 
Since Implementation, in 1997, AccessLogis Québec and Affordable Housing Programs of the SHQ, some 15,600 community dwellings have been built or are in the process of being in the Montreal area, which represents investments totaling more $ 2 billion. Recall that in its newest budget, the Quebec government has announced an envelope of $ 231 million for the construction of 3000 affordable housing. 
