Laval- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élaine Zakaïb, announced the injection of $ 6.7 million into equity capital in the company Altascience for the acquisition of the American company Vince & Associates Clinical Research. Altasciences is a clinical research firm, better known here under the name of Algorithm Pharma, its Quebec subsidiary located in the heart of the city of Laval's biotech. 
The Government of Quebec responded favorably at the request of Kilmer Capital Partners, a Canadian private investment capital and the majority shareholder of altascience, to participate in the financing of this transaction which the Quebec subsidiary will benefit. The injection of $ 6.7 million into a share capital, through investment Québec, allows it to become a minority shareholder of the company. In addition, thanks to the synergies between the two entities, this transaction will create, in the coming years, 75 new jobs in Quebec. 
"Even if the pharmaceutical industry faces significant challenges on a global scale, companies in this sector play a vital role in the Quebec economy. They invested $ 5 billion in recent years and account for 400 companies in Quebec and more than 25,000 jobs, "said Zakaib Deputy Minister. "The expansion of this Quebec leader in one of our industrial clusters is an excellent news for the metropolitan area, especially since this acquisition will contribute to the growth of pharma algorithm in Quebec and abroad. » 
The contractual research company acquired, Vince & Associates Clinical Research, specializes in phase I studies with so-called special population patients, a niche that generates strong demand in the United States. This acquisition allows altascience, and by the very fact to its subsidiary algorithm pharma, to penetrate the American market while boring and diversifying its offer of services in this niche. 
Altascience, through its group of companies, offers complete clinical medication development services in the initial phase for phase I / IIA, including all the support services required at this critical stage. The company continues to maintain the distinct skills of each company, including algorithm pharma, as well as their own identity, while drawing part of the in-depth expertise and the available capabilities of each. It also ensures that they benefit from the benefits resulting from a broader and common entity belonging to an altascience, emphasizing the excellence of customer service. 
