Trois-Rivières- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, and the Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, announced the award of financial assistance of 15 million. dollars in Kruger Biomaterials inc. and at the FPInnovations research center for a joint project of more than $ 43 million. It is, on the one hand, the establishment of a demonstration factory for production of cellulose filaments and, on the other hand, the establishment of an accelerated research program for developing new biomaterials and bioproducts using these filaments. 
"Quebec is proud to be able to count on companies and innovative and competitive research centers, such as Kruger biomaterials and fpinnovations, who choose to innovate to distinguish in the forest products industry," said Élain Zakaïb. "Our industrial policy promotes innovation in the manufacturing sector, including promoting the rapprochements between companies and research centers. This project will allow the growth of our expertise as well as the growth of a prosperous Quebec and turned to green technologies. » 
Financial assistance consists of a loan of $ 11.25 million, granted to Kruger Biomaterials inc. Through Investissement Québec, as well as a $ 3.75 million grant, allocated to FPInnovations by the Ministry of Natural Resources. In addition to generating significant spin-offs for the Mauricie region and Quebec, this project will ensure the safeguarding and creation of 48 jobs in total. 
"This material has unique properties that can be used to improve and expand the product range of pasta and papers already offered on the market as well as create new materials. This will allow pulp and paper companies to improve the strength and softness of health and domestic papers, to reduce the weight of cardboard packaging as well as competing with materials from hydrocarbon chemistry, "added Martine Ouellet. "We are pleased to support the pulp and paper industry in its consolidation of growing products, and to promote diversification to maintain and create structuring jobs in the forest sector in Quebec. » 
This green chemistry project aims to produce materials that are traditionally produced from hydrocarbons. In addition to promoting process optimization, it takes into account the whole lifecycle of the product. Naturally in the wood, the cellulose filaments, very thin and exceptionally long, are completely recyclable and provide a high degree of reinforcement. 
Kruger biomaterials inc. is a subsidiary of Kruger Inc. publication papers. (PPKI), incorporated in 2013. The company will carry out the establishment of the production demonstration plant of cellulosic filaments on the current PPKI site in Trois-Rivières. "We are proud to participate in this major project that will enable us to ensure the promotional development, right here in Quebec, manufacturing processes that will be coveted around the world," said Daniel Archambault, Vice- Chairman and Chief Operating Officer, Kruger Industrial Products Division. "This research and development project is a fine example of cooperation between private and public organizations for the benefit of the entire forestry industry and regions whose economic vitality is based on this sector of activity. » 
FPInnovations is a pan-Canadian research center for the forest industry. This center has a division entirely devoted to the pulp and paper sector, whose offices are located in Montreal and Vancouver. "Our research program, in collaboration with industry, universities and governments, once again led to the invention of a new innovative product, cellulose filaments, which will allow the industry to prosper in A global economy, "said President and Chief Executive Officer of FPInnovations, Mr. Pierre Lapointe. "In addition to helping to produce these filaments, this plant can also give rise to new applications. » 
