Saguenay- A residence of 26 affordable housing for seniors on a slight loss of autonomy will soon emerge in Saguenay. The kickoff of the construction work of the Saint-Jean-Eudes residence was given today by Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister responsible for the Company. Quebec Housing (SHQ) and MP Doquière, in the presence of Mr. Jean Tremblay, Mayor of Saguenay, and community partners. 
Realized through the AccessLogis Québec program of the SHQ, this project will result in an investment of nearly $ 4.4 million from the Government of Quebec and its partners. 
"The residence Saint-Jean-Eudes will allow seniors to enjoy quality housing, which meets their needs, while remaining in an area that is expensive and familiar to them. These investments reflect the importance of our government to improve seniors' living conditions. This local initiative clearly demonstrates how people of our region are in solidarity with each other and I am very proud of it, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
The SHQ has granted a grant of nearly $ 1.7 million for the realization of this project, in addition to guaranteeing the mortgage contracted by the organization. The total contribution of the environment is $ 648,000, nearly $ 597,000 is invested by the City of Saguenay. 
"Thanks to the realization of this long-awaited project, our elders will be able to continue to live peacefully in their environment, which avoids their uprooting which is sometimes difficult. It is our entire population that will take advantage of it, "said Gaétne Pelletier, president of the board of directors of the residence Saint-Jean-Eudes. 
Note that additional financial assistance of nearly $ 224,000, spread over five years and at 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the City of Saguenay, will allow nine tenants of this residence to benefit from the supplement program. rent. Thus, these low-income households will pay a rent similar to that of a low rent dwelling, or 25% of their income. 
In addition, like all projects under the AccessLogis Québec program, this residence will be designed to obtain Novoclimat certification, a requirement that demonstrates the importance of improving energy efficiency by the Quebec government. . The project has received a grant of more than $ 51,000 from the Ministry of Natural Resources' Energy Efficiency and Innovation Office to help achieve this goal. 
Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230000Menages each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Habitat Espace, the new web magazine that deals with the spin-offs of the interventions of it on the whole of Quebec society. 
