Saint-Mal-the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, and the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders and the Estrie Region, M . Réjean Hébert, announced the award, through Investissement Québec, a $ 1 million loan to JM Champeau inc. For a significant $ 7.5 million expansion project to increase its production capacity. 
JM Champeau manufactures different hardwood parts for specialized industries such as component manufacturers (moldings, cabinet doors and stairs), leisure equipment manufacturers (baseball sticks and billiards) and manufacturers of Musical instruments (guitar sleeves). But while the sawmill worked at full capacity, the company had for some time in a position to increase its volume of drying and second transformation. 
"It's our role to support dynamic businesses that want to rely on their successes to continue their growth," said Élaine Zakaïb. "Wood products manufactured by J.M. Chaméau have experienced growing popularity, so the company was no longer sufficient for demand. This performance testifies to the relevance of the niches of excellence as the transformation of the appearance and composite wood of the Estrie. By bringing all the industry partners to work together, these niches contribute to the success of each of them, while helping them innovate and grow. » 
The project, which consists of rental improvements and the purchase of equipment, will allow the company to exploit this capacity for drying and processing by sourcing greenwood saw with third parties. 
"We are very pleased with the realization of this project, which will have significant economic benefits, especially since it is Quebec equipment manufacturers who have been selected for its realization," said Réjean Hébert. "The project will help maintain the 120 high quality jobs within the company and create jobs in suppliers. » 
More than half of production, 55%, is exported to the United States, Mexico, Asia and Europe, while 45% of it is intended for Quebec. The company is engaged in a process of continuous improvement and is a duty to maximize the use of each cut tree. This commitment earned the FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) certification. 
"These new facilities will allow us to maximize our production and meet the growing needs of our customers," said Pierre Champeau, President of J.M. Champeau. "This project will allow us to continue our growth and remain a leading speaker in our industry. » 
Investissement Québec's mission is to promote investment growth in Quebec, thus contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The company puts companies with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity capital investment, in order to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, it is responsible for the administration of tax measures and prospecting investments abroad. 
