Montreal- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Pierre Duchesne, announces that An agreement of almost $ 10 million is signed with the CEGEP of Old Montreal, for the construction project of a multifunctional room, whose inauguration is scheduled for 2017, which it will share with the Quebec Theater House. For childhood and youth, called the theater house. Emphasizing the importance of access to arts and culture for young people, the Prime Minister made this announcement before a fourth year of primary year. 
"This investment tangibly illustrates the Government of Quebec's willingness to renew and improve the infrastructure of all sectors of society. Quality cultural equipment must be accessible throughout the territory and meet the needs of artists, creators, organizations and the population, all, all publicly confused, "said the Prime Minister. 
"This new dissemination place will enrich the cultural offer and will propose an expanded showcase for the young audience theater, while filling the school and extracurricular needs of the college. This is an exemplary and fruitful collaboration between two organizations with complementary needs, which will benefit the theatrical and student environments and the entire community, "said Minister Kotto. 
"By welcoming both cultural and educational activities, this new multifunctional room will infuse the taste of culture and knowledge to our young people. It will give them the opportunity to discover the richness of our culture, which is a pillar of our identity. The Quebec identity is one of the priority axes of the national research and innovation. I launched last fall, "said Minister Duchesne. 
The Ministry of Culture and Communications (MCC) and the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology (MESRST) agreed on the importance of keeping the Theater House, Diffuser specializing in theater Young public, in the premises it currently occupies, belonging to the Cégep du Vieux Montreal. The agreement of principle announced today will allow them to continue their cohabitation and provides for the construction of a multifunctional room they will share. The expected maximum financial assistance is $ 9.950 million, of which $ 8 million comes from MCC and $ 1.950 million from Mesrst. 
The new room will offer more intimate extra space and better adapted to early childhood shows presented by the Theater House. This one offers more than 300 performances annually and joins 70,000 spectators, aged 2 to 17, including through school outings. The Cégep du Vieux Montréal will use the room for its institutional and educational activities, serving among others its student population listed on the programs related to the performing arts. 
