Matépédia- The kickoff of the construction work of the 2010 Builder Project is given! In a few months, seniors in mild loss of autonomy of Matapédia and the surroundings will be able to benefit from 21 new affordable housings tailored to their needs. The Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (Wildlife and Parks) and MP for Bonaventure, Mr. Sylvain Roy, today took part in the shovel of the land of this project today. In the presence of the Mayor of Matapédia, Mr. Louis Michaud, and the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the 2010 Builders, Mr. Rosaire Denis. 
Realized through the AccessLogis Québec program of the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), this project will result in an investment of more than $ 3.5 million from the Government of Quebec and its community partners. 
"Currently, seniors in mild loss of autonomy of Matapédia must exile into municipalities located several kilometers to accommodate properly. This uproot can be very difficult for people whose health is sometimes precarious. The construction of these 21 dwellings adapted to the needs of the elderly is therefore an excellent news and will come to respond to an urgent need of this community, "said MP Sylvain Roy, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The SHQ has granted a grant of more than $ 2 million for the realization of this project, in addition to guaranteeing the mortgage contracted by the 2010 builders. The total contribution of the environment is nearly $ 607,000, of which Some $ 450,000 are invested by the municipality of Matapédia. Also note that the project has received an additional $ 259,000 under the Rénovation Québec program from the SHQ. 
"Thanks to 2010 Builders, our community can now keep its elderly people and offer a pleasant living environment to everyone by allowing them to continue living in their corner of country, close to theirs. Thank you all our partners and generous donors. Because we believed this project, our dream is realized, "held underligns Mr. Rosaire Denis. 
Note that additional financial assistance of more than $ 189,000, spread over five years and at 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the municipality of Matapédia, will allow 11 tenants of this residence to benefit from the rent supplement. Rent . Thus, these low-income households will pay a rent similar to that of a low rent dwelling, or 25% of their income. 
Among the community contributions, note that the project has received a grant of more than $ 35,000 from the Department of Natural Resources Efficiency and Energy Innovation Office to ensure that it meets the Novoclimat program standards , which gives tenants an appreciable economy on the heating costs of their housing. 
