Laval- The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, confirmed the allocation of non-refundable financial support from $ 1 million to the company serving Canada for the establishment of a center of Excellence in clinical research in the Science and High Technology Park of Laval. Assessed at $ 16.3 million, this project will consolidate 56 jobs, while 38 new employees will be hired in the coming months. 
"Quebec is the ideal place for the biopharmaceutical industry, which relies more than ever on collaborations and partnerships with public research institutions," said Minister Nicolas Marceau. Quebec is recognized for its knowledge economy, its quality research infrastructures, advanced knowledge in the development of drugs and its highly specialized workforce. Without a doubt, Quebec is the partner designated to prosper, and Servier Canada confirms it. » 
The project announced today also aims at the establishment of a National Vocational Training Center for Servier Canada, as well as the expansion of the business activities. The construction of a new building, with an area of 30,000 square feet, which will bring together the activities of the new Center of Excellence in Clinical Research and those of the new National Vocational Training Center is thus planned. 
"By supporting this project, our government ensures that conditions favorable to the prosperity of the biopharmaceutical industry and the growth of large companies in Quebec," said Minister Nicolas Marceau. Our support for the implementation of a Clinical Research Center in Laval will consolidate Quebec's position among global leaders in the field of clinical research. This center will allow large-scale mandates in Quebec, which will contribute to the influence of Quebec research on the international scene and the attraction of private investment in R-D in the industry. » 
Servier Canada is the Canadian subsidiary of the French Pharmaceutical Company Servier, founded in 1954. Present in 140 countries, this company develops drugs intended to treat, in particular, cardiovascular, metabolic, neurological and psychiatric diseases. The Canadian subsidiary employs 303 people across the country, including 161 in Quebec. Of these, 35 people are dedicated to research and development by conducting clinical trials of Phase I at Phase IV. 
"The establishment of the first Clinical Research Excellence Center of the Servier in the Laval Science and High Technology Park testifies to the company's desire to consolidate its activities in Quebec and to increase its competitiveness on the plan. International, "said Frédéric Fasano, Director General of Servier Canada. "Quebec is indeed an important pole in the field of clinical research in North America. The quality of research realized here and the expertise of Quebec workforce are major assets for the growth of Servier Canada in Quebec. » 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, sign up for RSS feeds atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
