Lac-Mégantic- The Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Elders, Minister responsible for the Estrie and MP Region, Mr. Réjean Hébert, today announced, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, investments of $ 694,136, of which $ 583,858 for the redevelopment of premises and $ 110,278 for the acquisition of equipment at the vocational training center Granite, an establishment of the Hauts-Cantons School Board. These investments will support the implementation of design programs for health institution (5316) and health, assistance and nursing (5325), which the school board now has permission to offer on a basis permed. 
Thanks to this sum, the school board has implemented, in recent months, a project aimed at redeveloping an area of 539 m² from the Granite Vocational Training Center, where these programs are offered, as well as. to acquire the equipment attached to it. The work, the total cost estimated at $ 793,425, are completed. 
"The needs of the health field in terms of skilled workforce are not ceasing. We offer citizens of Quebec quality health care, which require qualified and sufficient people. It is through investments like this we can meet this society challenge successfully, "said Dr. Hébert. 
Government investments totaling more than $ 24.3 million have been announced in October 2013 to improve the vocational training offer. In addition to the project unveiled today, various other projects aimed at the expansion and redevelopment of existing vocational training centers and the updating and implementation of new curricula will be implemented in several regions of Quebec. 
"These investments, we do them for Quebec youth. We have every advantage that vocational training attracts them more. We must also bring even more adults to explore the multiple possibilities it offers. Vocational training is not only essential for the development of our economy, but it allows young people who follow her to be accomplished in areas that are important to them, "Malavoy said. 
