Saint-Isidore-de-la Prairie - Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the Minister Delegate to the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspé-Islands Region of the Islands -MaDeleine, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, and the member for Sanguinet and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Alain Therrien, have expressed their pleasure to see a wind farm in Montérégie, during the inauguration of The latter in Saint-Isidore-de-la Prairie. 
The Kruger Energy project in Montérégie totals investments of more than $ 300 million and represents an installed capacity of 100 MW of green and clean energy. It has allowed the construction of 44 2.3 MW wind turbines in five municipalities of Montérégie, Mercier, Saint-Constant, Saint-Isidore, Saint-Michel and Saint-Rémi. Investissement Québec has also facilitated capital intake by providing a loan of $ 30 million. In total, the park construction phase generated the creation of more than 150 jobs in the region. 
"The Quebec government is proud to have associated with a future project for all Quebeckers," said Élaine Zakaïb. "We have chosen a green and sustainable economy for future generations. In addition to helping to build the Green Quebec tomorrow, this project will generate significant economic benefits, particularly in Montérégie but also in the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, since wind turbines have been partially constructed. » 
Indeed, a minimum of 60% of the overall costs of completing the wind farm was to be invested in Quebec and a minimum of 30% of the cost of wind turbines were to be engaged in the Matane Regional County Municipality (MRC) or in the administrative region. from the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine. This project has been able to boost with the support of several regional stakeholders, particularly in terms of funding. 
"The project has been welcomed in the region and now allows to use green energy produced as a lever for economic development," said Gaétan Lelièvre. "It is also the whole community that benefits from it. It is therefore an excellent news to develop the industrial base of the regions, including that of the Montérégie and the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine, while focusing on regional investments focused on the sustainable development of our resources. natural. » 
"Kruger Energy is a good example of a choice of a green economy by focusing on local investments focused on sustainable development," said Alain Therien. "This project will highlight our wind potential, around which a real regional expertise is developing. » 
"With the support of the Government of Quebec and, above all, the local community, we have been able to go ahead with the construction of the very first windpark in Montérégie," said the Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Kruger Energy, Jean Roy. "Since the beginning, more than $ 300 million that have been invested in the realization of this green and sustainable project, and we are very proud of what we have done in Montérégie. » 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
