Saint-Jerome - Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, today announced the expansion and redevelopment of the Cégep de Saint-Jérôme. This project received the authorization of the Treasury Board in the Framework Duplan Quebec Infrastructure (PQI). The minister also took advantage of his passage to inaugurate the new premises for the program's program management and to confirm a financial contribution used to acquire new equipment for the Quebec Advanced Transport Institute (ITAQ). In total, this is an investment of more than $ 18 million that is announced to support the collegiate offer in Saint-Jérôme. 
"This project is concretized for the benefit of students in the region, while contributing to the socio-economic development of St. Jerome. A news that, I'm sure, will delight the whole community. The Laurentians region is currently experiencing significant population growth. The expansion of the Cégep Saint-Jérôme premises will meet the needs of school infrastructures generated by this situation. This work will allow students to be able to study in an adapted framework that will promote their success, "said Minister Duchesne. 
An investment of $ 15.3 million will allow Cégep de Saint-Jérôme to enlarge and redevelop its premises to welcome the new cohorts of students planned in the coming years. For this purpose, CEGEP's estimate of 3,300 students was increased to 4,000 students from the 2012-2013 school year. 
The Department also allocated CEGEP an allowance of $ 193,400 so that modular premises can be installed to accommodate additional clientele from the 2012-2013 school year. These premises will be used until expansion and redevelopment work is completed. CEGEP will also benefit from an annual $ 264,800 allocation related to the rental and operation of these temporary spaces. 
"We have the privilege, but also the responsibility of providing quality higher education for young people in the region. With this responsibility comes the duty to offer the collegiate community a welcoming human and physical environment worthy of pride. This is precisely what the investment announced today will allow us to do, "said Jacques Gariépy, Chairman of the Cégep of St. Jerome. 
"At this point, the project is in the conceptualization phase and we are in establishing the master plan that will determine what needs to be added or enlarged. In short, several scenarios are on the drawing board to best meet the growth we know. If the Cégep de Saint-Jérôme has never been cramped in his ideas, he will no longer be in his premises! , "Said Cégep's director, Ms. Francine Paquette. 
On the sidelines of his announcement, Minister Pierre Duchesne proceeded to the inauguration of the new premises of the study programGeneral management. The layout of the premises including application cuisine, educational cuisine and a school restaurant was made possible by the granting of a government assistance of $ 2,17,000, which were added $ 375,000 necessary for the 'Acquisition of new equipment. 
This technical program, which leads to obtaining a college diploma (DEC), hosts thirty students since the 2012-2013 school year and takes into account the labor requirements of the region. 
Minister Duchene took advantage of his presence in the region to confirm a financial contribution of $ 310,162 to the Research Equipment Research Project of the Quebec Advanced Transport Institute associated with the CEGEP of St. Jerome. 
The acquisition of new equipment will create and strengthen partnerships with private enterprise. This will expand the search field for light transport to the electrification or hybridization of heavy transport, along two main axes of research. The first axis concerns the improvement of energy efficiency and the reduction of polluting emissions from traction chains. The second, the development of battery systems. 
"The specialized equipment acquired by the Quebec Advanced Transport Institute will serve as a leverage for research and development of new technologies, responding to the demand of the heavy vehicle industry, a leading market in Quebec," said the Minister Duchesne. 
The financial contribution of $ 310,162 is paid for equipment acquisition projects in colleges and collegial technology transfer centers, in the context of Collège-Industry Fund for Innovation2012 of the Canadian Foundation for the Canada Foundation. Innovation (FCI). 
"These investments allow the students of the Laurentians to have access to quality infrastructures and promote higher education on our great territory. With my colleagues Denise Beaudoin, MP Mirabel, Claude Cousineau, Member of Parliament for Bertrand, Daniel Goyer, Member of Parliament for Deux-Montagnes and Roland Richer, MP Argenteuil, I look forward to this new structuring for the people of our region, " Declared the member for Labelle and Government Manager of the Laurentian Region, Sylvain Pagé. 
