Gatineau - Families and single people from Gatineau now benefit from 47 new quality and affordable housing through an investment of more than $ 7.7 million from the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ) and its community partners. The Conservatoire dwellings was inaugurated today by the Minister of Public Safety and Minister responsible for the Outaouais Region, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"We are celebrating today the fulfillment of a major project that enriches the supply of housing and whose benefits will benefit the entire Gatineau community. These new housings will allow 47 families and people alone to benefit from the living environment they need to flourish. As Minister responsible for the Outaouais region, I allow myself to insist that these dwellings arrive at appointed point. The demand for housing is strong in Gatineau because of the proximity of the city with Ottawa. Accessibility to affordable housing and quality goes by diminishing, while the needs are constantly growing, "said Minister Bergeron, in the presence of community partners. 
In addition to the SHQ, which has granted a grant of more than $ 3.3 million, in addition to ensuring the organization's mortgage lending, community partners contributed to the project for nearly $ 1.1 million. Of this amount, some $ 972,000 comes from the city of Gatineau. 
Monsiday additional financial assistance of more than $ 413,000, spread over five years and at 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the City of Gatineau, allows 24 of the 47 tenant households to benefit from the rent supplement. Rent . Thus, these low-income households pay a rent similar to that of a modest rent housing, or 25% of their income. 
"Access to affordable housing is an important issue that affects near many families here in Gatineau. The role of a city is, among other things, to ensure that its citizens can live properly. I therefore greet the Quebec residential company, the Municipal Gatineau Housing Office and the Metropolitan Outaouais Housing Team who participated in the Conservatoire a reality project. The city of Gatineau is proud to have injected nearly $ 972,000 in this housing project that is close to $ 8 million, "said Mrs. Mireille Apollo, alternate mayor in the city of Gatineau . 
"Projects like that of the Conservatoire is realized through partners such as the City of Gatineau, the SHQ and the Gatineau Municipal Housing Office. The set of dwellings, located in the urban village of the plateau, will allow more than 130 people to accommodate properly. I would like to specify that there was no affordable housing in this sector, "concluded the Chairman of the Board of Habitations of Metropolitan Outaouais, Mr. Denis Bergeron. 
Note that the project has received a grant of more than $ 107,000 from the Department of Natural Resources' Energy Efficiency and Innovation Office to meet the Novoclimat Standards, which provides tenants. An appreciable economy on the heating costs of their housing. 
Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000. households each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habit.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Habitat Espace, a web magazine that deals with the spin-offs of the SHQ interventions on the whole of Quebec. 
