Montreal- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister delegated to the Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Véronique Hivon, took advantage of his presence at the opening of the 2nd French-speaking international congress of palliative care and 23rd Congress From the Quebec Palliative Care Network to announce an investment of $ 15 million in palliative care, of which $ 11 million will be devoted to homepalliative care. 
"We now ask a meaningful gesture, a gesture of solidarity. We demonstrate the priority given to the development of palliative care, as we committed there. For our government, it is essential to improve the supply of palliative care and to improve access, and this is precisely what the investment announced today. It should also be noted that this is a first, as no government has, to date, announced a global investment specifically dedicated to palliative home care, "the premier said. 
In fact, $ 15 million, $ 11 million will be intended to develop palliative home care, including community support and training. "This investment will mainly increase accessibility to palliative care and intensify the necessary interventions offered to sick people in the environment where the majority of them want to complete their lives. It can also provide more support to relatives, which play a fundamental role in home maintenance, and improve training, especially for people working in accommodation and long-term care centers, as well as That for volunteers, whose role is inseparable from the proper functioning of palliative care teams, "explained Minister Véronique Hivon. 
In addition to these $ 11 million, an amount of $ 4 million is attributed to the addition of dedicated beds and will support the establishment of new palliative care homes, or to increase the number of beds in homes. already existing. Depending on the needs of each region, this investment could also allow to add accommodation and long-term care center beds or in a hospital center, since it remains important to have a diversified offer that takes into account the different realities lived in Quebec. 
"The theme of this Congress, at the meeting of our diversities: towards palliative care for all, reflects the orientation of our government in terms of end-of-life care. The announcement of today is a great step forward and translates our sincere will to act in a spirit of solidarity and humanity, by making the most accessible palliative care and the best possible adapted to the needs of Quebeckers and Quebeckers, "added Minister Véronique Hivon. 
The Prime Minister and the Minister Responsible for the Dyard Dyard Issue have been impressed by the extent of the Congress and Confident with regard to the benefits of the work that will be carried out in the coming days. "Beyond the announcement made today, I am convinced that the stimulating exchanges of this congress, and to which participate in a multitude of stakeholders in Quebec and the Francophonie, will greatly contribute to the promotion necessary for a Even greater development of palliative care in Quebec, "concluded the Prime Minister. 
