Quebec- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, confirms the allocation of financial aid totaling more than $ 1.1 million to three companies in the Capital Region. National. This financial support, from the innovation support program, is distributed as follows: $ 393,593 in Funeral Inc., $ 400,000 to Pavemetrics Inc. Systems. and $ 385,800 in Domeic Group inc. 
"Our companies are an invaluable wealth for Quebec's economic growth. It is therefore our duty to support them at each stage of their evolution, "mentioned the Deputy Minister Zakaïb. "They have undeniable strengths and assets to illustrate and progress. By supporting them, we reiterate our commitment to making Quebec a prosperous territory and creative jobs. Our government is committed to giving Quebec companies the means of their ambitions in order to help them increase their productivity and thus promote their progress. It is also by focusing on entrepreneurship and private investment that we will ensure the sustainable enrichment of all regions of Quebec. » 
Fruitsélect inc. is a major fruit processing company owned by gold fruit. It produces whole fruits, dried and sweet, as well as other derivative products, such as juices and cocktail syrup. Fruitsélect inc. has developed a line of high-end products, natural and without additives, based on local products. 
"Our project aims to design, improve and industrialize a process created by gold fruit. It is a technology that is based on the use of an optimized reactor for the infusion of the blueberry that provides superior performance and quality, explained the President of Fruitélect Inc., Mr. Sylvain Dufour. "This method of transformation of berries, such as cranberry, blueberries or blackcurrants, will allow us to be more competitive in the processors of the United States and Chile. Our goals are to increase our productivity and also to increase our production capacity. 15 jobs will also be created. » 
Created in 2009, Pavemetrics Inc. Systems. Designs and markets digital vision systems used in the transport infrastructure inspection, such as roads, high-speed trains rails and subway rails. Pavemetrics Inc. System Products. Are sold in some thirty countries, particularly in the United States, France, China, Spain, Great Britain and Switzerland. In 2012 only, Pavemetrics' pavement inspection systems allowed auscultation of 5 million kilometers of road, the equivalent of 12 times the distance between the land and the moon. 
"We want to create a new automatic object detection system and debris for the tracks, airports' access ramps and aprons, said the President and Chief Executive Officer of Pavemetrics Inc., Mr. Richard Habel. This product will significantly improve airport infrastructure safety through its unique technology that achieves high resolution 3D profiles from the track at speeds of up to 100 km / h. In addition to expanding our product line, this innovation will create three direct jobs and many quality indirect jobs in the region. » 
Domeic Group inc. has developed an intelligent pillbox to improve the quality of life of patients with binding health problems that require regular drugs. This electronic device (Do-Pill Secur) warns the patient when taking his medicine and communicates with a server to join, if necessary, a physician, a pharmacist or a natural caregiver to inform them that the patient has forgotten to take His medication. 
"Our device has taken its entry into Quebec, but to export our expertise, we need to include a series of innovations," said Domeic Group President and Chief Executive Officer Benoît Demers. "Our project aims to improve the current pillbox with the addition of technologies such as 2G and 3G cellular communication and the development of a smart phone pillbox application to meet the needs of a greater number of Users. To get there, we will add three new resources within our team. » 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the following RSS feed: www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
