Malartic - Malartic families will soon have access to 36 affordable housing units built or renovated through the AccessLogis Québec program of the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ). Passage in the region of Abitibi-Témiscamingue, the Minister of Transport, Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, accompanied by the Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs And Member of Parliament for Abitibe East, Mrs Evitabeth Larouche, today proceeded to the shovel of symbolic land of the Hetherington housing project. 
This project, which includes the construction of a new 12-unit building and the renovation of six other four-home buildings, will result in an investment of more than $ 5 million from the Government of Quebec and its partners. middle. 
"In a few months, there are 36 families who will have access to a new or completely renovated, affordable and quality accommodation. This is a great news for these households and for the entire community of Malartic who will enjoy these infrastructures a long time, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The SHQ has granted a subsidy of more than $ 2.2 million for the realization of this dwelling set, in addition to guaranteeing the organization's mortgage loan of gold rock buildings. The total contribution of the environment is approximately $ 1.1 million, of which $ 450,000 is invested by the Osisko Mining Corporation, $ 302,000 by the City of Malartic and $ 36,000 by the DESJARDINS Caisse de la Vallée de l ' Gold. The project also received a grant of nearly $ 33,000 from the Ministry of Natural Resources' Energy Efficiency and Innovation Office so that buildings respond to the Novoclimate standard. 
"We are well aware of the important need for affordable housing in Abitibi as in all Quebec. This is why the launch of a site like this one is of particular importance to our region, "said MP Elizabeth Larouche. 
Note that additional financial assistance of more than $ 361,000, spread over five years and 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the City, will allow 21 households to benefit from the rent. Rent. Rent. Rent. Thus, these low-income families will pay a rent similar to that of a low rent dwelling, or 25% of their income. 
Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000. households each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Habitat Espace, the WEB magazine of the SHQ, which deals with the spin-offs of the interventions of it on the whole of Quebec society. 
