Boisbriand- The senator, Mr. Jean-Guy Dagenais, on behalf of the Federal Minister Gerry Ritz, and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, in the presence of the member. Labelle and Minister responsible for the Laurentian Region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, are pleased to announce the launch of the Agri-Food Innov'Action program. With a budget envelope of more than $ 31 million, this financial assistance program aims to increase the competitiveness of companies in the agricultural sector and the Quebec food processing sector by supporting research and innovation. It is funded by the governments of Canada and Quebec under the Canada-Quebec Agreement Grow the Future 2. 
"Innovation remains at the heart of the competitiveness and profitability of agricultural and agri-food companies. Grow the future 2 and the Innov'Action program, allow the industry to find solutions to the challenges and take advantage of the opportunities offered in the markets, "said Senator Dagenais. "Our government remains committed to supporting research and innovation because they promote economic growth and long-term prosperity in Quebec. » 
"The concern for innovation is paramount. Companies, like the Quebec agribusiness sector as a whole, must make innovation a constant concern and integrate it into their vision for the future. As I said before, our government wants to make concrete gestures to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves and that we have specified in the policy of food sovereignty, particularly with regard to the valorization of the economic potential of the sector. In this sense, the new Agribusiness Innov'Action program falls to point because it will allow our businesses to be more competitive and to make their place in markets where competition is vivid, "said François Gendron. 
Innov'Arange Agri-Food is a substitute for five research and innovation support programs that ended March 31, 2013. By bringing together all financial assistance, agri-food innovation will be more appropriate for related issues. The valuation of the economic potential of the agricultural production and food processing sectors and it will better meet the expectations of Quebec society. More specifically, through the four component components, it will support initiatives that relate to applied research, business adaptation and technology transfer. 
The first component of agri-food innovation is intended to support the implementation of projects aimed at increasing knowledge of applied research in the priority areas of agricultural production and food processing. 
The second part is for the production sector exclusively. It aims to facilitate the adoption of the results of the research by supporting the realization of experimental development, adaptation or technological transfer projects or the preparation of new dissemination tools on technical knowledge. 
This third component relates to the food processing sector. It is intended to promote the production of product or processes innovation projects, particularly the development of improved or healthy nutritional foods. It supports projects leading to innovation of products or processes or the conduct of clinical studies. 
Finally, the fourth component of the program relates to the development of the culture of innovation, both in agricultural production companies and those of agri-food processing. Mesh activities between industry and research, the dissemination activities of good innovation methods and the reception of foreign experts are all eligible activities in the light of this component. 
Research and technology transfer establishments, dissemination centers, farms and food processors as well as associations or business combinations that wish to learn more about the Agri-Food Innov'Action program can consult the document. The following address: http: //www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/innovaction. 
Recall that the governments of Canada and Quebec, concluding the bilateralicultural agreement the future 2, involved funding of $ 293 million over a five-year period, from 2013 to 2018. This important agreement has The purpose of supporting strategic initiatives on innovation, competitiveness and market development, both for the benefit of the agricultural sector and the food processing sector. For more details on the pan-Canadian Growing Future 2 initiatives, we can visit the www.agr.gc.ca/cultivonslavenir. To learn more about Shared Fee Programs Duultivons The future 2Qui are implemented in Quebec, the wwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/cultivonslavenir. 
For more information on food sovereignty policy, visit the blog (www.politicsa.gouv.qc.caou websitewww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa) of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and L 'Food. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
