Quebec- The member for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, pays tribute to Prime Minister Jacques Parizeau, a great artisan of Quebec, whose entire life has been devoted to Quebec and its independence, politics and economic. 
"It is with sadness that we learn the death of Prime Minister Jacques Parizeau. On behalf of the great family of the Parti Québécois, I extend my deepest condolences to his spouse, Lapointe Lisette, as well as to all his family and loved ones. Throughout his life, entirely linked to the development of modern Quebec, Mr. Parizeau deeply believed in Quebeckers to become truly masters of their destiny and their future. Great intellectual and renowned economist, Jacques Parizeau led his public life with righteousness, integrity and courage. Thanks to him, the Quebec nation has crossed the doors of modernity, until the edge of the country of Quebec. Thank you, Mr. Parizeau! Pierre Karl Péladeau said. 
Great craftsman of the quiet revolution 
"First Quebecebook to obtain a PhD from the London School of Economics, Professor of HEC Jacques Parizeau has contributed to the emergence of a new generation of Francophone Québec economists. He initiated or participated in the creation, as Economic and Financial Advisor of Prime Minister Jean Lesage, the largest economic levers of our nation: the nationalization of electricity, the Régie des Annuities, the Fund and Investment, the Société Générale de Financement, among others. These development tools are an integral part of our company and have allowed the state to support businesses by, for nearly 50 years, "added Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
Elected for the first time as a member of Parliament in 1976, he was Minister of Finance in the Office of Prime Minister René Lévesque until 1984. In 1979, Mr. Parizeau created the stock savings plan, one of his many large achievements. It facilitated the establishment of large Quebec companies, while supporting small and medium-sized businesses. 
Jacques Parizeau was elected leader of the Parti Québécois on March 19, 1988. On 12 September 1994 he led the party to victory and was the 26th Prime Minister of Quebec until 29 January 1996. He drove Quebec to the greatest democratic exercise. which is: a referendum on its sovereignty. Under an umbrella coalition for yes, he brought together three political parties and several civil society organizations. On October 30, 1995, a few thousand voices separated Quebec from its independence. 
"The contribution to Quebec from Prime Minister Jacques Parizeau is invaluable. He allowed Quebeckers to believe in them, to believe that it was possible, for a people, to build his economy, for and by himself. By his actions, he was one of the most striking Quebeckers of his generation. Respected here and all over the world, he ship Quebec. Quebeckers owe a lot to Prime Minister Jacques Parizeau; He will remain engraved in the memory and history of our nation, "concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
