Quebec- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisé, today announced the files that will be awarded to the two new members of the Parti Québécois, Marc Bourcier (Saint-Jérôme) and Catherine Fournier (Marie-Victorin), in More indicating that some changes have been made within the parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois. 
The new deputy of Saint-Jérôme, Marc Bourcier, inherits labor records and electrification. "This is a new challenge for me, which I welcome enthusiastically. In addition to my teaching and municipal counselor work, I participated in several community activities to help the people of St. Jerome. I believe these experiences will greatly help me in my role as spokesperson. And let's not forget that Saint-Jérôme is a national pole of transport electrification! ", did he declare. 
The new member for Marie-Victorin, Catherine Fournier, will be responsible for the protection of consumers and housing. "Jean-François asked me to wear the cause of consumers and give them a voice to the National Assembly. I intend to defend their interests with vigor, "she reacted. 
In addition, Jean-François Lisé designated the hon. Member for Bourget, Maka Kotto, lieutenant for the French language; This is added to his role as President of the Caucus. He also named Dave Turcotte, the member for Saint John, spokesperson for records affecting the pharmaceutical industry and the RAMQ. It remains spokesperson for social services and youth protection. The member for Labelle, Sylvain Pagé, is now spokesperson for the issues touching Loto-Québec. For its part, the member for Berthier, André Villeneuve, is spokesperson for the records touching the SAQ. 
The head of the official opposition also presented his new press attaché, Bruno-Pierre Cyr. "I'm happy to announce that Bruno-Pierre is back in the team. As you know, he worked at the official of the official opposition as a communications advisor and press attaché by Pierre Karl Péladeau and Sylvain Gaudreault. Previously, Bruno-Pierre was press secretary of the Minister of the Family, Nicole Léger, in the Marois government. We wish him a good return! He said. 
Bruno-Pierre Cyr succeeds in Chantal Huot, who will regret his press officer for family reasons. "In my name and that of the entire parliamentary wing, I thank Chantal for his exceptional work and his great availability, especially during the course of the management and in the context of the recent partial elections. Chantal, you have contributed to a real success, and we are all grateful to you, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
