Quebec, July 15, 2014 -The MP for Rosemont, Jean-François Lisé, asks the Minister of International Relations and La Francophonie, Christine St? Peter, to retract here next Tuesday for his false words about missions Abroad from the member, as a minister of international relations, Francophonie and foreign trade, otherwise he will begin a defamation. 
The minister made false statements about the number of missions of M. Lisée in France and suggested that some of them were not in the interest of Quebec, which is down. The only economic component of these missions generated more than $ 110 million in contracts for the 175 Quebec companies that accompanied Mr. Lisée. 
"Contrary to what it said publicly last week, Ms. St? Pierre had already received answers from his officials to all his questions: on the relevance of each of the missions, on the absence of additional costs for the State For my visits to my family and the irreproachable character of my behavior, "said Jean? François Lisée. 
The St? Pierre minister has repeatedly affirmed that Jean? François Lisé had carried out 11 "missions" in Paris, which is false. There were 5, so less than the Liberal Minister Pierre Arcand for the same time. She also claimed that he had made a "mission of one day with a private portion of 4 days", which does not appear anywhere in the missions spending documents. 
"Spreading information that it knew false is a serious violation of my integrity and my reputation. In addition, I think that having led to my family in the public debate is an unacceptable fault. With a purely partisan goal, she tried to make diversion on the back of my ethics and my values, "continued the member for Rosemont. 
If Ms. St? Pierre refuses to retract, Mr. Lisée asks him to commit to paying his defense costs and, if so, the penalty imposed by the judge. For his part, Mr. Lisée will pay himself his lawyers and, in case of gain, will pay the amount obtained at a charitable work. 
A poor attempt at liberal diversion  The official and deputy head of Chicoutimi, Stéphane Bédard, wanted to support Jean-François Lisée. 
"The attempt at diversion of Minister St. Pierre did not have anyone. A minister can not say anything by emitting falsity and biased questions. The Stone Minister must recognize his mistake and retract now, "concluded Stéphane Bédard. 
