Québec- The terms leavening with the official Image of the Malkerant of Saint-Jéromeno, Qui L'Seul Butthe de FAire Diversion OF THE CRISCIUM QUORE VITEDUSTEM PY OVERREN GOVERNIER 
"Wanting to fight again with the hon. Member for Saint-Jérôme, Jean-Marc Fournier now denatures the comments of the ethics commissioner," said Agnès Maltais. 
This is what Jean-Marc Fournier claims: 
"[...] the February 2014 Information Note of the Ethics Commissioner, therefore before the last election, to the knowledge of all those who have been candidates at that time, this note is very precise and indicates that The trustee must have all powers as if he owed. » 
"The trustee must have all the powers as if he owned. He must be able to even ensure alienation. » 
But the reality is quite different: 
The February 2014 Information Note of the Ethics Commissioner indicates that "the member of the National Assembly must, at the time of entrusting a trustee or an agent the management of certain of his assets, make sure that this Person has all the powers necessary for the exercise of this responsibility, as if owner of the assets, for the duration of the contract ". (page 2 of the note) 
The Implementation Report of the Ethics Commissioner indicates that: "Requests for advice submitted to us, until now, lead us to recommend to the legislator to clarify the ethical framework for the instructions of a member From the National Assembly to the trustee or the representative, particularly if the elected representative may, when entrusting his interests to a trustee or an independent agent, give a formal instruction not to alienate his property. The lack of a clearly defined direction by the Code could lead to confusion on what can be done currently and in the future, with the risk of retaining a solution that does not correspond to the will of the legislator. "(Pages 50 and 51 of the report) 
In no case, therefore, the pretensions of Jean-Marc Fournier are corroborated by the ethics and ethics commissioner. 
"Jean-Marc Fournier has decided to divert the mandate of the Jurisconsult and to oppose two institutions of the National Assembly, to achieve its partisan purposes. We now see that the personal attacks unfounded to the member of the member for Saint-Jérôme are the new scarecrow of this government that suffers from a lack of credibility, "said Agnès Maltese. 
