Québec, on September 6, 2017 - At the dawn of the new parliamentary session, the Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, announces changes in the Quebec party spokesperson. 
"Throughout this election year, our team will face significant challenges. By remaining well connected to the population of Quebec and its priorities, we will take it back. Our spokespersons will continue their excellent work; Not only will they question the decisions of the Liberal government, but they will also propose concrete solutions to improve the lives of Quebeckers, and the government's action. In the October 2018 elections, citizens of Quebec will have a choice to make; Our realistic and courageous proposals, as well as the links we will have with them, will make it clear, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
The official opposition leader makes changes to his spokesperson. These, particularly well connected to the wishes of Quebeckers, will present concrete solutions to advance Quebec. 
Véronique Hivon gets the family folder. She keeps justice and end-of-life care. HIVON also remains spokesperson for the Mauricie region and responsible for mission for relations with civil society and citizen participation. 
Sylvain Pagé obtains the file of the reform of democratic institutions. It keeps public health, prevention, sports, leisure, healthy lifestyle and loto-Québec. 
Catherine Fournier gets the female condition and the fight against homophobia and transphobia. It retains home records and consumer protection. 
Mireille Jean will carry out information about information resources. This file adds to those it already defends, either professional laws, digital economy and SME priority - innovation, exports and productivity. 
Guy Leclair retrieves the work folder. 
"Families will remain at the center of our priorities; Véronique Hivon will take care of it. As for Guy Leclair, he finds the important issue of labor, while this government has accustomed us, in terms of labor relations, special laws rather than healthy negotiation. For its part, Mireille Jean will monitor the liberal clutter in computer resources, which costs billions to Quebecers. Sylvain Pagé will take care of the reform of democratic institutions, while we propose to make the statement more representative of the popular will. Finally, Catherine Fournier obtains the files of the female condition, the victim of the liberal austerity of the last years, as well as the necessary fight against homophobia and the transphobia, for a society ever more open to diversity, "said the Leader of the official opposition. 
"Since the beginning of the year, our parliamentary wing has forced the Liberal government to review its positions in several cases: we have fought against the $ 500 tax burden on the Elders of Quebec, the cost of healthcare and The rise in agricultural land taxes, among others. Count on us; This fall, we will continue the work. We will defend Quebecers against the permanent austerity of the Liberal government, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
