Montreal, February 22, 2018 -The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, as well as Vice Cheffe, Véronique Hivon, are proud to welcome Jean-Martin immediately as advisor for the promotion of independence, for issues affecting The metropolis and private and collective entrepreneurship, and as the FuturResponsible of the Quebec Independence Secretariat within the Quebec Party Government. 
"The return of Jean-Martin is another example of the great gathering that is created around the Parti Québécois. It is also a strong indication that we are determined to succeed. Jean Martina acquired, in the files entrusted to it, a strong and considerable experience; It is an important asset that is added to our team, "first declared the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
Mr. Aussant is entrusted with related mandates, on the one hand, to the leadership of the Parti Québécois and, on the other hand, to the official opposition. To the party, it will be responsible for the design and organization of the promotion of independence, from today and up to the referendum meeting.It will therefore play a key role in developing the independentist offer which will be presented to voters in 2022. At the official opposition, it will be active on issues affecting the metropolis and entrepreneurship, private and collective. Jean-François Lisée also said that after the October election, "Jean-Martin AURICOMME missions, within the government, the production and updating of studies on the accession of our nation to his independence , accession that will take place during our second term. » 
The main person concerned was very happy to make today a return to active policy. "My decision is essentially motivated by the search for the collective interest. In my opinion, this one makes it clear that we have, at home, the full ability to decide and act for and by ourselves: it's just called sovereignty. Today, no party has the monopoly of sovereignty, neither collective thinking nor good economic ideas; But I think it's the Quebecois party that we find the ideal combination of these three essential elements for our progress. To our sovereignist friends who are not currently engaged or who are engaged elsewhere, I say that the time is at the gathering. The October election can mark an important turning point if we all put it together. Quebec must be given back to the world! "Insisted Jean Martin immediately. 
"It's a gesture of deep conviction that Jean-Martin makes and a powerful signal that he sends by choosing the political action, now, within the Parti Québécois. The message today is that the time has come to engage and act. And that the best vehicle to wear a progressive vision, for Quebec to get up, stands up and resume momentum to reach his full freedom, it is the Parti Québécois. The movement is on; We continue to add up. As a person said so well that Jean-Martin likes a lot, "May the last arrival leaves the door open"! He concluded Véronique Hivon. 
