Québec- As part of the mobilization I protect my public school, the member for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, accompanied by the member for Lac-Saint-Jean and spokesman of the Parti Québécois Education, research and school perseverance, Alexander Cloutier, and the member for Rosemont and Lieutenant for the metropolis, Jean-François Lisée, participated in the human chain in front of the School School School, in Montreal. Let us mention that the member for Taschereau, Agnès Maltese, the member for Vachon, Martine Ouellet, as well as the hon. Member for Richelieu, Sylvain Rochon, did the same near a Quebec school. 
"As a citizen, but, above all, as a parent, it was essential for me to be present with parents, students, teachers, professionals and support staff of public schools, in order to tell the government of the government. Liberal Prime Minister Philippe Couillard that his cups in our greatest wealth, the education of our children, are unacceptable, "said the official opposition. 
"At the beginning of the school year, the government's compressions directly affect student services and the quality of education. Hundreds of professionals are abolished across Quebec. In addition, the government proposes to increase the number of students per class and to no longer take into account the special needs of students in difficulty in group training. Today, the parents of all Quebec say to the Minister of Education: enough, that's enough. The minister must come out of denial and hear this cry of heart, "added Alexandre Cloutier. 
For its part, Jean-François Lisé echoed the great concerns of Montrealers in connection with the cuts in public schools. "No less than 22.5% of families with children are below the low-income threshold in the Montreal area, compared to 13.1% of those of the entire Quebec. We see the harmful effects on the ground, in all schools, particularly those located in the disadvantaged circles of the metropolis. In the Montreal School Board, no less than 70 job posts are abolished this year, "he illustrated. 
"We will continue to be with Quebec's parents, who are rightly worried about education cuts. The Prime Minister and his Minister of Education have admitted their own decreases in services and their impacts. Philippe Couillard continues to say that it's hard now, but that will go better later; However, what about current students, from those who today pay the price? ", Concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
