Quebec- Member of Parliament for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, deplores the many job losses announced today, or 1000 at Bombardier Aerospace, 200, perhaps more, at the Davie site of Lévis, and 175 at the Montreal School Board. 
"These job losses occur in the aftermath of the announcement of more than 100 layoffs at the Rio Tinto headquarters in Montreal. It's a black Thursday for workers; Quality and well-paid jobs disappear. In the case of Bombardier, the government has been looking at the parade for several months, despite being aware of the difficulties of the company. The Minister of Economy had told us that he had done his job by placing a phone call. Today, we see the result, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
With regard to the Davie shipyard, the Leader of the Official Opposition recalls that the Prime Minister had, however, told us, following the last federal budget, that obtaining contracts for our shipyards became for him a battlehorse. . Since then, the federal government has announced that it will spend more than $ 100 billion in maritime contracts in British Columbia and Nova Scotia. However, despite the fact that Quebeckers will pay $ 20 billion for these contracts, the Davie site will get none. 
"That's precisely that, the problem. We must make battles to pick up crumbs from Ottawa. And, only three weeks after the federal budget tabling, the inability of the Prime Minister of Quebec to obtain confirmation of contracts has just cost 200 jobs, perhaps more. What does the Prime Minister tell the Fathers and mothers who learned this week that they did not have any job? What will it do to prevent job losses, caused only by the federal stubbornness, multiply to Davie? , "Added the leader of the official opposition. 
"The reality of the last few months, it is rehearsal news at Alcan, Cirque du Soleil, at Bombardier, at SNC-Lavalin, at Solutions ... All of whom have left Quebec or in difficulty. The first contribution of the Prime Minister was to destabilize the aerospace sector in full by cutting the tax credit for research and development by 20%. Does he intend to restore it, as the industry claims? "Concluded Stéphane Bédard. 
