Montréal - The Head of the Official Opposition and MP for Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, urges the Government of Stephen Harper to give up abolishing the gun registry. "This unfortunate and stupid decision of the Conservative government to dismantle the firearms register hit the women who have fought for the control of arms from the tragedy of Polytechnique." This is what Pauline Marois said today at the National Monument, a significant place in the struggle of women for the right to vote, whereas that they presented five new candidates from the Quebecois party for the next election campaign. 
For Pauline Marois, Quebec has made a long way in recent decades like women. However, Quebec society has been facing significant retreats in recent years. The governments of Jean Charest and Stephen Harper roll back the rights of women. 
"The most carrier path for the professional advancement of women is education. However, the 75% increase in tuition fees decreed by the Government of Jean Charest Nurses particularly to the education of women. A government of the Parti Party is committed to maintaining the freeze of tuition fees. We must preserve the accessibility of graduate studies for all and all, "said the official opposition leader. 
The many rates of tariffs imposed by the Liberal government affect all Quebeckers, but especially for women. The health tax is a patent example that affects everyone regardless of income. Pauline Marois agrees that a government of the Parti Québécois abolishes this unfair tax upon arrival in power. 
"The responsibility for health care of a family is often in a large proportion to women. When a family member is in loss of autonomy, it is often the woman who acts as close caregiver. The Parti Québécois is committed to lightening their burden by introducing a national home care policy, "said Pauline Marois, the one that created the network of early childhood centers. 
The issue of unreasonable accommodations is another issue that threatens the very principle of equality between men and women. If the Government of Jean Charest refuses to act, a government of the Parti Québécois will quickly adopt a charter of secularism that will clearly restore this expensive principle to Quebecers and Quebeckers. 
The biggest threat to women comes from Ottawa and the Stephen Harper government. In 2004 Canada ranked 7th in the gender inequality index established by the World Economic Forum, it fell on 25th in 2009. 
"In Ottawa, it's the army before health, prisons before education, royalty before seniors and weapons before women," Pauline Marois said. Several conservative policies particularly affect women such as the abolition of the firearms registry, the reform of old-age security schemes or the questioning of the free choice by the filing of private bills. Private. It is unacceptable, "concluded Pauline Marois, recalling that the Parti Québécois program is the one that best meets the needs of Quebec women. 
