Montréal- The Minister responsible for democratic institutions and citizen participation, Bernard Drainville, participated today at a day of work and discussions organized by Quebec open as part of the International Day of Open Data. 
Minister Drainville recalled the Government of Quebec Delutter against corruption, to promote citizen engagement and restore the bond of trust between the population and their democratic institutions. "Access to information is a fundamental element to give a new breath to Quebec democracy and stimulate citizen participation," said Bernard Drainville. The transparency offered by the open government is guaranteeing integrity, equity and effective management of public funds. And it will allow citizens to even play their role as a guard dog from Quebec democracy. » 
In the coming months, the Minister will undertake consultations on the five-year report of the Access to Information Commission which should lead to a modernization of the law. "Access to information should allow all Quebec citizens to have answers on the issues they arise about their government's actions and ensuring healthy management and good behavior. public affairs. It is time to make the law of access to information the spearhead of greater accessibility to government data. Open data is the passage for the establishment of an authentic open government, which will be one of the essential characteristics of the 21st century democracies. Quebec can be a leader in this area, "added Bernard Drainville. 
Remember that on February 21, the minister responsible for democratic institutions and citizen participation was jointly adopting with the member for Bourassa-Sauvé, the member for Verdun, the member for Chauveau and the member for Mercier, the following motion: the following motion: 
"That the National Assembly emphasizes the International Day of Open Data that will take place on February 23; that it recognizes the fundamental contribution of open data to give a new breath to Quebec democracy and stimulate citizen participation; That it welcomes this initiative that helps to equip citizens to enable them to play a more active role in society and promotes the free movement of information in the best interest of society. " 
