Quebec, November 11, 2014 
Mr. Martineau, 
You are a sharp feather columnist that I like to read, although I often disagree with what you write. It is the beauty of democracy that to be able to divest peacefully. But democracy is a precious good, acquired and defended from high struggle ... 
On the occasion of the remembrance day, you signed a text that could have had all its relevance if it had not been concluded by a comment out of nowhere and who came to spoil the sauce. Were you at this point in lack of controversy that you had to disast the old tenacious urban legend that "the" Squirtists' deputies have refused to rise to the National Assembly to pay tribute to the military of the Royal 22nd Regiment. Having served in Afghanistan? 
Perhaps you will be surprised to learn that I myself proudly worn the uniform. Therefore, I have never dared to denigrate or misstate those who have also done so, what your burnt leaves. 
I have been sitting in the National Assembly since 2005, after being a federal member for 12 years. I was therefore present in the room in 2007 and I did not hesitate to stand up for respect for our military of the Royal 22nd regiment, just as a majority of my colleagues deputies. 
Every year, I make a duty, on the occasion of the day of remembrance, to pay tribute to those to whom we owe this peace, this freedom and the democracy that we cherish. Like several colleagues, including the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, who has a son in the Canadian Armed Forces, I have repeatedly expressed publicly to that effect. 
Moreover, it is on the initiative of my colleague and the Parti Québécois a motion was unanimously adopted at the National Assembly, on May 20, 2009, to "transmit to the soldiers of the 22nd Valcartier Regiment in Afghanistan our Recognition for the work done with the Afghan population ". 
Your text tends to pass the sovereignists for obtuse ideologues, struck by amnesia and ingratitude. Do you believe that because we are sovereignists, we are allergic to all that is "Canadian"? It would be not only ridiculous, because Canada and its symbols are an integral part of our history and identity, but it would also be abstracted as innumerable sons of Quebec have, by the strength of things, served under the Canadian (or British, epoch) colors, and that many have made the ultimate sacrifice so that we can live without having to undergo the yoke of tyranny. 
The day of remembers must be a privileged opportunity to gather, beyond our differences of opinions or our origins, to honor the memory of those who have not hesitated to put their own safety to ensure the our. It seems that your political convictions and your propensity to throw the anathema makes you incapable of such dignity and such elevation ... 
Stéphane Bergeron  Deputy of Verchères 
P.S. Your colleague, Lise Ravary, had also signed a text suggesting that we would have failed to respect the Corporal Nathan Cirillo by refusing to associate ourselves with the homage that had been to the National Assembly. In front of the unsightly and erroneous character of his remarks, she did not hesitate to make amends. Do you do the same? 
