Quebec- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltese, express, on this International Women's Day, their trust In the advent of a more just and safer society for women. 
"Our nation has realized great things for the advancement of women in our society over the last four decades. In particular, I am thinking of our family policy, including the Quebec Parental Insurance Plan and Reduced Contribution Daycare, the Pay Equity Act or the automatic perception of food pensions. However, there is still much work to complete the progress of recent years and thus achieve full equality. I believe, and I know not to be the only one to be convinced, in a future that can be proud of both our daughters as our boys, "said the premier. 
In Quebec, the theme of the 2013 International Women's Day is feminism, more current than ever ... for egalitarian tomorrow. Many activities of the Women's Movement will take place under this theme in all regions of Quebec. 
In addition, the theme chosen by the United Nations on this International Women's Day 2013 is a promise is a promise: it is time to take action to put an end to violence against women. 
"The implementation of the 2012-2017 Government Action Plan, unveiled in December 2012, demonstrates the government's determination to make Quebec a place where respect and equality take precedence. This plan represents for me a clear and concrete answer to the theme chosen by the United Nations for March 8, 2013. It is about working tirelessly until all women can live in security, "concluded Minister Maltese . 
The action plan contains 135 commitments that are particularly aimed at strengthening the action with victims. Nearly a quarter of the commitments seeks to adapt government interventions to the realities of indigenous peoples. This component demonstrates the importance given to the particular situation of women in Aboriginal and government will meet the values and culture of First Nations and the Inuit population. 
