Montreal - The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, accompanied by thirty members of the party, participates today in Montreal in the walk organized under the day of the Earth. According to her, this day is, this year, a particular character. "The Liberal government shows manifest indifference to Quebec's sustainable development, it believes. Not only does he leaving our subsoil at derisory prices without taking into account the harmful repercussions that this will lead to our environment, but it has also been acaded for months on our main resource for the future: our young people. » 
"We are convinced that the economy and the environment can combine and strengthen each other. We have the ability to collectively enrich us with our resources in respect of citizens' rights and the environment. We must affirm our property on the natural resources that belong to all Quebeckers. We will be able to ensure a better sharing of wealth, "explained Pauline Marois. 
"With a Quebec party government, no business will be able to extract mining resources without paying royalties like this is done with Jean Charest. We will put in place a royalty regime inspired by that of Australia. Our natural resources will be used to enrich collectively, "she assured. 
The leader of the Parti Québécois also reiterated his party's commitment to closing the Gentilly-2 nuclear power plant. "Unlike the Liberal Party, our commitment is clear. Gentilly-2 must be downgraded and we will do it. To support the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, we will put in place an Economic Diversification Fund of $ 200 million that will build on the development of renewable energies. » 
Pauline Marois also recalled the irresponsible gestures of the Liberal government who gave the rights of Quebeckers on oil held by Hydro-Québec on the island of Anticosti. "With a Quebec government government, if Quebec produces oil, the community will ensure that at least 50% of the wealth created will come back to Quebeckers. We will be inspired by what is done in Norway, an oil producing country that I visited and is exemplary in the environment. » 
To get rich, Quebec must end its gigantic trade deficit. At the moment, it's $ 68 million coming out of Quebec every day, mainly to pay the imported oil that we consume. By ceasing to consume imported oil, we could put an end to this ruinous deficit and use these millions to create jobs with us. We need to release the Quebec Economy of Petroleum Imported and Liberating Quebeckers. This is what we propose: a plan to reduce our imported oil addiction, "she added. 
"It must be recognized that the Liberal government as well as Mr. Legault's CAQ do not care about Quebec's sustainable development. Quebeckers are in favor of exploiting our natural resources, but not just about and not at any price. We will not let anyone mortgage our future from whatever way, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
