Quebec- On this World Teachers Day, the Minister of Education, Leisure and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, as well as the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology , Mr. Pierre Duchesne, wanted to unite their voices to pay tribute to the teaching staff of the primary, secondary, college and academic institutions of Quebec. 
"I would like, in this day, which is dedicated to them, to share with the teachers of all the admiration I have for them. On a daily basis, they are dedicated to transmitting their passion and knowledge to our young people, as well as those attending adult education and vocational training centers. I can only greet the exceptional work they do and that allows each and everyone to develop his thirst for learning and fully expressing his potential. I also invite the people to thank them warmly for the quality of their commitment, "Ms. Malavoy said. 
On the initiative of UNESCO, World Teachers Day is celebrated on October 5th of each year. Privileged instrument for the recovery of the teaching profession, this day makes it possible to highlight the complex reality that teachers saw and to greet the essential role it plays in society. This year's theme, "Let's work for teachers! ", Is a reminder of the importance of supporting their action, to promote their professional development and to recognize that the future of our society and the influence of our culture depend largely on the quality of their teaching. Teachers prepare young and adults to evolve in a world where innovation and creativity are unavoidable. 
"Knowledge society requires, the growth of Quebec is growing more and more within our CEGEPs and our universities. The teachings exempted are the foundations from which the society we live in. I am pleased to see the talent and deep commitment of our pedagogues as well as the vitality of our network of education. I draw my hat to teaching staff who make it and leads him to excellence, "said Duchesne. 
Note that Ms. Malavoy takes advantage of World Teachers' Day to visit the Saint-Edmond High School of Greenfield Park, Montérégie. On this occasion, teachers and school students will be able to talk to the new Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport and introduce him, on this week against violence and intimidation at school , the projects they have made over the past year. 
