Quebec- The member for Saint John and spokesman for the Employment, Social Economy, the fight against poverty, solidarity, vocational training, adult education, literacy and Youth, Dave Turcotte, emphasizes the International Day of Literacy, with this year for theme "Literacy and Sustainable Societies", by touring various middle actors. 
"Literacy is an extraordinary means of economic, social and cultural development. The government has therefore interest in investing to break the vicious circle of illiteracy and poverty. When we find that more than half of Quebecers have difficulty reading and writing, this may appear discouraging, but I prefer to see a great potential we could exploit, with political will, to create more prosperity. In Quebec, "said Dave Turcotte. 
Unfortunately, at present, it is the opposite that occurs, and the liberal austerity measures will certainly not improve the situation of this clientele. "Quebec arrives at the penultimate rank of Canadian provinces in terms of literacy; 53% of the population does not reach the minimum threshold to work in a company. This means that these people are in vulnerability, in many ways, "added the member. 
On the ground all day 
As part of his tour, Dave Turcotte attended the 5th scholarships "I do not give up, I win! From the Foundation for Literacy. He then visited the Adult Education Committee of Petite-Burgundy and Saint-Henri (CED5), as well as the awareness kiosk of the bodybox, the Fablier, a history of families and literacy Iota. Then, in Saint-Hyacinthe, he will participate in the March and the Literacy Forum on Adult and Youth Pedagogical Aid (APAJ). Finally, the member will take part in the APAJ press conference, which will take place at 6:00 pm today. 
"I will continue to support the actors who work every day in the field, including the popular education centers. Literacy is essential to the development of our society, but also for each individual; It helps to find a job and helps to make us citizens completed, "concluded Dave Turcotte. 
