Québec- "The International Seniors Day is an excellent opportunity to reiterate the farm of our government to do everything in its power to implement a set of projects dedicated to building a better future for Quebec elders. Aging should not be considered a problem to be resolved, but as an opportunity to enhance our ways to do, which will benefit not only with elders, but also to our fellow citizens of all ages. This is what the Minister of Health and Social Services said today and responsible for seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, on the occasion of this thematic day instituted in 1990 by the World Organization of Nations -UNIES. 
Minister Hébert explained that in an aging society, the improvement of the quality of life of seniors and the maintenance of their autonomy as long as possible constitute objectives around which we must orient our actions. "In less than 20 years, one in four people will have more than 65 years. That's why we are committed to intensifying and diversifying our action with seniors, whether they are in shape or loss of autonomy, "he added. The Minister has mentioned the municipalities' municipalities of seniors, in which more than 700 municipalities or MRC have committed. This approach aims to adapt our communities to the reality of the aging of the population. 
On the other hand, across Quebec, many contribute to improving the quality of life of seniors. Each year old tribute prices highlight the volunteer commitment of a person contributing to the well-being, quality of life and the participation of seniors in his community, and in each of the regions of Quebec. Note that this year, the prices will be awarded in November. 
Also, the minister emphasized the sustained participation of the elderly in voluntary activities across Quebec: "Seniors constitute a capital of expertise and invaluable wisdom. They contribute generously, every day, to the development of Quebec today and tomorrow, including acting as volunteers. This day is a wonderful opportunity to highlight this ongoing support they offer to Quebeckers and Quebeckers, "said Minister Hébert. 
The minister recalled that in this International Day of Elders, which takes place under the theme "What future do we want? It is important to pay attention to the wishes expressed by our elders, particularly with respect to their participation in community life and how and where they want to age. To this end, he notably recalled the intensification already engaged in the offer of home services, with a budget addition of $ 110 million for the current year, and $ 500 million over five years, as well as The Autonomy Project. 
"In 2007, more than 4,000 seniors made their voices heard during public consultations on the living conditions of seniors. During this major event, seniors expressed a wish: that of being able to age home and to receive services tailored to their needs, where they choose to live. With the autonomy insurance that our government proposes to create, we kindly want to offer an answer to this vow widely formulated, "concluded the Minister Hébert. 
Note that consultations on the White Paper on Autonomy Insurance will be held this fall as part of a parliamentary committee. 
