Québec- reacting to revelations that at least one journalist has been placed under surveillance by the SPVM, the leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesman for the Parti Québécois in terms of public safety, Stéphane Bergeron, and The Judician spokesperson, Véronique Hivon, propose three measures for Quebec to face this crisis that affects independence and freedom of the press: first, a survey of the Office of Independent Investigations (EIB) is triggered and that its report is made public quickly; Then, the immediate suspension of the police chief of the City of Montreal, Philippe Pichet, for the duration of the investigation; Finally, a non-partisan expert committee is set up as soon as possible to write the groundwork for a bill on the protection of journalistic sources. 
"In the face of the facts, it is desirable that an EIB investigation be launched to shed light on the whole story. How to explain that monitoring of telephone communications from a journalist could be requested and then granted? The use of such means must be absolutely exceptional, "said the leader of the official opposition. 
"When we set up the EIB in 2013 it was, among other things, to deal with this kind of situation. When a foundation of democracy, freedom of the press, is threatened, it is necessary to entrust independent investigators the mandate to shed all the light on what happened ", has insisted Stéphane Bergeron. 
"We also believe that the police chief of the City of Montreal, Philippe Pichet, who justified his decisions yesterday in this case, must be suspended for the duration of the EIB's investigation. It was Mr. Pichet who authorized this abusive supervision; It must be noted from its duties immediately for this unprecedented infringement of democracy, "continued Jean-François Lisée. 
"Finally, we ask that a committee of four experts, chosen by the parties, not by the Minister of Justice alone, be set up quickly in order to propose the basis of a law to protect sources and work journalistic , and that this committee submits its report for study at the National Assembly within three months, in accordance with the motion we present in this respect today, "added Véronique Hivon. 
