Quebec- The member for Rosemont and spokespersons of the Parti Québécois on social services, the protection of youth, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, and the member for Taillon and spokesperson concerning Health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, highlighted the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. They joined their voices to that of the Montreal agency ex aequo - which has been dedicated for 35 years to promote and defending the rights of people with a motor disability - to denounce the impacts of liberal austerity on people with disabilities . 
"Today, Mr. Martin Juneau, President of Ex Aequo, has given many desolate examples of what austerity imposes as constraints for people with disabilities: less access to health services due to expense billing Accessories, less government assistance for the purchase of devices to overcome a disability, cuts in care and home support, especially for the preparation of meals, and I pass. The Québécois party joins his voice with that of ex aequo and asks the Couillard government that cuts the cuts that are at the expense of people with disabilities, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
"The authorization to charge ancillary fees, which the Minister of Health has given to all physicians by Bill 20, represents a huge decline in access to care. People with disabilities will be particularly affected by these overloads. The Protector of the Citizen has also been very clear about it on page 5 of its opinion on ancillary costs: "affecting the entire population, these constraints penalize [O] nt further certain segments of the population, [... ] [In particular, people with disabilities ". It is an indefensible political choice that is completely ruled with the health insurance contract that Quebeckers have gone, "denounced Diane Lamarre. 
"What has been hammering for 20 months is that liberal compressions have serious consequences for patients and more particularly for vulnerable people. Even the Commission on Human Rights and Youth Rights has declared publicly last June that it was concerned about the impact of the current budgetary context on the right to equality of persons with disabilities. Unfortunately, we are forced to see that our worries materialize. Nevertheless, rights defense organizations continue to mobilize and we would like to emphasize their work and commitment, not just in this day, but all year long, "have entered Members. 
