Quebec- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the spokesman for the Partié Québécois on the matter of female condition, Carole Poirier, have stressed the International Women's Day by reiterating that there remains the way to go before reaching equality between men and women. 
"Whatever in the Prime Minister Philippe Couillard and the Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Lise Thériault, it is a current debate. In 2011, Quebec, full-time employment income for women was 75% of men. Parity, in decision-making places and here, at the National Assembly, is not reached. In 2014, according to a study of the entrepreneurship foundation, 10.3% of Quebecers had corporate owners. The number of women who want to start in business is growing, and that must continue to enrich women and society as a whole. I would like to remind the extraordinary mobilization that took place around the women's summit, an inspiring event. We took ten commitments to reach parity in politics, "recalled Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"I say it and I repeat: I'm not ashamed to say that I am feminist. And my way of being feminist is to work every day to improve the fate of Quebec women. It is for this reason that I defended their young girls against sexual exploitation, which I proposed a commission on the living conditions of aboriginal women, which I filed a bill that aims to To guarantee unhindered access to abortion clinics, which I filed a bill allowing municipal elected municipalities to enjoy a real maternity leave. That's the feminism of the Parti Québécois! "Pursued Carole Poirier. 
What is the commitment of the minister? 
The members of the Parti Québécois are wondering about the commitment of the Minister responsible for the status of women to the cause of the advancement of Quebec women. 
Recall that recently, the minister, after several days of controversy, had ended up confessing the lips that she was feminist "in his own way". "Basically, what is his" way "? It is part of a government that raises the network of early childhood centers, a great tool for women's emancipation? It is to cut half of the equality budget to decide, 40% of the Dechapeau budget, girls!, Or 80% of the Demaurician influence, programs that increase the number of women in decision positions, In local and regional places of power, as well as in traditionally male trades? Is it to ignore the urgency of presenting a credible action plan to combat sexual exploitation? Is it to drop around Aboriginal women from Val-d'Or? By imposing cuts and areas of activity particularly affecting women, the government threatens earnings acquired for decades of struggles and mobilization, "Pierre Karl Péladeau insisted. 
Also mention that Lise Thériault also indicated that for women, responsibility to emancipate and realize was related to their individual will. "Let's go, go ahead," she said. "If the advancement of women is an individual, and non-collective responsibility, I would like to know what the objectives and the raison d'être of that minister are. Can she name us if only one goal? And a single concrete measure set up to achieve this goal? , "Said the spokesperson. 
The Parti Québécois has several suggestions for the Minister: 
