Quebec- On the occasion of the International Day Against Homophobia and Transphobia, the hon. Member for Jonquière and Leader of the Official Opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, and the member for Joliette and spokesman for the Quebecois party, Véronique Hivon, arrested the government about concrete actions that could be carried out to improve the recognition and inclusion of people forming the LGBT community. 
"Quebec has operated on major social changes for 40 years: amendment to the Charter of Rights and Freedoms of the person prohibiting any form of discrimination based on sexual orientation, civil union and adoption for same-sex people in 2002, settlement For the change of civil status of major transgender people in 2015 ... The Parti Québécois has always been alongside the LGBT community. Our company has made progress, but we must not forget that there is still the way to do, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
In terms of the fight against homophobia, last year, the Parti Party denounced the cup of a million dollars carried out by the government, and whose consequences were concrete. Indeed, the second awareness campaign on this subject has been suspended, despite the very conclusive results of the first, in 2013. The Liberal government has also cut into the formations given by the National Institute of Public Health of Quebec to raise awareness. professionals in the realities of people LGBT. "Awareness is crucial for the interventions to be conducted properly, everywhere, and that young people from sexual minorities are better tracked. We ask the government to launch, quickly and with the necessary budgets, the second awareness campaign. Austerity should not be a reason for cuts in integration or openness to diversity, "added the leader of the official opposition. 
Véronique Hivon announces that the Parti Québécois wishes to adhere to the Charter of Benefit Against Elderly Lesbian, cheerful, bisexual and transidential persons, proposed by the Emergence Foundation. "This charter reports 11 principles to help seniors of sexual minorities reduce their vulnerability. This year, the International Day takes place under the theme Homophobia and the transphobia affect all ages. It reminds us that LGBT seniors are also struggling with stigma and discrimination, and it is important to continue awareness-raising efforts, "she said. 
As for the fight against transphobia, the civil status change approach is the key symbol of full recognition, from a legal point of view, transgender persons, based on the principle of self-determination . "Today, we go further and propose several solutions for transgender people. Our member of Parliament for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, has filed a letter to the attention of Minister Valley, in May 2015; It contained seven recommendations, including the expansion of gender change to minor people, which is a major, immigrant challenge, which could be set up quickly, "concluded the member for Joliette. 
