Quebec, November 3, 2016 -The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the spokesperson of the Parti Québécois in terms of public safety, justice, and culture and communications, Pascal Bérubé, Véronique Hivon and Martine Ouellet, welcome the Government's decision to grant commission powers to the Committee of Experts to shed light on the practices of the three main police services in Quebec in terms of internal investigations about leaks. information from the journalistic community. However, they claim clarification as to the mandate of the Committee, the duration of its execution and the mode of dissemination of its report. 
"We continue to insist on the non-partisan nature of the approach, as the Prime Minister had indicated, last Tuesday. The collaboration promised by the Prime Minister has not yet realized. The mandate must also be specified in collaboration with the other parties in order, in particular, to ensure that the Davidson-Dutil case is included in the examination of the facts, as well as that covering the leaks associated with the charges against Nathalie Normandeau, "said Jean François Lisée. 
"The Government must specify, unlike the Certain of the announcement, which the commission of inquiry will be public, which is absolutely necessary to ensure confidence in the process, confidence already sufficiently shaken since the Revelations of the beginning of the week, "said Véronique Hivon. 
"We still do not understand why the government refuses to withdraw from the police officer of the City of Montreal, Philippe Picche, the time to shed light on these stories. Yet the Charter of the City of Montreal allows him to do so. The Director Pitchet missed judgment by allowing electronic monitoring of journalists, and he maintains himself, which is unacceptable, "says Pascal Bérubé. 
"We must also look on the federal side. The National Assembly must require Justin Trudeau forces the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and the Canadian Security Intelligence Service to be confirmed, publicly and formally, that there has been no listening or spinning journalists, nor other infringement of freedom of the press or the protection of sources. Just say that everything is correct, as it has done today, is voluntarily blurred and clearly insufficient, "concluded Martine Ouellet. 
