Montreal- The Minister of Health and Social Services, Dr. Réjean Hébert, took advantage of his presence today at the Quebec Federation Federation of the Quebec Resident Physician Federation to make public regional plans for medical staff (PREM) 2013 in family medicine. "Our priority is to ensure access to medical services to all Quebeckers, wherever they live. The implementation of medical staff plans are part of this logic of equity. They are aimed at a distribution of physicians who take into account both the needs of different backgrounds and available resources, "said the minister. 
More specifically, Dr. Hébert announced that a gross addition of 320 new family physicians is scheduled for 2013, or 20 more than in 2012. Taking into account departures, it is a net addition of 170. family doctors. "The number of family physicians in training continues its progress. This year, only 6% of residency positions have not been filled in family medicine, a percentage equivalent to that for specialty positions. It's a nice accomplishment! However, family medicine needs remain important, so we will improve efforts to strengthen front-line care and encourage more physicians to turn to this field of practice that is family medicine, "said the doctor. Hébert. 
With respect to SPECIAL Medicine Prem, the Minister confirmed that the Five-Year Plan 2011-2015 continues. "The Five-Year Plan offers interesting opportunities in all regions of Quebec, particularly in the Montreal Crown, in all specialties. That said, we will take all necessary steps to form more doctors in specialties where numbers remain urgent, either in geriatrics, rheumatology, dermatology, physiatric, into hemato-oncology and plastic surgery, "concluded. The Minister. 
The prem 2013 will be in effect from December 1, 2012, until November 30, 2013, both in family medicine and in specialties. Further information on the PREMs are available on the website of the Ministry of Health and Social Services atwww.msss.gouv.qc.ca/prem. 
