Quebec- In this 13th World Day of Suicide Prevention, the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the Public Health, Youth Protection and Prevention Party, Jean-François Lisé, asks Prime Minister Philippe Couillard. to stop cutting in these areas because they have significant impacts on the help that can be made to people in distress. 
"Since 17 months, since they have been in power, the Liberals cut some $ 23.7 million in prevention and public health, which equates to 7% of the budgets of the organizations of these sectors. These, even if they are already struggling to meet the two ends, continue to give services to the population. And when it comes to keeping someone alive, we will all agree that these services do not have a price, "said the member for Rosemont. 
Jean-François Lisé recalls that the government has an important role to play in prevention. "Suicide, in Quebec, is a real stake of society. It concerns everyone, and the state is responsible for finding ways to reduce the sad statistics that overwhelm us year after year. Indeed, again today, in 2015, it is three Quebeckers who, every day, on average, give themselves death. Imagine the number of people bereaved as a result of these dramas gives vertigo. The Minister delegated to Rehabilitation, the Protection of Youth and Public Health, Lucie Charlebois, must commit to pressure on his prime minister to intensify efforts in prevention, not the opposite; Currently, austerity policies only upset the network and mobilize the energies of the teams in the wrong place, "he continued. 
The spokesperson took advantage of the World Day of Suicide Prevention to show its greatest gratitude to the stakeholders and organizations which, every day, attempt to restore the taste of living one or more people who do not see more utility. "These people are doing miracles; They need the support of their leaders, a commitment of the political class to be able to do their work in serenity. The Couillard government must put its priorities in the right place and demonstrate that it has consideration for them. » 
Finally, Jean-François Lisé recalled that the free intervention line 1 866 calls (277-3553) remained accessible at all times to the distress people. 
