Quebec- The hon. Member for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, the member for Bourget and spokesperson responsible for the French Language Charter, Maka Kotto, as well as the member for Lac-Saint-Jean and Word In Justice, Alexandre Cloutier, asked the Liberal government to legislate quickly to amend the French Language Charter, following the judgment rendered by the Court of Appeal on the language of display. 
"The government must act quickly; It is his duty to propose a modification to the Charter to ensure that in Quebec, we appear in French, and to reiterate that the common language of the public space that we have chosen is French. . Our language and our culture are among our greatest riches; They must therefore be constant priorities for the Government of Quebec, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
"Prime Minister Philippe Couillard has a duty to protect our language and law 101. He himself said, during his opening address, that the promotion and protection of the French language were daily duties for his government, the French language being, here, always under pressure; It must therefore act now. That said, while the Couillard Prime Minister does nothing, the CAQ agrees with the judgment; Obviously, the only party that vigorously defends French, it is the Parti Quebecois, "added Maka Kotto. 
The judgment confirms that we can circumvent the law 101 
The trial judgment, in April 2014, already evoked, in a very clear way, that there has been a trend in the Quebec business world since the 1990s, that of more and more the trademark in a Another language that French: 
[254] But in recent years, some traders have resorted to an expedient, the registration of trademarks in English with the Canada Intellectual Property Office, to fail, it is useless to hide it, In subsection 58 (1) of the Charter, which provides that public posting and commercial advertising must be made in French. 
"The scope of this judgment is to confirm that we can circumvent the spirit of the law 101. This goes against the will of Quebeckers to preserve the commercial public posting in French. From now on, a company may legally post its trademark only in English. What we want, therefore, is that the Quebec government intervenes and that it modifies the charter to clog this breach. The trial judge invited the legislator to take note of this legal flaw, and to fill it. Now, the Liberal Party of Quebec is in power; It is up to him to take his responsibilities, "concluded Alexandre Cloutier. 
