Renegotiation of NAFTA 
Quebec, August 18, 2017 - the official opposition spokesperson for Economics, Alain Therrien, as well as Finance and Finance Québec-Canada, Nicolas Marceau, find that under the Couillard Government, Quebec has been Detrograde to the rank of spectator in the renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), while billions of dollars are at stake. 
IN SHORT 
"When negotiating the trade agreement with Europe, the representative of Quebec directly traded the topics of Quebec jurisdiction. This time he is in the platforms. The future of several key sectors of our economy is therefore in the hands of the Federal, with the total consent of the Government of Philippe Couillard. It's a major decline for Quebec, "said Alain Therrien. 
NAFTA is the largest trade agreement in Quebec; Each year, exports to the United States reach $ 59 billion and imports, $ 34 billion. Obviously, his renegotiation worries many Quebec companies, including those in the forest areas - for whom access to the US market is fundamental - and agricultural - who want to protect supply management. Electronic commerce, in strong growth, is another issue that directly challenges Quebec entrepreneurs and consumers and for which we must remain vigilant. 
Alain Therrien further recalls that during the Astrobe negotiation of the Transpacific Partnership, Ottawa had opened a 4% breach in imports of dairy products. "Is the federal government that speaks this time in Quebec's Square, will offer the same advantage to Americans? "He said. 
Nicolas Marceau emphasizes the importance of maintaining a mechanism for the settlement of independent disputes, and that of the recognition of the competitiveness of our forest regime. "If the federal government continues to speak for us, I doubt that the Americans, whose objectives are affirmed, are impressed. Justin Trudeau and his ministers only have hollow phrases and great empty statements to offer! Philippe Couillard must take up his responsibilities and ensure the interests of Quebec, "he argues. 
