Saguenay - Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé is proud to announce the opening of the annual days of tourist welcoming (JAAT). Organized by Tourisme Québec, they will be held from 16 to 18 October at the hotel Le Montagnais in the dynamic region of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean. Under the Thèmeun Home in motion!, The participants will be welcomed in large by their colleagues Saguenéens for this tenth edition of the Jaat, which promises to be the most grandiose. 
JAAT provide an opportunity for key players in the hospitality and tourist information to exchange best practices in this area. The rich and current programming presents renowned speakers, including Mr. Rémi Tremblay and Mr. Pierre Lavoie. 
The azimut awards at the October 17 Gala evening will reward innovation in the network. The Minister Delegate to Tourism, Pascal Bérubé, will meet the participants on this evening where several beautiful initiatives will be highlighted. 
"Quebec is rich in its reception network and tourist information. The quality of our welcome is recognized internationally. We need to maintain the dynamism of our network and encourage people who work there to constantly innovate. Through initiatives such as JAAT holding and azimuth competition, we recognize the importance of these first-rate actors in the Quebec tourism industry, Minister Bérubé ". 
"The tourist reception is and will always be one of the main pillars of our industry. The front-line staff plays a major role in the global experience of the visitor and that's why in Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, we make a point of honor to valorize it. The next implementation of a new host policy in our region will allow us to bring this experience further. We are pleased to welcome JAATs and wish all candidates in nomination at the Azimuth Prize, "said Eric Larouche, President of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean Tourist. 
JAAT stems from a Quebec tourism initiative, in collaboration with the Provincial Hospitality and Tourist Information (CPLART) committee. 
For more information on JAATs: www.tourisme.gouv.qc.ca/activites/jaat 
