The leader and vice-cheft of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée and Véronique Hivon, as well as the candidate in Rousseau, Nicolas Marceau, compared the serious plan of the Quebecois party for early childhood, who favors CPEs, with the one, improvised, from the CAQ, which rather considers kindergarten 4 years. According to the calculations of the Parti Québécois, not only François Legault's proposal is unrealistic and not credible but, in addition, it would cost parents more and complicate their lives. 
IN SHORT 
Kindergarten 4 years of CAQ are a misconception: 
"An election campaign is done to highlight the differences between the proposals of the parties, the advantages and disadvantages of each. But a file illustrates perfectly the deep credibility deficit of François Legault: that of kindergarten 4 years. If we compare the two systems - CPE, which we give priority, and maternal 4 years -, CPEs earn on all fronts: lower ratios, services 260 days a year against 180 in kindergarten hours More extensive, lower costs ... In short, kindergarten 4 years, it's a false good idea, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
"Rather than recognizing the important intake of CPEs and committing themselves to do more and better for our children, François Legault Bricole an inadequate response that favors business centers," good business models ", according to the CAQ. But if Mr. Legault refuses to understand that the best services are in CPE, could it at least admit that its solution will cost more than Quebec parents? He chained Véronique Hivon. 
Indeed, taking into account the expenses attributable to dinners, at the weeks of camp necessary to overcome the service break in summer and the use of child care, given the fact that children leave school around 15 hours, the Nursery 4 years represent an estimated disbursement at $ 3469 per child, per year. "In other words, a parent who sends his first child to CPE rather than 4 year olds will save about $ 1375 a year. And these savings are even more considerable if it does the same with its other children, since our plan provides that it will be half-rate for the 2nd, and free for the 3rd and the following, "said Vice-Cheffe. 
In addition, to welcome all these children in kindergarten 4 years (82,000, according to estimates of the CAQ), it would take 5000 more classes. "It's not a secret for anyone: our schools are already overflowing. The CAQ believes that it will meet the needs injecting $ 153 million. It's a joke! This amount would only create just over 33,400 places. In any case, the parents spoke: for 73% of them, according to a survey, the place of a child of 4 years, it is in a square of sand, not on a school bench. Let the children be children, and allow them to take advantage of the recognized excellence of our CPEs, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
By far, it is the plan of the Parti Québécois which is the most credible and the most ambitious for the families and children of Quebec. "We will complete the CPE network by 2022. We will abolish the liberal family tax and reduce tariffs for large or low-income families. Our goal is to offer our toddlers what is best: an educational program whose quality is demonstrated and a stimulating learning environment. And that is the CPE model, "added Véronique Hivon. 
"We know that Quebeckers want change. But they do not want any change. They want serious proposals, credible solutions to the real problems that concern them. And that's exactly what the Quebecois party offers, "the chief concluded. 
