Quebec- The member for Bourget and spokesman for the official opposition responsible for the Charter of the French language, Maka Kotto, takes advantage of the recent judgment of the Quebec Court reaffirming that Law 101 still has its raison d'être to reiterate The importance of protecting the French language in Quebec. 
"Justice Salvatore Mascia has rejected the grievances of the businesses at the origin of this cause, that linguistic protections no longer have their raison d'être. We believe the opposite. In the context of Quebec, a francophone enclave in an English-speaking continent, constant vigilance must be ensured. The vitality of our common public language depends, among other things, the way we protect it, "said Maka Kotto. 
The hon. Member also recalls that the 2011 census data demonstrate a decline in the demographic weight of the French, in terms of the number of speakers having them as a mother tongue or as a language of use. In addition, a study of the Superior Council of the French language, made public in December 2014 and entitled The use of French and English by Quebecers in public interactions, portrait of 2010, confirms that the objective of the law 101 - to make French the common language of all Quebeckers in the public space - is not reached; Even one goes away a little more every day, especially in Montreal. 
"One must worry about the decrease in the demographic weight of the francophones of the mother tongue, but even more of the decrease in the proportion of the population that speaks French at work and in its public interactions, particularly in Montreal. This proves that efforts for the protection of our common public language must be constant. But what is the government's language action plan? We have not heard at all about it since arriving in power. What does it mean for French as a language of work, commerce and posting? Unfortunately, the only times where Philippe Couillard voted on the issue of language, it was to say that the employees of a production chain should be able to respond in English to foreign buyers who came to visit their factory, and in Iceland, When he claimed that Quebec's Prime Minister did not need to speak French in international forums, "concluded Maka Kotto. 
