Québec- The Parti Québécois returns to the expense and claims the abolition of the health tax. He hoped that this gesture should be asked from the next budget, for the benefit of 4.5 million Québec taxpayers. 
"The health tax is odious. It strikes hard and directly the families of the middle class. As early as 2010, we have denounced it vigorously. It is necessary to abolish it right now, "said the member for Rousseau and sentence of the official opposition in terms of finance and economic development, Nicolas Marceau. 
This regressive tax, set up by the Charest government in 2010, does not take into account taxpayers' income. Thus, those who have an annual income of $ 30,000 pay the same amount as those who earn $ 1 million. 
Last week, the official opposition leader and deputy of Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, is committed to helping the families of the middle class; This abolition would allow families to have $ 400 more in their pocket. Those who have the financial means (those who earn $ 130,000 and more) would contribute according to their income to the Health Services Fund. 
"For a minister of the Liberal government of Jean Charest, $ 400, it represents the equivalent of the cost of a dinner for a couple in a large restaurant. For a middle class family is the equivalent of two grocery stores. When we hear a minister say that it's a reasonable amount, it's overturning, "said the member for Rousseau. 
The members of the National Assembly will vote tomorrow, on Wednesday, February 15, 2012, on a motion of the official opposition that reads as follows: 
"That the National Assembly requires the Government to the abolition of the health contribution and its replacement through amendments to the tax structure to transfer the tax burden of the health contribution of the middle class to the upper income classes. » 
"Rather than managing, the Liberals of Jean Charest prefer taxing. Quebeckers can no longer. With the Liberal Most in the National Assembly, the ball is in François Legault's camp: Will he rank in the Liberal party camp, whoever wants to tax, or in the middle class camp The Parti Québécois wants to help? ", Concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
