Quebec - Chief of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the spokesman for the Quebecois Justice, Véronique Hivon, accompanied by Mrs Arlene Gaudreault, President of the Quebec Association Advocate-Victims, Manon Monastentess , Director of the Federation of Women's Housing, Nancy Roy, Executive Director of the Association of Assassinated or Missing Persons, and Sylvie Langlais, President of the Consolidation of Houses for Women Victims of Violence, asked the Prime Minister and to the Minister of Justice of Quebec, Stephanie Valley, what is used by the derogation clause, in order to avoid the proliferation of trial abortions and the breach of public confidence in the justice system that derive. 
IN SHORT 
- The Parti Québécois claims that the Minister of Justice acts immediately and that the derogatory clause be used to prevent other accused from serious crimes from justice. Quebeckers are angry, are indignant after a. Accused the murder of his spouse was released due to Jordan; - the justice system is at the very heart of our democracy; It is urgent to take action. 
"The Prime Minister must not reject the use of the derogatory clause under false pretexts. Indeed, claiming that this is an exceptional measure equivalent to a nuclear weapon, it fails to say that its own government has used it five times in 2014 in a draft law on plans. of retirement. Today, a man accused of murder asked and obtained a stop of procedures; It is extremely serious and damaging for the confidence of Quebeckers towards their justice system. For months, we have been asking for clear actions, to consider the derogatory clause, coordinating with the federal government if required; It is urgent to do it now, to prevent other accused of serious crimes from justice. And I note that the Prime Minister just has to get involved personally in the case, despite the multiplication of the trials aborted in recent months, and that it does not intend to intervene further before a few days. It's aberrant! Denounced Jean-François Lisée. 
"In recent months, we have witnessed the release of several accused of fraud or abuse of confidence, including the alleged accomplices of Gilles Vaillancourt, and members of organized crime. Should these people get away from it easily? Now, a first acknowledgment of murder escapes justice; It can not last, "added the leader of the official opposition. 
"Our level of indignation reaches peaks when we see that too long delays make that a man accused of the murder of his spouse could be released. I mean the family of the victim she has all our sympathy, our compassion. Do you imagine the drama that these people live right now? They are victims again because the system is unable to do justice. Victims do not have to be abandoned because the system has been abandoned. Stéphanie Valley must immediately answer our call for action, "said Véronique Hivon. 
