Lac-Mégantic- 11:30 am Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks. Mr. Yves François Blanchet has been present at Lac-Mégantic since yesterday morning (July 6) and ensures that all the necessary workforce and equipment are deployed to ensure the safety of the population and the protection of the environment. Emergency-Environment teams went on site before dawn following derailment reporting and the mobile analysis laboratory (TAGA) was rapidly mobilized to carry out the necessary measures and analyzes in the context of a sinister of this type. 
Four stacks were installed on the Chaudière River and stakeholders ensure a day before to spot any arrival index from the spilled oil and thus intervene in collaboration with the municipalities, if applicable. Departmental teams also assess impacts on municipal water sources over the river. The municipalities downstream of Lake Mégantic who draw their drinking water into the Chaudière River have also been supported by experts to take the necessary steps to protect the supply of their populations. Several oil pumps began upon arrival of the ministry's workforce, at the descent of the crippling storm sewer throwing in the boiler river. 
As for the plume of black smoke, atmospheric measurements are carried out to identify the presence of toxic substances and to assess whether special measures must be taken to avoid consequences for the surrounding populations or in areas where the sectors could be directed. Smoke under the direction and strength of the winds. 
Minister Blanchet made Quebec's safety yesterday an air overview of the affected locations in the heart of the city to assess the damage and environmental issues. Despite the images of terrible devastation, it ensures that all measures are taken to limit the impacts on the population and the environment. The minister will do this afternoon an overview of the river and at-risk municipalities to measure potential threats and ensure the effectiveness of interventions. Finally, the Ministry works in coordination with the Civil Security Organization, the Ministry of Public Safety, the Office of the Prime Minister, the municipal authorities, the fire departments, the security of Quebec and all other stakeholders concerned . 
