Lac-Mégantic- At the end of a tour of the facilities and an air overview of the Chaudière River, the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves François Blanchet, would like to inform The population of changing situation. It is serious, worrying but under control. 
"At the environmental level, the disaster that afflicts the community of Lac-Mégantic first made us fear the worst. For the moment, the contamination of the Chaudière River is serious, but less that we have feared it. We continue to anticipate all the scenarios, we are closely related to the municipalities, and we are confident that impacts will only be marginal before reaching the mouth of the boiler on the river, "said Minister Blanchet. 
Aerial observation by the Minister and an expert, thanks to the collaboration of the safety of Quebec, revealed the deposit on the river of a fine oil film (between 0.5 and 3 microns) with bluish reflections or metal and observable to the naked eye. This flow covers most of the surface between Lac-Mégantic and St-Georges-de-Beauce but does not pose a significant risk to public health and is very widely contained by the STAC sequence installed at the height of ST -Georges. For this purpose, the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP) informed all the municipalities concerned by submitting to each of them the measures to be taken to avoid the contamination of the sources of drinking water. 
In order to minimize the amount of oil spilled in the environment, emergency-environment responds to pumping activities. Also, five (5) additional stacms have been installed to contain and recover spilled oil. In this respect, coordination is provided with the Quebec Water Expertise Center to open the valves in such a way that does not affect the effectiveness of the facilities and ensure a minimum flow for ecological preservation purposes. 
Despite all the actions taken, it remains possible that spilled oil crosses the etacades to the mouth of the St. Lawrence River in Quebec City. If this is the case, the authorities consider very likely that these hydrocarbons will be biodegraded by the microorganisms. The presence of oil will therefore not pose any health risk and will only generate minor visual impacts for the environment beyond the mouth of the river on the river. "The situation is worrying and should not be minimized, but it appears to us under control. I remain on the spot and I continue with our experts to evaluate the different situations in order to respond properly. No effort will be made to ensure the safety of the population and the protection of the environment, "the minister concluded. 
