Quebec- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, was back to Lac-Mégantic yesterday - on July 16 - to seek evolution operations and re-evaluate the magnitude of environmental issues. In particular, there is a yellow zone, on the edge of the red zone, to make a first visual assessment, with the experts, the scope of the work to be undertaken in terms of decontamination of soils. 
This visit revealed the important work done for the recovery of oily water present on the site of the accident, as well as for the cleaning of the wastewater treatment plant, greatly contaminated. The effectiveness of this cleaning operation makes it possible to consider in the short term a sufficient reactivation of the station to treat the entire wastewater in the city. 
The minister also confirms the complete recovery of the activities of the companies whose services have been selected for the cleaning and decontamination of the site, the lake and the river. "Immediately sensitized to the fears expressed by companies in expected payments for their work, the government has made the only responsible choice: to ensure payment of the amounts due or may become, and that, to ensure the continuation without delays. Environmental operations, "confirmed the Minister Blanchet. 
On the lake, in the marina sector, there are still oily residues leaving traces on the banks. In addition, the basement of the red zone and part of the yellow zone acts as a sponge that gradually leaves a little hydrocarbon through the ground until the shores of the lake. Almost all of these spills is recovered but the phenomenon could extend, to a lesser extent, until complete decontamination of the sector. 
With regard to the river, punctual pumping operations are continuing, particularly at the stacms that generally have small hydrocarbon accumulations. On the other hand, it is still too early to determine when the affected municipalities can resume their water supply in the river. The sampling of the water continues, while the first results are known. 
The assessment activities of the banks contamination began, particularly in the Mégantic Lake sector. The Department, in collaboration with its partners, evaluates the necessary resources and the delays required to complete the cleaning of the banks. 
Volatile organic compounds (VOCs): VOC analysis of the most recent samples (13 July or 14 July) has concentrations under the detection limits for all sampling points. This is the trend observed in the last 4 to 5 days. 
Semi-volatile organic compounds (COSV): COSV analysis carried out upstream of Saint-Georges, Sainte-Marie and Charny has made it possible to establish that there is one of these compounds to Charny (Saint-Redeemer) only. The concentration obtained on July 14 is lower than known standards. The results of July 13 indicated the presence of its compounds at each of the sites targeted, but again, below the known standards. 
Oil Hydrocarbons (C10-C50): The most recent results (July 13) are available for the upstream of the Sartigan dam, for Sainte-Marie, for Saint-Lambert, for Saint-Nicolas and for Saint-Redeemer. There is quantifiable presence in Saint-Redeemer (0.4 mg / l) and upstream of the Sartigan dam (1.1 mg / l). The standards are not respected and this is the first time there is quantifiable presence of these compounds in Saint-Redeemer. 
Identification of petroleum products (IPP): traces of petroleum products have been identified upstream of the Sartigan Dam (C16-C36) only (July 13). Unidentifiable traces have been listed to each of the other sampling points, with the exception of Saint-Lambert and Beauceville. The compounds may be altered or a concentration too low for the detection method used. 
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs): The analysis of PAHs of samples taken on 12 July presents quantifiable traces of some of its compounds upstream of the Sartigan dam only. The concentrations observed respect the known standards. There is non-quantifiable presence of these compounds downstream of the dam and Notre-Dame-des-Pins. The presence of these compounds seems to be threaded over time. 
"I want to salute the exceptional work done by our teams, as well as the great resilience of the citizens of Lac-Mégantic. Our decisions will continue to be guided by a firm desire to meet their needs and to return to a normal life, "said Minister Blanchet. 
