The Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet announces that the latest results of the Departmental analyzes show that the Chaudière River sectors where are The water intakes of the cities of Lévis, Saint-Georges and Sainte-Marie are now safe. Cities can thus return their water in the river according to a rigorous monitoring program developed to eliminate any potential risk for the population. 
This announcement occurs after the department has made sure to fulfill three essential conditions: 
"The three conditions we had to respect are now met. Yes, there has been a certain delay that has caused inconvenience, but we face a serious situation that commands rigor and vigilance. The safety of the population remains an absolute priority. Today we allow the return to the Chaudière River because we have implemented measures to ensure the quality of the drinking water provided to the population, at all times, "said the Minister Blanchet. 
In order to supervise the return to the Boiler River as a source of drinking water supply, the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP), in collaboration with the Health Agency and Social Service Boiler-Appalaches, the National Institute of Public Health of Quebec, the Ministry of Public Safety and the cities concerned, has developed a tight follow-up program, which relies mainly on the analysis of predetermined parameters The levy frequency has been adapted according to the situation. 
Each of the cities also provided an alternative source of temporary power supply quite resistant for the winter, in the case where the results of analyzes revealed the presence of substances at concentrations with a potential risk to human health. Cleaning of the banks currently underway as well as the sudden increases in the river flow during rainfall or spring flood could lead to a suspension of the hydrocarbons accumulated in the river sediments or in those which are on The banks. Rigorous monitoring is carried out in this respect. 
In addition, some municipal stakeholders mentioned needing time before returning to their permanent water intakes, especially for cleaning their system. Each city will follow its own agenda with respect to the return to the Chaudière River. "I all imagine a sigh of relief, because it could have been much worse. But it must not be enough for us. The whole government reflects at the after-Lac-Mégantic: nothing will be like before. Among the next reflection topics, it is necessary to add a consideration of potential sources of spills upstream of the water intakes of our towns and villages. We work there, "concluded the Blanchet minister. 
