Lac-Mégantic- The Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Elders and Minister responsible for the Estrie Region, Dr. Réjean Hébert, today announced that important expansion and redevelopment work will be carried out at the Health and Social Services Center (CSSS) of the granite. At an estimated cost of $ 3,432,000, this work provides for the enlargement of the establishment's ground floor to accommodate the rehabilitation unit, as well as the redevelopment of spaces released by it, nearby. emergency, to move to the intensive care unit. 
"In addition to ensuring the standards of the units concerned, this new, better adapted environment will result in significant efficiencies and compete with the overall improvement of the establishment's service provision. It is without a doubt of a very good news for the staff of the establishment as well as for all citizens of Lac-Mégantic. "Said Minister Hébert. 
The projected enlargement, with an area of 495 square meters, as well as the minor reorganizations provided for in the existing part will allow the necessary space gains to meet the increase in demand for the services of the unit. Rehabilitation, especially attributable to the aging of the population. The repatriation of the Intensive Care Department near the emergency will help to ensure the presence of a doctor at any time near the intensive care unit and to foster better sharing of certain support resources. Indeed, nurses, who holds several similar skills in both units, can thus be even more effectively used, increasing its availability, among other things, for the benefit program for the autonomy of the elderly. 
"This work will promote gains in terms of efficiency and quality of services, and at the same time contribute to adapting the establishment to the aging of the population while stimulating the local and regional economy, which the city. From Lac-Mégantic also needed, "said Minister Hébert. 
The completion of this project is expected over a period of 18 to 24 months and will be fully funded from the regional budget envelopes awarded by the Department for this type of work. 
