Quebec- The Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks continues to ensure continuous presence at Lac-Mégantic and on the places affected by the events of July 6. Emergency-environment teams continue their work on the ground. The Department acts diligently and prudently in the management of different environmental issues. 
The boiler river is always the subject of rigorous observation. Pumping and oil recovery activities are currently concentrated in the more contaminated areas of Audet and Saint-Ludger and in the Sartigan Dam area. Every effort is continuing so that oil iridescences do not reach the St. Lawrence River. The latest visual observations of the river seem to demonstrate that the measures implemented work. 
Ministry experts continue to ensure tight follow-up of the quality of drinking water and remain closely in touch with the municipalities affected by events. 
Patrols are done every day to control the situation on Lake Mégantic. The latest observations are encouraging since all hydrocarbons have been collected with a stack and brought back to the bank to be pumped. With regard to the Mégantic dam, the flow is increased in a gradual way to reach 25 m3 / s by Friday Midi, and this, in order to facilitate the recovery of hydrocarbons deposited on the banks of the boiler river downstream Dam. To deal with the increase in flow, work has been undertaken to strengthen the steps and redouble anchoring systems. The department is in contact with field officials to ensure the smooth running of operations. 
A first quick identification could be led to Lac-Mégantic on July 9th. In the area most affected by the derailment of the train, we have seen the presence of more than one meter of mud that would be contaminated heavily. For the moment, the contaminated area has been closed and is not accessible to ministry specialists since it still has a risk to workers. It is therefore not possible to make an exhaustive assessment of the soil condition on the premises or to undertake decontamination work for the moment. The ministry will tackle this problem as soon as possible. 
