Lac-Mégantic- Following tragic events on July 6 in Lac-Mégantic, the Government of Quebec takes new provisions to compel the companies involved in assuming their responsibilities. On behalf of the Government, the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet announces the taking of a prescription to legally ensure the continuation of the decontamination work. This order, taken under the powers conferred on the Minister by section 114.1 of the Environmental Quality Act (EQA), was served today in Montreal, Maine & Atlantique Canada Cie, Montreal, Maine & Atlantic Railway Ltd, Western Petroleum Company and World Fuel Services. The terms of the order are in effect now, and the targeted companies must respond without delay. 
According to the law, as crude oil owners or transport managers, the Ordinance Companies are responsible for the compensation for damage. The order imposes on these companies to recover oil as well as all other contaminants in water and in the soil and prevent them from spreading the environment. Companies will also have to proceed with an environmental characterization to determine what is likely to have been affected by oil and other contaminants. According to the results of these studies, an action plan should be submitted and approved by the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP). 
If companies do not meet the measures provided for by the Ordinance, the Quebec government intends to act immediately on the ground and take charge of all the decontamination work. Subsequently, the government will take all the necessary measures to ensure the costs involved. 
In addition, this order is part of the continuity of the government strategy implemented in Lac-Mégantic since the first days of events. The rapid action of the various stakeholders in the field made it possible to significantly limit the extent of the damage. With this order, the government takes the necessary means to ensure that the work is continuing as it should. 
The order complements the legal action undertaken by the City of Lac-Mégantic. The formal notice of the city aimed to ensure the payment of the amounts due to the workers for the work already done. As for the order, it aims more to ensure the continuation of the work that is ongoing and the implementation of those who must be initiated as soon as possible. For example, oily sludge removal operations in the area where the train derailment has occurred are one of the priorities. The recovery, characterization, cleaning and decontamination work will also follow their course. 
The text of the order can be consulted on the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks website. 
"The public interest and the obvious responsibility of the companies arrested by the order would have ordered that they move from the outset to the Government and the public to assume immediately and the conditions prescribed their full responsibility for the reparation of All damage caused. In the absence of such a proposal, the procrastination ends now, and the Ministry of the Environment prohibits the provisions of the law, "said Minister Yves-François Blanchet. 
The taking of this order occurs while interventions on the site no longer take place on the satisfaction of the provincial and municipal authorities. The Government of Quebec therefore wishes to initiate, by this order, the restoration phase. Three main lines of action will be prioritized in the coming weeks: 
