Québec- The Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks takes stock of the considerable efforts to limit the environmental and social consequences of events on July 6 in Lac-Mégantic. "We are currently working on setting up monitoring teams and more permanent action protocols for the rest of the operations. On-site teams perform remarkable work. The risks remain important but we are able to circumscribe and control the scope, "said Minister Yves-François Blanchet. 
For the moment, the level of the lake is stable at 394 meters and the flow of the dam is now at 20 m³ / s. A gradual increase is continued to obtain a flow rate of 25 m³ / s, the flow observed on July 6. According to this scenario, and according to the precipitation forecasts of the coming days, there is no need to worry about possible overflows. Recall that the opening of the dam valves will facilitate cleaning operations. In no case did the level of the lake pose a problem. 
According to observers, an oil table of about 180 square meters would have crossed this morning the innergex dam in the boiler river at Charny. However, the amount of hydrocarbons contained in such a sheet is valued at about one liter, which is not significant. Moreover, the on-site visit of the sampling officials did not detect any visual trace or smell of hydrocarbons in the river near the dam. 
Without being alarming, this situation demonstrates the importance for the department and municipalities to remain vigilant, and to maintain the temporary measures implemented for water supply. 
Nevertheless, the latest samples made by specialists show that contamination has not exceeded the Sartigan dam. In addition, we will start tomorrow an assessment of the state of the banks of the Chaudière River. Experts also provide inspections on Lac-Mégantic aqueduct and sewer networks. These inspections will continue tomorrow. Cleaning and pumping operations follow their course. 
We are currently pumping the wastewater treatment plant to empty it and clean it. This operation should last a few days. In the meantime, wastewater is rejected directly into the river, but with a dilution rate that increases in proportion to the flow of the river. After verification of the type of discharges and loads of pollutants at stake, the rejection of wastewater in the river is acceptable for the department in these exceptional circumstances. 
"The return to normal is a humanitarian and ecological priority. The authorization granted to the city of Lac-Mégantic to dump its wastewater directly into the Chaudière River is a temporary necessity that will have a momentary effect on a watercourse already undermined, but this is necessary, especially for citizens. . This decision is also largely offset by the gradual return at a flow of the river at 25 m³ / s. The results we have achieved so far in our lake river and cleaning operations are encouraging and suggests that the implemented actions are good, "said Minister Blanchet. 
