Lac-Mégantic- The Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP) today launches a call for tenders for the decontamination of Lac-Mégantic soils. The main objective of the Government of Quebec is to ensure that this work is effective and that they are carried out as soon as possible and at the best possible cost. 
This call for tenders marks the beginning of an important step in the rehabilitation work, which aims to restore the citizens of Lac-Mégantic the unrestricted use of the lands affected by the tragedy. Its launch is accompanied by the dissemination of the Preliminary Environmental Characterization Report Phase II of Lac-Mégantic produced by the associated Golder Consultant Firm. This preliminary report, which presents the levels of contamination and volumes of contaminated soils, has allowed the department to guide the call for tenders. 
There are several technologies for rehabilitation of contaminated soils. These acceptable for this call for tenders, which will combine performance and respect for the environment, are biological, chemical, thermal desorption, physico chemical or any simultaneous or successive combination of these technologies. 
The MDDEFP is currently analyzing the content of the report and send its comments to the firm for the drafting of the final version. In order not to influence the current tender process, the MDDEFP will not make any comment on the content of the report, which can also be consulted on the Ministry's website at the address wwww.mddefp.gouv.qc .ca / lake-megantic / index.htm. 
The main lines of the tender: 
The amount of contaminated soils to be treated is in the order of 558,000 metric tonnes. 
Soils can be treated near the site, where storage platforms have been put in place, or any other authorized processing site. 
The quality of the treated soils will have to meet the standards established by the soil protection and rehabilitation policy of contaminated terrain. 
The MDDEFP will also launch a call for tenders today to retain the services of a project manager for the management of work on the site. Remember that the Pomerleau Firm's contract for similar services ends on January 1, 2014. 
For all the details of the tenders, visit the Government of Quebec's website, the Electronic Tender System at the address www.sea.ca. 
