Quebec- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Yves François Blanchet held a press briefing today to inform the population of the Boiler River. On this occasion, he was accompanied by the Vice President of the Alliance of Great Lakes and St. Lawrence Cities and President of the Quebec City Metropolitan Community, Mr. Regis Labeaume. In the middle of the afternoon, the minister and Mr. Labeaume flew over the helicopter boiler river and found that iridescences had reached Saint-Georges and some were visible at St. Joseph's height. 
"From the tragedy, several citizens of the municipalities riparian of the Chaudière rightly worry about the presence of oil in the watercourse. The quality of water is the greatest concern of the department right now. Our teams are currently working to contain and recover most of this oil and measurements have been taken to limit the progression of the tablecloth and to avoid any contamination of aqueduct networks, "said the Minister Blanchet. 
Departmental specialists are deployed in eight points on the Chaudière and three-point river in Mégantic Lake to collect water samples. In addition, pumping activities are continuing. A large volume of oily water and oil has been recovered at several locations in Lac-Mégantic to minimize new hydrocarbon intakes into the boiler river. The sewer network of the city of Mégantic has been closed to confine the spilled oil. In addition, the flow of the Mégantic dam has been reduced to a minimum (3.5 m3 / s). 
The Department has also ensured that all measures are taken to avoid a breakdown of drinking water supply by municipalities on the edge of the Chaudière River, including Saint-Georges, Sainte-Marie and Lévis (Charny) . Emergency water intakes were installed in other streams, including Saint-Georges in Lake Poulin, Sainte-Marie and Lévis (Charny) in the BeauriVage River. 
Several estacades have been added to the facilities to better control the progression of the oil tablecloth, bringing the total to eight stacks between Lac-Mégantic and Saint-Joseph. "The three cities have deployed important expertise and resources to be able to respond to this emergency. It's all of their honor. Through this tragedy, it is comforting to see that effective means are implemented to protect citizens. We are working hard to get there, "said the Blanchet minister. 
With regard to air quality, the latest analyzes conducted by the Quebec Ducenterre Expertise Team (CEAEQ) confirm that the level of air contamination is now within the acceptable limits . 
Currently, and for the next few days, the ministry is in a state of emergency. Priority is given to the supply of drinking water and the containment and recovery of spilled oil, in order to limit as much as possible the impact on citizens, wildlife and the environment. Three main actions will continue in the coming days in order to follow the water quality of the watercourses: 
