Quebec- Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet announces the addition of 2 companies to the list of Ordinance No. 628 aimed at providing legally The continuation of decontamination work on the sites affected by the events of July 6th. World Fuel Services inc. and the Canadian Pacific Railway Company (CP) will have to submit to the obligations contained in the order. 
This order, taken under the powers conferred on the Minister by section 114.1 of the [Environmental Quality Act] (Environmental Quality Act), initially served on July 29 in Montreal, Maine & Atlantic Canada Cie (MMA), Montreal, Maine & Atlantic Railway Ltd (MMAR), Western Petroleum Company and World Fuel Services Corporation. 
However, in the light of the last items updated, the company World Fuel Services inc. It can also be targeted as owner of the oil contained in the train that derailed. As for it, the CP company had the mandate to transport this oil. As part of this mandate, CP did business with Montreal, Maine & Atlantique Canada Cie / Montreal, Maine & Atlantic Railway Ltd., since the railway section where the accident took place under their responsibility. For these reasons, World Fuel Services Inc. and CP may be subject to the amended Ordinance, in the same way as other companies already arrested. 
"Our duty is to do everything so that the companies responsible for this accident assume the costs of cleaning and decontamination operations. That's what Quebeckers and Lac-Mégantic people, "said the Minister Blanchet. 
Remember that the order imposes on the target companies and all other contaminants in water and in the soil and prevent them from spreading the environment. Companies must also submit a global action plan that will cover the following: the environmental characterization of what is likely to have been affected by oil and other contaminants, cleaning and decontamination measures, mitigation measures as well as environmental monitoring measures. 
In addition, MMA and MMAR, two of the Ordinance Companies, requested the protection of the courts on August 7th. In order to avoid any interruption or delay in field operations, the Government announced last Thursday that it took charge of the continuation of the work in Lac-Mégantic and on the Chaudière River, at the expense of the parties concerned by the 'order. Subsequently, the Government will take all necessary measures to ensure the costs involved by paying the costs if they do not respect the terms of the order. 
The amended order and all the departmental documents concerning the Lac-Mégantic file can be consulted at the following address: [www.mddefp.gouv.qc.ca/lac-megantic](http:// www.mddefp.gouv .qc.ca / lac-megantic). 
