Quebec- The Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks is able today to provide an overall estimate of the amount of oil spilled and recovered as a result of the events in Lac-Mégantic there are Now 16 days. 
The train that derailed at Lac-Mégantic had 72 100,000-liter wagons, a total of 7.2 million liters of light crude oil. During the derailment, 9 cars have retained all of their content, or 900,000 liters. Since the accident, 43 cars have been displaced and emptied of their contents, which has recovered more than 600,000 liters of residual oil. The department therefore considers that nearly 5.7 million liters of crude oil have been dumped into the environment, affecting air, water and soil. Recovery operations are continuing. 
In Lac-Mégantic, the assessments made on July 19 indicate that about 9,150,000 liters of oily water were recovered. These waters are composed of about 5% of oil, which means that an approximate volume of 457,500 liters of oil has been recovered so far. All puddles of hydrocarbons on Mégantic Lake were recovered. 
In addition, cleaning the sewer network under the wagons has been done in part, and the ventilation chimneys are still in place. The slight overflows that occurred because of the rainfall have found that the cleaning of sewers has been effective, given the minimal traces of hydrocarbons identified and then intercepted by the Estacades at the mouth of the Mégantic Lake. At the treatment plant, dated July 22 in the morning, treated wastewater flow was 88%. This flow could reach 100% today. 
In the Chaudière River, it is estimated that about 51 200 liters of oily water could be pumped and removed from the environment. A shore treatment plan is being developed. Tests will be carried out today to evaluate various methods of hydrocarbon recovery. A representative of the department will be present at this evaluation. 
It is still too early to present an overall assessment of the situation. However, the aerial observation made on July 21 reveals any trace of hydrocarbons on the river, and the sporadic storage points observed last week have disappeared. As for the latest terrestrial observations, they have confirmed the absence of odors and traces of hydrocarbons between Sainte-Marie and the Saint-Nicolas sector in Lévis. From Saint-Georges to Beauceville, only light oil deposits were observed upstream and downstream of the Sartan Dam in Saint-Georges. 
The ministry remains in a daily contact with riparian municipalities to inform them of the state of the situation regarding drinking water. Access to regular water intake will be restored as soon as possible. 
