Québec- In the coming days, the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks will focus on the state of the Boiler River and the recovery work on the site. Ten days after events, the Department conducted a re-evaluation of the needs and resources in the field to determine the actions to prioritize. 
The air observation of this morning has confirmed the presence of a barely perceptible iriding that covers only one percent of the area of the river in the area upstream of the Sartigan Dam. In the downstream area of the dam, there are some traces of the presence of hydrocarbons, but in very small quantity. As for the sectors between Saint-Ludger and the dam and between Saint-Romuald and Notre-Dame-des-Pins, they do not have observable hydrocarbon traces. Recovery operations will continue normally in the coming hours. 
The water analyzes of the Chaudière River continue. Despite encouraging results, it is still too early to allow municipalities to regain water supply. Ministry specialists provide very tight follow-up of the situation. An assessment of the banks of the river is currently underway. Contamination is evident in several places along the watercourse. The banks cleaning operations will begin as soon as possible. 
Since Saturday, a path has been landscaped in Lac-Mégantic so that the on-site teams have access to some wagons. Stakeholders will have to respect a very strict displacement procedure, which includes the emptying and decontamination of wagons. The quality of the air will be closely controlled in this area. Mobile firefighters will follow workers on the derailment site. 
The Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Yves-François Blanchet, will be in Lac-Mégantic tomorrow to exchange with the Department's teams on the rest of the operations. "There is of course a perimeter of heavy danger where no work will be possible for our short-term teams. However, we want to be able to give the authorities soon an idea of the deadlines before decontamination of the soil with a view to reconstruction, hence the proximity visit planned tomorrow. In the meantime, we aim for the return to normal with regard to water quality, water supply and wastewater rejection, on the river, in the lake and municipal facilities, "A-T -he declares. 
