Lieutenant of Quebec in the Harper government, Denis Lebel, should do his job instead of using intellectual shortcuts and give lessons full of condescension to Quebeckers. 
WhenDenis Lebel says Quebec will receive 55% of Canadian Equalization, it fails to mention that it is because of the size of its population. An advised observer would have pointed out that other provinces get much more, per capita, than Quebec. 
Mr. Lebel also fails to say that this federal program represents only 0.86% of Canadian GDP, or 15% less than the average of the last 45 years. Not to mention that it is financed 20% by the taxes of Quebecers. 
Denis Lebel says dream of the day the Quebec will create more wealth. If the minister is sincere, why does he not assume his own responsibilities by ensuring that his Government ceases to make decisions that affect our economy and who are unanimously condemned by the elected representatives of the Assembly National, as well as by financial circles, business leaders and Quebec workers? 
He could begin by working to revoke his government's decision to subsidize Churchill Falls's Hydro-Electric Project in Newfoundland, an unprecedented gesture that fits into unfair competition with Hydro-Québec. 
It could explain to Quebeckers how it is done that its government has given federal vessel building contracts worth more than $ 35 billion in recent years, without any significant impact on Quebec. 
It could also convince his colleague of the finances to give up a Canadian securities agency, a project that would jeopardize the dynamic Financial Sector of Quebec and the 150,000 related jobs. 
It could oppose the will of its government to sabotage the Quebec workforce training programs, which work well and that fall under our exclusive competence. Not to mention the Champlain Bridge, his own file, for which he wants to reflect the invoice to the Quebeckers by the toll. 
As the Minister of Infrastructure, he could also see that in the next Plan Building Canada, Quebec finally gets his fair share of merit funds, that is, much more than the meager 8%. Received since 2007. 
It is clear that our province status requires us to compose each day with decisions that go in the opposite direction of our interests. The only actual and complete solution to end any form of dependence is independence. 
Until then, if he wants to serve Quebec, Denis Lebel should stop being the voice of the rest of Canada in Quebec and become a real advocate of the interests of Quebec to the Conservative government. 
Alexandre Cloutier, Member of Parliament for Lac-Saint-Jeanministry Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Governance 
Open Letter Posted on February 1, 2014 Daily Devoire. 
