Quebec- The member for Rimouski and official opposition spokesman in the fight against poverty, solidarity and social economy, Harold Lebel, proposed to the Committee on Economy and Labor (CET) Seize the Collective Petition for a disability pension. This petition highlights the reality experienced by many people considered inapts due to severe job constraints. They are beneficial to a social solidarity provision which, according to the signatories, does not sufficiently take into account their reality and briefs some of their fundamental freedoms. 
Liberal deputies, the majority at the CET, refused that it meets in official session to hear representatives of the collective. 
"The representatives of the collective for a disability pension have made enormous efforts to carry their stake on the public stage. After making several meetings and raised no less than 7123 signatures for a petition, it seems to me that it would have been the least of things to welcome them in a formal body of the National Assembly, "decried the hon. Member for Rimouski. 
Harold Lebel does not, however, fall and intend to continue to represent these people who seek, above all, to recognize the iniquities in the treatment they receive from the Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity. In addition, these people, considered unfit for work, can not put certain actions to improve their living conditions without risking their social solidarity allocations; For example, impossible for them to live in a couple or save a little money. 
"It is necessary to concretely follow this petition. If we were unable to get membership of all members of the CET, you have to find something else! We therefore insist that the reflection site proposed by the Office of Persons with Disabilities on the very day of the petition deposit - and for several years for several years by the Confederation of the organizations of disabled people in Quebec (Cophan) - be set up quickly In order to identify solutions that meet the needs and realities expressed by the members of the collective for a disability pension, "concluded the member. 
