Saint-Prosper - Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced the award of a grant of $ 64,450 to the company the cedar shingle specialist (SBC In order to support a project of $ 608,900 to set up a new production line and to promote the development of new markets. This project will create 5 jobs, in addition to consolidating the company's 110 jobs. 
"Our manufacturing companies play a leading role in creating wealth and jobs in Quebec," said Zakaïb Élain. "Our government therefore focuses its efforts to help these companies increase productivity and competitiveness, especially those that demonstrate a foolproof determination, as is the case of SBC. The 2013-2017 Quebec industrial policy, focusing on the greening and modernization, innovation and the emergence of new florets, puts in place the winning conditions for a competitive Quebec manufacturing sector. » 
Founded in 1996, SBC specializes in the manufacture of white cedar shingles and shingles to pick up as well as in the making of cedar mulch enclosed of different colors. The project announced today is to enlarge the company's dyed shingles plant and add a shingle production chain to be taken. The company will be able to increase the flexibility of its production and conquer new markets. SBC also wants to carry out a feasibility study to automate the production of the factory dyed shingles. 
"Our company is recognized as a North American leader in the field of cedar processing," said Rita Rancourt, president of SBC. "We are making every effort to offer quality products, to stay at the forefront in increasingly competitive markets and to meet the high demands of our customers. SBC has thus privileged the establishment of modern facilities and regularly invests in research and development, in addition to being on the lookout for technological innovations. Government support arrives at a key moment of our growth, while we aim to automate part of our activities to remain competitive, particularly in the United States, our main export market. » 
"Our government is a duty to support businesses that create quality wealth and jobs in all regions of Quebec," concluded Élain Zakaïb. "In this regard, since September 2012, the interventions of our Government in the Chaudière-Appalaches region, through Investissement Québec and the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, have enabled entrepreneurs to benefit from Financial aids of more than $ 66 million, which has facilitated total investments of more than $ 269 million. Our actions contributed to the creation or safeguarding of more than 1,200 jobs. » 
Thus, Investissement Québec has authorized aid of more than $ 46.5 million for projects requiring investments of nearly $ 188.8 million and creating or consolidating 631 jobs. For its part, the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, under the Economic Development Fund, has consented financial aid totaling $ 14.1 million for the implementation of investment projects of 54.6 million dollars creating or consolidating 306 jobs. In addition, through its regular programs, the Department granted $ 5.5 million for investment projects of $ 25.7 million creating or consolidating 272 jobs. 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicidustrielle. 
