Quebec- The member for Verchères and official opposition spokesperson for ethics and integrity, Stéphane Bergeron, as well as the member for Taillon and spokesperson for health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, arrested, this morning, the Minister of Health and Social Services, Gaétan Barrette, about the crisis he has caused at the University of Montreal (CHUM) hospital in the process. appointment of the head of the department of surgery. 
"The return to the Chief Executive Officer, Jacques Turgeon, does not solve the crisis because Minister Gaétan Barrette regrets nothing; He said he himself that if it was redone, he would do it again. The chum crisis is only the tip of the iceberg of its interference in the health network. According to the same time of resigning, the minister has made untimely and biased interventions, he has ingested in the management of the hospital center and has used threats and blackmail. It took the direct intervention of the Prime Minister to resolve the situation and submit the minister of this crisis that he had created himself by struggling to make a person name for reasons that remain so nebulae. Finally, it is the minister and not the chum that has been taught; Mr. Turgeon negotiated and obtained a direct line to the Prime Minister's office if the Minister Barrette was trying again to interfere in the management of his establishment, "said Stéphane Bergeron. 
The member also recalled that the ethics and ethics commissioner who held admissible the request of the Parti Québécois, currently investigates on this file. 
Bill 10: Precursor of drifts 
"Bill 10, truffled error, was adopted under gag, despite all adverse opinions and, above all, without the support of the health network, which will have to implement this reform of structures. The central and unique objective of this bill was to place the minister at the center of the health system and give him an amount ever seen from power. The fears we had expressed, as many stakeholders of the network, proved to be with the case of CHUM. There is nothing that assures us that the minister will not start again, especially since he said expressly that he regretted nothing and that he would do the same thing. The confidence of the population to the minister is now shaken. If there is still a doubt that the minister can, at all times, short-circuit the processes for different levels to impose his choices, we prepare other crises such as CHUM. The Minister must give guarantees that leaders are appointed for their competences and not for their friendships; That's it, good governance, "concluded Diane Lamarre. 
