Quebec- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in the field of culture, communications, digital economy and e-commerce, Martine Ouellet, proposed concrete measures to ensure Better visibility of Quebec creations on digital platforms and better funding for culture in Quebec. 
"At the approaks of the Galaq, the part IVEK, the part Quebémer Sourte Son. Terrea Promery with the category The soupin appens of the Rotomism and the in a fund and d'épémée EDA SPES MALE MLY PRO OF PEOPLE THEAN PERIGNED AUJORD'HHJO>, a metert 
"Quebec culture is unique and fundamentally distinct from all those around us. This reality must incarnate on the different platforms that are used to broadcast it, especially new digital platforms. And it must be visible. Both online sales sites and those that allow for continuous dissemination must offer their customers in Quebec specific homepages highlighting at least 70% of Quebec creations, including 65% francophones. It is obviously not a question here of restricting the content of the online offer, but to promote Francophone and Quebec works on the showcase of these sites. In music, of course, but also in cinema or literature - iTunes, Spotify, Google Play, Netflix, etc. - Quebeckers want to have access to artists here and it is necessary that this access must be facilitated by the broadcast platforms, "continued the official opposition. 
"Digital actors, who occupy an increasingly important share of the market, must also contribute to the financing of culture in general. The government must act as soon as possible so that online transactions are finally subject to the Québec sales tax, as are the store sales. Whether by raising awareness of industry representatives or, if necessary, the use of legal means, the government has several levers at its disposal. It could, in particular, rely on transaction intermediaries - as Marwah Rizqy suggested, professor at the Tax Department of the University of Sherbrooke - or that it directly subjects the sites concerned, but it must end to this iniquity. These are several million dollars that could thus be recovered and invested in culture, "add Jean-François Lisée. 
"Culture is the soul of a people. We must therefore support our artists, for greater creative diversity in Quebec, in all our regions. Gérald Godin for cinema, or Louise Beaudoin for the software, had been able to find solutions adapted to their time. It is high time that the government take its responsibilities so that Quebec culture is even more on the national and international scene. Never forget, either, that culture is one of the three most creative sectors of jobs in Quebec; It is therefore a very profitable investment, "concluded Martine Ouellet. 
