G Aspon- On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the member for Gaspé, Minister responsible for the Gaspé-Islands-de-la-Madeleine Region and Minister Delegate to the Regions, Gaétan Lelièvre, held a Press conference today to announce the grant of a grant of $ 6,180,000 for the development of the Auditorium Room of the C. E. Pouliot School of Gaspé as part of the Government intervention strategy for the development of the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region. The mayor of the city of Gaspé and the prefect of the MRC of the Côte-de-Gaspé, François Roussy, the President of the Council of Commissioners of the Chic-Chic School Board, Jean-Pierre Pigeon, and the President of CD Shows, Michel Desjardins, were present at the event. 
"Thanks to a major investment of the Ministry of Culture and Communications, the Auditorium Hall of the C. E.-Pouliot School will be a metamorphosed cultural place that will meet the expectations of the Gaspésians and the Gaspesians. I would like to emphasize the hard work and the great solidarity of all the speakers, these lovers of culture, which made it possible to complete this structuring project for the entire region, "said Maka Kotto . 
The financial assistance granted will make it possible to undertake major work. It is a question of renovating and reorganizing the interior of the room, including the scene, the backcase and the lodges, and to wear 409 to 554 the number of seats. 
"The region of Gaspésie-de-la-Madeleine is distinguished, among others, by a dynamic cultural life and generating economic and social development. With more than 300 organizations in the territory, culture is the fourth largest sector in employment. The Region's strategy for the development of the region is concretized by concerted, coherent and carrier actions while maximizing the investments of departments and agencies working in the region. Accessibility is an important challenge, particularly with regard to the adaptation of the cultural offer to the various clienteles and the optimization of equipment, "said Gaétan Lelièvre. 
The total cost of the project is estimated at $ 10,447,947. The contribution of the Ministry of Culture and Communications of $ 6,180,000, is paid under the 2011-2016 Infrastructure Plan for 2012-2013. The rest of the financial assembly is as follows: The Government of Canada allocates $ 1,200,000, the City of Gaspé, $ 1,400,000, the Chic-Chicus School Board, $ 750,000, and the fundraising campaign Local conducted by the broadcasting broadcaster has increased $ 917,947, of which $ 150,000 comes from the Côte-de-Gaspé MRC under the rural pact. 
