Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu- The Deputy Deputy of Saint-Jean and Deputy Government, Mr. Dave Turcotte, confirmed, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to the Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élain Zakaïb, the renewal of the strategy implementation agreement and the bioalimentary bracket of excellence of the Montérégie Transformation for the years 2013 to 2018. 
"Niche partners are actively working to have their region recognized as a cluster of expertise and competitiveness in food processing," said Dave Turcotte. "The renewal of the agreement confirms the continuation of the actions of the niche, which has been remarkable since its inception in 2006. Its members also show exemplary mobilization. Thanks to agreement, they act together to be competitive. » 
"The Montérégie is a true leader in the bioalimentary sector in Quebec, and the slot of excellence Transformation contributes undoubtedly to the growth of this key sector of the economy of the region," said Zakaib. "Quebec industrial lapolitics also on the niches of excellence agreement, important regional economic development tools. Thus, $ 22 million will be injected to support projects from the niche of excellence. » 
Like the other niches and the Pôle d'Excellence present in all regions, the Bioalimentary slot Transformation comes from the agreement approach, set up by the Government of Quebec in 2002. This niche is composed of companies of the food processing sector and benefits from the collaboration of the Council of Agri-Food Transformation and Consumer Products and that of the Government of Quebec. The Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, and the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport and Minister responsible for the Montérégie Region, Mrs Marie Malavoy, are also part of taking this agreement. 
"The Bioalimentary Bioalimental Excellence Illustration aims to support the food processors of the Montérégie on five areas of development, mobilization, access to internal and external markets, innovation, productivity and standards and quality" , Minister Gendron said. "Since its creation, this niche has helped to set up more than 40 structuring projects with a total value of more than $ 5 million, which is unquestionably an eloquent evidence of its relevance. » 
The bioalimentary sector of Montérégie also includes several channels interrelated throughout the value chain, primary production to processing. "The large number of companies active in this sector in Montérégie allows us to benefit from securely established distribution activities," said Malavoy. "These companies have unique know-how which, doubled in a culture of innovation, allows us to distinguish ourselves and improve the methods of producing and processing food. » 
"The niche partners have given mission to mobilize food processors of the Montérégie by creating alliances and strategic networks," said the Chairman of the Bioalimentary Bioalimentary Excellence Committee, Mr. Benoît Grégoire. "The goal is to generate structuring and innovative activities and projects for businesses and to position the Montérégie for its distinctive and quality foods as well as for its culture of collaboration and innovation. » 
To learn more about the approach agreement and on niches and poles of excellence, consult the www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/accord. 
To consult the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visit www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicidistrielle. 
