Quebec, March 3, 2021 --In the sake of improving the well-being of children and adolescents from Quebec, the member for Gaspé and spokesman for the Quebecois for youth as well as sports, leisure and Healthy lifestyle, Megan Perry Melançon, asks the government to authorize, as soon as possible, the recovery of sport organized in areas where the epidemiological situation is stable. 
IN SHORT 
The Government should authorize the recovery of sports organized for young people in areas where the epidemiological situation permits. Public health should support this decision; Last fall, she had recommended that we maintain the practice of these sports.The children and adolescents have more than ever needed to win screens and find a little normality, and it goes through sport. 
While the epidemiological situation in several regions has been stable for many weeks, Megan Perry Melançon regrets that the rules of new "orange zones" are more restrictive than in the fall, when the practice of sport was yet authorized. By calling for the resumption of indoor sports activities, she launches the ball at Prime Minister François Legault who, at his press on February 23, opened the door to this possibility on the return of the release week. It is also echoed by the growing number of votes in Quebec to demand that sports organized among young people, which are increasingly feeling the effects of this deprivation of sports and leisure activities. 
Remember that as early as fall, public health recommended that we do the practice of organized sports for young people, but the government preferred to keep the dare line. "On the one hand, he repeats that his decisions are based on science; On the other hand, the government is ignoring the recommendations of public health, to the detriment of physical and mental health of young people, "the member lamented, calling on the government to more coherence. 
"I once again ask the government to trust the different sports associations, which have security and approved recovery plans, as well as young people, who only ask to get back moving and finding their teammates. The Prime Minister and the Minister Delegate to Education must go beyond the beautiful words and promises, and quickly allow the recovery of organized sport, both civilian and school. It is necessary for the physical and mental health of young people. These have made great sacrifices so far, and it's time to give them some air, "concluded the member. 
- 30 - 
SOURCE : 
Laura Chouinard-Thuly 
Press Officer 
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois 
514 880-9594 
Laura.c After i's -t care liquid @as is NAT. Second. Wipe 
