Havre-Saint-Pierre- The member for Duplessis, Ms. Lorraine Richard, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, today announced a financial assistance of $ 403,291, for the development of the international cruise terminal In Havre-Saint-Pierre, as part of the Cruise Strategy Assistance Program. 
This aid will be used to expand the Pelagie-Cormier portal, space development and the addition of the necessary equipment for the site to fully fulfill its role as terminal for the reception of international cruise ships. This aid will also allow the port of Havre-Saint-Pierre to carry out the work required for the presentation of a permanent exhibition of fossils. The completion of the entire project requires investments in the order of $ 1.2 million. 
"Featuring exceptional natural attractions, Havre-Saint-Pierre is a destination of choice for international cruise ships. I am proud to confirm these investments that will allow the destination to improve the reception of this international clientele. The realization of this project is essential to the rise of this stopover that plans to host 4 vessels in 2013, "said Minister Bérubé. 
"Cruise tourism is a promising development avenue for our region. The coming of this new tourist clientele already contributes to the extension of the tourist season, as well as the maintenance and job creation ", has supported the member for Duplessis. 
The Strategy for Sustainable Development and Promotion of International Cruises on the St. Lawrence River has helped to support and support, until March 2013, municipalities, organizations and private companies in the implementation and promotion of A network of strategic stopovers to offer cruise companies a choice of routes and tourist experiences of international caliber. As indicated in the 2012-2020 tourism industry development plan, Tourisme Québec will continue until March 31, 2016, its intervention and support for the development and promotion of international cruises on the St. Lawrence. 
