Longueuil- The Minister of Education, Leisure and Sport, Minister responsible for the Montérégie Region and outgoing Member of the riding of Taillon, Marie Malavoy, today announced that she would not solicit new mandate in The riding of taillon. 
As a result of exchanges with the leaders of the Parti Québécois and the Prime Minister, Marie Malavoy made his decision yesterday to allow the party to present a high-quality candidate who will be worthily representing the people of the ridder riding. 
"I leave with the feeling of the duty accomplished. As a minister, I fulfilled the mandates entrusted to me during his opening speech, to put in place Desmodernellates 4 years in disadvantaged circles, to dernforce the teaching of national history and to work at The development of a national ninepolitics of sport, leisure and physical activity, which should be made public soon, "said the minister. 
"I am a passionate about education. For me, she is the path of freedom. Lead the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport has been a privilege as well as a source of inspiration and overwhelming, "Marie Malavoy argued. 
"As a minister responsible for the Montérégie region, I worked tirelessly with my colleagues in the Caucus so that our region gets its fair share of public investments. I have a special thought for the recent announcement of an investment of $ 20 million from our government for the construction of the cultural complex of the city's theater, in Longueuil, "she continued. 
"Learn to live together. That's what I set up as a goal for my arrival as a member of Parliament in Taillon, in 2006. Since then, it continues to stop me. I hope that at the evening of April 7, the Quebecois party led by Pauline Marois can once again, and in the majority, get the confidence of citizens and citizens to build a more prosperous, stronger, more independent Quebec and more welcoming, "concluded the minister. 
Marie Malavoy wanted to thank the activists and activists of the Parti Québécois as well as those who supported him as minister and deputy. 
Sovereignist convinced, she will continue to contribute to the construction of a country. 
