Saint-Narcisse- The member for Champlain and President of the Planning Commission, Ms. NoëlThe Champagne, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce that the parish of Saint-Narcisse will benefit from a government aid of $ 1,508,559 for the diet and treatment of drinking water. This assistance comes from the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM) program. 
"I am very pleased with the support of our government to the Parish of Saint-Narcisse for the implementation of these important water infrastructure work. The realization of this project represents an investment of the most valuable for the future of the parish that can offer quality consumption water and in sufficient quantities, thus promoting the good health and well-being of its citizens. Access to quality drinking water is a fundamental right, an essential service for all, "said MP Champagne. 
"Every Quebecker must be able to benefit from access to quality public services. Our government's commitment aims to provide municipalities with the support needed to enable them to move forward with their infrastructure projects. Thus, the aid granted to the parish of Saint-Narcisse will ensure that services essential to citizens, in addition to equip this municipality infrastructures in accordance with the standards in force and to enhance the quality of public services, "said the Minister Gaudreault. 
The St. Narcissan Parish Project aims at the development of a new drinking water production well, including the construction of a service building to house the required equipment, and the establishment of a conduct Drinking water supply required to connect to the current drinking water tank. The project also includes the installation of a sodium hypochlorite disinfection system, the addition of new pumps and telecommunication equipment, the construction of another service building near the drinking water tank current as well as the redevelopment of pumping mechanics to one of the existing wells. Various works will complement this project. 
These interventions will remedy the lack of drinking water and thus meet the current and future needs of the Parish of Saint-Narcissus in addition to allowing the renewal of deficient or obsolete infrastructures. 
The realization of this project requires a maximum permissible investment of $ 3,017,17,17, under the PIQM 1.4 component. The Government of Quebec contributes $ 1,508,559 to this project while the parish of Saint-Narcissus invests an amount of $ 1,508,558. 
The support of the Quebec government to the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) released last April. It should be remembered that this decennial plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebeckers, to measure the associated costs and to make informed choices. 
