Montreal- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, today unveiled the 2013-2015 Action Plan of the Concertation Table on Recycling of Contents Organic to set up the construction site of organic materials in Quebec. Accompanied by Mr. Benoît de Villiers, President and CEO of RECYC-QUÉBEC, Mr Blanchet presented the twelve major actions of this plan aimed at achieving the objectives set by Quebec residual material management policy to divert 60% of organic matter of elimination by 2015 and to ban them of elimination by 2020. 
"With the action plan we present today, we truly in hand all the elements to make the management of organic material management a success in Quebec. It is an important project for the province, in addition to significantly reduce the amount of materials sent to landfill, our efforts related to the management of organic matter will enable us to improve the gas balance sheet Effects of the province's greenhouse, "said the Blanchet minister. 
Encouraging, citizens seem to be ready to follow suit and participate in this great project. According to a light marketing survey conducted on behalf of RECYC-Québec, 76% of Quebeckers indicated that they will participate in the collection of organic materials when it is located in their locality or participate already. Several actions in the consultation table action plan are designed to improve social acceptability related to the recovery of organic materials and the implementation of a new collection. 
"It is certain that information efforts will have to be deployed at all levels to equip municipalities that have not yet followed suit and also the corporate environment on available options and the best ways to proceed. Citizen awareness will undoubtedly be at the heart of the approach. Their participation in the recovery of organic matter is a crucial element for achieving our objectives, "said President and CEO of Recyc-Québec, Mr. Benoît de Villiers. "We hope that by the next few years, all Quebeckers will have adopted for organic matter the same good habits they have developed with the selective collection of recyclable materials," he added. 
In order for the collection of organic matter to be wider scale, Recyc-Québec, in collaboration with its various partners, will work in the coming months to conduct the studies and develop the necessary tools to facilitate the establishment of the establishment of the Collection and treatment of organic materials by municipalities and industries, businesses and institutions. Beyond the collection, awareness efforts will be carried out with users of products from the processing of organic matter. In addition, studies will be carried out to promote the development of new opportunities. 
The plan of action on the recycling of organic matter is divided into four main orientations: 
"In total, more than a hundred stakeholders in organic matter management in Quebec who collaborated in the development of this action plan over the past year, this is a Unprecedented work, "said Blanchet. "The challenge is great, but we are convinced that the plan presented today, developed with the actors of the community, will allow us to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves and considerably improve the quantity of organic matter recovered in Quebec , "He concluded. 
Highlights and the 2013-2015 Action Plan of the Concertation Table on the Recycling of Complete Organic Materials are available at: http: //www.recyc-quebec.gouv.qc.ca/client/en/programs -Services / table_matieres_organiques.asp. 
Anxious to make Quebec an innovative and sustainable management model of residual materials for a company without waste, Recyc-Québec's mission is to promote the reduction at source, reuse, recycling and recovery of residual materials. Recyc-Québec thus influences the modes of production and consumption. It is the designated organization to coordinate the planned development activities for the Quebec Residual Materials Management Policy. 
The results to the marketing light survey question were obtained using a Web survey conducted by Light from 19 to 21 August 2013 with a representative sample of 1,000 Quebeckers (ES), aged 18 years of age or older and able to express themselves in French or English. Using Statistics Canada data, the results were weighted by sex, age, regions, language spoken at home, schooling and the presence of children in the household to make the sample representative of the entire population under study. 
