Sorel-Tracy- The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, today announced the candidacy of Élaine Zakaïb who will represent the Parti Québécois in the richelieu riding during the general election. "Élain is a sorel proud. His great knowledge of his region of origin and his particular affection for the people who live there make her a first-rate candidate for the richelieu riding, "rejoiced Pauline Marois. 
"I want to contribute to Quebec tomorrow. I would not be candidate elsewhere than in Richelieu, that is to say. When I knew that the citizen party activists of Richelieu and the deputy out of Sylvain Simard wanted me to apply, I lived great emotions. It is really an honor for me to have the opportunity to introduce myself in my corner of the country, "said Élain Zakaïb, insisting that his priority would be the economic development of his riding and the whole of the whole of the Quebec. 
"I intend to work in the continuity of Sylvain Simard who has defended our region in the Alstom factory file. I also want to work to solve the serious problem of access to family physicians and home care, especially for our elders. The questions of the extension of Highway 30 and the exodus of young people will also be at the top of the list of issues that will be concerned about the campaign. If citizens choose to trust me so that I become their member, they are these files that they will see me defend in their name to the National Assembly. » 
Élain Zakaïb is President and Executive Director of the Regional Fund Funds FTQ since 2004. She has also assumed various positions in the 1992 to 2004 Fonds Fund. 
"While the Charest government is counting on division and Zizania to be re-elected, the Parti Québécois presents candidates of all ages, all origins and with various skills. Icina is a good example. It will bring with it all a baggage in the field of economic and regional development. I am confident that she will be able to use it for the citizens of Richelieu, "said Pauline Marois. 
"A person of this quality, deeply rooted in his regional, competent and supremely committed sovereignist, it can only be an excellent news for the region," concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
