Quebec- The member for Berthier and spokesman for the Parti Québécois in agriculture, André Villeneuve, as well as the member for Verchères and spokesperson for Quebec-Canada relations, Stéphane Bergeron, are concerned about the impact From the abandonment of dairy producers by the federal government, which refuses to adjust the regulations to prevent the importation of dairy protein, diafiltered milk, the United States. 
"It bypasses the spirit of the law and lowers the price paid to producers for the milk they produce. We are talking here about family businesses, which are transmitted from generation to generation. The consequences are serious: weakened companies, reported investments, broken dreams. These companies make the pride of Quebec and the minister abandoned them. He let the situation rot. He does nothing. The only time he got up, it was to attack the districer, a jewel of Quebec. He must act, go beyond words and think of men and women who pay the price of his inaction, "said André Villeneuve. 
Le Dépulenta Rubbès by Ailleurs Time Le Miremblée National Adoptaen, Engoiscant Firm in Fermeral, Engoacconte Formére, Engineering, Engoigning Frederral Ringtéral, Engocerm "The Minute Pierre Paradime Volunte Engineery Des Vallee Darthe Tampois Pour If It Used FORECAS Affort to Ottawa. Ce this has a pas fait. The additional Agir, Province, Jointant: A-ts persuives. 
"The result of the inaction of the Liberal government is that Ottawa does not feel any pressure from the Government of Quebec and is therefore in a hurry to act. Minister Paradis does not even know if Philippe Couillard has spoken directly to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau! If he was really ready to fight for the federal to firm the breach, he would have arranged to be aware of every word pronounced by the premier Couillard. Perhaps he prefers to ignore the content of the discussions between the first two ministers, because the subject was not on the agenda? Pierre Paradis must do more than having an opinion. He must make every effort for the federal to finally close the breach, "concluded Stéphane Bergeron. 
