Quebec- Minister responsible for the Government Administration and President of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, confirmed the adoption of a government decree lowering at $ 10 million on the threshold of the amount of contracts and sub-contracts referred to by LALOI on public contract integrity (Law 1). The decree has been published today in the official Lagazette of Quebec. 
"Today, we are crossing another important step in the implementation of the Act 1. This new expansion of the scope of the law demonstrates the effectiveness of our integrity efforts through an approach to the firm, gradual and responsible. This demonstrates at the same time that work teams are well-honed and ready to analyze more requests for authorization, "said Minister Bédard. 
Under the adopted decree, the companies will have to obtain an authorization to contract issued by the Autorité of the Financial Markets for tenders launched from 6 December. The contracts are: 
The contracts targeted are those of governmental government departments and agencies, organizations in the education, health and social services networks, Crown corporations as well as cities and municipal organizations. For example, professional information technology contracts are covered by this decree. 
Since the adoption of Law 1, nearly 200 companies have obtained their enabling for contracts of $ 40 million and more or more contracts per decree in Montreal. The lowering of the threshold of contracts at $ 10 million will provide approximately 400 companies more. 
It should also be remembered that the Public Contract Integrity Act gives the Government the power to determine by decree, as and when the categories or groups of public contracts requiring prior authorization to contract. 
"Law 1 and the authorization regime put in place by our Government shall send a clear signal: the Government shall take all the necessary means to ensure the integrity of public contracts. The vise tightens on companies that are dishonest or who would be tempted from being, "said Minister Bédard. 
The Autorité des marchés financiers makes available on the site www.lautorite.qc.cales documents necessary to apply for authorization. Companies can file their request now to the Autorité des marchés financiers. In addition, as of November 18, Quebec companies will need to use online services to make requests for authorization. 
