Quebec - "As the holiday time approached, the Great Media Guignole and all other initiatives to raise funds, clothing or non-perishable commodities remind us that too many Quebeckers live in poverty. A situation that can not tolerate and for which we have a collective responsibility ". 
This is the member of the member for Saint John and the official opposition for employment, social solidarity and poverty struggle, Dave Turcotte, and the member for Matapédia and speech on social services, Danielle Doyer. 
La Dépée a d'ailleurs déposed ki en 
The need to hold a debate in parliamentary committee 
The Parti Québécois has repeatedly claimed the holding of a parliamentary committee on this subject. The purpose of this Commission is to do the opinion of the opinion of the Advisory Committee on Poverty Reduction and Social Exclusion on Income Targets transmitted to the Government in 2009 and the Response of the Minister of Employment and social solidarity in this opinion. Many organizations as well as the collective for a Quebec without poverty support the holding of this Commission with a general consultation. 
"The law aimed at combating poverty and social exclusion nearly ten years. It is time to hear independent organizations and experts so that we can give a new impetus to the fight against poverty and social exclusion, "said the member for Saint John. 
Ideas for fighting poverty and social exclusion 
The Parti Québécois offers several ideas to combat poverty and social exclusion including the repatriation of employment insurance in Quebec, the revision of the minimum wage and the exclusion of any act pricing policy, such as " Moderator tickets "or any other form of regressive taxation in the field of health. 
"There are still too many Quebeckers who live in poverty and some decisions taken in recent years have been catastrophic, including unreasonable rate increases. It's time to take stock to give a new sustainable breath to the fight against poverty and social exclusion, "concluded Dave Turcotte. 
