Quebec- The member for Rimouski and official opposition spokesman in the fight against poverty, solidarity and social economy, Harold Lebel, was very disappointed with the closure of the Liberal Party as to the need to update the law testing to fight poverty and social exclusion. 
"The law, unanimously adopted by the National Assembly in 2002, is now obsolete and has no long-term targets," said Harold Lebel. After 10 years of law enforcement, it is time to invite community stakeholders and experts to trace a balance sheet and project in the future to define new goals. » 
By depositing a motion proposing an initiative mandate to the Committee on Economy and Labor, the member for Rimouski wished to engage the parliamentarians in an open approach, in order to review section 4 of the Act and endowing it. New goals for the next decade. Unfortunately, the Liberal members of the Commission have, with one voice, beaten the proposal. 
"It's not about just giving a new three-year or five-year plan for Quebeckers, but to give us ambitious and long-term goals that will guide future action plans. It would be a shame that the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity undermuns his Robillard's inside responsibilities and the program for the ongoing revision of programs, recently introduced by the Liberal government, "continued Harold Lebel. 
If we do not collectively give us the anti-poverty and exclusion goals, what will be the Robillard Commission's tags to preserve, or not, the funds, measures and programs already in place? What will be the tags to recommend to the President of the Treasury Board the creation of new strategies to fight against poverty? 
"We will come back to the expense in order to be well understood and understood by the Committee on Economy and Labor as well as by the Minister. The study of budget appropriations will demonstrate the members of the Commission that there is no new measure for the fight against poverty and exclusion; We hope that members will take up on them the responsibility of reviving the work, "concluded the hon. Member. 
