Saint-Fédicien-Residents As tourists will benefit from the improvements to the Marina Belle-Vue and the municipal wharf of Saint-Félicien, thanks to a joint funding today announced by the Government of Canada and the Government of Quebec. 
"I am proud of this superb project that will make the Marina and the municipal wharfer safer for the community, will improve access to the AshuapMushuan River and promote tourism and economic prosperity in the region," said the Honorable Denis Lebel, Minister of Infrastructure, Communities and Intergovernmental Affairs and Minister of the Canada Economic Development Agency for Quebec regions. Our government is proud to invest in infrastructure projects like this because we focus on job creation, growth and the development of strong and prosperous communities across Canada. » 
"Our government is pleased to contribute to the repair of the whole site of the Marina Belle-Vue and the municipal quay of Saint-Félicien on the banks of the Ashuapmushuan River to make them safer and more accessible to citizens and sector organizations. With this work, the City of Saint-Félicien will be able to offer new recreational areas to citizens and visitors, in addition to ensuring the sustainability of these infrastructure works, creating jobs and making the Municipality An even nicer place for all, "added the member for Roberval, Mr. Denis Trottier. 
This project includes two components that both consolidate public access points at the Ashuapmushuan River. The first component consists in the redevelopment of the Marina Belle-Vue which aims to improve security by strengthening the banks of the river and in conditioning the access ramp for boats as well as the quays. In addition, a new service pavilion will be constructed and a recreational area will be developed. Tags will also be installed. The second part consists of the repair of the municipal wharf of Saint-Félicien, which will give access to the river to the citizens, and will focus on the reinforcement of the retaining wall over a length of 135 meters and the replacement of the deck of the wharf in order to combat soil erosion. 
Under the Major Projects Component of the Building Canada Fund, the Government of Canada has undertaken to book up one-third of eligible project costs for a maximum amount of $ 1.76 million. The total eligible project costs amounted to $ 5.28 million. The Government of Quebec will a contribution of $ 1.76 million and the city of Saint-Félicien will provide the rest, or $ 1.76 million. Federal funding is conditional on all federal requirements for the Building Canada Fund, including the signing of a contribution agreement with the Government of Quebec. 
The 2013 Economic Action Plan sets up a new Building Canada plan to build roads, bridges, metros, suburban trains and other public infrastructure in collaboration with provinces, territories and municipalities. Thanks to the Government of Canada leadership and strong economic and financial seats, the Canadian economy has recovered better from the global recession than most other industrialized countries. Canada has been a leader among G-7 countries during this period by generating more than one million new net jobs since July 2009. The new Building Canada plan, combined with other federal investments in infrastructure, It helps maintain Canada's infrastructure benefit, which is a key catalyst for economic growth and job creation. 
The contribution of the Government of Quebec to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) released in April. It should be remembered that this decennial plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
For more information on the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, visit the websitewww.infrastructures.gouv.qc.ca/plan-infrastructure/index.asp. 
For more information on Canada's Economic Action Plan, visit the Canada Economic Action Duplan website. 
