Quebec- The member for Jonquière and Leader of the Official Opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, participated today at the ceremony of the medal of the National Assembly to four Quebeckers distinguished in their field of activity : Mrs Arlette Custure and Lise Watier, as well as Mr. Oliver Jones and Dr. Pierre Lapointe. 
"It was a privilege and an immense pleasure to speak to honor these citizens of Quebec, whose remarkable journey, talent, commitment and the exceptional work are all sources of inspiration and pride for our Nation, "said game entry, Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The leader of the official opposition has invited the merits of each of the recipients. "The author Arlette Custure masters the art of touching people. Its stories depict, with sensitivity and accuracy, the fate of ordinary people with extraordinary qualities. Do not doubt it, since it has joined so many people and it is timeless, its work will remain a reference for Quebec literature. Mr. Oliver Jones, meanwhile, is one of the greatest ambassadors of Quebec musical talent. Became a must-see figure of jazz globally, he owes his impressive success, besides his address, to a deep love for his art, as well as respect and the real affection he has for his colleagues and for The public, among others, "he said. 
"For its part, the scientist, researcher and doctor Pierre Lapointe has devoted his talent, rigor and determination to improve the intervention plans on accident sites. Thanks to its expertise, valuable minutes have been won, heavy sequelae have been avoided. We had the duty to show our gratitude to this man of heart who saved lives. Finally, the National Assembly honored Ms. Lise Watier, the honeykeeper of Quebeckers. The one who knew how to make his mark, at a time not so far away where entrepreneurship was predominantly, even exclusively, masculine. Ms. Watier showed audacity, creativity, and she managed her bet, fulfilling her dreams. His exceptional route paved the way for new generations of women entrepreneurs, which we wish more and more numerous, "said the member for Jonquière. 
