Quebec- The Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand Saint-Arnaud, is pleased to highlight the fourth Quebec day of family mediation. 
This day provides an opportunity to become familiar with this amicable conflict resolution mode and to discover the benefits. In addition to improving communication between parents in rupture, family mediation allows them to conclude an agreement, in the interest of all family members, as well as reduce their legal fees. 
"Thanks to family mediation, parents can agree on the modalities of their rupture. They can before, during, or even after the separation, during revisions, to the greatest benefit of their children. The Quebec day of family mediation is an opportunity to salute the remarkable work of these professionals who help, each year, thousands of families overcome this difficult period. They thus contribute to the more human and less judiciarized separation or divorce approach, "said Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud. 
In Quebec, there are 977 mediators accredited by their respective professional order: lawyers, notaries, guidance counselors, psychologists, psychoeducators, social workers and conjugal and family therapists. Youth centers are also allowed to accredit their employees to make mediation. 
In order to promote the benefits of this multidisciplinary practice, the Quebec Bar, in collaboration with the Family Mediation Accrediting Committee (COAMP), organizes a consumer activity that has the theme of mediation: for the good of children. Mediators members of the Quebec Family Mediation Association (AMFQ) will also be available to answer the public questions about family mediation. For more information on these free activities, visit the Department of Justice website at www.justice.gouv.qc.ca / mediationFamily. 
Remember that among parents who used family mediation services, 82% managed to conclude an agreement. In addition, for a judgment of the Court, parents who have used family mediation services have disbursed, on average, charges twice as high as those who did not use them. 
Before undertaking the mediation process, parents are advised to attend a parenting session after breaking. Indeed, since December 1, 2012, free information sessions on parenting after breakup are offered in the evening in 42 courthouses. They allow parents to work better to live this transition, in the interest and for the well-being of children, and to know the means at their disposal, especially family mediation. 
Moreover, following a survey of persons who attended the sessions offered under the pilot project, more than 97.5% of respondents said he strongly appreciated the formula. In addition, 89% of them indicated that the session had carried them to put better questions to the person who will help them settle their separation. Finally, 99.7% said they would recommend to people who have children to attend this session from the beginning of their separation. 
The full calendar of the next sessions and all information on the family mediation program, including assessment - parenting session after breakdown (pilot project), are accessible to contactwww.justice.gouv.qc.ca / Mediationfamile. 
