Baie-Comeau - Minister Delegate to Social Services and The Protection of Youth, Ms. Véronique Hivon, today announced the establishment of a day of day at the palliative care house The reed valley, project that will better serve the people of the MRCs of Manicouagan and Haute-Côte-Nord. The minister was accompanied for the occasion of the North Shore and Deputy Region Manager of René-Lévesque, Mr. Marjolain Dufour. 
"The day center will provide a diversity of services to the end-of-life people and their loved ones to ensure that they are adapted to their situation, which will meet their special needs. This project will certainly improve the quality of life of several people and, at the same time, will offer respite to caregivers. This is another concrete example of our government's desire to improve the access and quality of end-of-life care over Quebec so that everyone can live this ultimate stage in serenity and dignity, " said Ms. Hivon. 
The creation of this day center will allow people at the end of life and their families to benefit from the support of qualified stakeholders, to reduce the use of hospital services, to break the isolation, and, finally, to remain longer. home. This initiative will serve as a pilot project to assess the impacts of creating a day center in palliative care in a remote region context. The day center will also have hosting beds that can accommodate people who need to receive oncology treatments away from their home. 
"This is a great news for people at the end of life and their loved ones, who will benefit from new complementary palliative care services to those already available. It is essential that the supply of palliative care be adapted to the reality of each of the regions and the communities of Quebec, and I enthusiastically see that this project is perfectly fits in the north-coastal reality, "said Dufour. 
The project will be funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services at $ 216,500, an amount that includes an annual recurring amount of $ 150,000 and another $ 66,500, non-recurring, for the start of the project. . Recall that this center is the result of a call for projects that stems from an investment of $ 15 million, announced last May by the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, for the financing of projects in community support for palliative care . 
