Montreal- The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, gives the official kickoff of the Campagne Talent World for Performer of a Conference Luncheon organized by the Chamber of Commerce of Metropolitan Montreal. This campaign conducted by the Métropole Employment Council (EMC), in collaboration with Emploi-Québec, aims to highlight the benefits of SMEs in the Montreal Census Metropolitan Area (CMA), the hiring of women workers and skilled workers from immigrant background. 
A world of talent for performing a pressing need: by 2016, nearly 700,000 jobs will be filled in Quebec, including 315,000 in the CMA of Montreal. The situation is explained by the retirement departure of a large number of workers. 
This campaign is part of the continuity of the government strategy for employment, initiated at the beginning of the year to give a new impetus to the labor market in Quebec. "One of the priorities of our strategy is to refocus the action towards under-represented employment groups, including the qualified immigrant workforce, reminded Minister Maltese. The Campagne Talents WorldPurremer is adding to the means implemented in consultation with labor market partners to achieve this. » 
"It was necessary to act," said Ms. Marjolaine Loiselle, president of the EMC. Quebec welcomes 50,000 immigrants and immigrants a year, including a very good number of skilled workers who settle in the metropolis. One of the CEM priorities has therefore been to equip SMEs in the metropolitan area so that they can access this competent workforce in the best possible conditions. Qualified immigrant workers are an extraordinary basin of talent for our businesses and, through this campaign, they will have more access to resources promoting hiring, their integration and retention. » 
Campagne Talent for TalentsPor Performer will build on a strategy combining conferences, networking and activities on the Web - including the UNMONDEDETIALENTS.COM website - and in social media (Twitter, LinkedIn and YouTube) to make known entrepreneurs in the metropolitan area benefits that presents the hiring of qualified immigrant workers. This message will be relayed by the members of the EMC, including Mr. Michel Leblanc, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Metropolitan Chamber of Commerce, by Ms. Lidia Divry, Executive Director of Technomontréal, by Ms. Véronique de Sève, Secretary General Central Council of the CNA Metropolitan Montreal, by Mr. Pierre Desroches, President and CEO of Laval Technopole, by Mr. Gilles Côté, President and CEO of Economic Development Longueuil, as well as by several entrepreneurs who speak of their own experience in the process of successful integration of immigrant workforce. 
"Immigration is a reality first of all Montreal: more than 87% of immigrant women and immigrants in Quebec live in the metropolis. Their professional integration is therefore of paramount importance for our economic development. Immigration also represents an exceptional asset for our businesses. It is a great source of skilled labor and, through the sharing of different cultures it arouses, strengthens our creative spirit. The House is proud to collaborate in this campaign that will provide employers with the potential of newly arrived people, "said Michel Leblanc, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Metropolitan Montreal Chamber of Commerce. 
The websiteUmondeDalents.com is designed as a practical and personalized guide to accompany entrepreneurs who want to take advantage of the hiring of skilled workers from immigrant background. He accompanies the SMEs step by step during recruitment and integration processes and provides clear and accurate answers to the questions concerning the hiring of this workforce. 
The Métropole Employment Council (EMC) promotes consultation on major challenges from the Montreal Metropolitan labor market between its main actors. It exercises a consulting role to the Labor Market Partner and Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women. 
