Sherbrooke- The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Marie Malavoy, inaugurated today, in the presence of the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for the Estrie Region, Dr. Réjean Hébert, and the member for the riding of Sherbrooke, Mr. Serge Cardin, the swimming pool that has been added to the swimming pool at the University of Sherbrooke University. 
"These new facilities will enable the region to receive the Games of Canada and other national and international events. They will ensure our young athletes an environment conducive to the realization of their aspirations. For us who work in education, leisure and sports, these athletes are models that trace the way to the youngest and give them the taste of moving, "Malavoy said. 
The nearby $ 17 million project was to renovate and expand the sports center, including making it compliant with the requirements for Canada Games. A swimming pool 25 meters with 8 corridors was built and the 50-meter pop-up pool has been renovated. New service premises complete the whole. This investment of the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport represents $ 4.997 million and was conducted as part of the sports and recreational facilities support program. 
"As Regional Minister and Minister of Health and Social Services, I can only rejoice in the holding of this sporting meeting. More than ever, we need to remind young people the importance of moving to enjoy good health. Thanks to the investments made in terms of sports infrastructure, the youth of the region now have new facilities for practicing their favorite sport under optimal conditions, "said Minister Hébert. 
"Holding a major sporting event like the Canada Games helps to develop the feeling of a community's pride, to demonstrate the know-how of our home and contribute to the regional influence by a concrete commitment of athletes, volunteers , coaches and coaches of the Estrie. One thing is certain, it will be an honor for me to welcome our visitors, "concluded the member Cardin. 
