Montreal- The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane de Courcy, stressed the launch of the Domois programming of the Black History. This unifying event celebrates each year, during the month of February, the contribution of the black communities to Quebec society. 
The 2014 edition of the Month of Black History takes place on the Themeaucun of us, acting alone, can not achieve success, phrase from the first speech as President of the Republic of South Africa, delivered by Nelson Mandela in 1994. After more than fifty years against apartheid, political scheme based on racial discrimination, and twenty-seven years of imprisonment, Nelson Mandela advocated reconciliation between blacks and whites in South Africa. . For their combined efforts to terminate Apartheid, Nelson Mandela and the President of Klerk, in 1993, received the Nobel Peace Prize. 
"Nelson Mandela's life is an example of determination in the construction of a free and democratic society, where each person has equal opportunities. The theme of the month of black history takes over the words he has spoken twenty years ago, words that remain inspiring for Quebec today. They recall the contribution of Quebeckers from the Black Communities to the construction of Quebec and the importance of the participation of all citizens and citizens in the development of our society, "said Minister Diane de Courcy. The minister will present a motion at the National Assembly during February, in order to emphasize the month of the history of blacks. 
This year, the department granted $ 35,000 to support the programming of the Black History Month. Partner of the Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities for several years, the Round Table of the Month of Black History will publish, like the previous years, a thematic timetable that pays tribute to recognized personalities for their commitment to Make Quebec a dynamic and inclusive society. 
To learn more about the programming of the 23rd edition of the Month of Black History, you can consult the Sitewww.MoisHistoireDesNoirs.com. 
