Val-d'Or- Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs and MP, Ms. Elizabeth Larouche announced today, on behalf of the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, the relocation of the family medicine unit (UMF) of Val-d'Or, affiliated with McGill University, and the enhancement of its capacity. 
"Our government has made a commitment to improve the accessibility of care and services by consolidating the first line and increasing the number of family physicians. This announcement is precisely for this purpose, since these new provisions will increase the family medicine capacity of the McGill University network while accentuating the offer of service to the people of the territory, "said the Minister Hébert. 
The UMF will move transiently over a portion of the vacant field of the Val-d'Or hospital, within modular type buildings that will offer it an area estimated at a little over 800 m2. This new environment will allow it, among other things, to accommodate twelve residents and an external, four more residents than its current capacity. 
For the move and consolidation of this family medicine unit, the Department grants a maximum annualized allowance of $ 850,000, of which $ 260,000 will be allocated to module rental and planning fees, an amount that the resigned real estate solution will allow moreover to decrease to $ 98,000 as of 2016-2017. The balance of $ 590,000 will be devoted to human resources, operating expenses, as well as various supplies. 
Currently, about 45% of medical students are heading for family medicine, while 55% are moving towards other specialties. The consolidation of this UMF is part of the government's willingness to increase the number of graduates in family medicine to reverse these proportions, and thus to better meet the current and future health needs of Quebec society. 
"This is of course a great news. This shows that our government is making concrete gestures to improve the accessibility of front-line services for the population. This is particularly important for a region like ours, because it is also a question of proximity to care, "says Madame Larouche. 
