Isle-Verte - Minister Delegate to Social Services and Youth Protection, Ms. Véronique Hivon, today announced that psychosocial services will be available in Isle-Vert as long as necessary, in order to accompany The relatives of the persons deceased in the fire of the Havre Residence. 
"A drama of such magnitude can only deeply affect the entourage of missing persons, as well as members of the entire local community. Psychosocial services have been offered from the early hours of tragedy, thanks to the intervention of the teams of the Rivière-du-Loup Health and Social Services Center. These services are in place and will be intensified with the help of the surrounding territorial health and social services centers, if the situation requires it, "she said. 
Psychosocial teams are currently deployed at Moisson-d'art School, where the Regional Government Coordination Center is established. In addition, the population can contact Info-Social 8-1-1 to obtain by phone from psychosocial support. 
Recent events have also had consequences for pharmacy and CLSC services, which were offered in the fire building. Thanks to computer science, no pharmaceutical file has been lost. The service could be maintained thanks to the collaboration of the pharmacies of neighboring municipalities, pending the imminent opening of a temporary point of service at the same green. Thus, the CLSC will open at the beginning of the week at the Community Presbytery and the pharmacy will be located at the Friendship Pavilion located near the school. 
A nurse remained on site to ensure some front-line services, all CLSC services remaining accessible to Rivière-du-Loup. The very rapid recovery of a temporary service point in the Isle-Green is planned in the coming days, thus ensuring the local availability of medical, nurses, sampling and psychosocial services. 
"I want to pay tribute to all teams in the health and social services sector, who quickly mobilized themselves to offer the best possible services to the affected people. This includes emergency prehospital service staff, hospital centers professionals and all staff of the Bas-Saint-Laurent region of health and social services. We will continue to implement everything so that the Isle-Verte community can cross this event by taking advantage of all the necessary support as long as required, "concluded Mrs. Hivon. 
