SALABERRY-DE-VALLEYFIELD- The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport and Minister responsible for the Montérégie Region, Mrs Marie Malavoy, and the member for Beauharnois, Mr. Guy Leclair, announce on behalf of the Minister of Health and social services and minister responsible for seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, the granting of a non-recurring budget allowance of $ 1,530,000 at the Health and Social Services Center (CSSS) of the About, for the creation of a Brief Hospitalization Unit (UHB) and the redevelopment of the brief (UIB) intervention unit in mental health at the About Hospital. 
"The development of these two units is a priority step of the transitional project of the Suroît Health and Social Services Center for the upgrade of the Expected Expected Hospital for 2020. Our government has quickly been mobilized with a view to accelerating the implementation, which will reduce the pressure on the emergency of the hospital, "said Dr. Hébert. 
The project consists of a redevelopment of the hospital ground floor to accommodate the unity of brief mental health interventions as well as a bed development for the Brief Hospital Unit, which will be located near the emergency. This is a project entirely funded by the Department, and the amount of $ 1,530,000 granted to the CSSS of the Suroît to achieve it, which is part of the 2013-2023 Infrastructure Plan, includes the work. construction, contingencies, professional fees, the purchase of furniture and equipment as well as the contingent administrative costs. 
Remember that this project is Phase 6 of a ten-phase transitional project to meet the needs of the institution when it is planned upgraded for 2020. Given a review of priority needs and to reduce pressure. On the emergency, the development stage of the UIB and UHB was preceded and will be carried out before Phase 3, the expansion of the laboratories. 
"The extra space provided by these new premises will help to better serve the population of Salaberry-de-Valleyfield and the surrounding area. This concrete help at the About Hospital shows that our government closely monitors the needs of our region, including offering the best possible health care infrastructure, "Ms. Marie Malavoy added. 
"I congratulate all the craftsmen of this project, especially for their great ability to adapt to the circumstances and priorities that appear along the way. I am also pleased to see that our government has acted with due diligence and has been proactive in order to quickly support the establishment, "says Guy Leclair. 
