Quebec- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, is pleased to highlight the 58th week of cooperation, which takes place until 20 October under the theme "Cooperatives help Building a better world ". 
The Week of Cooperation has made it possible to present the many benefits of cooperation, while the members have been able to share their experiences related to their belonging to the vast cooperative and mutual Quebec movement. These will therefore have taken the opportunity to raise awareness of this prosperous and sustainable business model. 
"Cooperatives are an important entrepreneurial engine for Quebec while their survival rate is twice as high as that of Quebec companies after ten years. Entrepreneurial succession represents one of the priorities of our government; It is an essential component of wealth creation and jobs. I therefore enjoy this opportunity to congratulate all the craftsmen of the cooperative movement that contribute daily to the dynamism of our economy, "said Sulaian Deputy Minister Zakaïb. 
The Week of Cooperation is organized by the Quebec Council for Cooperation and Mutuality (CQCM). The mission is to participate in the social and economic development of Quebec by promoting the full development of the Cooperative and Mutual Quebec movement. In addition, the CQCM acts in accordance with the principles and values of the International Cooperative Alliance. 
"Quebec is a leader in cooperative development. Our cooperatives are bold and innovative; They represent an important economic force. The Government of Quebec is a long-standing partner of the cooperative movement. We share common concerns about economic and social development. In this respect, by setting up the Bank for Economic Development, we are committed to doing more by supporting the social economy, among others, "Zakaïb concluded. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the following RSS feed: www.mdeie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
