Quebec- The Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Capitale-National and Chaudière-Appalaches, Ms. Agnès Maltais, today announced the An amount of $ 20 million over 6 years to the National Capital Commission of Quebec for consolidating and maintaining newbashers in Old Quebec. The National Capital Commission will become the owner of the heritage building to carry out the maintenance of the assets and stabilization of the built assembly. 
In parallel with the consolidation work, the Commission will determine a new vocation instead. To do this, it will go to the services of Mr. Émile Gilbert, a specialized architect, in order to solicit stakeholders and partners to bring out public projects. 
"This important investment is the first step in a larger project to highlight newbones, to give them a new vocation and above all, to allow the population to finally have access to this jewel of our Heritage, "said Agnès Maltese. 
Let us remember that at the dawn of the last election, the former government had announced an investment on this site. "Gold, upon my arrival, contrary to what had been claimed, only a request for additional appropriations to the Treasury Board was in the cartons," added Agnès Maltese. "It is therefore proud that I announce today this investment of $ 20 million drawn from the Community Infrastructure component of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan to provide sustainable vocation to this extraordinary site. As it is now the rule since we arrived in business, the source of funding is clearly identified and this project will be realized. » 
New barracks were built between 1749 and 1752 in order to house the French troops sent in reinforcement in Quebec to protect the city from a possible British invasion. After taking Quebec, they are inhabited by the military for more than 100 years. The Augustinians of the Hotel-Dieu de Québec have acquired new barracks in 1965, which, then become the property of the University Hospital (CHU) of Quebec. Unoccupied for almost 50 years, they now require major interventions. 
On October 19, 2012, the Minister of Culture and Communizations announced that the New Barracks of Quebec were classified as "cultural" and now enrolled in the Quebec Heritage Register. An agreement in principle was signed on 25 March 2013, confirming their assignment to the Commission of the National Capital of Quebec. 
Created in 1995 by the National Assembly, the National Capital Commission of Quebec fulfills a triple mission with respect to the capital: contribute to its development and embellishment, promote it, by a program Varied of discovery and commemoration activities, and advise the Government of Quebec on the development of its status. 
Link URL of PDF: http: //stream1.newswire.ca/media/2013/08/23/2013823_c7861_doc_en_30100.pdf 
PDF URL Link: http: //stream1.newswire.ca/media/2013/08/23/2013823_c7861_doc_en_30101.pdf 
