Saint Paul / - On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the member for Joliette, Minister Delegate to the Social Services and the Protection of Youth and Minister responsible for the Lanaudière Region, Véronique Hivon, announced Today a principle agreement of $ 620 $ 100 for the construction of a municipal library. The Mayor of St. Paul, Alain Bellemare, participated in this press conference. 
"Place of research, knowledge, relaxation and dating, the municipal library is a friendly and creative space par excellence. Citizens and citizens of Saint-Paul will now benefit from increased access to books and cultural activities with the construction of this new library. I welcome the work of municipal elected officials for their willingness to equip their municipality from a quality library, which will meet the needs of the whole community; "said Minister Kotto. 
(c) Guillaume name-msss 
"In the life of a community, the library is a real crossroads conducive to discovery, relief and personal and intellectual fulfillment. The new Saint-Paul library will fill a gap by offering the population an enriched collection and prolonged opening hours. In addition, as the area will be ten times larger than that of the place where it is currently, it will be more functional and favorable to the activities of animation, and this, for the greatest pleasure of all the audiences, "said the Minister Hivon. 
"The current space is definitely inadequate for a population that continues to grow, and our willingness to improve this situation is based on guidelines on improving the quality of life, the vitality of the environment and a powerful municipal organization. It will thus become possible to improve our services by offering a new building accessible, welcoming and adapted to young people and at least young people, "said Mayor of Saint-Paul, Alain Bellemare. 
The area of the municipal library will increase from 40 m2 to 477 m2, which will increase the number of documents, seating and the amount of books available. This enlargement will also have the effect of improving accessibility for people with reduced mobility. Opening hours enhanced will ensure better quality of services and increased attendance. Consulting and reading areas will also be made available to users, as well as new equipment including workstations with Internet connection. The library benefits from the support of the CQLM Biblio Network. 
The total cost of the project is estimated at $ 1,469,579, which includes an amount allocated to the implementation of a work of art under the Arts Integration Policy to Architecture and the Environment of Buildings and Government and public sites. The financial contribution of $ 620,100 from the Ministry of Culture and Communications comes from the Program Assistance to the Municipality to conduct the prior studies of the project implementation. The rest of the funding, ie $ 849,479, will be assumed by the municipality of Saint-Paul. 
