* Quebec ** - The Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, is pleased to participate in the announcement of the collaboration project between Bombardier Recreation products inc. (BRP) and the TM4 company, a subsidiary of Hydro-Québec. TM4 will build a new electric propulsion system for the market for light recreational vehicles. This will be integrated by BRPD in vehicles currently under development. The Government of Quebec, as part of its Technoclimat program, will contribute $ 1.3 million. 
"We are proud to support two Quebec companies and, at the same time, economic development and job creation in Quebec. This collaboration illustrates our desire to position ourselves as a leader in the field of transport electrification while contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, "said the minister. 
The TM4 electric propulsion system will in particular meet the requirements of BRP in terms of performance and marketing and stands out with its size and reduced weight. Other applications could be targeted by TM4, the motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles, mining vehicles and other small utility road vehicles. 
"Developing electric motors for recreational vehicles is complex and requires extensive electrical motorized expertise," said Denis Morin, Vice President, Product Engineering, BRP and Chairman of the Advanced Technology Center ( CTA), a partnership between the University of Sherbrooke and BRP. "We chose to work with TM4 for their know-how in motoring electric vehicles, their proximity, their availability and exchange of engineering skills." 
"The new electric motorization system developed by TM4 in partnership with BRP will stand out by maximum torque and power for minimum footprint," said Renaud Cloutier, Vice President Development of TM4 business. "It will perfectly meet the electrification needs of small light vehicles". 
"I congratulate TM4 and BRP for their partnership. It is by stimulating the development of innovative products that we will remain competitive and efficient, "concluded Minister Ouellet. 
Government aid of $ 1.3 million is offered under the Green Technology Demonstration Program to reduce GHW-Technoclimat emissions. This program stems from the Climate Change Action Plan. It aims to finance innovative demonstration projects that need to reduce GHG emissions in Quebec, have good marketing potential and be carried out in Quebec. 
