Abitibi-Témiscamingue - Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs and MP, Mrs. Elizabeth Larouche, he began, this morning, his tour of visits to four indigenous communities of the Regional County Municipality (MRC) of Témiscamingue, with From the member for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue, Mr. Gilles Chapadeau, and the Prefect of the MRC, Mr. Arnaud Warolin. The objective of this tour is to discuss specific concerns to each community, to take the pulse of their realities, to consider solutions promoting their socio-economic development, and to consolidate the links between them and the Government of Quebec. 
"My presence in the Algonquin communities and the discussions we will keep on several hot topics aim to what we are able to better understand their concerns, in order to act in their interest. Whether in terms of autonomy, economic or social development, my goal is to maintain efficient and harmonious collaboration with the Algonquin communities, "said Minister Larouche. 
While a candidate at the 2012 general election, the current member for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue, Mr. Gilles Chapadeau, had met with community representatives to read the concerns of the community. "In recent months, I had the opportunity to discuss communities' leaders a few times and these exchanges reflect the need to develop more partnerships together, together from nation to nation. The harmonious relations we have with these communities invite us to multiply exchange opportunities to better understand their needs and to answer it, "said MP Gilles Chapadeau. 
The four communities that will be encountered individually are Kebaowek (Eagle Village First Nation), Winneway (Long Point First Nation), Timiskaming First Nation (TFN) and Hunter's Point (Wolf Lake). Each of them account for between 200 and 1750 members, some living on reserves, and a certain off-reserve number. According to the community, discussions will include economic partnerships, Lefonds of Aboriginal initiatives II, land tenure, land situation and property rights. 
"We will deal with issues that concern the Government of Quebec, the Témiscamingue region and the Algonquins. We want to create links on a regional basis and glimpse solutions for improving the quality of life in these communities. This is our mission, our duty and our possible satisfaction: to ensure that every community has all the tools in hand to flourish and grow healthy, "concluded Madame Larouche. 
