The Minister Delegate to Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Ms. Véronique Hivon, took advantage of his presence in Rivière-du-Loup, as part of a tour in the Bas-Saint area -Arust, in order to inaugurate the new service point of the Physical Disability Rehabilitation Center (CRDP) interaction, an installation of the Mitis Health and Social Services Center (CSSS). It was accompanied for the occasion of the Minister Delegate to Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé. 
"For several years, the rehabilitation center the interaction faces various space challenges. This new construction provides many improvements in terms of the organization of services, which were previously spread over four separate sites. I am very pleased for people to live with physical disability as well as for teams that support them, since they will now be able to benefit from a more functional environment and conducive to high quality integrated services, including through the Adding technical platforms, "said Minister Hivon. 
Indeed, the rehabilitation center The interaction was struggling with problems of excessive and poorly configured premises to the needs of its activities. In addition to having welcomed a trauma team in 1997, the rehabilitation center the interaction, which occupied premises at the Alphonse-Couturier Pavilion of the CSSS of Rivière-du-Loup since 1992, has known in recent years an important phase development and consolidation of its services. This situation had pushed it to rent other premises at the Kamouraska-Rivière-Du-Loup School Board, as well as the Intellectual Disability Rehabilitation Center (IDRC) of Rivière-du-Loup. 
"In addition to simplifying the interactions between the various stakeholders at the Rehabilitation Center, this project facilitates access to services for people with reduced mobility. These are all improvements that demonstrate our desire to support institutions in the health and social services network by functional, accessible and quality facilities, in order to support them more effectively in the fulfillment of Their important mission, "added Minister Hivon. 
"As Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, I am pleased to see that the rehabilitation center the interaction will welcome the Louperivans and Louperivoises requiring physical rehabilitation services in one and the same place adapted to their needs . I join my voice to my colleague Minister delegate to the Social Services and the Protection of Youth and welcomed the realization of this project, "concluded Minister Pascal Bérubé. 
Located Au 48, Street Hearing in Rivière-du-Loup, the new building of an area of 1,800 m2a was built at a cost of $ 4.5 million thanks to an investment of $ 1,625,000 from the Agency de la Health and Social Services of Bas-Saint-Laurent and $ 2,875,000 from the property. Also noteworthy the valuable contribution of the CSSS of Rivière-du-Loup, which has agreed to give the ground to the CRDP so that the project is concretized. 
