Lac-Mégantic- The Minister Delegate to the Social Services and the Protection of Youth and Minister responsible for the File Dyard in Dignity, Ms. Véronique Hivon, today inaugurated the Granite end-of-life house in Lac-Mégantic. As early as September 22, the house, which will bear the name of "house the fifth season", will open its doors and make available to the population of the territories of the health and social services centers (CSSS) of the granite and the high. Saint-François Six beds that can accommodate people at the end of life. 
"For our government, access to end-of-life care is a priority. It is very important to offer the people who are in the ultimate stage of their lives the opportunity to live their last moments in respect of their wishes and in the most serene and most worthy way, soothing their sufferings . The house The fifth season represents in this sense a major advance for the community. It will offer people concerned and their loved ones a place perfectly adapted to their reality and needs, "said Minister Hivon. 
Built in the neighborhood of Notre-Dame-de-Fatima in Lac-Mégantic, this house is the result of a great mobilization and work of several volunteers from various sectors, including municipal, financial and community settings. The project was supported by the two CSSS in the region and will receive a total recurring amount of $ 360,000 from the Ministry of Health and Social Services and the Health and Social Services Agency of the Estrie, $ 60,000 per bed. 
"This is a great news for residents of this area of the Estrie region. The fulfillment of this project is a superb example of local solidarity and collaboration between the various instances of the environment. That is why I am particularly proud that our government has supported its realization, "said the Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Elders and Minister responsible for the Estrie Region, Réjean Hébert. 
Remember that the government announced last May an additional $ 15 million recurring investment in palliative care, of which $ 7 million for the enhancement of the offer of home palliative care services, $ 4 million for community support projects. Palliative care at home and $ 4 million for the creation of new dedicated beds and the establishment of palliative care homes, such as the one inaugurated today. 
