Quebec, October 29, 2014 - The hon. Member for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, and the member for Terrebonne and Family Spokesman, Mathieu Traversy, reiterated the request of the members of the Parti Quebec. The Minister of the Family, Francine Charbonneau, reassures the families of Quebec, either transparent and ceases to think about a way to tax them more. 
The member for Terrebonne has also participated today at a press briefing with representatives of the movement for the safeguarding of Quebec family policy. The campaign still crazy about our children? Gathering citizens and organizations concerned with the maintenance of the measures that base our family policy, including the development of CPE places, the Quebec Parental Insurance and Family-Work-Study Conciliation. 
"Minister Francine Charbonneau has delayed the development of thousands of care for care expected by parents. In addition, the program for the ongoing revision of the programs clearly has the family policy of Quebec; It's very disturbing. Quebec families will pay for liberal austerity. The minister must do his work for families, be clear and defend them in all regions, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
"The news of this morning confirms that the Quebec association of CEPs is right to be worried and the government calls into question the principle of universality. The minister must come out of his silence and reassure Quebec families; It is his duty, "added Louis Senecal, General Manager of the Association. 
The member for Terrebonne recalled all the positive effects of a strong family policy, both socially and economically. 
"Thanks to this ambitious family policy, Quebec has allowed parents to reconcile family life and work, or even return to school. Monoparecent mothers and fathers have improved their living conditions. More than 70,000 women acceded more quickly to the labor market. Funding child care and support for families, it is not an expense, it is an investment, it is a measure of economic development, "concluded Mathieu Traversy. 
