Sorel-Tracy- Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank and hon. Member for Richelieu, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, is proud to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, regions and occupation From the territory, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the city of Sorel-Tracy will receive a financial contribution of $ 647,550 for the replacement of drinking water pipes. This assistance is granted in the Framework of Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM). 
More precisely, the project aims to replace drinking water pipes under Chevalier Street as well as under certain segments of the Marie-Victorin road. In total, nearly 1.5 kilometers of water pipes that will be renewed in Sorel-Tracy. 
"I am very pleased with the financial support today to the City of Sorel-Tracy for the implementation of these water infrastructure work. Our government recognizes the need to renew and develop drinking water, wastewater and stormwater infrastructure in communities across Quebec. Therefore, he works in partnership with valuable partners that are the municipalities, in order to allow access to quality public services for all, with a view to sustainable development, "said the minister. Zakaïb. 
The realization of this project requires government financial assistance of $ 647,550, under the 1.5 PIQM component. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this part of the PIQM program allows not only to ensure the sustainability of the infrastructures, but also to enhance the quality of life of the population and to create many jobs in all of the Regions of Quebec. 
The support of the Quebec government to the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) released last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the associated costs and to make informed choices. 
