Québec- The member for Richelieu and spokesman for the Quebecois for Seniors, Sylvain Rochon, lamented that the Minister responsible for seniors, Francine Charbonneau, did not provide any concrete response to his questions during the study of budgetary appropriations . 
"We need an elders' minister who gets up to defend them, who makes their voices heard and concerns at the Council of Ministers when the issues that concern them are addressed. We questioned it about the ancillary fees, against which groups representing more than half a million seniors spoke, and asked if it expressed the concerns of seniors to his colleagues. For any reply, she reiterated her support for legalization and enlargement of ancillary fees, "said Sylvain Rochon. 
"When I quoted the different groups that represent the elders, the minister accused me of doing a show. It was very desolating for them to note that it is at this point insensitive to their concerns, particularly with respect to gaps in access to home care, denounced just a few days ago by many of them. them. The Minister has not been able to confirm that the amounts planned would indeed be added to the financial exemption program for domestic assistance services, the PEFSAD, "he continued. 
In addition, when the support was addressed by the seniors' secretariat for projects to break the isolation and supporting seniors, the minister confirmed that she was interested in starting projects, but not at their sustainability. . Result: Groups invest efforts, time and resources to set up projects, the minister announces them in great pomp, then, too often, they disappear after one, two or three years, lack of support. "The Pair Provincial Committee and the AMOS Seniors Support Group are two examples of this sad reality. What will all mobilize all these resources mobilize and then give up the projects? Where is the logic? ", Questioned the member. 
Sylvain Rochon also emphasized the reduction of services that affects the CHSLD network, due to liberal austerity measures. "In Mauricia and Center-du-Québec, for example, 11 nursing posts and 9 beneficiary attendants were abolished in 2015-16, as we obtained through the Access to the Access to the Act. information. The devoted staff will make efforts, it remains overloaded; At the end of the day, they are the residents who pay for the lack of resources. It is also known that 32% of the inspected CHSLDs are in poor condition. However, the minister could not provide us with a reinvestment plan or even a schedule for the necessary work, "he added. 
Broken promises 
The member concluded by recalling the broken promises of the Liberal government, particularly with respect to caregivers. Indeed, in the election campaign, the Liberals had promised them investments and the introduction of respite days. "These commitments are finally like the 250,000 jobs: the promise has become a target, then a goal and, finally, a myth. » 
