The Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Minister responsible for the Regions of the Chaudière-Appalaches and the Capitale-Nationale and MP for Taschereau, Ms. Agnès Maltais, takes advantage of The inauguration of the new GRT commercial space Lévy to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, regions and occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, Government Assistance $ 192,150 granted to the organization for the acquisition of its new premises. This assistance comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship (PIEC) infrastructure program. 
"I am very pleased with the support of our government to the Lévy Habitation GRT project for the acquisition of premises adapted to its growth needs. This new space allows the organization to continue the development of community projects by promoting the revitalization of environments through the renovation of existing buildings and thus to better play its role as a promoter of units of social and community housing. These new premises will allow GRT Lévy Habitation to respond more adequately to the demand for collective housing of the people of Lévis, Lotbinière and Bellechasse, "said Minister Agnès Maltese. 
In concrete terms, the GRT Habitation Lévy project aimed at the acquisition of a commercial premises of 2,490 square feet in formula co-owned on the ground floor of a new building, the space Saint-Louis, located in the Old Lévis where the organization has always been offices. In addition, the relocation of the company's activities had become necessary, since the old premises could no longer support the growth of the company. The Lévis Municipal Housing Office entrusted GRT Lévy Housing The development of its projects, becoming the only promoter for all the units of social and community housing to come to the territory of the city of Lévis. 
The realization of this project required a total investment estimated at $ 865,500. The Government of Quebec pays $ 192,150 under the PIT. This contribution increased in the amount of $ 31,948 to take into account the interests that the body will pay during the aid payment period. 
Note that other partners have also contributed to this project, including the Economic Development Corporation of Lévis (SDE). 
Created in 1978, GRT Habitation Lévy, which assumes a social, community and cooperative vocation, concerns, among other things, to provide assistance and expertise to groups of people who wish to set up a cooperative or organization. non-profit home. It accompanies the promoter group in all phases of the projects and thus allows low-income households to take charge of their housing conditions by offering affordable housing. 
Equipped with an investment envelope of $ 10 million, the PIC aims to support social economy companies in the implementation of projects of refurbishment, expansion, construction or acquisition of commercial infrastructure or industrial. The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy companies, contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories and to promote the preservation and valorization of the quality of the environment. 
