Dakar, Senegal- The Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean-François Lisée, draws up a very positive assessment of his visit to Senegal. This first component of the African mission, on the occasion of which it is accompanied by more than a hundred business people and institutional, civil society and international cooperation, has given rise to the signature. of 16 commercial and institutional agreements (see list in annex). 
"The Senegalese portion of our mission will have very positive spin-offs, I would even say that they are beyond our expectations. The welcome we received suggests a numerous future and economic exchange between Quebec and Senegal. The signing of these 16 agreements - and we can think that others will be signed in the coming months - demonstrates that business opportunities are excellent at the moment on the African continent, "said the minister. 
The minister listed also took advantage of his visit to Dakar to proceed with the official opening of the first Expansion Québec office in Africa, whose mandate will be to support Quebec companies wishing to set up in Senegal and West Africa. . "The opening of this office is a strong signal launched to companies wishing to conclude business partnerships in Africa. They will be able to benefit from personalized commercial support and fully equipped workspaces allowing them to explore here business opportunities. Above all, the opening of this office is the proof that we are there to remain, "said M. Lisée. The Bureau will be led by Mr. Amadou Diallo, who was in particular ambassador from Senegal to Ottawa and who lived for 25 years in Quebec where he worked in particular within the, then called, Ministry of Economic Development, innovation and export (MDEIE). The choice of Mr. Diallo has aroused many positive comments among Senegalese leaders. 
The minister took advantage of his meeting with President Macky Sall to discuss the major challenges of the Francophonie and the next summit to be held in Dakar, in 2014. While half of the speakers of the French language are of African origin, gentlemen. Lisé and Sall emphasized the importance of making this cultural space a place of exchange and economic prosperity. "With President Sall, we discussed accurate collaboration issues between businesses on both sides. We both desired that discussions continue to establish a direct air link between Montreal and Dakar, "said Lisée. 
The listed minister has also met with the Minister of Commerce, Entrepreneurship and the Informal Sector, Mr. Alioune Sarr, the Minister of Public Service, Labor, Social Dialogue and Professional Organizations, Mr. Mansour Sy , the President's General Delegate for the organization of the 15th Francophonie Summit, Jacques Habib Sy, the Minister of Industry and Mines, Aly Ngouye Ndiaye and the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Senegalese of the Exterior, Mr. Manqueur Ndiaye. 
Participants in the multi-sectoral mission will go to Ivory Coast and Ouagadougou in the coming days when they are also awaited enthusiastically. 
Expansion Québec (Implantation) Opening of an office in Dakar to help Quebec companies and facilitate the development of their business in Senegal and West Africa. 
Geothentic Inc. (Partnership) Conclusion of an agreement with its partner - Distributor / Installer-Seti Senegal In order to make it the exclusive service provider of geothentic services in Senegal. 
Novatech Group (Partnership) Signature of a comfort letter with its Senegalese partner, the Firm Seck Real Estate. This letter provides for a delivery target of 500 modular homes as well as the creation and formation of a first Senegalese assembly team for any other projects. 
CEGEP International (Partnership) Obtaining a funded mandate funded by the World Bank for the technical and pedagogical support of the creation of the Institute of Professional and Technical Education (ISEP) of Thies, First Institute of Professional and Technical Higher Education in Senegal. Senegal wishes to set up a network of ISEP, present in all regions, under the model of Quebec CEGEPS Technical Education. 
Paul Gérin-Lajoie Foundation (Partnership) Institutionalization and dictation financing P.G.L. by the Ministry of National Education of Senegal. 
GCAR (implementation and partnership) - Opening of a "Division Cars Division" office in Dakar to offer its clientele of companies, foreign organizations and individuals the rental and supply of vehicles .- Obtaining a law enforcement of the World Bank in Dakar as a transport supplier for its staff. 
A.T.I. Automation Inc. (Implantation) Opening of an office in Dakar integrated into its plan for expanding operations in Senegal and West Africa. 
CRC SOGEMA (implantation and contract) Two announcements concerning its relations with the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) with the Government of Senegal.- Implantation of a tax management system which aims for the establishment of A new VAT module as part of the Revenue Mobilization Support Plan in Senegal.- Obtaining a 500 k $ from the World Bank for assistance in the establishment of the integrated system of Financial information management that must become in line with the standards of the West African Economic and Monetary Union (UEMOA). 
Geodem (Partnership) Ratification of an agreement in principle with the AFRIGOLD mining company on the establishment of a strategic partnership aimed at, on the one hand, the development of the business of the company Senegalese and, on the other , a technological transfer and expertise that the Quebec company will provide. 
SYNERGIS Group (Partnerships) Signature of a strategic partnership agreement, with EQUANYM, aimed at screening and developing business opportunities in Africa as well as the realization of common mandates. 
CIMA + International (contract) Signature of a contract for the realization of complementary supervision services of the modernization of urban infrastructures in Senegal. 
Coffee press (2 locations) Next opening of two new franchises in Dakar in Senegal, which will follow the opening of the first branch in this city in 2012. 
The National School of Public Administration of Quebec (Partnership) Collaboration in holding a training conference on social dialogue in contemporary societies. The event could be held in connection with the 15th Francophonie Summit to Dakar in October 2014. 
