Nicolet- The Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, is proud to announce the submission of financial assistance totaling $ 16,500 at the home of the family ($ 5,000), at the home of young people of the Bas-Saint- Saint- François ($ 5,000), with help Bécancour ($ 3,000), with Nicolet-Bécancour recovery ($ 2,000) and the Nourri-Source Quebec Federation ($ 1,500). 
"We are pleased to support the work of five Nicolet-Bécancour community organizations. Their work is important and there is no doubt that its effects are just as much for the entire community, "said Martine Ouellet. 
The house's home link offers a meeting place and community life by focusing on mutual aid, respect and solidarity between families. It supports the competence to promote the development of child skills. 
The youth house of Bas-Saint-François offers a meeting place for young people from 12 to 17 years old. It promotes care, creativity, democracy as well as the awareness of young people with regard to social problems. This financial assistance will support its efforts against school dropout. 
Mutual help Bécancour helps people in difficulty residing in the city of Bécancour. The organization offers a food distribution and friperie service. It also holds a furniture store. Thanks to this contribution, the organization will proceed with work that will reduce the energy bill of its building. 
The Nicolet-Bécancour revival is there to help people in control of their dependence so that they can regain their autonomy and return to the labor market. The money paid will allow the organization to renew its computer equipment. 
The Nourri-Source Quebec Federation is composed of regional organizations and groups supporting maternal breastfeeding with all families in Quebec. Nourri-Source can continue to help mothers walk and achieve greater autonomy by supporting them and encouraging them in their role as well as in their breastfeeding experience. 
It should be noted that $ 16,500 aid to five Nicolet Bécancour organizations comes from the discretionary envelope of the Minister of Natural Resources. This announcement is part of the government's desire to improve equal opportunities for all. 
