Montréal- As the filing of Quebec and federal budgets, the Caucus of the Montreal Party Parties and the member of the Repentigny Bloc Québécois, Monique Pauzé, accompanied by representatives of the Network for Help for People and Traveling Montreal. (RAPSIM), the Quebec Solidarity Network (RSIF) and organizations The home of young workers in Montreal (FJTTM), LiveMen'Occuce, Dopamine, the route and the Naha Center, ask the Minister Delegate to the Rehabilitation, the protection of youth, public health and healthy lifestyle, Lucie Charlebois, to unlock an emergency fund to assist organizations affected by the budget cuts that the redefinition of the parameters of the strategy Roaming (SPLI) combat partnerships and to take advantage of the presence of a new government in Ottawa to renegotiate the terms of the Canada-Quebec Agreement on the SPLI. 
The new SPLI 2014-2019 agreement is synonymous with unrealistic challenges for organizations that work with roaming or at risk of future. As before, it allowed the development of accommodation resources and funded the social stakeholder salaries, the new SPLI devotes 65% of its budgets to a disconnected approach to Quebec reality, that called "housing first" , which subsidizes private housing for traitors chronic, abandoning community support and intervention work. On March 31, the fight against homelessness in Montreal and Quebec will live a dramatic moment, while several organizations will see a significant share of their funding disappear. 
"Without emergency support by March 31, the FJTTM will have to close 8 rooms out of 19, and return 16 young people to the street each year. We will also have to cut the salary of one out of two speakers. This situation is terrible. We have been working for 25 years with young people who are referred to us by the DPJ and the health network! "Exclaimed Jacinthe McCabe, Executive Director of the FJTTM. 
"We work with the poorest and marginalized people in Eastern Montreal. On March 31, we will lose 100% of our funding for social intervention. I do not know how we will pay the salary of the person who is currently working with toxicomaniamen in our accommodation units. We need help and a new Spli agreement, "said Sébastien pageon, director of the Naha Center. 
"We live an absurd situation! In 2013, the SPLI helped us buy the building where we welcome dozens of people using injectable drugs and at risk of roaming every day, in addition to financing the work of our stakeholders. On March 31, 2016, we will not have money for wages. Where is the logic? We need a new general agreement, "said Dopamine's director, Martin Pagé. 
In the light of these findings, the members of the Montreal Parti Party asked Minister Lucie Charlebois to unblock an emergency fund to assist organizations weakened by the new SPLI agreement. "Everyone realizes it right now: the SPLI proposed Stephen Harper in Quebec is inadequate and hurts people in difficulty as well as the organizations that help them. I ask the minister to unlock sums to support groups who have been abandoned by the SPLI, "said Carole Poirier, MP in Hochelaga-Maisonneuve. 
Jean-François Lisée, Member of Parliament for Rosemont, asks himself to Lucie Charlebois to take advantage of the presence of a new government in Ottawa to renegotiate the SPLI agreement. "The federal budget is coming. The minister must seize this opportunity. I ask her to quickly begin talks with the federal government so that those who intervene with vulnerable people finally have access to the tools and resources they need, "he insisted. 
Monique Pauzé invites the Government of Justin Trudeau to agree to renegotiate the Spli Agreement with Quebec. "It should not remain insensitive to the terrible impacts that the new Spli, Harper Government's legacy, has on the fight against homelessness in Quebec," she renounced. 
François Roy, director of LOGEMEN'OCCUPE, abounds in the same direction. "A few days from the federal budget, the Trudeau government must commit to revising and renegotiating the parameters of the SPLI agreement with Quebec. The environment is unanimous: the tool we have in the hands is inadequate. Thousands of people are getting ready to lose the support they need, and dozens of organizations, ways to help those who have always supported. This is unacceptable. » 
"It is urgent that the Government of Quebec releases the funds necessary to maintain the interventions that have been cut due to the reorientation of the federal aid towards the" housing first ". Quebec must intervene for Ottawa to restore a comprehensive approach in supporting homelessness, and this must include a bonus envelope from its first budget, "concluded Shawn Bourdages, a member of the executive. Rapsim. 
