Quebec- On the occasion of the week for public school, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, wishes to express his unwavering support for public school and Competent and attentive staff who work there, especially teachers. 
"Public school is an open school, proud of the diversity of its students, it is that of everyone! It is a vector of learning, integration and social cohesion. It is our duty to value it and reinforce the feeling of membership of the students who attend it. I take advantage of the week for public school to thank all the actors who work every day for this important mission, "she said. 
The minister also wanted to salute Mr. Guy Rocher, the recipient of the tribute price, awarded by the Autonomous Federation of Education on the occasion of the week for public school. Mr. Rocher has made an exceptional contributor to the development of public education in Quebec, among other things, among others by its participation in the work of the Parent Commission, which is, remember, at the origin of the democratization of our education network. public, as well as the creation of CEGEPS and the University of Quebec. 
Initiative of the Autonomous Federation of Education, the fourth edition of the week for the public school is "a school for everyone". This theme focuses on the francization and literacy mission of public school. The minister also wishes to emphasize Ms. Claire Pimparate's dedication who has been associated with the event since his creation. 
In parallel with the context of the week for public school, Minister Malavoy participated this morning at a meeting of the Montreal Success Network, which aims, in particular, to support the academic perseverance. It took the opportunity to emphasize the importance it attaches to the dynamism of the various actors of the Community in terms of mobilization around the school environment. In this regard, it goes without saying that public school remains a must-see tool. 
It is now possible to follow the news regarding the Ministry of Education, Leisure and Sport on Twitter @ Melsquebec. 
