Québec- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced the attribution by investment Québec of a loan of $ 975,000 to the firm of architects St-GELAIS Montminy + Associates Architects (STGM) for the move of its offices in the heart of the eco-tree of the Pointe-d'Estimauville, in Quebec, in a new building for Leed platinum certification. This project, estimated at $ 2,775,000, includes the acquisition of the land and the construction of a 10,000 square feet building. 
"Our government believes in sustainable development and is therefore proud to support growing businesses that choose green and sustainable solutions," said Minister Zakaïb. "This initiative will have a favorable impact on the local economy and will contribute to the expansion of this ecoquartier, which already has several green office buildings. » 
The work will begin by the holidays and the inauguration of the offices will take place in the fall of 2014. STGM, which specializes in particular in the green architecture, has experienced a great growth in recent years and began to feel. The narrow in his premises. This move represents a great opportunity to build a green building, especially since one of the architects of this firm received, in 2007, the LEED approval of the Sustainable Building Council of Canada. The new building will house all the services of the firm, whether in architecture, project management, building engineering or codes and standards and 3D simulation. 
"Our company had a crying need for extra space. With the construction of this new building with both simple, efficient, efficient and eco-friendly architectural design, we will become not only owners, but we will have 10,000 square feet of space that will allow us to make much more easily implement our project. Integrating services related to the design of buildings, "said Dominique St-Gelais, main associated with the firm. 
"We are also very happy with the funding we have obtained from Investissement Québec, since we can keep our cash for other projects, such as the opening of new offices in the region or the addition of services to our integrated offer" , she continued. 
St-Gelais Montminy + Associate Architects was founded in 2001 and has offices in Quebec City, Montreal and Lévis. The firm has about fifty employees, including architecture, interior design and project management professionals. In particular, it worked on the prestigious Montcalm Palace of Quebec City, on those of the National Police School of Quebec, in Nicolet, and the Farm Hotel in Baie-Saint-Paul, as well as on D others in several regions of Quebec. STGM also has special expertise in the construction of non-residential wooden buildings and in the design of eco-friendly buildings, such as the Capital Transportation Network Metro Services Center and the Quebec Play Fair, which both got Leed money certification. 
Investissement Québec's mission is to promote investment growth in Quebec, thus contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. As a Crown corporation, it puts companies with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and capital stock investment, to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, it is responsible for the administration of tax measures and prospecting investments abroad. 
