Quebec- The Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale Region, Ms. Agnès Maltais, announces on behalf of the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders Dr. Réjean Hébert, the enhancement of the capacity of three family medicine units (UMF) of Quebec. This is the UMF Saint-François-d'Asise, UMF Maizeret and UMF-GMF Laval, all three affiliates at Laval University. For each of them, the capacity can be carried by, by July 2017, to 32 residents, in addition to the trainees. 
"Our government has made a commitment to improve the accessibility of care and services by consolidating the first line and increasing the number of family physicians. This announcement is precisely for this purpose, since this enhancement will increase the capacity in Family Medicine of the Laval University Network while accentuating the offer of service to the population of the territory, "said Minister Hébert . 
"Our government responds to its commitment by sound choices. In addition to contributing more markedly to the formation of the succession in medicine and in the health sciences, which will benefit the whole population as a result of the Quebec population, the enhancement of the capacity of this UMF is enhancing, here and now, access to high quality local care and services ", Minister Maltese reported. 
In terms of the operating budget, the sums allocated, on an annual basis, to $ 510,000 for the UMF Saint-François d'Assisi, at $ 225,000 for the UMF Maizeret and $ 330,000 for the 'UMF-GMF Laval. In addition, capital expenditures for remoderating and equipping MAZERETS and GMF Laval, these budgets reaching $ 1,272,000 and $ 950,000, respectively. 
Currently, about 45% of medical students are heading for family medicine, while 55% are moving towards other specialties. The consolidation of these UMFs is part of the government's willingness to increase the number of graduates in family medicine to reverse these proportions, and thus to better meet the current and future health needs of Quebec. 
