Montreal- The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane de Courcy, announces the entry into force of new immigration rules and procedures to select candidates according to the fields The most sought-after training in the Quebec labor market and to improve the application management process in order to maximize the contribution of immigrants to Quebec society and to further enhance the control of French. 
"It's about rethinking our approach to select immigrant people around the world able to respond more adequately to the needs of Quebec and to contribute to its prosperity. We want people who choose Quebec can not only live and work in French, but they can also find a job more easily, "said Madame de Courcy. 
"The changes made from meetings held earlier this year with the Ministry's economic, institutional and community partners. They represent a new stage that leads to strengthening government action to promote the integration of immigrant people, "added the minister. "We will not deprive ourselves with the contribution of talented people whose Quebec needs, but we will ensure that the selected candidates have the level of control of the French necessary to fully profit to their professional skills and guarantee their participation in life active. » 
These new rules will ensure that immigrant candidates will have to demonstrate a better knowledge of French than before to get points at the selection grid. A new list of training areas will also be implemented today, to better decrease the immigration system to the current needs of the labor market. "These novelties will promote rapid professional integration and the full participation of immigrant persons in the sustainability of the French language and the economic development of Quebec," said Minister Diane de Courcy. 
The selected candidates can, from abroad, increase their control of French, including through the online French courses offered by the department. These courses can be followed with the help of a tutor and include learning cultural codes, history and common values of Quebec society, which contributes to the success of integration, in French, Immigrants. Candidates can also be directed to the departmental partners, disseminated in 30 countries and who agreements have been signed. 
New rules have also been adopted with respect to the process of receiving and processing selection certificate applications submitted by qualified worker candidates, investors, contractors and self-employed. These rules will be in force until March 31, 2014. The simulations of the benefits that have been carried out by the Ministry indicate that the changes made will increase by 20 percentage points the proportion of candidates who master French while ensuring Maintain diversity in the selection of people. They will also limit the number of requests to receive and, as a result, reduce processing times and maintain an effective and dynamic immigration system, capable of meeting the needs of Quebec society. 
A web page showing the changes was posted on July 8 in the Immigration-Québec website. It is accessible to the following address: www.immigration-quebec.gouv.qc.ca/regles-procedes-immigration. 
