Quebec- The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, and the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, highlight today WORLD WORLD TEACHERS, A UNESCO initiative that aims to celebrate the essential role of teachers, whose mission is to provide quality training at all stages of the school path. 
"Like UNESCO, the Quebec government considers it necessary to revalue the teaching profession. The future of our society is partly based in the hands of teachers, who must awaken and mostly maintain the taste to learn at their students. I feel a lot of admiration for them. On this World Teachers' Day, the moment is quite indicated for us to express our gratitude, "said Malavoy Minister. 
Because quality education and student success require well-trained, supported and accompanied teachers, the government has implemented two new measures, the addition of 600 professional resources and support in schools as well as Financial support to school boards for the integration of teaching staff at the beginning of the career, both in general youth training and in vocational training and adult education centers. 
To create a prosperous knowledge company and just for all Quebeckers, we must support the development of people and their talent throughout life. The government has made a commitment to reinvest $ 1.8 billion by 2019 in our university system, which will add more than 1,000 teachers and some 2,000 courses. 
"Teachers play a decisive role in the academic, personal and professional success of Quebec young people and adults. It seemed to me essential to enjoy this symbolic day to greet their commitment. I also invite the Quebec population to do the same, "said Duchesne. 
Recall that World Teachers' Day was proclaimed in 1994. It takes place this year on the theme a call to teachers, to recall the importance of the role of these in the awakening of the citizen consciousness of their students and their students. OPENING TO THE WORLD. 
