Notre-Dame-des-Pins- The Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and the Chaudière-Appalaches and MP for Taschereau, Mrs. Agnès Maltais, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, is proud to announce the payment of $ 100,000 to the municipality of Notre-Dame-des-Pins, in the Chaudière-Appalaches region. This financial assistance, which comes from the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities Program - Municipality Municipality of Seniors (PIQM-Mada), will be used for the renovation and setting up to the municipal leisure building. 
Thanks to the PIQM-MADA, the municipalities incurred in the MADA approach have access to funds to support them in the realization of small infrastructure projects for seniors and their loved ones. 
"Today's announcement supports the commitment made by the municipality of Notre-Dame-des-Pins towards seniors. Thus, the aid granted will allow to carry out some renovation and setting up the building of the leisure building of the municipality. The realization of this project will facilitate the access of seniors and those with limited mobility to this common place and allow them to indulge in safe activities. This project is part of a concerted approach with seniors with the aim of improving their quality of life and promote active aging, "said Minister Maltese. 
"I am proud of our government's commitment to seniors as part of the MADA approach, this great initiative ahead of a few years ago and to which the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the occupation of the territory. Improving the living conditions of our elders is to contribute to their fulfillment as a person in the community. To assume together a responsibility that concerns us all to make Quebec a place where it is good to age, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
"This project, like many others who are emerging in all regions of Quebec, confirms the priority that our government gives to the quality of life of seniors. I wish to salute the initiative of the municipality of Notre-Dame-des-Pins and the efforts of those responsible for the renovation and setting up to their leisure building. This project will meet the needs of seniors and people with restricted mobility of this community in addition to contributing to their safety and quality of life while allowing them to remain active as long as possible, "said Minister Hébert. 
Briefly, the project consists of performing renovation and setting up standards at Notre-Dame-des-Pins's leisure building. It provides, among other things, the repair of the foundation and the roof, the insulation and the coating of the exterior walls, the replacement of doors and windows as well as various complementary works. In the long term, these interventions will promote the well-being and quality of life of seniors and people with limited mobility while allowing all to take advantage of these renovated common places. 
Under the PIQM component 2.5, the contribution of the Government of Quebec amounts to $ 100,000. Note that other partners also participate in the completion of this project. 
Remember that the PIQM-MADA has an annual $ 3 million envelope from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the occupation of the territory, reserved for the financing of infrastructure adapted to the needs of seniors. Since 2010, more than 130 projects have benefited from this envelope accessible to municipalities engaged in the MADA approach. These investments are part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. The PIQM-MADA program is also an action listed in the politicsVerville and live together at home in its community in Quebec. 
Strong today's membership of 704 municipalities or MRC, the MADA approach was established in Quebec by the Seniors Secretariat in 2008 and continues under the responsibility of the Minister responsible for seniors and Minister of Health and Social Services. This is inspired by an approach developed by the World Health Organization (WHO), and the model it proposes has been designed to enable citizens to age while remaining active in their community. The collaboration of the entire community is one of the winning conditions of the approach, but it could not succeed fully without the participation of seniors themselves and that of local organizations that represent them. Quebec is considered by WHO as the most advanced company in the world in the application of this approach based on the adaptation of municipal policies and services to the aging of the population. 
