Quebec- The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, and the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élaine Zakaïb, present the bill creating the Economic Development Bank of the Quebec (BDEQ), today deposited at the National Assembly. This state-owned company will include investment services Québec (IQ) and the front-line activities of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy. The new unified entity, which will have a permanent presence in all regions, will have the mission to support the economic development of Quebec and its regions by the creation, growth, retention and implementation of companies throughout Quebec . 
"Today, we concretize our commitment to this bill for the creation of an economic development bank, a powerful lever for the development of the regions," said Minister Zakaïb. "This development bank will indeed allow each region of Quebec to define its own development strategy, which will take into account its stakes and assets. In addition, local development centers (CLDs), which will be the privileged gates of the Development Bank, will act as local antennas to reflect the diversity of the territory. It will also facilitate the lives of our entrepreneurs by taking care of the administrative burden on the financing search to enable them to focus on what they do better: the management of their business. I want to clarify that the Development Bank does not want to replace current funding agencies. We simply want to improve the current offer, fill the gaps and strengthen the collaboration between the economic actors already present in each territory. We especially want to adopt a new more proactive approach and considers the entrepreneur as a customer. » 
"The revision of our economic development tools is needed to better support our economy," said Minister Nicolas Marceau. "This economic development bank is part of our vision: a sustainable development, entrepreneurship support and development by and for regions. The new company will optimize the role of the state as economic leverage by filling current funding gaps, particularly for starting business, supporting private investment and promoting regional consultation. » 
In order to be able to offer all its range of services to its different clienteles and to offer services adapted to their reality, the BDEQ will have permanent stakeholders in all Quebec regions, thus allowing the development of local expertise. Both distant territories that large urban centers will benefit from a targeted approach that takes into account their specific issues and assets. 
In order to provide enhanced and better-friendly services, the Development Bank will consist of three subsidiaries: Quebec Economic Development (DEQ), Resources Québec (RQ) and Capital Emergence Québec (CEQ). 
Regional Directorates, the Regional Development Fund and a new Vice? Presidency Social Economy will fall under DEQ; Capital Emergence Québec (CEQ) will specialize in starting and restarting companies; Resources Québec (RQ), which already exists within IQ, will continue its activities. 
Regional directorates will work closely with CLDs, which will constitute the main entrance gate for entrepreneurs; They will establish with the CLD an economic development strategy that will reflect the diversified reality of each region; They will carry, as needed, requests to the accompaniment services offered by the BDEQ and those offered by its two subsidiaries. They will also promote access to the measures and programs of other organizations or ministries concerned with the creation and growth of companies, such as innovation, workforce training or compliance with environmental standards. 
This regional approach will include a specific strategy for the major regions of Montreal and Quebec. For Montreal, the BDEQ will turn on the industrial clusters in place, which operate in a metropolitan perspective. For the Capitale-National Region, the BDEQ will build on the already well established consultation that has resulted in a remarkable growth. 
The Development Bank will also be the financial arms of industrial policy, currently under development. It will address all customers: small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) like large companies, foreign investors as well as private companies, cooperatives and social economy companies. "The social economy, his name says, first of all a social return before having an economic return," said Zakaïb Élain. "But his anchoring in his community and his collective dimension give him a vital role and the high chances of long-term success. It is the state to support this type of development that requires patient capital. » 
The BDEQ will support all types of projects, both from the more traditional manufacturing sector - especially if they are aimed at increasing competitiveness - than those of the new economy, while prior to innovative and promising projects. The slots of excellence agreement or industrial clusters or targeting renewable energies and green technologies. It will also intervene at all stages of growth of a company, from birth to maturity, through innovation and marketing. 
"With the Economic Development Bank, to provide funding and support, and industrial policy, to establish our guidelines and strategy in this crucial sector, we will have all the tools to enable our entrepreneurs to create wealth for the benefit of all Quebecers, "concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
Watch press clause. 
To learn more about the Quebec Economic Development Bank: http: //go.pq.org/d4b 
The BDEQ is a unifying and mobilizing project. Many groups have supported the project. 
