Joliette- Minister Delegate to Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Minister responsible for the Lanaudière Region and MPs of Joliette, Mrs Véronique Hivon, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, take advantage of the event highlighting the end of the work of the Square St-Louis of Joliette to confirm financial assistance from $ 558,253 to two organizations, the crossroads of Lanaudière organizations ( $ 233,253) and Amélie's dwellings ($ 325,000). 
"Interior initiatives like those found in Square St-Louis promotes the maintenance of social fabric, an increase in quality of life, especially among the most vulnerable people in our society, as well as a more harmonious development. in our region. Today, despite the importance of the work done, it is not the concrete we celebrate but the twenty community organizations, the social accommodation sites and the hundreds of people who work there everyday. Make a real difference in people's lives here. That's why I am also proud of our government's support for the realization of these renovations. There is no doubt that these improvements will have positive spin-offs for the thousands of people serving there, partner organizations and the entire community, "said Minister Hivon. 
Financial support at the crossroads of the Lanaudière organizations has allowed it to achieve the last phase of the renovation of the external facing of the entire building, and more particularly a facade whose stones had a risk of collapse. Recall that this building was built in 1871 and acquired a religious congregation by the crossroads in 2005. 
The total allowable cost of this project is $ 1,031,510. The Government of Quebec, within the framework of the PIEC, donated $ 200,000. It also provides a bonus of $ 33,253 to take into account the interests that the organization will have to assume during the aid payment period, bringing the total amount of financial assistance to $ 233,253. Several partners also contributed to this project. 
In addition, the Quebec Housing Corporation has granted additional financial assistance from some $ 325,000 to the Community organization Amelie's dwellings to enable it to carry out the necessary work to ensure the sustainability of this complex. 'home. 
Equipped with an investment envelope of $ 10 million, the PIC aims to support social economy companies in the implementation of projects of refurbishment, expansion, construction or acquisition of commercial infrastructure or industrial. The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy companies, contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories and to promote the preservation and valorization of the quality of the environment. 
