Quebec- The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltais, wishes to take stock of the consultations on the amendments proposed by the Government and announces that the Provide a gradual and important bonus for the 85,000 poorest people in our society, or the sole providers without constraints of last resort financial assistance. 
"The ongoing work is based on our intention to allow more people to participate in the economic and social development of Quebec as well as on our belief that the best way to combat poverty remains employment. Regulatory amendments are part of a careful analysis of labor market developments that indicates that nearly 700,000 jobs will be available due to retirements. It is clear that decisions are needed. In parallel with this work, I have been able to see that over the last 15 years, significant progress has been made for families with children, while the situation has deteriorated for single people, "has Declared Minister Maltese. 
The point on the consultations and the orientations currently envisaged 
There are 1,900 households concerned by this measure, the first year, three quarters of which are composed of single people. For the month of June 2013, they are 343 people for all Quebec mentioned. When this measure was created in 1989, unemployment was more important than today and these people were excluded from the labor market. Since then, the 55-59 year employment rate has increased from 50.2% in 1989 to 65.2% in 2012 and the labor market has been constantly improved, particularly in recent years for those who are Now searched and can stay involved. 
It should be clear that it is clearly demonstrated that participating in employment measures not only contributes to increased disposable income, but also to increase the chances of integrating a job. 
"We have to do everything to put these people back and that's what the Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity will apply," said the minister. 
As expected, this measure will come into effect on June 1st. People who are currently receiving the allowance will not lose it and benefit from an acquired right. For the 53 and 54 years, systematic meetings will be held to offer them a personalized journey towards employment. As many of them are isolated and have not met with agent for a long time, some will be declared to have severe employment constraints and pass to the social solidarity system. 
"The organization of these personalized systematic meetings is a first. This is the best way to identify the most vulnerable, to offer them measures adapted to their needs, and above all, to ensure that one does not escape anyone, "mentioned Mrs Maltais. 
This measure, which concerns 9,471 households providers with a temporary constraint because of the presence of a child under the age of five in December 2012, will be planned. First, remember that the right to the allowance will be maintained if one of the adults must provide constant care to another adult, if he has a health problem, or if he has to charge a disabled child other than Preschoolery. Then the regulations will be amended to ensure that providers can maintain their special benefit of $ 129 as long as they have not started an employability process in the period from June 1 to September 30, 2013. Once registered with An employability measure, the allowance can then reach $ 195 a month. This component of the draft regulation will also come into effect on June 1st but a deadline for undertaking the approaches for employment will be added to give every opportunity to the persons concerned to undertake their career. 
To understand the real situation of these households, here is the example of a couple with a three-year-old child and having a temporary constraint allowance: its disposable income is currently $ 22,880, it will be $ 21,332 without this allowance. But it can reach $ 23,672 if one of the adults participates in an active job measure ($ 195 more per month). It should also be noted that providers who participate in such a measure may also be paid for child care and / or travel expenses. This other example shows that employment is the best way to fight against poverty: the disposable income of the same couple, if one of the adults works 35 hours week at the minimum wage, will be $ 30,953. 
The Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity works closely with the Ministry of Health and Social Services and resource groupings offering addiction services with accommodation. This component of the draft regulation will also be amended to ensure that the changes made to the special benefit will make it possible to better guarantee the quality of the addiction services offered to the providers, without reducing access or create break-in services. . 
Work meetings have made it possible to establish general tags to supervise the special service for residence expenses for addiction services with accommodation. These tags focus on: 
These tags will ensure access, quality and continuity of addiction services with accommodation for last resort financial assistance providers, ensuring sound management of public funds and by focusing on their potential. Integration into employment. The parameters set by the government are therefore respected. 
The announcement of today concerns the poorest people of the company, the sole people without constraints, who have seen their disposable income deteriorate over the last 10 years (from 54 to 51% of the measurement of the Consumption basket). 
"I have often affirmed to the National Assembly, in the media and on the public stage, that $ 604 per month is clearly insufficient and I am pleased that the government will respond to the desire to improve support for single people. Expressed by my colleague the Minister of Finance, Nicolas Marceau, at the budget on 20 November, "added the minister. 
This measure will thus give rise to an important observation documented and analyzed in the state of situation 2012 on poverty, inequalities and social exclusion in Quebec made public by the Center for the Study on Poverty and Exclusion (CEPE) On January 29, 2013. Its president, Alain Noël, wrote on this occasion: "Can we, for example, accomplish for people so significant as those done for 15 years for families with children? " In addition, the Advisory Committee on Fighting Poverty and Social Exclusion had been the first to emphasize the deterioration of the financial situation of single providers without constraints. The modalities of this bonus will be made public during the final announcement of the changes to the draft regulation, or in a few weeks. 
"Just as the regulatory changes that are the subject of consultations, this announcement is part of a desire to adapt the last use financial assistance programs to today's stakes, and thus rethink solidarity to better help the most vulnerable of our society. I have heard the fears of the protector of the citizen and the rights groups and I am committed to dropping anyone. I carry this desire to ensure the poorest an unwavering support. We will accompany them and I hear a public service commitment soon and escape anyone. In fact, this commitment will provide for the publication on a quarterly basis, national data with regard to the interventions carried out with these persons so that everyone can find that with the departmental employees and all partners, we are working to reduce Poverty, "concluded Minister Maltese. 
In closing, note that the Quebec Ministry of Justice confirms that the provisions of the draft regulation are not contrary to the Charter of Rights and Freedoms. Comments and suggestions will be collected until April 15, 2013. They will be analyzed before decision-making and the minister will meet the groups on regulatory amendments before the final decision by the Quebec government. 
