Québec- On the occasion of a visit to the CPE AUTISSHH, the Minister of the Family, Ms. Nicole Léger, and the Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs, Ms. Elizabeth Larouche, have previously unveiled the projects that were selected afterwards Recommendations from the Analysis Committee for the allocation of places in Aboriginal areas. This committee is composed of representatives of the Ministry of Family and the Aboriginal Affairs Secretariat as well as a representative of Aboriginal communities. These projects will create 303 places with reduced contribution to meet the needs of indigenous communities. 
The projects selected will allow the creation of subsidized places mainly for children living in an Aboriginal community, but also outside its territory, as they are supported by this community and are considered a priority response to its needs. The implementation of these projects will begin in 2013 to continue gradually until 2016. 
"Our government wants to meet the needs of all Quebec families in child care. It is important to meet these needs in Aboriginal circles by increasing the number of places at $ 7. Today, I am therefore pleased to announce the upcoming creation of these 303 new places resulting from the consultation of our different partners from Aboriginal communities, "said Minister Nicole Léger. 
"Early childhood centers and daycares are living environments for our young children and play a key role in their development, in addition to providing invaluable support for parents. These are also important places of transmission of Aboriginal culture, "said Minister Elizabeth Larouche. 
In addition, in order to better support Aboriginal families, Minister Nicole Léger once kicked off a new call for projects for the allocation of additional 300 places. Remember that during the project call launched in February 2013 for the creation of 15,000 additional subsidized places across Quebec, 300 places were reserved for indigenous communities. 
The Ministry of the Family will send a letter explaining the details of the process to Aboriginal organizations, band councils and CPE licenses or daycare in communities that might want to submit a project. Projects will have to be filed between June 26, 2013 and November 26, 2013. People wishing to submit a project may download the relevant documents to the addresswww.mfa.gouv.qc.caou call 1 888 264-7683, line d information reserved for this call for projects. 
