Québec - Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs, Mrs. Elizabeth Larouche, was passing through the Algonquin community of Pikogan yesterday and today. She met with the leader of the Abitibiwinni First Nation Council, Mr. Bruno Kistabish and took part in the ceremony dedicated to the former residents of Saint-Marc-de-Figuery. 
This first official visit by Ms. Larouche to Pikogan was an opportunity for the Minister and Chief Kistabish to discuss various topics, including the issues related to the negotiations between the Government of Quebec, Lac-Simon and Pikogan. "I am very happy to be here today to meet and visit the Algonquin of Pikogan. I want to maintain with the Abitibiwinni First Nation Council a sincere and respectful dialogue so that we can move forward together in a strong and sustainable relationship, "said Minister Larouche yesterday. 
Ms. Larouche took part in the opening ceremony of the 2013 commemoration of the Saint-Marc-de-Figuery Resseption. Commemoration activities take place from August 8 to 11 and bring together more than seven indigenous communities. For the occasion, Ms. Larouche was accompanied by the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and MP Abitibi West, Mr. François Gendron. 
"It was important for me, as well as my colleague minister and hon. Member for Abitibi-East, Elizabeth Larouche, to come to testify our solidarity to the representatives of the communities concerned not only as members of the Government of Quebec, but also as a Elected from the region, as a fraternity, "said Minister François Gendron. 
Remember that in Canada, 1870 and for more than a century, about 150,000 children of Aboriginal origin have been removed from their families to be placed in residential schools. Ten of these residential schools were established in Quebec, including that of Saint-Marc-de-Figuery, located near Amos. This establishment has welcomed many Aboriginal children between 1955 and 1974. The Truth and Reconciliation Commission, from Abitibi-Témiscamingue last February, aimed to shed light on what happened in these institutions, as well as guide and hire victims in their healing process. The Commission had given rise to vibrant testimonies of survivors of the Indian Resseption of Saint-Marc-de-Figuery. 
"We will not be able to rewrite the collective and individual history, or erase the scars left by mistreatment. But by ensuring that your experiences are heard, by making known this sad pan of our history, in a certain way, we will approach a sense of justice rendered, and we can build together the united Quebec and respectful of which we Dreams, for us and future generations, "said the minister. 
Following the Commission, Ms. Larouche had been committed to going further in the rapprochement of peoples. Work from the Aboriginal Affairs Secretariat began to this end to develop an action plan to counter racism and discrimination against Aboriginal people. 
