Montréal- On the occasion of an event organized by the community, the Minister Delegate to the Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Ms. Véronique Hivon, asked the federal government to renew Lastratégia of homelessness-controlled partnerships (SPLI) respecting the Quebec orientations in the fight against homelessness. 
In its latest budget, the federal government has shown its intention to unilaterally modify the rules of the SPLI in order to support the only "housing first" approach, which would have the serious consequence of depriving funding for many Quebec projects. Fighting roaming that meets a variety of needs and realities. On April 30, Minister Hivon presented a motion that was unanimously adopted by the members of the National Assembly to denounce this intention. 
"We are asking the federal government to change this orientation. From a program that allowed communities to define their own priorities to combat homelessness, we will find ourselves with a program that imposes on us a single approach. If the new federal orientation remains unchanged, we will not be able to continue to act according to our priorities. Remember that prevention and the fight against homelessness go through diverse approaches: there is no single recipe, "said Minister Véronique Hivon. 
While the Government of Quebec has prioritized the development of a national homelessness policy, which has been claimed for several years under the previous government, and that the entire Community approach to homelessness. is greatly mobilized around the positive benefits that will result, the new federal orientations would put this momentum at risk. 
"In concrete terms, if the federal guidelines were to be kept, this means that the community organizations that offer a service that does not fall into the rigid framework of the only" housing first "approach would be removed from the Funding from the SPLI. It is a whole organization of services that would be jostled, jobs that would be compromised and especially vulnerable people and the great needs that would no longer have access to resources that are crucial, "concluded Mrs. Hivon. 
