Brussels- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Lapitalics and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, has undertaken on Thursday an economic mission in Belgium. The latter will continue until 16 November and will include public policies that promote economic development as well as innovation. 
"Our economic mission in Belgium aims to strengthen Quebec links with our Belgian partners," said Élaine Zakaïb. "We will have the opportunity to discuss our respective industrial policies, both put on the creation of niches or poles of excellence. We will present the measures of Quebec's economic policy- Priority Employment and Quebec industrial policy, which create a favorable environment for private investment and innovation in Quebec. » 
The minister will speak to several economic decision-makers, including Quebec companies established in Belgium, on investment and innovation in Quebec: new perspectives for Belgium and Europe. It will also attend a seminar on innovative neighborhoods and pronounce a speech to Creativity Week (Creative Wallonia), which takes place until November 15 in the Walloon Region. 
Élain Zakaïb will also benefit from his stay to talk to the Minister-President of the Flemish Government, Mr. Kris Peeters, on the Program of Industrial Agreements Quebec-Flanders and their respective industrial policies. She will also meet with the Vice President and Minister for the Economy of SMEs, Foreign Trade, New Technologies and Higher Education of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, Mr. Jean-Claude Marcourt. Their exchange will focus on the Walloon poles and industrial clusters and niche of Quebec excellence. 
In addition, Élain Zakaïb will visit companies in the field of information and communications technology, such as AMOS and EVS Broadcast Equipment, which are engaged in partnerships with Quebec. Visits to places dedicated to innovation and creativity, including the Liège Space Center, the Campus / Nest'up Laboratory and the Maker's Lab, are also planned. 
"Quebec is recognized for its creativity and ability to innovate, particularly through the holding of the C2MTL event, where included a delegation of entrepreneurs from Belgium last year," Added Élain Zakaïb. "Our participation in the Week of Creativity in Wallonia will therefore be an opportunity to read the initiatives of our Belgian counterparts in innovation. » 
To learn more about Québec's economic policy- Priority employment, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueEconomique. 
