Saint-Damase-de-l'islet- The Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches and MP Taschereau, Ms. Agnès Maltais, is proud to announce today, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the municipality of Saint -Damase-de-l'Islet will benefit from $ 5,329,500 funding for major water infrastructure. This assistance comes from the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM) program. 
"The financial assistance announced today in Saint-Damase-de-l'islet testifies to our government's desire to ensure the population of quality infrastructures for all. This major investment will ensure essential service for citizens, who will benefit from infrastructures that meet the standards in force. Thus, this realization will contribute to better protection of the environment, with a view to sustainable development, "said Minister Agnes Maltais. 
As a whole, the Saint-Damase-de-l'islet project aims at the establishment of a domestic sewer network at a sewage treatment plant to serve a hundred residences in the urbanized sector of the municipality. , about 250 people. More concretely, the project provides for the installation of domestic sewer pipes along Route 204, Bélanger Street, rank 6 and Elgin Road and the establishment of two pumping positions with discharge pipelines . It also includes the construction of a ventilated pond sewage treatment plant including a four-cell basin, a service building to house the required equipment, a gravity emissary and various complementary work. 
These interventions will meet the government goals of the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks. 
The realization of this project requires a total eligible investment of $ 5,610,000 under the PIQM Subset 1.4. The contribution of the Government of Quebec amounts to $ 5,329,500 and that of the municipality of Saint-Damase-de-l'islet at $ 280,500. 
The contribution of the Government of Quebec to this project is part of the 2013-2023Rendurable Public Infrastructure Duplan (PQI) framework in April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
