Quebec- The hon. Member for Rimouski and the official opposition spokeswoman for seniors, Harold Lebel reacted to the many recent headlines in the media about the living conditions of our elders. 
"We want to challenge the Minister responsible for seniors, Francine Charbonneau: What has been doing since April? Today, it is learned that for lack of surveillance in accommodation centers, about twenty older people died after choking with food. It is inconceivable that there are no sufficient resources to take care of our elders and supervise daily activities for which monitoring is necessary. Yet when they were in the opposition, the Liberals had themselves demanded a parliamentary committee on the living conditions of adults residing in the accommodation and long-term care center, "said Harold Lebel. 
"The Minister Francine Charbonneau must react and tell us how it intends to improve the living conditions of our elders. Unfortunately, the government does not seem to have a plan to deal with the aging of the population. He abandoned the Autonomy Insurance Project, but has no other proposal to do, "continued the member for Rimouski. 
Liberal cuts that hurt  "One learns, in addition, that the specific regional adaptation agreements of the living conditions of elderly persons, previously managed in concert by the Crés, the health agents, the elder consultation tables and the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and The occupation of the territory, will now be administered by the Ministry, in Quebec City. Once again, we centralize. How will the department determine the priorities of one region to another, without the consultation and work of collaboration on the ground? , "Added Harold Lebel. 
Finally, the member says to share the concerns of the FADOQ network about Bill 28 and some of its measures. "In considering touching the remuneration of pharmacists, the Omnibus bill of the Minister of Finance compromises the preparation service of the pills. But knowing that seniors want to stay as long as possible at home, this service is, for obvious reasons, of paramount importance, "he concluded. 
