Quebec- The Minister Delegate to Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Ms. Véronique Hivon, took advantage of his transition to the Congress of the Quebec Association of Health and Social Services (AUQESSS) to announce the Official launch of government guidelines for general social services, services aimed at meeting the social and psychological needs of the population or orient it towards appropriate services. 
"This is a great first. All health and social services centers (CSSS) will now be able to benefit from clear guidance and framework for the offer of general social services. This will ensure that all citizens of Quebec receive quality services and more uniforms from one region to another, "said Minister Véronique Hivon. 
Published for health and social services agencies (ASSS) and CSSS, this documentation of the Standards of Access, Continuity, Quality, Efficiency and Efficiency Standards for General Social ServicesRequests range of general social services targeted for the population of all territories of Quebec. These general social services include reception, analysis, guidance and reference, psychosocial phone consultation 24 hours a day, 7 days a week (24/7), crisis intervention in the environment (24 / 7), social consultation, psychological consultation as well as the psychosocial component in the context of civil security. 
"The publication of this tool is the result of an important work of consultation and collaboration. I would like to thank all the people who participated closely or far in his development with the Ministry team, both in the agencies and CSSS and partners, including the Order of Social Workers and Conjugal Therapists and Family of Quebec, the Order of Quebec Psychologists, the Order of Quebec Psychoeducators and Psychoeducators, the associations of institutions concerned, as well as the AQESSSS, which played an important role in the consultation process. CSSS ", concluded Minister Véronique Hivon. 
Documentation on the access, continuity, quality, efficiency and efficiency standards for general social services is available in the Publications section of the Ministry of Health and Social Services website at: www .msss.gouv.qc.ca. 
