Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élaine Zakaïb, accompanied by the member for Saint-Jean and Deputy Whip of the Government, Mr. Dave Turcotte, announced the Launch of the Business Transfer Center (CTE) of Montérégie and confirmed financial assistance of $ 198,000, spread over three years to support its activities.
"The issues related to entrepreneurial succession are major for the Quebec economy," said Zakaïb. "The rise of our regions, including the Montérégie, is closely linked to the number and dynamism of entrepreneurs they are home. They are the ones and they the real creators of jobs and wealth, the guarantors of our prosperity. We must therefore be innovative and proactive to fill the shortage of entrepreneurs who are already emerging in Quebec and who is likely to grow in the coming years. The entrepreneurial strategy we are pursuing, the economic development bank is prepared to create and industrial policy are all tools to help our businesses meet this challenge. The CTEs are also part of the solution and I am proud that the Montérégie finally has his. » 
In conjunction with the economic development agencies of their territory, the CTEs have the mission to inform, to raise awareness, to train and guide the ceders and the buyers in their process of transfer and resume. The goal of the CTE is to promote the sustainability of the transferred companies. 
"The regions are particularly affected by the issues related to the durability of companies," said Mr. Turcotte. "The CTE, including that of Montérégie, are precisely born from the willingness of the regions to consult and to join their efforts to meet the many challenges of transfer of businesses. With the CTE, the Montérégie will receive support that will result in significant economic spin-offs through the retention of prosperous companies and the jobs they offer to the population. » 
Economic Montérégie acts as Respondent for the CTE of the Region. This economic development agency promotes consultation, trade and networking between entrepreneurship stakeholders, including fifteen local development centers (CLDs) of the Montérégie. The economic players in the region are called upon to determine the CTE guidelines and to develop a regional action plan for business transmission. 
"Within the CTE of Montérégie, we will work with regional stakeholders who have contributed to its creation, to set up and promote a regional strategy to, in particular, to raise awareness of corporate leaders to the importance of good. Plan your succession and to equip the stakeholders who will accompany future buyers, "said Sylvie Lacroix, President of Economic Montérégie. "With the support of the Government of Quebec, we give the means to entrepreneurs to pass the torch to successful buyers, while promoting the presence in the region of a motivated succession and well supported. » 
The CTE of Montérégie is part of a network consisting of nine CTE spread across Quebec. The other CTEs are present in the following regions: the Capitale-National, Chaudière-Appalaches, Estrie, Lanaudière, Laurentides, Mauricie, Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean and Montreal. 
