Quebec- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, said proud to participate in the presentation organized by Nova Bus, who shared the progress of his project. Fully electric motorization. 
"The Government of Quebec recognizes the importance of the manufacturing industry in our economy. We will therefore create a strategy to stimulate this sector of activity that employs an average of a Quebecer on eight. We believe one of the ways to achieve this recovery is to bet on clean energies. That's why I'm particularly pleased to attend the presentation of the first Electrical Bus Prototype, "said Sulaian Deputy Minister Zakaïb. 
The creation of this bus fits perfectly in the transit electrification project that the government wishes to put in place. Also, this buses is only the first step of an even more ambitious project. Nova Bus and its partners, TM4, Bathium, Precicad, René Composite materials and Giro, grouped into the electric bus consortium, will design and market a second urban electric bus made of aluminum, which will effectively exploit Quebec's natural resources. 
It is also the electric bus consortium that will design an aluminum electrical microbus for residential, peri-urban and tourist transport. This project will be led by companies CPI, Infodev and Styl & Tech structures. 
These two projects will mobilize more than 35 SMEs and several Quebec research centers. More than 250 jobs will be created or maintained. 
"The project announced today aims to the economic development of Quebec through sustainable development and the mobilization of our companies. This will allow us to use our natural resources as well as the creativity and talent of Quebecers in their full potential. We have confidence in this innovation that will offer our transport companies a Quebec solution generating 0% greenhouse gas emissions. I congratulate Nova Bus and its partners and wishes great success at the first electric motor bus bus, "added Ms. Zakaïb. 
