Quebec- The Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Capitale-National Region and the Chaudière-Appalaches Region, Ms. Agnès Maltais, is proud to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that a grant of $ 65,860 is granted to the MRC of Lotbinière for maintaining its collective transportation service. 
This grant is paid under the Government Assistance Program for Regional Collective Transportation for the development of collective transportation. 
"Our Government encourages and supports the development of collective transport, which optimizes the use of the road network while increasing the fluidity of displacements, the decrease in the level of congestion and the reduction of pollution attributable to the consumption of hydrocarbons. . Today's announcement will allow the Lotbinère region to make its collective transportation service more attractive and significantly increased its use, "said Maltese minister. 
For residents of the Lotbinière MRC, this assistance means the continuity of a growing collective transportation service that represents an ecological alternative for users who visit Quebec City. 
"By participating in the financing of collective transport, we invest in sustainable development and in the mobility of people, both social, environmental and economic issues that are at the heart of our government's mission," added Mrs Maltais. 
Collective transportation is one of the founding stones of the next Québec sustainable mobility policy. In the process of drawing up, this policy will take over from the Quebec collective transport policy. The new policy, which will be implemented from 2014, will place the user at the heart of his concerns and guide the actions that will be undertaken by 2020 to enhance the offer of collective transportation service on the whole Quebec territory. The preparatory documents and some of the submissions submitted as part of the consultation on the website of the Ministry of Transport at the address www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca. 
The parameters of this program can be viewed on the website of the Ministry of Transport at the address www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca. 
