Saint-Charles-Borromee- Minister Delegate to the Social Services and Protection of Youth, Minister responsible for the Lanaudière Region and MP for Joliette, Mrs Véronique Hivon, today has inaugurated the new premises devoted to the unit of Intensive care of the Lanaudière Regional Hospital Center (CHRDL). 
"One year only after announcing the start of the work alongside Minister Réjean Hébert, I am very pleased to participate in this official inauguration. With increased capacity, promoting the accessibility of intensive care, more spacious, more modern, more convivial and safer premises, this new unit is a major gain for the CHRDL and will do a real difference on a daily basis , for the benefit of patients, their families and professionals in the Lanaudish network, "said Mrs Hivon. 
The work carried out consisted of an enlargement intended to receive the intensive care unit, above the new part of the emergency of the CHRDL. The number of beds of this unit increased from 12 to 16, in order to better meet the growing needs of the North Lanaudière population, and the unit may, depending on future requirements, accommodate two additional beds. 
The area of the new unit is three times larger than the old, thus reducing the promiscuity of patients and the risks of infection. It includes larger rooms, a living room for families, a waiting room, a conference room as well as areas dedicated to physicians and stakeholders. 
The relocation of the intensive care unit will also allow the completion of the second phase of the project, the redevelopment and renovation of the one-day surgery unit, which will be installed in the premises released. Alcoves will be developed to accommodate 20 stretchers and rooms will be devoted to cataract surgery and minor surgeries. The total costs of these two work phases amounted to $ 11.8 million. 
"The realization of the new intensive care unit demonstrates that we are committed to offering the best possible services to the population and improve access to the network. Once again, our government responds "present" for people from here who, we know, have to deal with many challenges in the field of health. Health is for us, as for the Lanaudois, a priority, and the realization of this work is a tangible proof, "concluded Minister Hivon. 
