Sainte-Clotilde-de-Beauce - Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank and hon. Member for Richelieu, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, is proud to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, regions and Of the occupation of the territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the municipality of Sainte-Clotilde-de-de-Beauce could benefit from a maximum financial assistance of $ 357,188 for the conversion of the church into a multifunctional center. This assistance would be granted as part of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM). 
"I am very pleased with the financial support of the Government of Quebec today announced at the municipality of Sainte-Clotilde-de-Beauce for the realization of its community and cultural development project. In the long term, this project will make it possible to respond more adequately to the needs of the population and to improve its quality of life, while ensuring the sustainability of the infrastructures in addition to reinforcing the sense of affiliation of the community in its environment, to its municipality In his region, "said Minister Zakaïb. 
In concrete terms, the project aims to transform the Church of Sainte-Clotilde-de-Beauce into a multifunctional center for community activities with a sport, recreational and cultural vocation. Thus, the spaced spaces will be made available to the population, institutions and organizations in the region for rental purposes. Among the main interventions planned include the redevelopment of the church choir, the construction of fixed partitions, the addition of a support beam, the installation of a new flooring, the realization of plumbing work and electricity as well as the insulation of lateral walls and facade. 
Under the current PIQM rules and standards, the maximum allowable cost established at this project implementation might be $ 535,782. Thus, the contribution of the Government of Quebec could amount to $ 357,188 and that of the municipality of Sainte-Clotilde-de-Beauce at $ 178,594. 
The support of the Government of Quebec to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) released last April. It should be remembered that this decennial plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
