"These data illuminate part of the issue, but leave in the shadow those of the language of work that appears to us as paramount" 
Quebec- In the light of public data by Statistics Canada this morning, Ms. Diane de Courcy, Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, commented on the portrait that these numbers suggest for the Quebec. 
The minister has asserted that: "We can all clearly see that once more the weight of French decreases, and more and more spectacular since the last two censuses. This decline is obvious, both in Canada as a whole as in Quebec, especially in Montreal and Laval. " 
Madame de Courcy mentioned that this decline in French was already observed by several on the streets, in businesses or seeking work. These impressions are now confirmed by Statistics Canada's figures. 
The minister argued that these data are worrying for all those who want to live in French in Quebec. 
"This will, I subscribe with conviction, as a guarantor of this law, like a majority of Quebeckers of all origins. But I can not act alone. This will - always current - must make consensus today more than ever. Especially when we know that since the last two censuses, we have welcomed nearly half a million immigrant people, not to mention the many foreign students and temporary workers who come to us each year, "continued Madame de Courcy. 
In view of those we welcome, the minister says we have the collective responsibility to do more and to do differently, to implement modern means to ensure the progression of French. These means must be identified with all Quebeckers, all Quebeckers and all the deputies of the National Assembly. These means can be incentive, administrative and legislative. For the Minister of Courcy, "one thing is certain, the pious wishes will not suffice". 
Madame de Courcy concluded: "There are at least two things that the numbers of this morning do not tell us: first of all, the degree of attraction of French, then what is the language of work in our businesses. These are the most relevant questions when we know how crucial language of work is for the integration of immigrants. What about really? Statistics Canada did not respond to this question this morning. Quebec will have to ensure access to these important data soon. " 
