Saint-Ephrem-de-Beauce- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, announced the award of a $ 3.5 million loan to Clermond Hamel, a The oldest companies in Beauce, specializing in the production of timber. The loan, granted by Investissement Québec, concerns a significant equipment acquisition project. 
"The Beauce is a flagship of entrepreneurship in Quebec. It relies on many dynamic companies and eager to give themselves the means to perform up to the most demanding market expectations, "said Élain Zakaïb. "It is therefore with great enthusiasm that we support the project of Clermond Hamel, which understood the importance of investing in modernization to remain competitive and continue to offer quality jobs at 90 workers from the region. The modernization and greening of our manufacturing companies are one of the three axes of Quebec industrial policy. » 
"I am pleased that our government accompanies this flagship enterprise that believes in the need and relevance to modernize its facilities to increase its productivity," said the minister responsible for the Chaudière-Appalaches region, Ms. Agnès Maltais . "The company, which today counts in its ranks of a fifth generation of entrepreneurs still passionate, is a beautiful example of successful family transmission. » 
Clermond Hamel, who started with a single mill in 1890, is today a diversified company that specializes in the manufacture of timber, beams and wood of standard dimensions in fir essences, spruce, of Red pine and loose. Located in Saint-Ephrem-de-Beauce, the company also has 5 dryers and a planing plant contributing to an annual production of nearly 75,000,000 feet. 
"The collaboration of Investissement Québec has played a key role in the development and modernization of our company in recent years," said Carmin Hamel, President and CEO of Clermond Hamel. "We are very pleased to have the government's support for the financing of our most recent project, which consists primarily of acquiring equipment for curved sawing and making improvements to existing equipment. The curved sawing will allow us to optimize the sawing of the boxes and to decrease, by the very fact, the production of chips " 
"Our government is a duty to support businesses that create quality wealth and jobs in all regions of Quebec," concluded Élain Zakaïb. "In this regard, since September 2012, the interventions of our Government in the Chaudière-Appalaches region, through Investissement Québec and the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, have enabled entrepreneurs to benefit from Financial aids of more than $ 66 million, which has facilitated total investments of more than $ 269 million. Our actions contributed to the creation or safeguarding of more than 1,200 jobs. » 
Thus, Investissement Québec has authorized aid of more than $ 46.5 million for projects requiring investments of nearly $ 188.8 million and creating or consolidating 631 jobs. For its part, the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, under the Economic Development Fund, has consented financial aid totaling $ 14.1 million for the implementation of investment projects of 54.6 million dollars creating or consolidating 306 jobs. In addition, through its regular programs, the Department granted $ 5.5 million for investment projects of $ 25.7 million creating or consolidating 272 jobs. 
Investissement Québec's mission is to promote investment growth in Quebec, thus contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The company puts companies with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity capital investment, in order to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, it is responsible for the administration of tax measures and prospecting investments abroad. 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicidustrielle. 
