Scotstown- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élaine Zakaïb, announced the attribution, by investment Québec, of loan guarantees totaling $ 940,000 for a project. Business growth Léo Délodes Master Herbalist. The Government has, for its part, granted a grant of $ 100,000 from the support program to the recovery and retention of strategic enterprises and the territories in difficulty. 
"It is essential to make all the necessary resources for entrepreneurs so that Quebec manufacturing companies can innovate, modernize and prosper," said Zakaïb. "It's the raison d'être of Quebec industrial lapolitics. We must support innovative and efficient businesses, like the example of Leo Délodes Master Herbalist. It is by investing in carrying projects that our companies will succeed in making significant productivity gains and they will remain competitive in a context of strong competition. » 
The project, with a total cost of $ 2.25 million, has created 3 new jobs, in addition to consolidating the 30 existing jobs. The funding offered includes the refinancing of an existing debt and comes directly to support the company's growth strategy, which wants to renew its facilities, including by expanding its current building and its refrigerated warehouse. 
Founded in 1974, Léo Délodes Master Herbalist specializes in the production and distribution of natural health products and cosmetics. It also ensures the manufacture of therapeutic products and cosmetics for several private brands. With its reputation, it is experiencing marked growth in sales of its range of probiotic products and cosmetics. 
"For the last few years, the demand for our probiotic products has been growing," said Benoit Fortin, President of Leo Délodes Master Herbalist. "It was now strategic to invest in new facilities and develop production equipment at the cutting edge of technology. In addition to significantly increasing the current volume of our products in capsules, this equipment will allow us to further increase our market share and to put on growth. We are very pleased to have been able to count on the investment Québec participation and the Ministry of Finance and the Economy for the realization of this job creator and added value for our customers. » 
Investissement Québec's mission is to promote investment growth in Quebec, thus contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. As a Crown corporation, it puts companies with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and capital stock investment, to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, it is responsible for the administration of tax measures and prospecting investments abroad. 
