Sorel-Tracy - Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, announced, through Investissement Québec, a grant of 1.1 million Dollars at Chalifoux Inc.For a modernization project estimated at $ 13.7 million that will create 18 new jobs in addition to consolidating the 150 current jobs. The company will also be the first to benefit from the enhancement of the investment tax credit announced in the recent Quebec industrial policy. 
Financial assistance will allow the company to enlarge its plant in Sorel-Tracy and to have modern production equipment, including a more efficient and ecological automated packaging chain, which will control all the Steps of production, as well as a aseptic packaging chain, which will maintain the production of long-life milk in Quebec. The project will allow the creation of 18 jobs and the consolidation of the 150 current jobs. 
"More than ever, our companies and our factories must modernize to grow, innovate and export further," said Élain Zakaïb, who said very proud to bring this good news to his riding. "We are therefore happy to support this important Chalifoux dairy project that allows the influence of Quebec expertise in the dairy sector. This project is part of the perspective of our 2013-2017 industrial policy, which aims to help our businesses modernize to create a more competitive and green industrial Quebec. » 
Founded in 1920, Chalifoux dairy inc. is a family business specializing in the manufacture of consumption milk, cream and different types of cheeses. It produces in particular the brand of Riviera cheeses. The company is distinguished from competition by the superior quality of its 100% milk products. 
"The support of the Government of Quebec will allow us to complete an ambitious technological modernization project that will increase considerably our competitiveness," said Chalifoux Dutch Vice President Inc., Alain Chalifoux. 
"Thanks to the addition of state-of-the-art technology equipment, particularly for reverse osmosis technique, we will now be able to control, on site, all the stages of production and thus avoid large processing and transportation costs. We will also be able to maintain the production of long-lasting milk in Quebec. » 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicidustrielle. 
