January 6, 2017- It is today that the leader of the Québécois party, Jean-François Lisée, and the hon. Member for Verchères and Head of the Initiative, Stéphane Bergeron, presented the visual, the slogan, the themes and the co -Proper of the other 150E, a project intended to present all facets of the story behind the anniversary of the Canadian Federation. 
Mm. Readed and Bergeron are also pleased to announce that the chemist, committed activist and ambassador "dare to rethink the pq" Marie Imalta Pierre Lys, as well as the songwriter-songwriter Rod the Stod, have agreed to act as co-door -PAROLE OF THE INITIATIVE. They want to promote history in a free, humorous and uninhibited way. 
The historian Gilles Laporte has presented each of the eight themes that will group the 150 events chosen by the other 150E. "The Confederation of 1867 ... the worm in the apple", "the blows of Canada", "a federal regime that does not keep its promises", "the Canadian Francophonie Malmented", "Quebec resists Quebec innovates" , "Canada, Disability to Quebec Prosperity", "No lessons receivable! And "150 years from Quebec Bashing" are all themes that will be developed over the year. 
"I wanted to tell the story behind the anniversary, which is discussed all the facets of the 150th of Canada. When we read a book, you have to read all the pages, otherwise the story is incomplete, even truncated! I am pleased that the other 150th took off, and this, participatoryly. Indeed, more than 500 citizens voted for the visual and the slogan they preferred. It is hoped that more people are appropriating the other 150th and participate through social networks, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
"We have the goal that the other 150th will relive the story. That the initiative moves, to visit key places in our history. In short, we want it to live! In this sense, the appointments of Marie Imalta Pierre Lys and Rod The Stod will really allow us to present history differently. By videos, Live Facebook events, holding press conferences in the field, we will go further than Ottawa's candy pink version. The continuation of things is exciting, "continued Stéphane Bergeron. 
"I am an artist engaged, by my texts, by my music. The other 150th allows me to revisit the history of Canada and bring out more shaded parts. It is a pleasure to connect with the entire team of the other 150E to make this project a success, "has reacted Rod the Stod. 
"As a young sovereignist activist, I find it important to participate in the transmission of our history, our entire history, new generations and Quebeckers from diversity. When we know our story, we are more able to make the best collective decisions for our future and, for me, it is clear, Quebec must give its version of the facts! Marie Imalta Pierre Lys 
