Montréal Paul St-Pierre Plamondon, Special Advisor to the Leader of the Parti Québécois for renewal, Jean-François Lisée, officially launched the consultations of the project "Dare to rethink the PQ to the Gab Café, collaborative work company, Sunday, November 13 2016. 
Surrounded by about twenty citizens from several regions of Quebec who will take responsibility for the meeting of Quebeckers, Paul St-Pierre Plamondon launched this message: "People who are accompanied today are not all of them? And do not come from the same environment, but they share a shared desire: rethink the Quebecois party to become the voice of succession, diversity and builders of Quebec. »All ages under 40, the ambassadors of" Rethinking the PQ "are committed to organizing meetings themselves with their network to reflect on a new Parti Québécois. "I'm not a squatal, I even voted Quebec solidarity at the last election, but I heard Paul's call. Liberals can not stay in power indefinitely. I decided to be part of the solution and rethink the PQ. Julie Daubois explains, entrepreneur and project manager, one of the project's ambassadors. Gabriel Dancause, entrepreneur and owner of the Gab Café, sees a good eye what is currently happening in the Quebecois Party: "It bubbling! It is now possible to undertake the PQ, to think differently and dare to ask important questions. The idea of ​​addressing citizens who do not always share our opinion is a pledge of success for this consultation. " 
Paul St-Pierre Plamondon also presented the details of the consultation by revealing the logo and the website "Rethinking the PQ": "All Quebeckers will be able to register for this consultation via our website darezrepentenlepq.quebec and M ' Invite in their area to re-believe the PQ. From here to the writing of my report in April, I have heard thousands of citizens who have given their ideas in person, on social networks or on our site. " Mr. St-Pierre Plamondon specifies that for a majority of Quebeckers the observation is clear: the liberal government is toxic. It is therefore necessary that the Parti Québécois is presented as the only possible alternative. "The only way to hunt the Liberals in 2018 is to put in solution mode and listen to Quebeckers," he says. Marie Imalta Pierre-Lys, Chemist and resident of St-Hubert, insists on the importance of a plural representation of Quebec: "Quebeckers of adoption must seize this chance and frankly said what they think of the Parti Québécois. It is a great opportunity to strengthen dialogue with diversity to form a coalition within the PQ and a Quebec that resembles us. » 
"Dare to rethink the PQ" will stop in Montreal, Laval and the Laurentians in the coming days as part of his consultations. "The agenda is already well filled. This is the demonstration of the craze around what is happening at the Quebecois party "concluded Paul St-Pierre Plamondon. 
The ambassadors of "dare to rethink the pq": 
Clément Laberge, Quebec City Entrepreneur and Web Consultant; Gabriel Danseuse, Entrepreneur and Owner of the Gab Cafe, Collaborative Work Company, Héléna Office, Consultant, Manager and Pharmacist; Julie Daubois, Project Manager and Entrepreneur; Marianne Girard, Entrepreneur and Owner of The eco-shop A world for life; Marie-France Perrault, a lawyer in commercial litigation; Angela Hanna Goulene, professional in 2D animation and digital arts; Catherine Fournier, Economist and candidate of the Parti Québécois in the constituency of Marie-Victorin; Marie Imalta Pierre-Lys, chemist; Louis Lyonnais, economist and lawyer; Claudel Petrin Desrosiers, International Public Health Cooperant; Alexandre Poulin, a student in the Master's degree in Political Science at the Université du Québec in Montreal and Independent Militant; Alexis Lauzier, Bachelor's degree in Economics at the University of Sherbrooke and former student leader; Emrick Couture Picard, student at Baccalau Reat in political studies applied at the University of Sherbrooke; Julien Bédard, Bachelor in Political Studies applied at the University of Sherbrooke; Rodolphe Parent, a Bachelor's degree in Economics and Political Science at the University of Montreal and Civil Rights Militant ; Tarik A. Moundir, Student in Political Science at the University of Quebec in Montreal; Virginie Chaloux, Student in Literature at the University of Montreal and Blogger at Huffington Post Québec; Alejandro de Souza, student at Cégep Vanier. "Dare to rethink The PQ "is a citizen consultation where Quebeckers and Quebeckers are invited to reflect on a renewal of the Parti Québécois and to identify the ideas that will allow him to become the voice of the succession, diversity and builders of Quebec. Lead by Paul St-Pierre Plamondon, Special Advisor to the Leader of the Parti Québécois, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, "Dare to rethink the PQ will lead to recommendations that will bring concrete changes to review the ways to do, the speech and the Ideas to the Partician Party. 
For details: darezrepentenlepq.quebec 
