A Joint Canada-Quebec investment of more than $ 26 million 
Sherbrooke- The Honorable Senator Pierre-Hugues Boisvenu, the Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Elders, Minister responsible for the Estrie and MP region, Dr. Réjean Hébert, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the Mayor of Sherbrooke, Mr. Bernard Sévigny, as well as the principal of Bishop's University, Mr. Michael Goldbloom, Participated in the official launch of the construction of the new multisport and health center at Bishop's University, in the presence of dignitaries, students, teachers, staff, residents of Sherbrooke and visitors. 
"These improvements will provide infinite opportunities for students and residents, who will be able to adopt an active lifestyle. In addition, the project will enrich youth health and well-being, families and all residents of the region, said Senator Boisvenu. Our government is proud to invest in major infrastructure projects like this, while we focus on creating jobs, promoting the growth and building of strong and prosperous communities everywhere in Canada. » 
"The Future Multisport and Health Center at Bishop's University will better meet the expectations of the university community as well as the needs of the population. Access to modern and high quality sports facilities will promote the development of the sport of excellence at Bishop's University as well as the training and development of high-level athletes, in addition to improving the competitiveness of Sherbrooke on The market for national and international sporting events, "added Dr. Réjean Hébert. 
Originally built in 1975, the John H. Sports Center will be redeveloped to become a multisport and health center. This project will transform existing sports trays in order to develop combat and aerobic dance rooms, a "spinning" room and a reception room with kitchen, new locker rooms and an enlarged weight room. 
The project also includes the expansion of the current gymnasium for a double gym with mezzanine, the construction of a new arena with 800 seats and a building connecting it to the sports center, including the layout of an area. restoration, sanitary blocks, cloakrooms, teaching rooms, storage space, and administrative offices. The realization of external development works as well as the renovation of the offices of the health and wellness center are also planned for the project. 
At the end of the Major Projects of the Canada-Quebec Chantier Fund (FCCQ) component, the eligible total costs of this project amounts to $ 29.5 million. The governments of Canada and Quebec each will make a maximum contribution of $ 13.25 million. For its part, the city of Sherbrooke will invest $ 3 million to the project. 
The 2013 Economic Action Plan sets up a new Building Canada plan to build roads, bridges, metros, suburban trains and other public infrastructure in collaboration with provinces, territories and municipalities. Thanks to the Government of Canada leadership and the country's economic and financial seats, the Canadian economy has better restored the global recession than most other industrialized countries. Canada has been a leader among G-7 countries during the economic recovery period through the creation of more than 898,000 new net jobs since July 2009. The new Building Canada plan, combined with other investments. Federal infrastructure, helps maintain Canada's infrastructure benefit, which is a key catalyst for economic growth and job creation. 
The contribution of the Government of Quebec to this project is part of the 2013-2023Rendurable Public Infrastructure Duplan (PQI) framework in April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
