Quebec- Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron, and the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Quebec Food Retailers Association, Mr. Florent Gravel, Launched today Quebec's foods in my cart! 
With two components, the first intended for consumers and the second to retailers and suppliers, the purpose of the competition is to promote the purchase of products from us certified by Food in Quebec. "I am proud to associate me with this original contest that highlights the know-how and creativity of our bioalimentary industry in the food promotion of Quebec. It is through initiatives like that that we will increase the proportion of Quebeckers' food that is satisfied with Quebec's food, which is one of the objectives pursued through our policy. Food sovereignty, "said the minister. 
Let us mention that many of the 156 participants of the 2012 competition reported highly positive benefits, up to 300%, on their sales of quality certified products in Quebec during the course of activity in the shops. This demonstrates that showing the origin of the products is a paid option. 
"In a context where 70% of food purchases are done at the supermarket, large chains are undoubtedly exceptional vitrines for Quebec's products. It should not be forgotten that these are also offered among retailers who exploit small or medium-sized facilities. That's why we chose to create a particular category for them this year. We invite Quebeckers to pay particular attention to the origin of the products they buy, no matter where they do their purchases, "Florent Gravel said. 
"With this contest, retailers give our products extraordinary visibility. I invite Quebeckers to seize this opportunity to discover the foods from here and to be used to registering them on their grocery list, "said Francois Gendron.  A treasure hunt to discover the foods of Quebec 
From June 18 to September 16, 2013, consumers are invited to take part in a real treasury hunt featuring many Quebec food certified products. To participate, consumers will need to identify three food certified foods from Quebec, and then wwww.concoursalimentsduquebec.com and run the chance to win every week up to 500 dollars in Quebec food. At the end of the contest, a big winner will win a cruise in the Madeleine Islands, worth $ 5,000. 
From July 25 to September 18, food retailers and their suppliers are invited to deploy a joint marketing initiative for a product certified by the Quebec food organization. It will be possible to discover all the projects undertaken in this chapter at the following address: www.concoursalimentsduquebec.com. 
Since 1955, the Association of Food Retailers in Quebec is the only body that represents all the retailers in Food Property for Quebec. She is headed by retailers and she serves retailers. The Association has given the mission of defending and representing the interests of some 8,000 food retailers, regardless of their sign and the type of surface they exploit. 
Quebec Food is a non-profit organization that aims to contribute, through promotion and awareness activities, to increase market share of Quebec agri-food products in the internal market. It manages two certifications that guarantee Quebec origin of products, or foods in Quebec and food prepared in Quebec. 
For further information on food sovereignty policy, consult regularly the blog (www.politiquesa.gouv.qc.ca or website (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa) of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and food. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
