Québec- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce the creation of VOLCE II, a financial assistance program for cycling and pedestrian infrastructure. 
Mr. Gaudreault has benefited from his visit to the Tourism, Cycling and Verte Symposium, to announce that $ 7 million will be awarded for 2013-2014. In addition to allowing the completion of the green road and ensuring the sustainability, this program, for a period of 3 years, aims to support municipalities in their desire to put in place transport infrastructures that promote travel. assets. 
"Cycling and walking are healthy, economical and ecological practices to get around. Thanks to the collaboration of municipalities, we will be able to offer the population even more alternative solutions to the automobile. I can only rejoice at me, since the Vocal II program is perfectly in the objectives of the bike policy of the Ministry of Transport and has increased the establishment of infrastructures promoting active travel in urban areas, "has Declared Minister Gaudreault. 
The help program includes 4 components whose total funding will reach $ 7 million in the first year: 
Component 1- Transportation of transport in urban perimetersVolet 2- Green road development and its branchmentsVolet 3- conservation of transport infrastructureVolet 4- Maintenance of the green road 
VELOCE II replaces all programs administered until recently by the Ministry of Transport in terms of cycling infrastructure: the financial assistance program for the development of the Green Road; the government assistance program with alternative modes of transportation to the automobile; The Vécoce program (2012 edition) and the Financial Assistance Program for the Maintenance of the Green Road. It should be noted that all grants paid in the framework framework, regardless of the component, correspond to a maximum of 50% of eligible expenses. 
"The merger of the old programs will facilitate the task of our municipal partners in planning their actions for the development of active transportation in Quebec. I will also enable new cycling infrastructure, but also to improve the current network, in order to ensure continuity and to bring it to a higher level of quality and safety, "concluded Mr. Gaudreault. 
For the current year, eligible bodies have until November 26, 2013 to submit a project. All the documentation is available atwww.mtq.gouv.qc.ca, in sectionPartners, under the municipalities, help programs, bike. 
