Québec- Today makes the kickoff of the 14th Fisheries, which is held from 7 to 9 June 2013. For this occasion, the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, invites all citizens to take part in activities that are held everywhere in Quebec during this weekend. 
"The sport fishing in Quebec is an activity accessible to all, which allows you to enjoy the exceptional wealth of our territory. The objective of the Fisheries Festival is to ensure the succession in the practice of this activity. Since the usually required license is not necessary during the three days of this annual celebration, this weekend is the perfect opportunity to learn family at fishing or that, for fishermen, to transmit their passion for this Sports in their entourage, "said Minister Blanchet. 
Several accessible water bodies of Quebec make it possible to take advantage of this weekend fishing without license. It is enough to respect the regulations in force! The day of Friday will be devoted to young people from school circles that will follow the training "grass fishing". Just as festive, the activities of Saturday and Sunday will give the opportunity to have fun and enjoy pleasant moments, while fishing. The complete list of activities offered in each region can be consulted on the following website: www.fetedelapeche.gouv.qc.ca. 
A competition is also organized as part of the Fisheries Festival. All the information necessary for registration is at the address www.feedelapeche.gouv.qc.ca. By participating, you run the chance to win one of the 18 prizes offered, including a transom canoe of 14 feet Sportspal brand offered graciously by the Latulippe store, outdoor-related activities as well as fishing equipment. 
For the third year in a row, young people from the Youth Point House have accepted the role of spokesperson for this great family party. In 2011 and 2012, the many fishermen encountered in several regions of Quebec were seduced by the expertise of these young fishery adepts. Again this year, they will be present at different fishing sites throughout the weekend to offer fly mounting workshops, demonstrations to throw in the fly and, of course, to communicate their passion for fishing . Follow them on the PageFaceBook.com/fetEpepepeche. 
Fisheries Festival benefits from the contribution of many wildlife partners, both at the national level and at the regional level. For this event, the MDDEFP also receives the support of the Expert Hunting, Fishing and Camping Exhibition, which offers several hundred fishing rods that are distributed throughout Quebec. 
