Quebec, on June 22, 2020 - The member for Matane-Matapédia, parliamentary leader of the Quebec's party and spokesperson in French Language, Pascal Bérubé, held to reiterate certain proposals already submitted by the Parti Québécois, inviting the Government to S To seize it to finish the debate that is necessary. 
The Parti Québécois considers it appropriate to recall its proposals on the French language: 
"Although he has already claimed that he did not have the intention of reopening Law 101, no one would criticize the CAQ government if it decided to turn around in this file. By highlighting the measures we propose, it would finally demonstrate the nationalism that it claims to exercise. These proposals are ours, but we offer them with pleasure! "Assured Pascal Bérubé. 
It is in a sincere spirit of collaboration that the parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois is expressed. It is, for him, a question that goes far beyond the partisan interest. "Every day, it becomes more and more obvious that strengthening Law 101 is urgent and necessary; Just see accelerated Anglicization on the island of Montreal and Laval. Together, we must affirm high and loud that in Quebec, French is the normal and usual language for work, teaching, communications, commerce and business. We must proudly affirm our right to live in French because that is what distinguishes us in the first place. » 
The member for Matane-Matapédia keeps hope that the CAQ decides to act, even though the last days give instead the impression that it cares very little of our common language. "Bill 61 that the government has presented is essentially affair to; No Francophone Cegep will benefit, while we have great projects for the Dawson College, anglophone. This logic threatens the presence, vigor and durability of French in Quebec; You have to change our approach at all costs! He insisted. 
Pascal Bérubé also required to remind the government that on February 19, all parliamentarians - with the exception of the Liberals - supported a motion of the Quebecois party mentioning the importance of asserting and strengthening the use of French in Quebec. "He must now respect his commitment, stand up and speech to acts," he said; We have expected enough! » 
"For us, for the Parti Québécois, French is a fundamental issue. All year round, and even more at the approach of our national holiday. Our language is the first component of our identity. It is through it that our culture express themselves, our traditions, our belonging to this territory and the colorful description we make. Our story was written in French; We must make sure that it will be the same for our future, "concluded Pascal Bérubé. 
