The Chief and Vice-Chauffe of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée and Véronique Hivon, as well as the candidates Catherine Fournier (Marie-Victorin), Maka Kotto (Bourget), Jennifer Drouin (Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques) and Marie -Aline Vadius (Laurier-Dorion), have held a press briefing to present the details of the future bill 202, which will be deposited in the first 101 days of a government listed. The Parti Québécois thus reveals a serious plan that constitutes the most important offensive for French since the adoption of Camille Laurin's Law 101 more than 40 years ago. 
IN SHORT 
To strengthen French in Quebec, the Parti Québécois proposes a 202 law, which includes: 
"Behind the liberal denial and the dangerous proposals of the CAQ is a slow but certain weakening of French, the heart of our identity. The 2016 census data are without appeal: the decline of French in Quebec is indisputable, especially as to the proportion of citizens for whom it is the main language at home. In addition, according to Statistics Canada, the number of companies where French working language gives way to integral bilingualism has passed the 10% Cap in Montreal and is progressing rapidly. It is necessary at all costs to reverse this trend and restore an impetus to French in Quebec, "said Jean-François Lisée immediately. 
"In nearly 60% of cases, it is now impossible to get a job in Montreal - including to shovel snow! - If we do not demonstrate a knowledge of English. It is an alarming portrait to which the liberal failure in the francization of immigrants is added. And that, Quebeckers feel it well; In a survey published yesterday, 61% of Francophone Quebecers believe that French has declined for 10 years. And 68% plan that this decline will increase over the next 10 years, "Catherine Fournier continued. 
Evoking a recent Auditor General's report, the Parti Québécois takes advantage without appeal: the Liberals are not credible when it comes to immigration or francization. "For 15 years, the entry of several immigrant cohorts who totally ignore French - 58% in 2017 - and the faremous failure rates of francization courses - 90%! - contribute heavily to the decline of French. In addition, giving their blessing to new lax rules, the Liberals knowingly allowed a decline in French in the display, "added Jennifer Drouin. 
"There is urgency to act. However, it is certainly not the danger that the CAQ represents that will revive the French in Quebec. François Legault says to worry about our language, while it would allow entry to Quebec of 40,000 people having no knowledge. He also revealed the substance of his thought when he said that it was too important to French in the selection of immigration. The CAQ is certainly the acceleration of the decline of French! Marie-Aline Vadius warned. 
"It is therefore up to the Parti Québécois to act with force to operate a recovery. This requires the return of a real national will to the Orders of Quebec, that the Quebecois Party will begin. We will table a law 202 on language and immigration in the first 101 days of our mandate. Overall, it is necessary to reaffirm that the official and common language in Quebec is French. And that it will stay so, "on his side insisted Maka Kotto. 
Finally, the Parti Québécois is very clear: it takes a "100% success" approach for neo-Quebec. "It's important to ensure the real integration of newcomers to the labor market, in the regions and occupations. It is also necessary for a robust effort to reduce discrimination. The Liberals accustomed us to public relations operations that have no concrete effect. And the Cavoists, they never talk about it. The Parti Québécois, he will seriously tackle this issue, "said Véronique Hivon. 
For more information, click here. 
