Quebec- In the wake of the publication, today, a notice from the Superior Council of the French language (CSLF), the member for Bourget and spokesman for the Quebecois Party responsible for the Charter of the French language, Maka Kotto , and his colleague from Verchères, spokesperson for Francophonie of America, Stéphane Bergeron, denounce the inaction and inability of the Liberal government when it comes to French in Quebec. They invite the Minister responsible for the protection and promotion of the French language, Hélène David, to finally put himself to the book and to honor the liberal party commitments. 
"Since the arrival of the liberal minister, the files pile up on his office. Despite the commitments of his party, particularly with regard to the clogging of the breach in the law in the display of trademarks, nothing is moving. The government had also promised to review the Francization processes on construction sites, currently too long and unsuitable for ephemeral construction sites, but nothing has been done yet. The minister should put it now, since an additional task has been added to his office: enhance the control of French to firm social cohesion and promote academic success, "said Maka Kotto. 
Stéphane Bergeron was particularly surprised to read this morning in the duty, the words of the Minister responsible for the Canadian Francophonie, Jean-Marc Fournier, according to which "the progress of French in Quebec are obvious, statistically demonstrated". "We can not be more disconnected from reality. We have known for a long time - the 2011 census has proven it - that the demographic weight of the French recedes in Quebec. In addition, a study of the CSLF, made public in December 2014, confirms that the objective of the law 101 - either to make French the common language of all Quebeckers in the public space - is not reached. Worse, we go away a little more every day, especially in Montreal. So there is urgency to act! ", he added. 
"What is the Liberal government's action plan in the French language? If we rely on what Jean-Marc Fournier says, we will have to array with patience because he does not even recognize the problem. At the Parti Québécois, we refuse to fall as to the protection and promotion of French in Quebec. Our government had also acted in this direction by submitting Bill 14, but it could not be completed, particularly because of the opposition of the Liberals and the CAQ. Efforts for the protection of our common public language must be vigorous and constant, and we are summoning the Liberals to activate in the case, because the time press, "concluded Maka Kotto. 
