Quebec- The Minister of the Family, Ms. Nicole Léger, is pleased to announce that Lussier Insurance Cabinet is now certified according to the Standard Conciliation Work-Family (BNQ 9700-820). Moreover, this company has also obtained the highest level of certification in this area, level 4. 
Established in 1915, Lussier Insurance Cabinet is one of the four largest bouralkeepers for damage insurance in Quebec. Exemplary practices in working-family reconciliation (CTF) of this company are now recognized and certified by the Quebec Standards Office (BNQ). 
"In Quebec, women workers are looking for a balance in their lives, where family and professional responsibilities harmonize with the most flexibility. Companies have everything to gain to open up to this reality, that's what we want to promote with the Standard Work-Family Conciliation. I want to congratulate the leaders of Lussier insurance cabinet for identifying this challenge with determination, and I invite other companies to put in place work-family conciliation measures and to start approaches to obtain this certification created in Quebec And unique in the world, "said Minister Nicole Léger. 
"Promoting work-family reconciliation in workplaces is a way, not only to facilitate the lives of families, but also attracting and retaining labor in our businesses. It is therefore a winning formula that contributes to the economic prosperity of Quebec, "said the Minister delegated to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank and hon. Member for Richelieu, Ms. élain Zakaïb. 
Developed under the coordination of BNQ, by a committee of employers' representatives, employees and the general interest and, in particular, representatives of the Ministry of Family, Employment-Québec and the Ministry of Labor, the Standard CTF specifies the requirements of good practice in this area, with respect for the reality of organizations and workers. It aims to integrate the CTF into human resource management and may apply to all types of organizations, public, private or otherwise, regardless of their size, the products or services they provide. 
Recognized measures include: Family reasons for leave, a flexible schedule, an offer for help or support for child care. Companies are encouraged to put forward CTF practices that meet the needs of their employees. It is the BNQ that evaluates the level of compliance of an organization's management practices with the requirements of the standard. 
"The Quebec Standards Office is pleased to grant a level 4 certification in work-family conciliation in Lussier Insurance Cabinet, a source of inspiration in its sector of activity. Companies have everything to gain to set up a work-family conciliation strategy. Accession to the norm allows the employer to structure his CTF efforts, to ensure that it adequately meet the new realities of its employees and to attract new talents, "said Jean Rousseau, Director of the Quebec Standards Office. 
Organizations interested in the Standard Work-Family Conciliation (BNQ 9700-820) and the certification process can go directly to the Quebec Standards Office or visit www.bnq.qc.ca. The Department also provides a financial support program for CTF workplaces, which are presented on the websiteWww.mfa.gouv.qc.ca. 
