Quebec- The Minister of the Family, Ms. Nicole Léger, is pleased to announce that Impact Emploi-CE Maple is the first certified non-profit organization according to the Standard Conciliation Work-Family (CTF) (BNQ 9700-820 ) He reached the second level of certification. 
"In Quebec, women workers are looking for a balance in their lives, where family and professional responsibilities harmonize with the most flexibility. Organizations have everything to gain to open up to this reality; This is what we want to promote with the Standard Conciliation Work-Family. I want to congratulate the Maple Impact Impact Directorate which becomes the first non-profit organization to have noted this challenge. I invite other organizations to put in place work-family conciliation measures and to begin approaches to obtain this certification designed in Quebec and unique in the world, "said Minister Nicole Léger. 
"We have been made aware of the Standard by the Ministry of Family at a conference dinner offered by our Local Development Center (CLD). The proposed, simple and accessible approach made us want to go further. We are happy with the outcome, since we finally obtained Level 2 certification, "said Ms. Marie-Claude Chouinard, General Director of Impact Emploi-CJE Maple. 
This standard, four levels, was created at the initiative of the Ministry of Family and was developed under the coordination of the Quebec Standards Office (NAM), by a committee of employers' representatives, employees and of the general interest. This committee was consistent with representatives of the Ministry of Family, Employment-Québec and the Ministry of Labor. The CTF standard specifies the requirements of good practice in this area, with respect for the reality of organizations and workers. It aims to integrate the CTF into human resource management and may apply to all types of organizations, private, public or otherwise, regardless of their size and the products or services they provide. 
Recognized measures include: holidays for family reasons, reduced working time, flexible schedule, overtime banks and teleworking. Companies are encouraged to put forward work-family conciliation practices that meet the needs of their employees. It is the BNQ that evaluates the level of compliance of an organization's management practices with the requirements of the standard. 
"This Standard for Work-Family Conciliation is part of a series of socio-economic standards that can, among other things, be used to attract and retain a new generation of workers, more demanding in terms of quality of life. In a context of labor shortage, this is a fundamental issue for Quebec society, the first force of an organization being its workforce. The Quebec Standards Office is very proud to see that Impact Emploi-CE maple incorporates work-family reconciliation in its management modes, "said Jean Rousseau, Director of the BNQ. 
"The various initiatives put forward by Impact Employment-CJE Maple in terms of work-family conciliation contribute to make this organization an employer of choice in its sector of activity and a source of inspiration for others Center-du-Québec organizations. I congratulate him for this achievement which is winning on all plans, "said the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for Mauricie and the Center-du -Quebec, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet. 
Organizations interested in the Standard Work-Family Conciliation and the certification process can go directly to the standardization office or visit the websiteWww.bnq.qc.ca. The Department also provides a financial support program for CTF workplaces, which are presented on the websiteWww.mfa.gouv.qc.ca. 
