Quebec, April 3, 2018 -The member for Sanguinet and official opposition spokeswoman for the metropolitan electricity grid (REM), Alain Therrien, and the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesman responsible for the 'Montreal Island, Carole Poirier, denounce the relevance of the Antenna of Sainte-Anne-de-Bellevue of the REM and ask the Government to withdraw it to bet, instead, on real solutions to improve The mobility of the people of the west-de-l'Île. 
IN SHORT 
A waste that does not serve the interests of the public transport users "The Antenna de Sainte-de-Bellevue does not serve the interests of the users of the collective transport of the West Island; All it serves, it is the political interests of the coiteful ministers, Kelley and Leitão. This liberal decision inflates the cost charged from 15% to the ARTM! It is unjustifiable to invest Quebeckers' money in this section. The fund has very strict financial and commercial requirements for its partners - transport companies, for example. Why not have the same requirements for itself? Why did she accepted this waste of more than $ 1 billion? Asked Alain Therrien. 
Indeed, the antenna to Sainte-Anne-de-Bellevue climbed from 61 to 72 cents of the passenger-km the cost charged to the ARTM. In addition, this stretch represents 24% of the REM route, but only 12% of the projected traffic will take it. In comparison with the other REM antennas, it would only bring 25% of the daily trips on the south shore section, and 34% of those on the section of two-mountains. 
"The BAPE voted against this section due in particular to the insufficient demand and the lack of consideration of the collective transport needs of the West-1. In addition, the extent of the destructuring of the Vaudreuil-Hudson line is still unknown to this day, but it is certain that the effect of the EM will be to weaken it or even to condemn it ", has for its part insisted it Carole Poirier. 
Indeed, according to the data filed by CDPQ infra to the hearings of the BAPE, on the fifty bus lines which serve the West Island, CDPQ Infra proposes to abolish 17, including 8 express, and of Create 14 new folding services in the West Island. Several other routes would be modified or created to bring users to REM stations. 
The Parti Québécois asks the Government to stop drawing political routes on the back of the users of the collective transport of the West Island. In place of the REM, it offers the great unlocking, which includes efficient and attractive solutions for the West: 
Daily traffic in 2031 (% of total REM trawl) 
Length of the antenna (% of the total length of the REM) 
