Quebec- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the spokesman for the Parti Québécois in finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, the spokesperson for economy, energy and natural resources, Alain Therrien, as well as the spokesperson for employment, vocational training, literacy and youth, Dave Turcotte, deplore the loss of 3200 jobs in Quebec in January. 
"The year 2016 begins very badly for Quebec. After the sale of Rona, one of our florets, accepted and even applauded by Philippe Couillard, we learn that Quebec lost 3200 jobs in January. The Liberal government, much too focused on austerity, should take note of the consequences of its will do in the area of economics: the multiplication of job losses since its arrival, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
The fall of employment continues in Quebec, while it has lost 3500 jobs in the last 9 months, since April 2015. In comparison, during the same period, the rest of Canada created 111,300 jobs . "It is flaunting that the Liberal government accepts this situation, which it looks at the train without reacting. The Quebec economy is hampered by austerity and liberal incompetence; result, job losses add up. The slowdown is also felt in terms of growth, which is virtually zero, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
Since the arrival of the Government of Philippe Couillard, the job makes the surplace. Every day, it moves a little more from its promise to create 250,000 jobs. "The Liberal Party has faded Quebeckers in the election campaign. His economic plan boils down to magical thinking. Worse, with the senseless decision of Philippe Couillard to cancel the Anticosti project, it makes investors flee in addition to losing money to all Quebeckers, "added Alain Therien. 
"Quebec, its regions and families suffer from the lack of vision and inertia of this government. Throughout the territory, it is lost job. Liberals can no longer just wait for the feedback of iron prices, it does not work and, anyway, the metals sector will not provide a job for all Quebeckers who are looking for one! When will the government finally put a real economic policy to stimulate job creation in all regions of Quebec and for all sectors of activity? ", Concluded Dave Turcotte. 
