Montreal- The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announced $ 50 million financial assistance to the Place des Arts Society for various upgrading projects for the most important arts' arts dissemination complex. Quebec. The minister made this announcement at a press briefing that followed his visit to the Place des Arts: yesterday, today, tomorrow, presented on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the institution. 
"The financial assistance announced today will maintain quality assets and consolidate the Place des Arts in its role as a cultural complex of international caliber for the current and future generations of artists, cultural organizations, resident companies. and spectators. Door open to the greatest artists and place of hatching of talents, the Place des Arts may undoubtedly be a legitimate pride for Quebec society, "said Minister Maka Kotto. 
Announced investments are aimed at several asset maintenance and deficit reduction of infrastructure maintenance and equipment equipment. Among these is the upgrade of the building, the hall, homes and equipment of the Wilfrid-Pelletier room, founding venue, in 1963, from the Place des Arts, this heritage building and the largest entertainment room in Quebec. Another part of the work is particularly affecting the repair of the sealing system and the redevelopment of the Esplanade of the Place des Arts, unique public square and anchor of festivals in the heart of the show district in Montreal. 
The department's contribution is part of the 2013-2023 Infrastructure Duplan Framework, released in April. Recall that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 2 billion investments for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebeckers, to measure the associated costs and to make informed choices. 
