Quebec, August 24, 2017 -The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the spokesman in secularism, Agnès Maltese, believe that the question of the full veil in society, raised recently by The mayor of Quebec, is legitimate and deserves a clear answer. 
"Unlike other parties, the Parti Québécois believes that the issue of face covered in public space and events is not a taboo. We must name it and discuss serenely, in accordance with the positions of each. These are both issues of identification, security, civility and symbols as to women's rights. From the outset, we find that the responses made by the Minister of Justice maintain confusion on the scope of religious accommodations that Bill 62 ", first declared Jean-François Lisée. 
IN SHORT 
The leader of the official opposition continues by claiming a break in the study of Bill 62, on the religious neutrality of the state. "We have to take the time to hear foreign experts on the reasons for their legislation and the balance sheet they do, to inform legislators and the public about these issues. » 
Indeed, several European countries have already prohibited, to varying degrees, the integral veil in the public space. "If we were in power right now, we will provide a committee of experts to take stock of foreign experiences and application problems. We could then provide a Quebec response to this issue, especially taking into account our Nordic climate. So we ask the government to act in this direction, "added Agnès Maltais. 
"The concerns of Quebeckers are serious and our fellow citizens deserve better than to dictate lessons of morality by a government ready to make them suffer a trial. If he persists, the Couillard government will grow even more the gap between the political class and the will of Quebecers, "concluded the official opposition. 
Examples of prohibition of integral veil around the world 
Netherlands: Dutch MPs adopted a bill for the port of the integral Islamic veil in some public places, such as schools, hospitals and public transport. The law does not target the street. Offenders are liable to a fine of up to 405 euros. 
Norway: In June 2017, a bill was tabled to prohibit the integral veil and hoods in teaching, kindergarten at the university. 
Germany: Since April 2017, the integral veil is forbidden in the public service, but not in the public space. Citizens also have the obligation to remove their sail to identify yourself when necessary. In addition, Six Länder (Baden-Württemberg, Bremen, Bavaria, Lower Saxony, North Rhine-Westphalia and Saarland) voted a law prohibiting teachers with the wearing of ostensible signs of religious affiliation. The Länder of Berlin and Hesse expanded this prohibition to all public officials. 
Morocco: Since January 10, 2017, it is forbidden to manufacture or sell burqas. 
France: Since the entry into force of Laloi prohibiting concealment of the face in the public space, April 11, 2011, "[N] ul can, in the public space, wear an outfit intended to conceal his face" ( Article 1). The fine can reach 150 euros. 
This law was challenged before the European Court of Human Rights, but it concluded that States have room for maneuver on these issues and that "the disputed prohibition may therefore move forward to the goal pursued. Know the preservation of "living together". 
Belgium: Effective July 23, 2011, a law prohibits the integral veil throughout the public space, including the street. Offenders are subject to seven days in prison or a fine of 137.50 euros. 
In July 2017, this law was validated by the European Court of Human Rights. This judged that the prohibition was a "necessary measure" in a democratic society to "guarantee the conditions of living together in society". 
Switzerland: some Swiss cantons (including Ticino) already prohibit the full veil everywhere in the public space, but a federal initiative was beaten in March 2017. A popular initiative to hold a referendum on the issue is however. Classes. 
West Africa: On 17 December 2015, the 15 Member States of the Economic Community of West African States (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cape Verde, Côte d'Ivoire, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone and Togo) have agreed to prohibit the full Islamic veil on their territory. 
Cameroon: In response to the attacks of Boko Haram, Cameroon had banned the full veil in the north of its territory, before extending it to all east and its coastline in July 2015. 
Bulgaria: On September 30, 2016, the country passed a law prohibiting the port of the full veil in public, except for health or professional reasons. Offenders are liable to a fine of 1500 Leva (more than $ 1,000 Canadians) and a suspension of their social benefits. 
Austria: adopted in June 2017, the prohibition of the full veil in the public space will come into effect next day. A fine of 150 euros for people shot in default is planned. 
