Montreal- The Minister of the Family, Ms. Nicole Léger, is pleased to announce the holding of the Quebec Family Forum. This event will take place on 7 and 8 November next at the Palais des Congrès de Montréal. 
Building on the path traveled in favor of families with the Quebec family policy, the forum will make a new look at the families of tomorrow and their needs. On this occasion, participants will be invited to discuss progress made over the past two decades and to circumscribe the challenges that families will face in the future. In addition, the population is called upon to contribute to the reflections of the Forum through a public consultation on the website of the Ministry of the Family, as of today. 
"Quebec society is experiencing transformations. The same is true of the family: its structures and needs evolve. Quebec's family policy is recognized as one of the best in the world. However, it remains perfectible, particularly in terms of adapting current measures to new realities of families. Also, it is important to work with our partners in setting up solutions adapted to these realities, "said Minister Nicole Léger. 
The Quebec Family Forum will bring together key stakeholders associated with Quebec family policy, including family advisory committee. This committee was put in place last May to advise the Minister of Family on various family policy issues. 
"The previous Liberal government has abolished the Council of the Family and Childhood. As soon as I arrived, I reactivated a place of discussions and exchanges. It is essential for me to have the opinion and opinion of the partners of the family sector, "continued Ms. Léger. 
Six major themes will be addressed during the forum: work-family conciliation, the contribution of communities to the well-being of families, Quebec families at the heart of the changes, the primacy of parental responsibility, the many faces of Quebec families. Today and tomorrow as well as the economic dimension of family policy. 
"The Quebec Family Forum will mark the continued and fruitful dialogue with Quebec's family policy partners. Our family policy is a source of pride and reflects our government's commitment to the development of children and the development of families, "said Minister Nicole Léger. 
To learn more about the Quebec family forum and participate in the public consultation, visitwww.forumfamille.gouv.qc.ca. 
