Quebec - The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois took advantage of his transition to the annual foundation of the Quebec Federation of Municipalities (FQM) to announce the renewal of the national rural policy. This new generation of the policy provides for investments of $ 470 million over 10 years. 
"Our government is taking a big step for the progress of the rural territories by placing the MRC at the heart of the new policy. With this subscribed agreement of some $ 70 million, we reaffirm our attractive commitment to rural communities, "said the Prime Minister. 
The policy will cover the period 2014-2024, in order to enable the development and implementation of structuring projects for rural communities. In order to achieve this, it provides for a new generation of rural boncies that will rely on strong intersectoral consultation, with a view to promoting an innovative and bold advance, as well as on a strengthened network of rural development agents. 
"Our government is taking a big step for the progress of the rural territories by placing the MRC at the heart of the new policy. With this subscribed agreement of some $ 70 million, we reaffirm our attractive commitment to rural communities, "said the Prime Minister. // (c) Luc Trudel (source) 
"Citizens and citizens want their living environment to be welcoming and dynamic. Thanks to this new policy, Quebec meets these expectations and gives the environmental means to ensure strong, inspired and inspiring rurality, in complementarity with urban areas, and for the benefit of the entire Quebec society, "added. Pauline Marois. 
With respect to the negotiations surrounding the next Quebec-Municipalities Agreement, the Prime Minister has made it reminding that at the request of municipal organizations, the government has agreed to extend the Fiscal and Financial Partnership Agreement , which will make it possible to complete the negotiations relating to the new agreement. It has stimulated that the government's planned amount for the reimbursement of the QST will increase from $ 472 million in 2013 to $ 482 million in 2014. In addition, there is no question of reducing the amounts transferred to municipalities. 
