Quebec, September 28, 2017- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesperson for health, accessibility to home care and home support, Diane Lamarre, the spokesperson for seniors , Harold Lebel, as well as that in social services, Dave Turcotte, have again denounced the reduction of services operated by the Liberal government in terms of home support. As proof, the growing number of complaints and cases of abuse of seniors or living with a disability that the most recent report of the Protector of the Citizen. 
IN SHORT 
"The protector of the citizen deflates the liberal balloon as to the end of toxic austerity. Let us remember that the Liberals have chosen to reduce the help and support for the most vulnerable people, while they have increased, again, the remuneration of doctors and that they combine surpluses. The Prime Minister and his government should be ashamed to display this assessment today, but they did not explain any regret. It is deplorable, "said the leader of the official opposition. 
"A lady with Alzheimer saw his services cut 8 hours a week. Alzheimer's disease is not reversible; Needs are increasing, they do not diminish with time! This is one of the most obvious examples raised by the Protector of the Citizen. Serious cases of abuse have also been discovered. There is a leveling down, a reduction in services. Is this that, the transformation of Quebec promised by the Prime Minister? For his part questioned Diane Lamarre. 
"Cases of abuse affecting elderly persons in accommodation centers are unacceptable. The resources must be at the rendezvous, certainly, but a wider reflection is necessary, since these situations may multiply. Indeed, in just 13 years, a Quebecer on four will be 65 years old or older, "said Harold Lebel. 
The spokesman also stresses that he is paradoxical that this new grave at the very moment when the minister responsible for seniors is discreetly holding - on invitation! - A consultation on aging and living together. "The stakes of the aging of the population and the living conditions of seniors deserve immediate action and a real public debate, as claimed by several groups and the 15,000 signatories of a petition filed last week," he said. Added. 
"Just as unacceptable is the marked increase in the number of complaints about people living with physical or intellectual disability. The cases raised severely affect the dignity of these people. Concrete gestures must be made to support them, as well as their families, "has reborn Dave Turcotte. 
No progress 
The minister and even the Prime Minister repeat tirelessly that 700,000 Quebeckers have been enrolled in a family doctor under their government. But in his report the citizen's protector reveals the truth about the access desk to a family doctor. "Patients are often undervalued; Their erroneous priority rating ensures that they stagnate on a waiting list, while their state of health would require urgent management. Even when their rating is "A", the most urgent, the citizen's protector reports that in at least one region of Quebec, a patient must wait for less than 3 years to be supported. In short, not only shows a catastrophic assessment for the current year but, in addition, it fails lamentably to respect the previous recommendations of the Protector of the Citizen, "also deplored Diane Lamarre. 
Solid plan for home support 
Remember that the Parti Québécois team presented on September 13th, the second part of its solid health plan on home support. Our objectives are clear: to allow seniors or living with a physical disability, mental or degenerative illness to stay at home, while adequately accompanying caregivers, and involve health professionals, social economy companies and Community organizations. 
To do this, we intend to put the necessary means: at least $ 100 million additional per year for 5 years, or $ 500 million more. 
