Québec- After a passage to London widely devoted to the theme of the economy, the Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, has concluded his mission to Edinburgh, Scotland, by an interview with Prime Minister Alex Salmond. 
"We want to build concrete links with Scotland that can contribute to enriching our society, for the benefit of its economy, culture and areas of expertise. The exchanges with our Scottish interlocutors have made it possible to explore the collaborative tracks that we now intend to deepen, "said the Prime Minister. 
In a statement at the end of the interview, the Prime Minister, Pauline Marois, and the Prime Minister, Alex Salmond, expressed the wish to tighten the economic collaboration between Quebec and Scotland, while multiplying cultural ties , already very dynamic. In particular, in particular, ambitious targets that Quebec and Scotland have settled in the fight against climate change, the energy and the environment sectors appear the most promising to increase this economic collaboration. 
Earlier during the day, the Prime Minister spoke with the Vice-President of the Scottish Parliament, Elaine Smith, as well as with the head of the official opposition, Johann Lamont, before being presented to all of the parliamentarians gathered in the Chamber of Debates. 
Ms. Marois met with the director of Festivals Edinburgh, Faith Liddell, as well as the directors of eight festivals of this group who helps to make the Scottish capital an important cultural center. This meeting made it possible to signify the will of Quebec to work in conjunction with the development of a Quebec cultural presence marked in 2014. Many Quebec artists have already occurred at the Edinburgh festivals, which constitute a hub in the international broadcast. performing arts. 
Finally, the Prime Minister has participated in a meeting meeting bringing together stakeholders from business, culture and environment. Discussions took place in particular on the possibilities of exchange in the field of renewable energies, in particular wind energy, as well as technological innovation and transfer. 
In the British capital, the Prime Minister took the floor to nearly 200 representatives of the business community gathered at the invitation of the Chamber of Commerce Canada-United Kingdom. It argued on this occasion the capacity for innovation and the creativity of Quebec society, as well as the new government measures put forward to promote investment and establishment of business links in Quebec. The Premier also indicated that his Government wanted to give a new impetus to the Nordic development of Quebec. 
The Premier also announced, during his visit to London, the implementation in Montreal of the British company Framestore. Thanks to the investment project of this world leader in visual and animated effects for the film and television industry, 200 new jobs will be created over the next three years. The Quebec government supported this project by providing a refundable financial contribution to the company. 
"The United Kingdom represents our largest economic partner abroad, after China and the United States. This mission has maintained dialogue with significant partners for our economy and our development, and to emphasize that Quebec has undeniable assets to attract new investments, "concluded the Prime Minister. 
