Malbaie - Québec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, today confirmed the renewal of the Tourism Regional Partnership Agreement for Charlevoix. This agreement aims to involve partners in achieving regional tourism supply development priorities to maximize the contribution of this industry to the regional economy. By 2015, an amount of nearly $ 2 million will be invested for the achievement of this objective. 
"Tourism represents an increasingly competitive sector at the global scale. It is therefore imperative to strengthen Charlevoix's attraction power and improve its offer in this area. Fostering the synergy and mesh between the partners, this agreement represents a leverage to support structuring projects, which take into account the regional priorities and the distinctive character of Charlevoix. We must therefore unite our efforts and share our expertise to propel our region even further, "said the Prime Minister. 
According to the terms of the agreement, the government assistance granted until 2015 is distributed as follows: $ 600,000 comes from Tourisme Québec, an amount of $ 400,000 will be awarded by the Capitale-Nationale Bureau, while the Ministry of Culture and Communications will pay $ 30,000. For its part, Tourisme Charlevoix will dedicate $ 600,000, the Capitale National Regional Conference (CRED) is committed to paying $ 206,000, while Charlevoix's local development centers (CLD) and From Charlevoix will each disburse $ 75,000. 
"As an instigator of the first tourist agreement in Charlevoix in 2003, the created created more than ever on a strong tourism industry in order to continue the economic development of the region. In doing so, it hopes to contribute to the reduction of important gaps that persist between the different territories in terms of economic activity and employment, and thus facilitate the achievement of an optimal quality of life for the whole population " , said the president of the Capitale-Nationale elected representatives, Yves Germain. 
"In a tourist territory like the MRC de Charlevoix, a tourist partnership agreement is very important to ensure the creation of structuring jobs and the strength of the local economy," said Challevoix CLD Chair, Claudette Simard . 
"The tourism industry is an important economic engine for our region; The Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement supports the development of tourism offer and, by the very fact, improves our economic situation, "said CLD President of Charlevoix East, Jean-Pierre Gagnon. 
"Tourism Charlevoix welcomes the renewal of this agreement. In addition to allowing actors to benefit from the financial resources needed to innovate and consolidate multiple projects, it allows Charlevoix tourism to fully play its role with the industry. It also contributes to growth and the economic and tourist development of Charlevoix, "concluded President of Tourism Charlevoix and Chairman of the Management Committee for the Regional Partnership Agreement in Tourism, Éric Desgagnés. 
The balance sheet of the previous agreement demonstrates that a total amount of $ 1,314,464 was paid to 35 regional projects, representing tourist investments estimated at $ 6,829,668. A financial support has been granted among others for the restoration of the building, which houses the Riverin forge in Malbaie, as well as for the development of host infrastructures and services of the Port-Au parsil pole of the recreationuristic park salmon of the Malbaie River, and for the equipment of the Christmas market. 
