Saint-Bruno-de-Montarville- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, participate in the inauguration of the New Transport Bombardier Prototyping Center. This project received financial support from $ 1.77 million from the Government of Quebec, an investment that also covers the construction of a new railway test track located at the Pocatière. In all, nearly 200 jobs will be created in Quebec through this estimated investment at more than $ 19 million. 
This design center is intended for prototyping and engineering testing for the design of new railway cars built by Bombardier Transport in North America. It is located in Saint-Bruno-de-Montarville, close to Bombardier Transport North America's head office. It includes Quebec North American design, design, prototyping, research and development of Bombardier Transport. In addition to the 200 jobs created, it allows to consolidate 350 high-level jobs in engineering and research and development, and helps to enhance Bombardier's competitiveness level on the North American market. 
"This new center will allow Bombardier Transport to maintain its competitive position in the North American market. It is important for my Government to support carrier projects that help promote innovation to meet the challenges of globalization, "said Premier Pauline Marois. 
"The main lever for development, productivity and economic diversification is innovation. Our government is therefore proud to support companies that innovate, because in innovation, we are distinguished and we create wealth, "supported Minister Pierre Duchesne. 
Bombardier Transport, the largest manufacturing company of rolling stock in the world, is one of the two divisions of Quebec Bombardier inc. In North America, the company manufactures passenger railway cars in La Pocatière, Quebec, Thunder Bay, Ontario, Plattsburgh, the United States, and Sahagun, Mexico. The global numbers of Bombardier Transport are more than 36,000 employees, of which some 900 work in the Montreal area and nearly 600, with the Pocatière. 
"The prototyping center will make it possible to make the most of the synergy of expertise and promote greater commitment from our customers, suppliers and partners in research and development of avant-garde technologies that can be integrated into our manufacturing processes", explained the President of Bombardier Transport North America, Mr. Raymond Bachant. 
This financial support of $ 1.77 million from the Government of Quebec aims, among other things, to support the implementation and increase of private research activities in Quebec, to increase the basin of companies operating from R & D centers in Quebec and to create high value-added jobs. 
