Québec- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, will conduct a mission in Europe, from 13 to 17 December, who will lead her in Paris, Monaco and Brussels. This mission occurs in the wake of major economic announcements that suggest new exchange prospects with Quebec's European partners. 
"This mission will make it possible to present the Economic Newpolitics employment priority French authorities. In particular, we wish to establish a fruitful collaboration with France in the field of transport electrification, a trainer for which Quebec has many assets, "said the Prime Minister. 
In Paris, Pauline Marois will be able to share with the President of the French Republic, François Hollande, Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault, and the Minister of Economy and Finance, Pierre Moscovici. It will also benefit from its passage in the capital to meet the Secretary General of La Francophonie, Abdou Diouf. Finally, in Monaco, the Prime Minister will share with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of France, Laurent Fabius, and will speak on the occasion of Laworld Policy Conference, an annual forum on the issues of global governance that will bring together hundreds of foreign personalities. 
Subsequently, the Premier will travel to Brussels where she will participate in work meetings. It will be accompanied by the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean-François Lisée. An interview with the European Commissioner for the Internal Market and Services, Michel Barnier, is planned, as well as with the Minister-President of the Flemish Government, Kris Peeters. Ms. Marois will also meet the vice-president and minister of the economy, SMEs, foreign trade, new technologies and the higher education of the Walloon government, Jean-Claude Marcourt. In addition, the Prime Minister will give an important speech to Belgian and European business environments to assert Quebec as a business partner. 
"A new transatlantic economic context is on the recent developments in relation to the Global Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union. We must now position Quebec, its expertise and its companies with European political and economic decision-makers, "concluded the Prime Minister 
