NEW YORK- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean-François Lisée, today started his New York mission. 
At the DuForeign Policy Association invitation, the Prime Minister delivered a speech presenting the Government of the Parti Québécois's economic guidelines and priorities. In front of a parterre of nearly 300 people mainly from the world of business and finance, she argued the many assets of Quebec as well as her vision for the future for the relationship between Quebec and her main US economic partner. 
"The historical links that unite Quebec and New York have always been fruitful, we want to go even further and further develop economic exchanges between us. I have come to say to New Yorkers that Quebec is determined to roll up the sleeves and build a 21st century, open, strong and dynamic economy, "said the premier. 
In the morning, Ms. Marois and Mr. Lisée participated in the official opening of the First Office of the Expansion Québec Network, a new support service offered to Quebec exporting companies, developed in partnership with Rhône-Alpes International (ERAI). The Expansion Québec network will provide businesses with access to 14 business offices that will be open abroad in the next four years. Quebec companies will also have access to the 27 ERAI offices around the world. 
"Expansion Québec is part of the Government of Quebec aimed at strengthening the permanent physical presence of Quebec companies in foreign markets and accelerate their growth. It is through such initiatives that Quebec may, ultimately, rely on export champion SMEs and that will contribute to Quebec's prosperity, "added the Prime Minister. 
Later, the first minister attended the 40th anniversary of Montreal's Jazz Ballets in New York who stood at Joyce Theater. Note that the 40th anniversary spectacle series of Montreal's Jazz Ballets had to be postponed because of Hurricane Sandy. 
Remember that the state of New York is Quebec's largest trading partner in the United States. In 2011, the total value of trade was more than $ 8 billion. With nearly 6 billion Canadian dollars, exports to New York State account for 14% of all Quebec exports in the United States and nearly 10% of the total of its global exports. Trade and investment, energy, the environment and safety are among the common sectors of interest between Quebec and the New York State. In addition, the city of New York is home to one of the largest financial places on the planet, where several bond issues from Quebec are transformed. 
