Montreal- The Governor of the State of Vermont, Peter Shumlin, was in Montreal today to sign a new multisectoral cooperation agreement with the Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois. This agreement reinforces the commitments between Quebec and Vermont, particularly in terms of trade, energy and transport relations, in addition to adding the sectors of health and culture to this collaboration. 
"I am convinced that our future and our prosperity reside in this capacity to work together to meet our common challenges and value the heritage we share. The governor and I wanted to push further our collaboration and this agreement is the realization of this common will, "Ms. Marois said when signing the agreement. 
This agreement, which replaces that signed in 2003, aims, among other things, in trade, to promote the circulation of people, goods and services while strengthening safety. In terms of energy, it will expand the exchange of information and expertise to intelligent network technologies, innovative energy efficiency and energy supply programs in the Northeast region. 
The bonuses of transport commitments range from the harmonization of transport services standards, through the exchange of road safety, the restoration of the international bridge in Sutton / East Richford and the improvement of cycling links cross-border. 
From a cultural point of view, Quebec and Vermont commit to stimulate exchanges in the performing arts, while in health, new ways of collaboration will be explored in the field of care policies and systems. . Other sectors that will benefit from this cooperation agreement are the environment, safety and agriculture. 
In addition to being a leading institutional partner, Vermont is Quebec's largest trading partner in New England. Our trade with this region reached C $ 3.6 billion in 2011. Conversely, Quebec is by far the largest trading partner of Vermont on the international scene. Last year, 90% of Vermont's exports in Canada were intended for Quebec, while 80% of its Canadian imports came from here. 
