Lévis- Québec Prime Minister and MP from Charlevoix-Côte-de-Beaupré, Ms. Pauline Marois, is pleased to confirm today that the City of Lévis will receive joint financial assistance of $ 12.6 million for the Realization of the revitalization and redevelopment project of the Lévis crossing sector. This federal-provincial joint investment will be made under the Canada-Quebec Building Fund, Major Projects. 
"The signing of this agreement is an important step in the realization of this project very expected by the people of Lévis and the municipal authorities. By supporting the revitalization and redevelopment of the crossing sector in Lévis, the Government of Quebec demonstrates its commitment to providing quality public infrastructure for all. This is a good example of a project that contributes to economic and social development, especially for the city of Lévis and the Chaudière-Appalaches region. Our government works with Quebec municipalities to develop our cities and our regions and, thus building a prosperous Quebec for all, "said Mrs Marois. 
Recall that this project aims to achieve the first phase of redevelopment and revitalization of the Lévis crossing, including the redevelopment of the sectors of the package and esplanade, as well as the transformation of the station to make it a pavilion welcome and a local and tourist clientele interpretation center. Thanks to this redevelopment, the park vocation and green space will be privileged. There will be walks, pedestrian trails, bike paths and parking areas will be reviewed in a multimodal optics to provide more room for active transport, such as bicycle and walking. 
These interventions will transform this urban sector into a unified and dynamic place. In the long term, this project will also promote the reappropriation of the banks of the St. Lawrence River by the local and tourist population through recreational activities accessible to all. 
At the end of the Major Projects Component of the Canada-Quebec Chantier Fund, the total cost of this project amounts to $ 19 million. The Government of Canada's contribution will be able to up to one-third of eligible costs for a maximum of $ 6.33 million. The Quebec government will grant the same amount, or $ 6.33 million. At these amounts adds a $ 6.34 million contribution from the City of Lévis. 
The contribution of the Government of Quebec will be paid under the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, which now has a budget of $ 44.18 billion for the period 2011-2016. 
These investments are part of the governments of Canada and Quebec commitment to helping to create jobs and stimulate the economy to build flourishing communities and more prosperous Canada. 
The federal government's contribution will come from the Major Projects component of the Canada-Quebec Chantier Fund, which aims to finance the public infrastructure with a national or regional impact. 
For more information on the Infrastructure Québec, visit the websitewww.infrastructures.gouv.qc.ca/plan-infrastructure/index.asp 
