Gatineau - Québec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, and the Minister of Public Safety and Minister responsible for the Ottawa Region, Stéphane Bergeron, made a major announcement to allow a greater number of women to give birth to Outaouais. 
These additional investments of $ 14.4 million demonstrate the Government of Quebec's willingness to strengthen the care and services offered in Outaouais. Since the last 18 months, the government has indeed asked a number of gestures to achieve this goal: it first challenged interregional inequity in the financing of health care, it has created groups of family medicine, And he has invested in home care and regional network facilities. 
"Provide local care to the Population of the Outaouais is an issue that is very important to us. After recently announced investments to repatriate pediatric care and ophthalmology in the region, I am proud to announce today that we are launching a vast construction site that will increase the number of deliveries made in Outaouais, that It's in hospital or birthplace, "said the premier. 
The 3rd floor of Gatineau Hospital will be fully reconfigured, which will allow the layout of a modern 32-room unity of obstetrics called "Tarp" (labor-recovery-postpartum). It is a very user-friendly formula for mothers, fathers, babies and families, since it helps preserve family intimacy and promote the development of the family attachment link. A cesarean section room will also be arranged, thus avoiding moving patients to the operating room. The number of neonatology beds, authorized in January to 14, could possibly be increased to 16 as and when changing needs. The new premises will also include two rooms for the parents of newborns treated in neonatology, as well as reception and rest areas. 
The clinic station (high-risk pregnancy) and the gyneco-obstetric clinic will be grouped in the 7th floor, thus promoting an optimization of ambulatory services in this area. In addition, we will benefit from this major project to conduct various related work, for example, to the prevention of infections, fire safety or seismic protection. 
According to Minister Réjean Hébert, "This project has the great merit of resting on a global vision of the services of obstetrics, neonatology and pediatrics. The Outaouais will be at the forefront of these fields of practice, which will contribute, on the one hand, to better serve families in the region and, on the other hand, to support medical recruitment. " 
"Closer to the services of people is a priority for our government, and today's announcement clearly demonstrates the seriousness of our commitment in this regard. The concrete gestures we ask to respond to a need and wish of the population to access care and quality services as close as possible to her home, here, in Outaouais. This is another great news for the area of health care, "said Minister of Public Safety and Minister responsible for the Outaouais Region Stéphane Bergeron. 
The Birthplace of the Outaouais, which is currently cramped considering the increase in the volume of activity since 1994, will move in a new building built near the CLSC of Gatineau. In addition, a point of service will be added to the territory of the Hill Health and Social Services Center, thereby a better deployment of wise women in different sectors of the region. 
It would be possible to double in a few years the number of births entrusted to the wise women of the Outaouais, whether in a birth house, at home or in the hospital, with the aim of responding to the request for 'A constantly growing number of women. 
Projects confirmed today by Mrs Marois and Dr. Hébert will be funded jointly by the Ministry of Health and Social Services ($ 8,316,000) and by the Health and Social Services Agency of the Outaouais (5 $ 386,000). A contribution of $ 750,000 will be provided by the Gatineau Health Foundation. The budget devoted to specialized medical equipment and furniture will be confirmed later, as is always the case in this type of project. 
All these amounts are added to the investments announced in December and last January, ie $ 1,729,000 in the field of neonatology and $ 2,566,000 in the field of ophthalmology. 
"Our government is very sensitive to the particular situation of Gatineau and Outaouais, including the proximity of services available in Ottawa and Eastern Ontario. The regional and local actors have worked very hard to define effective and viable solutions, and we are proud to support them tangibly in the development of a robust and balanced regional care offering, "the Prime Minister concluded. 
