Québec - Prime Minister Pauline Marois has been satisfied with his meeting with the Mayor of Bécancour, Ms. Gaéta Désillets. The discussion was frank, open and constructive. The views of each party have been expressed. 
"We reiterated the mayor's determination of the decommissioning of the Gentilly-2 nuclear power plant. In addition, we reminded him of our firmness to support the regions of the Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie so that they diversify their economy and that they take advantage of the context to become a force for Quebec, "said The Prime Minister. 
Three elements have been consensus during the meeting. First, at least 75% of the amount of the Economic Diversification Fund, announced on 12 October, will be invested in Bécancour and Trois-Rivières, and distributed according to the current economic benefits of GENTILY-2 (suppliers, subcontractors and services). Then, Hydro-Québec will meet the Mayor of Bécancour and the President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Heart-du-Québec, Mr. Jean-Denis Girard, in order to answer all their technical questions. Finally, next Monday, members of the Economic Diversification Table of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, created on October 12 by the government, will meet for a first time in order to officially launch the work. This table, including several local partners, will be responsible for coordinating the investments of the Fund, in addition to prioritizing them. 
Indeed, the regions of the Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie will have access to an economic diversification fund of $ 200 million. This fund is expected to generate direct investments in the next five years of $ 1.2 billion. Pauline Marois pointed out that "the diversification fund and government interventions will provide private investments, while the renovation of the plant would essentially be a public fund expense." 
"The members of the Economic Diversification Table have our complete confidence and we are responsible for the collaboration of all government departments. Moreover, Yves-François Blanchet, Member of Parliament for Johnson and responsible for the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, will sit there. The elected officials and the different local actors will, we are some, seize the opportunity to propel the economy of the Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie to the technologies of the future, green and sustainable, "concluded The Prime Minister. 
