Quebec- The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, wishes to congratulate the scriptwriter and director Xavier Dolan for the success of his long metragetom at La70e Mostra de Venice. In addition to winning the price of international criticism, he saw his work being selected in official competition for the Golden Lion. Ms. Marois also wanted to emphasize the warm welcome received by the Bruce Labruce filmger, presented in the opening of the Venice Days section. 
"Being recognized at the Mostra Hisse Xavier Dolan among the great filmmakers in the world. All nations dream of having a young director with such an artistic maturity. The reaction of the public to this festival confirms that it has been able to admirably transpose this story by Michel Marc Bouchard from the scene to the big screen, "said the Prime Minister, Pauline Marois. 
"Xavier Dolan has just written one of the most beautiful pages that any creator dreams of writing during his career. In addition, what is more impressive, it is to see so much talent to spill from this young man of 24 years ... All Quebec can be proud of him! , "Said the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto. 
Yesterday, in the evening, in Venice, Tom at the closed was crowned with the price of international criticism. Xavier Dolan also passed a real tower by seeing his film being selected in official competition for the golden lion. A long ovation of more than ten minutes followed the projection of Tom on the farm on September 2, projection that took place in the presence of the director and interpreters. Xavier Dolan, 24, realized and produced his film, in addition to having held the main role, alongside Pierre-Yves Cardinal, of Lise Roy and Evelyne Brochu. The feature film is inspired by a play in Michel Marc Bouchard, and its exit to Quebec is planned this fall. 
Bruce Labruce is an anticonormist artist in Toronto, writer, screenwriter, producer, photographer and director who has created more than a dozen films, some of whom have been presented in festivals such as Berlin and Locarno. His newest, Geontophilia, is a majority co-production of 1976 productions, producer Nicolas Comeau. Projected in opening of the 10th edition of Venice Days, section on the sidelines of the competition, gerontophiliamet featured the young Quebec actor Pier-Gabriel Lajoie. The film created the surprise in Venice, also receiving a standing ovation. 
Both feature films pursue their way this week, this time on the International Toronto film side. 
