Quebec- The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois will participate in the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, from 23 to 26 January. It will promote investments in Quebec to policy makers in the political, economic and financial sectors, in addition to presenting major government guidelines, particularly in terms of economic development. 
"Quebec has undeniable assets to ensure its economic growth in the current global uncertainty context. Prosperous society and capable of innovation, Quebec offers a highly favorable environment for investment and business development. We need to count on these forces and the Davos Forum is an essential appointment to convey this message to policy makers and economic partners of Quebec, "said the Prime Minister. 
This 43rd annual meeting has the theme of resilient Dynamism. The premier is invited by the Forum to participate in a workshop on responsible mining development. Mining is a major share of the Northern Quebec economy and the whole of Quebec. In the perspective of Nordic development of Quebec, in particular, which offers a strong mining potential, this workshop will discuss the issues related to the responsible development of mining resources. 
The Quebec Prime Minister is also part of the leaders to be exchanged on public and private best practices put forward to promote gender equality. Inter alia, discussions will focus on ways to further reduce the economic imbalance between genera persists in many companies. 
In addition to the program's economic meetings, political interviews will allow the Prime Minister to share with key interlocutors in Quebec on several issues, including the fight against climate change and the overall economic and trade agreement. Canada and the European Union, as well as on bilateral cooperation. 
For more than 25 years, the Government of Quebec participates in the annual meeting of Davos to promote its vision on major issues and develop its business relationships. In addition to heads of state and government and leaders of large companies, the Forum relies on the participation of several experts and representatives of international organizations and civil society. 
In the wake of his participation in the Forum, the Prime Minister will carry out a mission in the United Kingdom from 27 to 29 January. It will be accompanied by the Minister Delegate to Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Governance, Alexandre Cloutier. 
In London, it will present government priorities and promote Quebec to political and British business environments, including a forum in the Canada-United Kingdom Chamber of Commerce. Note that the United Kingdom is Quebec's first economic partner in Europe. 
His visit to Edinburgh, capital of Scotland and important cultural center, will allow the Prime Minister to exchange with political, economic and cultural actors in the context where Quebec wishes to strengthen its cooperation links with Scotland. 
