Rimouski- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister Delegate to Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region, Pascal Bérubé, and the member for Rimouski, Irvin Pelletier, announced an investment of $ 630,000 At the Marine Biotechnology Research Center (CRBM) for the realization of its scientific research and development activities. 
"The Quebec biotechnology sector is a significant growth potential, not only for the Bas-Saint-Laurent, but also for all Quebec. Within this niche of maritime excellence, the CRBM is a leading ally. He has seen his number of partners go from 6 to 17, and his research involves a growing number of external researchers. My government is therefore proud to support it in fulfilling its mission, "said the Prime Minister. 
"Announced financial assistance supports the biotechnology sector, which is booming. The 32% increase in three years in the number of CRBM clients - from 50 in 2009 to 66 in 2012 - testifies. The CRBM is a renowned institution in its field, and it is important for our government to support its activities. It also contributes to the training of future researchers who will be able to show innovation and who will shine Quebec. This is an excellent news! , "Said Pascal Berubé. 
"This financial assistance will allow the CRBM to carry out activities in highly technological niches. For example, we can mention the valorization of marine co-products, macroalgues as well as microorganisms and micro-algae aimed at the development of high value-added products, such as biopharmaceutical ingredients, nutraceutical products and bioproducts, including biofuels " , added Irvin Pelletier. 
In addition to contributing to training, the CRBM provides stowage between academic institutions and private enterprises. This positioning between academic research and the industry is directly related to the orientations of the National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI), launched last October. 
The financial assistance provided to the CRMB by the Government comes from the research support program, component 1: support for research projects or strategic research organizations and clusters. 
LAPNRIS IS IN THE FOUR FOUR STRATEURITIES OF ECONOMIC LAPOLICIUM PRIORITY EMPLOYMENT, launched last fall by the Prime Minister. This policy is the result of many consultations with actors from all sectors concerned by research and innovation: companies, educational institutions, state and society. With an unprecedented investment of $ 3.7 billion over five years, it will make it possible to advance Quebec in the knowledge and innovation society. 
For more information on PNRI, visit Lehttp: //www.mersst.gouv.qc.ca/pnri/. 
