G Aspon - Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and the Minister Delegate to the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-de-la-Madeleine Region, Gaétan Lelièvre, have unveiled today the strategy of Government intervention for the development of the Gaspésie region - Islands-de-la-Madeleine. Outcome of an exercise with socio-economic actors in this region, the intervention strategy is the result of consultations in the region with regional partners and relevant ministries. 
"Our Government aimed at delivering an intervention plan to support the economic development of the region by highlighting its multiple resources. It was important to act in harmony with the priorities of the population and respecting the fundamental principles of sustainable development. These are stakes that are important to me, and that's why I chose to personally assume the chairmanship of the Ministerial Committee of the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine who developed this strategy, "said the Prime Minister. 
The challenges relating to the workforce will be at the heart of government intervention. If it appears impossible to completely break the seasonality that characterizes certain sectors, the government must support the region to mitigate its magnitude. It is therefore essential to continue the development of innovative sectors for which seasonality is not an issue, namely the wind industry and information and communications technologies. 
In order to highlight the exceptional resources of the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine, the strategy will build so much on the traditional sectors of the region's economy and innovative sectors. Many projects, projects and ideas to explore are planned as part of the strategy, including important wind development projects. 
The government wants to support initiatives promoting the growth of the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region. "The purpose of the government intervention strategy is simple: highlighting regional resources, maintaining the exceptional quality of life prevailing over the territory, promote prosperity; In short, shine the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine! Minister Lelièvre said, Vice-Chairman of the Ministerial Committee. Different mechanisms will be put in place for local, regional and government efforts to converge towards concrete results. The Government proposes to the Region a five-year strategy whose evolutionary approach will support regional initiatives continuously and adapted. 
