Plessisville - Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, confirmed the payment of financial aid totaling $ 1.62 million to two companies from the Center-du-Québec, Amex Wood Franc and BMG Environment. Financial support, granted through Investissement Québec, supports investment projects totaling more than $ 3.66 million and better productivity. 
"Economic growth as well as the maintenance and job creation in all regions are priorities for our government," said Zakaïb Élain. "In the context of Quebec industrial policy, we want to boost the manufacturing sector by acting on the main determinants of productivity, the only way to make businesses more competitive. AMEX hardwood and BMG environment understood it well. Their projects, which are aimed at increasing their productivity, result in significant economic benefits for the Center-du-Québec region and for Quebec. » 
Founded in 1995, AMEX hardwood evolves in the area of the first wood processing. The project announced today, estimated at nearly $ 2.8 million, aims to acquire new equipment and wood dryers, in addition to building two new warehouses. The Government of Quebec awards, through Investissement Québec, loans totaling $ 1.26 million. 
"The support of the Government of Quebec will help us meet the growing demand for our products," said Pascal Vigneault, Director of Amex Freight Finance. "These investments in equipment and building buildings will allow us to increase not only our production capacity, but also to increase our productivity. As in several mature sectors, the key to stay competitive is to make sure to always produce with advanced equipment, in an optimal environment. » 
Created in 1995, BMG environment designs and manufactures equipment, such as rotary sieves and fiber and container separators, for the treatment of recyclable materials. 
The company's project aims to develop and implement a new concept of recyclable material separator in several sorting centers in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. 
These centers will have a processing capacity of 10,000 tonnes per day and will allow the separation and recovery of recyclable materials from the collection of municipal waste. The Government of Quebec pays a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 360,000 to the company for this initiative assessed at $ 900,000. 
"Our project asks to reinvent our ways to do, because the treatment of recyclable materials in Brazil and elsewhere in the world differs greatly from one country to another," raised the Vice-President of BMG Environment, Mr. Luc Houde. . "The support of the Government of Quebec will help us to break into this very promising market, in addition to contributing to the rise of sustainable development in Rio de Janeiro. » 
"We redouble their efforts to ensure that our manufacturing companies continue to start, progress, export and innovate to remain leaders and offer quality jobs in all our regions," concluded Élain Zakaïb. . 
About Investissement Québec  Investissement Québec's mission is to promote investment growth in Quebec, thus contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicidustrielle. 
To learn more about Economic Policy- Priority Employment, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueEconomique. 
