Saint-Irenea- The Prime Minister of Quebec and MP from Charlevoix-Côte-de-Beaupré, Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, took part today at the inauguration of the residence of "Students Paul Lafleur of the Domaine Forget, in Saint-Irenae. 
"I am very pleased to proceed with this long-awaited inauguration, and I am confident that this new residence will respond to the expectations of the clientele. The Domaine Forget, this cultural place of discoveries, meetings and exchanges, is recognized as an important player in the formation of the artistic succession and the vitality of the Charlevoix region, "said the Prime Minister. 
This new accommodation complex is part of the first phase of a larger project of cultural nature. The investment of the Government of Quebec for this pavilion amounts to $ 2,047,537 and will adequately accommodate students from the International Academy of Music and Dance. 
"Inlaid in a natural and inspiring decor, the Domaine Forget is one of our most renowned institutions in teaching and spreading classical music. I want to highlight the constant efforts invested by this organization to offer young musicians, intended for promising careers, a place conducive to learning and artistic development, "added Minister Kotto. 
A second phase, estimated at nearly $ 1 million, will begin in the fall of 2013 and will include redeveloping existing dormitories into apartments for the accommodation of teachers and students from the Academy. 
The total cost of the work of the two phases is $ 4,860,446. The participation of the Ministry of Culture and Communications, under its Capital Assistance Program, represents 49% of the total cost, an amount of $ 2,403,300. 
The other part of the financial assembly is divided as follows: $ 1,200,000 is allocated by Canada Economic Development, $ 349,880 are paid by the Department of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupancy of the Territory, $ 175,000 comes from the Secretariat. At the Capitale-Nationale, $ 50,000 are granted by the Local MRC Development Center of Charlevoix East. The Domaine Forget completes the financing of the project by a contribution of $ 682,266 from different donors. 
The contribution of the Ministry of Culture and Communications is part of the 2013-2023 infrastructure plan, made public in April. Recall that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 2 billion investments for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebeckers, to measure the associated costs and to make informed choices. 
The Forget Domaine is a non-profit corporation, which works in the areas of training, creation and dissemination of the arts, music and dance. Its main activity is its international academy of music and dance, which is aimed at young people and future professionals. 
It also presents, every summer, the international festival, which offers quality musical programming and sees on stage of renowned Quebec and international musicians. The inauguration of the student residence was followed by the festival's opening concert. 
