Montreal - This morning, the Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, kicked off the work of the Summit on Higher Education. Accompanied by the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, and the member for Laval- Fast and Deputy Parliamentary Assistant for the Prime Minister for Youth Records, Mr. Leo Bureau-Blouin, the Prime Minister tabled, at the same time, a first government proposal on the quality of higher education and the governance of institutions . 
"The Summit on Higher Education was a leading commitment when we arrived in the government. It is a privileged opportunity to turn the page over the last year and move forward, together. The next two days are very important. We will lay down the basics of Quebec tomorrow, with our partners, a Quebec knowledge, a Quebec for all, "said Premier Pauline Marois. 
The Prime Minister opened the discussion by filing a first proposal aimed at promoting the quality of higher education and the governance of institutions. This proposal has three components: 
The Government intends to submit to the National Assembly a draft framework law which would chap the whole university system and would allow: 
Assert the values, the foundations of the Universities Mission in Quebec;  Consistently group several of the laws governing the university system and review the rules of governance, including the composition of the Boards of Directors.  Prior to the submission of the bill, the Government shall establish a work site aimed at developing this legislation, which would be presented to the National Assembly before the end of 2013. It will bring together representatives of the partners of the academic community. , the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology (MESRST) and the Department of Justice, and will have to report to the Minister in a short time, at the latest on August 30, 2013 . 
Proposed by several partners in the context of preparatory meetings for the summit, the National Council of Universities would be responsible for assuming certain governance and certification functions for the university system. He will also have to contribute by his opinion to the coherence of the development of the university system. 
A site will be set up in March 2013 to propose to the Minister the mandate of this Council as well as its operation. 
In order for the accountability of universities to be more efficient and consistent, the government proposes to implement the following tracks. In collaboration with partners, it is proposed to: 
Specify and make more effective the requirements of the reports required by law;
Harmonize the elements of accountability under the responsibility of MESRST with those required by the National Assembly Culture and Education Commission;
Establish a working group made up of representatives of institutions and MESRST to review accountability practices.
"The preparatory meetings for the summit allowed to brush a good portrait of the situation. The first proposal made by our government is directly related to the proposals expressed by our partners during these consultations. We propose to reduce the administrative heaviness and simplify accountability, for example by requesting comparable financial statements from one institution to another. Thus, we will increase the level of clarity of the information transmitted and, by the same fact, transparency in the management of public funds and the confidence of the population in our universities, "added Minister Pierre Duchesne. 
For more information on the approach and the progress of the summit, go towww.messt.gouv.qc.ca/sommet. 
