Montreal-on this National Day of Aboriginal Peoples, the Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs, Elizabeth Larouche, as well as the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory , Sylvain Gaudreault, met with the president of Makivik, Jobie Tukkiapik, and the President of the Kativik Regional Administration (ARK), Maggie Emudluk, in Montreal. The Prime Minister took the opportunity to announce several measures for Nunavik Inuit. 
"At this meeting, we have seized several priority issues for the Inuit Nation and the Vision of Populations of the Nunavik villages regarding Nordic development. We want to continue this nation-to-nation dialogue to move forward together towards a northern development for all. The concrete measures we announce today aim to answer certain priorities of the Inuit Nation, "Ms. Marois said. 
The Prime Minister and the President of the Makivik Society first proceeded to the signing of the Supplementary Convention No. 23, which amends the Bay Convention? James and Northern Quebec to include the selection of categories I and II for the Nordic village of Ivujivik. Thus, the community will be able to count on some 5000 km2 of land for its development. 
Ms. Marois also announced the renewal of $ 5 million financial assistance to the ARK to mitigate the effects of the high cost of living on Nunavik communities, a territory characterized by remoteness, the absence of Terrestrial links with southern and a rigorous climate. It was also agreed during the meeting that both parties would address the identification of effective and sustainable solutions to this concern. 
In addition, the Premier confirmed the granting of an annual budget of $ 1.4 million to the ARK to support the operations of the Tursujuq National Park, the largest National Park of Quebec and Eastern Continental North America. 
For its part, the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Sylvain Gaudreault, announced the addition of $ 20,273,782 to mitigate the negative effects of climate change In Nunavik, particularly with regard to the municipal infrastructure of the village of Saluit. 
Finally, the Government of Quebec delegates to the ARK the management of the "economic development" and "Community infrastructure" components of the Aboriginal Initiatives II. This fund, which reports to the Secretariat for Aboriginal Affairs, includes an envelope specifically intended for the Inuit Nation. Both components totaled $ 28 million. 
"Through these targeted actions, the government testifies to its desire to intervene concretely for the well-being of the Inuit population. We would like to support it in its aim of gaining greater management autonomy and to exploit all the opportunities for socio-economic development, "said Elizabeth Larouche. 
