Lac-Mégantic- At an official ceremony held today, the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, warmly thanked the people who, from the first hours of the tragedy of Lac-Mégantic, have come to the population . "You have provided extraordinary support to victims and the victims. You have shown a huge dedication in just as exceptional conditions and experts. The majority of you knew the victims. They counted among your parents, your friends, your loved ones. Today, all Quebec joins me to pay tribute to your courage in this event, "said the premier. 
The honored people were mainly part of the emergency teams, members of the police and fire services of Lac-Mégantic and surrounding towns. In addition, at the ceremony, the Mayor Colette Roy-Laroche received a mark of recognition for his contribution, as many employees and employees of the City of Lac-Mégantic. Staff members of the ministries arrested during the first hours following the tragedy, the Ministry of Public Safety, the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, as well as the Ministry of Health and Social services, and some civilians have also been honored. 
On the sidelines of the ceremony, Pauline Marois met with representatives of the families of the victims. It also revealed the model of a commemorative plaque that will be given to the municipality. 
"On July 6, 2013, all Quebec woke up in consternation. We remain deeply marked. Five months later, we salute your ability to resilience. This plate will be offered as the symbol of our deep compassion and our accompaniment in your process of mourning and reconstruction. We will be with you until the city of Lac-Mégantic is rebuilt, "concluded the Prime Minister. 
For the occasion, Ms. Marois was accompanied by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron, Minister of Public Safety, Stéphane Bergeron, Minister of Health and Services Social and Minister responsible for seniors, Rejean Hébert, Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister Delegate to Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Véronique HIVON. 
