Quebec- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and the Minister-President of the French Community of Belgium and Minister-President of the Walloon Region, Rudy Demotte, have signed today in Quebec a joint statement aimed at strengthening exchanges between Quebec and Wallonia-Brussels. 
"The sharing of a language has been promoting, for 40 years, the establishment of sustainable and diversified links between Quebecers and Francophones in Belgium. So that the French community of Belgium and the Walloon Region are now among our most important partner in institutional cooperation. By this statement, we want to further deepen our political, linguistic, scientific and economic relations, "said the Prime Minister. 
The two Heads of Government thus identify new priorities for cooperation. In particular, they call for the intensification of faculty mobility, the development of new collaborations between the Walloon competitiveness clusters and the clusters of Quebec excellence, as well as the implementation of joint international development actions , especially on the African continent. 
This statement was signed at the end of the official visit to Quebec of the Minister-President Demotte. On this occasion, he spoke with the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean-François Lisée, the Minister of the Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Pierre Duchesne, and the Minister of the Family, Nicole Léger. 
The minister-president made visits to companies in the aerospace sector, in addition to participating in the Annual Aero Montreal meeting with Minister Marceau. A collaboration agreement between the Industrial Clusters Aero Montreal and Skywin Wallonia contributes, since 2007, to strengthen the links between Quebec companies and Walloons in the aerospace sector, one of the most important economic exchanges. 
Mr. Demotte also visited scientific facilities at the Université de Montréal. This institution is part, with the Free University of Brussels and the University of Geneva, a group of Francophone universities of excellence, the G-3, which aims to increase the quality of research and training activities as well. than their international influence. 
With the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Marie Malavoy, the minister-president participated in an activity that has allowed to exchange with young Quebeckers and Walloons on the impact of their experience with the Office Quebec Wallonia Brussels for youth (OQWBJ). About 700 of these young people participate annually in OQWBJ programs, including professional development and mentoring. 
"Our collaborations are echoing today with important issues of the new millennium, including identity, research, innovation and creativity, student mobility and the internationalization of our activities. I hope that the commitments made today contribute to the development of the relationship between our societies, "the Prime Minister concluded. 
Cooperation with the three Francophone entities in Belgium, the Walloon Region, the French Community of Belgium and the Brussels-Capital Region, is the most important after that with France. Some 70 cooperation projects, in the priority areas of the environment, information technology and aeronautics, are currently in realination through the support of the Quebec / Wallonie-Brussels Standing Joint Commission. 
