Transition to the prestigious forum of the Montreal International Relations Council (Corim), the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, as well as Vice-Cheffe and Spokesperson for Family and Justice, Véronique Hivon , presented their plan, their vision for Quebec to become one of the most successful nations in the world: making the success of everyone a collective project. 
IN SHORT 
"Véronique and I, and all members of our team, want to offer Quebeckers, on the occasion of the election, an essential choice. A choice that will mark our collective life from the coming years and give results for the decades to come: to bet on education, on the training, on the cultural, social, human and economic enrichment of Quebeckers themselves ", first declared Jean-François Lisée. 
Véronique Hivon insists on the importance of social mobility. "Every girl needs to know that every young boy knows that the future is not frozen. That studies, work, actually rely. That he or she has a real chance to realize his dreams, whatever his point of social starting or economic. » 
In the eyes of the official opposition leader, only a strong state can allow such a thing. "Our political opponents propose to engage in a cycle of taxes and taxes. Not us. For a strong, flexible and effective state is a sine qua non to ensure the availability and quality of services, and avoid an explosion of inequalities, "he said. 
Protect services offered to youth 
On behalf of the next Government of the Parti Québécois, Véronique Hivon made a commitment: to adopt a law "Shield" against the cuts that affect the protection, development and success of young people. "It's a strong, unprecedented gesture. We will protect, in a law, educational custody budgets, elementary education at the post-secondary level and the protection of youth. And an independent third party, like the Auditor General, will be responsible for ensuring his respect by all governments that will follow one another. Never ever "compressions" will rime with "education". This is the tangible proof that we want to make education the permanent priority of the nation, "she said. 
Fighting illiteracy and illiteracy 
Continuing on this momentum, Jean-François Lisée took a second commitment: to launch the Quebec decade of literacy. "The experts will have to be mobilized and the existing network of combating illiteracy, engaging businesses, workers' associations, media partners, until tens of thousands of teachers and retired professionals! And, above all, we will have to convince this in five Quebecers who succeed in navigating in society without reading or writing to get out of his shell, to take the bet of knowledge. This great project, it is first human, but it is also economic, cultural and democratic, "he insisted. 
"Of all the strategies to increase wealth, the one that you are revealed today, and to which we will add components in the coming months, is encompassing: Enrich culturally, socially, humanly, economically Quebeckers themselves. Allow citizens, to all citizens, to find the means of their fulfillment. It is both the means and the goal. It is both the way and the destination, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
