Montreal- The Prime Minister of Quebec and Head of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, places the student at the heart of his commitments in education. "Our goal is clear: to ensure that by 2020, two out of three students graduate in the required times and that 80% of students get it before the age of 20, because the best guarantee to find a Pay job is to have a degree, "said the premier. 
For the occasion, Ms. Marois was surrounded by a strong team of candidates gathering several fields of expertise and a diversity of talents: Leo Blouin office (Laval-of fast), Diane de Courcy (cremazie), Martine Desjardins (Groulx ), Véronique Fournier (Saint-Henri-Sainte -anne) and Lorraine Pintal (Verdun). 
"To ensure that all students have a chance to succeed, it is an ambition that all Quebeckers have to share. To achieve this, the student must be at the center of our efforts. We want to put in place a first national policy to combat school dropout. This is the first time that a party offers such an ambitious policy, a true global vision so that we can, together, counter this scourge. Quebec would become one of the nations with the best graduation rate in the world. This is a national priority, which will allow us to create sustainable jobs. That's what we're committed to, "said Pauline Marois. 
This future policy will organize around five axes: 
We will continue the establishment of 4-year-old kindergarten in disadvantaged circles, alongside the deployment of the reduced contribution child care system, which will promote early detection of children who could go to school delay. 
We will have an attractive, stimulating and welcoming environment for students, ensuring that they evolve in a healthy and safe environment. We also anticipate initiatives to promote culture at school. We will inspire us with the model of the East Angus School City. 
In order to allow everyone's success, we wish to better support students with disabilities, in difficulty of adaptation or learning. In this regard, we will pursue the deployment of 600 professionals in our schools. 
We need to support the mobilization of actors in all regions. We also want to strengthen the cohesion of the different partners in the school, business and community. There are already several initiatives in some areas that give impressive results and we want to inspire us. 
Valuing vocational training, that is to help young people get a diploma or a rewarding qualification, is another way to get them to cling to school. In this regard, we will continue the investments announced for vocational training centers in the context of economic priority employment. 
At the same time, the Parti Québécois intends to adopt a policy complementary to that on school dropout, a national adult education and training policy. It will include two objectives: to advance literacy and promote the mobility of the workforce. It is also a government of the Parti Québécois which is at the origin of the first policy in this area. Unfortunately, the plan of action has been exposed since 2007, has never been renewed by the Liberal government. 
"In closing, I would like to emphasize the importance of enhancing the work of our teachers. They are on the first line, day after day, to support, encourage and transmit their knowledge to our students. The teaching profession has great challenges for those who practice it. So I want to take the opportunity to make a personal commitment: highlighting the teaching profession by ensuring recognizing teachers like essential partners in the success of our students, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
We have a plan and the team to succeed. Today, it's time to give us the means to go further. 
Watch press clause. 
