Quebec, on January 25, 2017- While a lot of mental health in the public space and that the National Suicide Prevention Week is fast approaching, Diane Lamarre, spokesman for the Quebec's health party, accessibility to home care and support, notes that the Liberal government neglects investments in this area. It requires the Coularid Government that it devotes more resources. 
"With the arrival of the Liberal government, mental health suffered four hard shots. First, in the fall of 2015, the Minister of Health announced a $ 70 million mental health plan for 5 years. We were waiting, of course, at $ 14 million a year for 5 years ... But that's not what happened. There was no money for 2016 or 2017. In fact, there will be no money for this plan before the general election of 2018. Without money, it is more difficult to have Actions that improve services, including supervised housing, yet provided for in the Action Plan, "Diane Lamarre denounced. 
"The underfunding of mental health services has other concrete consequences. Nearly 30% of people in need of first intervention finally have access to care after more than 30 days, so out of acceptable deadlines. In the Laurentians, the average access time for a user is 45 days. In Abitibi-Témiscamingue, it is 40 days and, in Outaouais, of 50 days. And the longer people are waiting for a long time, the more likely they are to sink into the disease. In the long term, it costs more to society, "then exposed the member. 
In addition, emptying CLSCs for private clinics has been another serious mistake in the Liberal government. "By forcing the transfer of social workers and other CLSC professionals to family medicine groups, the Liberal government privatize psychosocial care. We have gone from community and preventive medicine to curative medicine. We also fear that the clientele that used CLSC services is not the same as that of GMF, "continued the spokesperson. 
The last blow for mental health is the disastrous record of the minister as an employer. "According to a recent survey conducted by the Alliance of Professional and Technical Personnel for Health and Social Services, the AptS, with its members, 60% of them indicated to be in a high or high psychological distress situation. . Not only does the minister neglect Quebec's mental health, he also neglects that of his own employees. Hard to make a more efficient system in this context, "concluded Diane Lamarre. 
