Quebec- This afternoon at a press conference held at the Baie-Comeau River Station, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, Minister Delegate to Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region and Member of the Period of the Constituency Matane-Matapédia, in the presence of Mr. Marjolan Dufour, Member of Parliament for René-Lévesque, head of the Côte-Nord region and Chief Government Whip, on behalf of Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs , regions and occupation of the territory, and of Mr. Georges Farrah, President and CEO of the Quebec Ferry Society (STQ), had the privilege of revealing the name of the future ship of the Matane-Baie crossing -Find-Godbout currently under construction: Lef.-A.-Gauthier, in honor of Mr. Félix-Adrien Gauthier. This important trader, entrepreneur and mayor of Matane (from 1960 to 1963) founda with some investors the navigation company crosses Matane-Godbout Ltd. in 1959. Mr. Gauthier was the initiator and the promoter of this vital project for the regions of the Gaspésie and the North Shore. 
Mr. Bérubé also disclosed the name of one of the two passenger shows, the "Captain-Henri-Piuze". Native of Matane, this captain is considered one of the founders of the navigation company cross Matane-Godbout Ltd. "Since its creation, the cross member has continued to renew and adapt to the many needs of his clientele. Without a doubt, the arrival of the imposingnm F.-A.-GAUTHIERE will be an undeniable attraction that will give a new impetus to the regional tourism industry. He emphasized. 
For his part, Mr. Marjolain Dufour had the honor of revealing the name of the second passenger fair, the "Captain-Joseph-Hovington". Originally from the North Shore, Mr. Hovington was the first captain to make regular crossings between Matane and the North Shore, from 1938 to 1961. Mr. Dufour said, "Captain Hovington has demonstrated, by his tenacity and his know-how, a maritime link between the North Shore and Gaspésie was viable and desirable. He was bold to exploit this interrivious service so far in the St. Lawrence Estuary. » 
"I look forward to choosing the names of the new ship and passenger lounges. Well rooted in Quebec's history, these personalities played an important role in the economic and maritime life of the regions served by the Matane Traversée? Baie-Comeau? Godbout "has, for his part, mentioned Mr. Farrah. 
Ms. Lorraine Richard, Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Transport for the Maritime Transport and Deputy Component of Duplessis, said, "I am very happy with the names that have been chosen, they rightly honor men who have built this link. essential between our two regions. I recall that this crossman remains the only one in service all year round between Gaspésie and the North Shore ". 
It is at the end of a competition, held from March 18th to May 21, 2013, that a jury former former Presidents of the STQ chose the name of the future ship among more than 700 proposals. Due to the high quality of the proposals received, the jury decided that the two passenger fairs would be named after people who have been illustrated in the history of Gaspésie or the North Shore. 
During the press conference, Mr. Bérubé awarded $ 500 to the Grand Winner for the name of Mr. Félix-Adrien Gauthier, Mrs. Lucille Rioux Gauthier de Matane, represented for the occasion by Mr. Michel Gauthier Patry. The latter will become the godmother of the ship during his official baptism. Mr. Dufour has awarded $ 250 to Mr. Yves Perron from Sept-Îles, the winner for the name of Mr. Henri Piuze. The winner for the name of Mr. Joseph Hovington, Ms. Paulette Hovington of Baie-des-Sables will receive a price of $ 250. 
