Québec- The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane de Courcy, today tabled the Quebec immigration plan for the year 2014 to the Assembly . She also announced an investment for the next three years of $ 57 million, including $ 13.5 million in additional funding for the francization of immigrant people. The sums allocated will increase and diversify the francization services offered to immigrants, abroad and in Quebec. This flagship measure of the Plan of Action A Quebec's strong of its immigrant part of the 24 measures aimed at maximizing the contribution of immigration to economic, cultural and social development of Quebec. 
The Government's objective is to admit between 49,500 and 52,500 immigrants in 2014 and between € 48,500 and 51,500 in 2015, including at least 65% of immigrants in the economic category. "I recall that the plan I table today is part of the 2012-2015 multiannual planning established by the previous government. The latter was aiming for a gradual stabilization of immigration levels with a target of 50,000 admissions at the end of the 2012-2015 period, but in fact, the target set for 2012 was exceeded with more than 55,000 immigrants and volumes. Volumes So far remained high, "said the minister. 
"I believe, she added, that it is essential to slightly reduce immigration levels and to raise the budget devoted to the integration and francization of immigrant people. This should allow the government to reach the balance, in the short term, between the number of admissions and support for the integration offered to ensure that people who choose Quebec can realize their life project. » 
The minister has also indicated that in order to maintain an effective and efficient immigration system, it intends to modernize the Immigration Act that has been adopted in 1968. This will allow to develop a new system based on the "declaration of interest". . This innovative way will initially choose candidates who best meet Quebec's needs, and more specifically to the needs of employers and regions. Also, as a consequence, we will be able to eliminate the long expectations that must too often suffer the candidates for immigration. 
The Minister also wishes to review the immigration policy, introduced more than 20 years ago, and consult the population of Quebec to establish orientations and levels of immigration for the next multi-year planning. 
The Quebec Immigration Plan 2014 has the corollary the plan of ActionA Quebec's strong immigration. While immigration planning for 2014 aims to select an immigration capable of meeting the economic and demographic needs of Quebec and to contribute to the sustainability of French, the common language, "the measures and investments announced in francization and in integration Show the government's firm intention to allow all newly arrived people to live and work in French throughout Quebec, "said Minister Diane de Courcy. 
The implementation of the Plan of Action A Quebec's strong immigration, some of which have begun in recent months, will range from 2016. This plan, drawn up after a tour of the minister in the 17 Regions of Quebec, revolves around six axes: 
For more information on the Action Plan, visit the Ministry's website atwww.micc.gouv.qc.ca/unquebecfort. 
