Montreal- As part of the Quebec Family Forum, which is taking place today in Montreal, the Minister of the Family, Ms. Nicole Léger, stressed the importance of additional financial support for community organizations and stops. -Gardery community announced on October 30 by the Prime Minister Pauline Marois. On this occasion, the Prime Minister released the document of guidance and initiatives solidarity: a wealth for Quebec. The latter presents the innovative vision of solidarity at the heart of government action over the next three years and the structuring measures that will be put in place from the solidarity pillar. 
"The measures that will be put in place in solidarity testify to our desire to ensure the well-being of families and to give everyone and each the opportunity to contribute to the development of the community. They are part of the inclusive vision of the solidarity that the government will put at the heart of all its actions, "said Minister Nicole Léger. 
Announced solidarity measures include the following. 
Community family organizations play a vital role in the lives of families and communities. Their approach is unique and meets needs very close to the daily lives of families. They also allow parents to develop their parenting skills, strengthen parent-child relationship and get out of isolation. The Ministry financially supports 283 family organizations (OCF) which, in turn, provide significant support to more than 100,000 Québec families annually. 
In order to further support the action of these organizations with parents and children, the annual OCF funding currently $ 19.4 million will be enhanced by $ 5 million, an increase of 25%. This support will make it possible to carry out a financial catch-up for certain OCFs and to increase the support grant to the overall mission of all OCF by 2%. 
Community day-care centers provide parents with a temporary custody service to participate in particular for francization or social or professional integration. Through the Community Day Care Financial Support Program, the Department of Family currently provides comprehensive aid of $ 3.85 million annually to support community-day-booming activities from 248 community organizations. 
Over the next three years, additional financial support of $ 2.86 million will increase by 3% the number of hours of presence by funded child, to accommodate 20 new organizations that offer these services to parents and. Indexing by 2% annually the program budget. 
"Community community organizations and community-day-board halls are important partners in our action for children and families in Quebec. The additional financial support for them will allow them to continue their core mission, "said Minister Nicole Light. 
