Québec- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, today proceeded to the official launch of the National Policy of Rural Year 2014-2024 at the Legislative Council Hall of the National Assembly. It was accompanied for the occasion of the Minister Delegate to the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine Region, Gaétan Lelièvre, and the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory and Minister of Transport, Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"It is with great pride that I participate in the launch of this policy, which is consistent with all the measures provided for in one of the four pillars of our governmental action, that of solidarity, of which the Objective is to make Quebec a more egalitarian and more prosperous society. By presenting this policy, with a half billion dollar budget, my government reaffirms its commitment to rural areas and its intention to contribute to their prosperity. The national rural policy will build a richer, more solidarity and proud Quebec, a strong Quebec from each of its territories, "said the Prime Minister. 
With an envelope of $ 470 million over 10 years, the National Rural Policy 2014-2024 provides for strengthened ways to support rural communities in their development efforts. These means, note: 
The Government also reiterates its entire Rural Confidence of Queffet grants it financial support of $ 8.5 million over ten years to ensure that the organization undertakes a renewed mandate of advice on rurality. 
"Fruit of many reflections and consultations, this policy is based on a distinctive element, the ability of rural areas to work on an intersectoral basis. This innovative approach to development aims to rally the actors of the various industries around a common vision and to ensure the complementarity of their actions to optimize the positive benefits and to avoid costly duplication. This new way of doing things is decisive for the occupation of the territory and rurality in Quebec, which is why we must consider it the best way to borrow for the future of our communities, "said Minister Lelièvre 
This new commitment has been concretized by the signing of a joint declaration for rurality by the Prime Minister, the Minister Delegate to the Regions, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory and Partner Representatives Rurality, the Association of Local Development Centers of Quebec, Quebec Laféseration of Municipalities, Rural Solidarity of Queffet The Union of Municipalities of Quebec. 
"It's a real citizen policy with decentralized measures we are launching today. A policy that will allow each community to focus on carrying out initiatives in the image of its reality and its specificities. Ultimately, relying on the RCM as a pivot of rural development, the national rural policy illustrates a government's desire to move towards greater decentralization and will ensure the prosperity and sustainability of the rural territories of Quebec ", concluded Minister Gaudreault. 
The politics launched today is part of the government guidelines on which the "solidarity" pillar is based, one of the four pillars of government action, with integrity, prosperity and identity. These guidelines, made public on October 30 by the Premier Pauline Marois, will guide the government's action in the implementation of measures aimed at improving the well-being of the most vulnerable individuals and families. The government wants to give a new impetus to solidarity, an inseparable value of collective wealth. 
Consult the official documents on the website of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory.React on the Quebec party blog in Pauline Marois ticket. 
