Montréal- As part of the major meetings on school perseverance, the Minister of Education, Leisure and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, today gave the development of the first national policy of fight against school dropout. 
"We want to transform the taste to learn from every child to succeed. By confiding the development of this first national policy, the Prime Minister wanted Quebec to give ambitious but realistic goals to counter the dropout. By 2020, we want to ensure that two out of three students graduate in the required time, that 80% of students get it before the age of 20 and that Quebec become one of the nations with the Best degree rate in the world, "said Malavoy Minister. 
The minister stated three major guiding principles that will guide the development of the new policy. 
Marie Malavoy today gave the development of the first national policy to combat school dropout. // (c) Mathieu LeBlanc 
Quebec must give rise to a global vision to counter school dropout. It becomes imperative to encompass the various initiatives that have led both in the school environment and in civil society to bring them together around a common collective project. We must all go in the same direction to ensure that our actions are coherently articulated around measures defined by all the actors concerned. 
To counter school abandonment, the Quebec government intends to step up more than ever mobilization. The dropout is not only a school problem, but a society problem, and it is in society and its members that it can be solved. From there, the importance of strengthening the cohesion of the actors of the school system, the community, the employment and parents around common values and principles to counter the dropout. 
"Beyond the statistics, there is a young person we know the name, address and, often even, the difficulties he faces. When his perseverance is put to the test, he is our duty to hold his hand and especially not to let go. One of the guiding principles that will guide our fight against school dropout will be a personalized support at the national level to help each student exploit his full potential. No pupil will leave school benches without a visit, calls and adapted follow-up, "the minister continued. 
"I know this national policy on school dropout was expected. This is the first time a government proposes such an ambitious policy, a true global vision so that we can counteract this scourge, "concluded Minister Maravoy.React on the Quebec's blog!" School dropout: act early , see big! », A ticket from Pauline Marois 
