Quebec- The member for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, welcomes the unanimous adoption of the motion he has filed, recognizing that Aboriginal residential schools were a tool for cultural genocide with regard to Aboriginal Nations of Quebec and requesting the Governments of Quebec and Canada to implement the recommendations of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada. 
"Everyone is suitable, Aboriginal residential schools are one of the darkest pages in Canadian history. As early as 1870, these schools were put in place to eliminate the role of indigenous parents in the intellectual, cultural and spiritual development of their children. This policy was aimed at destroying culture, lifestyle, traditions, language and aboriginal families, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
Recently, Canada's Truth and Reconciliation Commission has released its report, fruit of seven years of work. "The Government of Quebec and all governments in Canada must respond to it, so that we are all aware of this Pan of history, and so that Aboriginal nations can look to the future. I salute the gesture posed by the elected officials today; It's a step in this direction. The Government of Quebec must also continue its policy aimed at maintaining harmonious relationships and partnerships with First Nations and the Inuit Nation, "continued the leader of the official opposition. 
The motion adopted unanimously reads as follows: 
"That the National Assembly recognize that Aboriginal residential schools were a cultural genocide tool for Quebec's Aboriginal nations. 
That the National Assembly asks the Government of Quebec and the Government of Canada to implement the recommendations of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada. 
That the National Assembly reiterates that the action of Quebec, with regard to Aboriginal nations, is still based on the 15 principles adopted by the National Assembly in 1985, which recognize rights to First Nations and the Inuit Nation, and throw the basics of relations between our nations. » 
