Quebec- The hon. Member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesman for the Quebec Party in terms of international relations, Carole Poirier, is pleased that the National Assembly had unanimously adopted the motion it filed in order to express the solidarity of Quebec At the Haitians living in an irregular situation in the Dominican Republic. 
"Since Wednesday, June 17, 2015, the maturity date of the National Plan of Aliens in the Dominican Republic, thousands of Haitians - which are in an irregular situation in the Dominican Republic or which are born there of Haitian parents - see their Aspiration to automatically revoked citizenship. They find themselves stateless. A large number has joined the border crossings between Haiti and the Dominican Republic. If some have decided to voluntarily return to Haiti, others, many more, have been arrested, deported and military border ducts, "said the member in the House. 
Carole Poirier added that "several cases of deportation, often violent, have been reported and alerted the international community, including the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, who denounced the situation and called the Dominican Republic to" ensure What people whose citizenship has been questioned by a decision of the Constitutional Court of the country in 2013 are not expelled ". These deported persons live in extremely difficult conditions, and it is our duty to denounce the situation. " 
The motion that the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve filed reads as follows: 
"That the National Assembly expresses its strong concern at the decision of the authorities of the Dominican Republic to deny a massive number of people, mainly of Haitian origin, and to want evictions that may clarify a humanitarian tragedy; 
Whereas the National Assembly join his voice to that of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the Mayor of Montreal, who have publicly denounced that decision; 
Whereas the National Assembly asks the Minister of International Relations to bring the case to the federal government, so that it takes the necessary arrangements to the authorities of the Dominican Republic; 
Finally, that it expresses its full and solid solidarity with people who suffer the effects of this policy, as well as with the Haitian community of Quebec, deeply worried about the situation in the Dominican Republic. » 
Carole Poirier also wanted to thank the Delegation of Quebec, from several regions, which moved to the National Assembly to attend the deposit of the motion. "I thank them for their dedication and I offer them my support in the fight they lead for the recognition and respect for the rights of their confreres and sisters in Haiti and the Dominican Republic," she concluded. 
