Québec - "By the unanimous adoption of a formal and official motion, the National Assembly rejects the provisions on Bill C-10 which run counter to Québec's values and interests. The Conservative government and Quebec MPs in the House of Commons must therefore understand that Bill C-10 does not pass. In this case, they must respect the Quebec will ". 
This is what the member for Joliette and spokesman of the official opposition in the field of Justice, Véronique Hivon, who has passed a motion to the National Assembly. 
This motion states: 
"Our Quebec court model for adolescents is an effective model. We have one of the lowest crime rates in America. Why should we undo something working well? In question Véronique Hivon, happy that the Liberal government sort of silence and finally decides to formally oppose the provisions of Bill C-10 which will have considerable negative impacts. 
She noted that it took a two-hour debate and a vote to finally publicly know the position and attitude he had to take the Liberal government from this important federal bill. "He was the least worrying for not having heard his position. Quebeckers have the right to know if their government defends their values and interests. Anyway, I am pleased that the National Assembly speaks with one voice in this fundamental case for the future of our justice system and our society as a whole, "the spokesman noted the official opposition. 
In addition, the member for Joliette invites the Government of Quebec to continue the work and rejected by the Federal Minister of Public Security, Vic Toews, who suggested that Quebec saber in its budgets in education, in social assistance. and in social services to mop up the exorbitant costs that these new measures will result in Quebec. She also asks that the Quebec government makes public its estimated costs that the conservative ambitions could cause. 
"There is not only a major social cost to this bill, but a considerable financial impact that, according to estimates, exceeds half billion for Quebec. It is imperative that Quebec do this assessment for Quebeckers to make how true the Conservatives have priorities different from the Quebec people, "Concluded Véronique Hivon. 
