Montréal - Under the theme Change the policy, the National Council of the Parti Quebec, which stands at the end of the week in Montreal, was an opportunity to make the workshop public, the Parti Québécois political action community, unique Quebec and Canada. 
Open to all, the workshop is the virtual place of meetings of Quebec's sympathizers and activists who wish to contribute, in the field, to achieve the objectives of the largest political movement in Quebec. 
"The workshop is a tool, an infrastructure that will ask sweat to work at full speed. It will allow us not only to make politics otherwise by giving the floor to citizens and interacting with them, but also to organize ourselves to go out, speak, convince - which is the strength of the Parti Québécois. Everyone can be a craftsman of change. More than ever, the change, it starts with you, "said Yves-François Blanchet, a member of Parliament for Drummond and spokesman for the workshop, in conclusion of the unveiling of the workshop. 
Indeed, both a tool for mobilizing and organizing the political action on the ground and online portal of the activities and positions of the Parti Québécois, the workshop places the citizen at the heart of the change. Thanks to this dashboard enriching the volunteer involvement within the Parti Québécois, the users of the workshop - the craftsmen - will have all the necessary means to realize the objectives of the Parti Party in the field, to the best of their talents and their motivations. 
"In a few mouse clicks, craftsmen can organize all kinds of activities, planning to take presence, passing through the sending of reminders and feedback from the participants. Holding a cooking assembly, organize a training meeting, make a door-to-door tour or membership card renewal will never have been easily achieved. To change the policy and restore confidence to citizens to their institutions, citizens' policy must be brought closer. This is the most powerful call for action ever offered on Quebec's policy to date. That's what the workshop offers. We look forward to the artisans of change appropriate it, "said Yves-François Blanchet. 
Discover the workshop athttp: //atelier.pq.org/comment. You will find a video presentation, explanatory images, the logo user guide and more. Watch and share the Prezi presentation broadcast at the athttp launch: //prezi.com/olg6cxwhelx-/latelier-la-communaut-daction-politique-du-parti-queois/. The conversation always beats its full on Twitter with the click-click #ATELIELPQ. 
