The new government is now in place, and I take this opportunity to warmly thank you for giving me your confidence. We held a first council of ministers on Thursday. As you have already seen, I intend to act quickly to offer Quebecers. 
The first message I delivered to the Council of Ministers was to reaffirm that the integrity of the government is a must-see requirement. In fact, this is the first requirement of all. On this question, I will be intractable. 
With regard to public finances, we have clearly committed to restoring a balanced budget in 2013-2014 and to manage our finances with rigor, and this commitment will be respected. 
The budget situation has deteriorated for three months and we are getting to know it. We will question the management of certain files. Nevertheless, I want to emphasize that for my government, budgetary rigor is not negotiable. I was the first finance minister to repay the debt, in 2001, and I intend to continue in this spirit. 
In terms of the economy, we will quickly put in place the necessary means to revive the activity, support jobs and promote investment. 
My government will be a change and action. In accordance with our electoral commitments, I have already announced Thursday the annulment of the increase in tuition fees provided for by the former government and the repeal by decree of the provisions of Law 12 (Bill 78) concerning the prohibition to manifest. We bring peace and restore the rights and freedoms of the citizens of Quebec. 
Finally, I reaffirmed the commitment made during the election campaign to close the Gentilly-2 nuclear power plant. I want this gesture to become a symbol of Quebec's commitment to the environment and the well-being of future generations, but also a rigorous management of our finances. However, this closure must be done correctly. In this event, I asked the Minister of Natural Resources and Hydro-Québec a full report on the different implications and conditions in which such a closure would take place. 
During the election campaign, we are committed to getting quick results and, in some cases, in the first 100 days of our government. The realization of this commitment began at day 1 of our mandate and we have the firm intention to continue in this direction. 
Quebeckers have requested change. They hoped for a different government, incorporating and listening. That's what I want to offer them. It was more than Quebec back. 
When a people find his confidence and his pride, nothing, absolutely nothing is impossible for him. 
