Québec- In the presence of Suzanne career and Fabienne Audette, President and General Manager of Suicide Action Montreal, the spokesman for the Parti Quebec's social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, Jean -François Listed, today denounced the cuts imposed in suicide prevention. 
"Before liberal austerity, Suicide Action Montreal was more than 350 stakeholders in the health network each year. From April 1st, this figure will go to zero. This is all the more unacceptable as in its report, the Auditor designated for the Laval Youth Center says the following: 
"The problem of suicide is an example. There has been a collective and political will to recognize the problem. [...] concrete interventions have also been put in place with the various degrees of risk, stakeholders have been trained, the vigilance and follow-up have been maintained through the time with a very tangible result that despite the risk always very present with these vulnerable young people, the CISS of Laval has not known any suicide in its accommodation resources since the advent of these practices." 
In addition, while the number of calls received at 1,866 calls to grow, budgets to support this essential activity stagnant, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
"The time is not to slow the deployment of suicide prevention measures, the time is rather consolidated and adding, particularly in Montreal. In addition, the National Institute of Public Health of Quebec recently confirmed an optimistic statistic, according to which in Montreal, from 2012 to 2013, the number of suicides decreased from 205 to 176. It is therefore necessary to continue the work begun ". , added very career and Audette. 
"The last mental health action plan did not involve anything concrete for suicide prevention centers. It is not to count the 23.7 million that were cut last year in prevention and public health in all regions of Quebec. In his latest budget, the government did not make suicide prevention a real priority; He must reinvest now the sums devolved to training and prevention, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
