Quebec- The member for Joliette and sentence of the official opposition in the field of culture, communications and higher education, Véronique Hivon, as well as the hon. Member for Sanguinet and Spokesman for Treasury Board, Alain Therien, Vertinously denounce the contracts granted by the Minister of Higher Education, Yves Bolduc, on the one hand, and the Ministry of Culture, on the other hand, to external consultants. Members request their cancellation. 
"To apply the recommendations of the Demers report on collegial training, why have decided to hire three consultants, including their coordinator, Nicole Rouillier, at a cost of more than $ 300,000? The Ministry of Higher Education has 517 full-time employees, and 608 in total. Its payroll is $ 37 million for the year 2014-2015. Was it really impossible to use professionals already at the use of the government? Added to these questions that Nicole Rouillier is an assiduous donor of the Liberal Party, "said Véronique Hivon. 
"These two contracts mean, neither more nor less, that one bypart of Bill 15, filed by the President of the Treasury Board. The Standing Committee on Programs, presided over by Lucienne Robillard, must find where to make new cuts. Since its implementation, it has published a report that everyone has rejected, decisions being already taken. In addition to cost us 3.8 million, it is learned that a $ 55,000 contract was given externally to Jean-François Garneau, a former Liberal party candidate, precisely to find places to cut to the ministry From culture, "added Alain Therrien. 
"Contracts must be canceled. Are we trying to make the people believe that the Treasury Board and the ministries concerned do not have the expertise to do the work? Martin Coiteux must tell Quebeckers why austerity does not apply to relatives of the PLQ, "continued the member for Sanguinet. 
Liberal geometry austerity 
"It can be seen that the austerity of the Liberal government is selective. Minister Bolduc proves an umpteenth time he does not have the necessary judgment to be responsible for the Quebec education system. Everyone understood that, except a person: the Prime Minister of Quebec, "concluded Véronique Hivon. 
