Montreal- On the occasion of the unveiling of the federal budget, yes Quebec want to remember that the austerity policies we are currently experiencing are not just the result of the accounting vision of the current Quebec government. They also find their origin in the austerity policies of the federal government. It has been working for several years to reduce federal transfers to the provinces and imposes measures that reduce the Quebec tax base. It is therefore necessary to point the other source of the austerity policies, a vision that is shared by the entire Quebec independence movement including independentist parties. 
A dysfunctional diet 
In November 2014, the Canadian Minister of Finance estimated early surplus for 2015-16 to $ 1.9 billion, prior to lower oil prices. For the next four years, increasing surpluses ranging from $ 4.3 billion to $ 13.1 billion for 2019-2020. The share of Quebec in these surpluses (20%) is about equivalent to the structural deficit of the Quebec budget. Like between 2001 and 2008, the Canadian government sees its revenues increase faster than its expenses. In Quebec City, it's the opposite. The Canadian tax system and unilateral decisions of Ottawa will increase more and more the already intolerable pressure on Quebec's finances. 
Pre-election gifts that are expensive 
While in Quebec, we cut in the most deprived social net, several measures of the 2015-16 Canadian budget will have a growing shortfall of governments for the benefit of the richest taxpayers. In the recovery of the eligible ceiling for the TFSA, the lack A? Win for governments is absorbed? two-thirds by Ottawa and third party by the provinces. 1.3 billion this year, the losses of the two levels of government will be in a few years at $ 25 billion, including 1.6 billion per year less than the Quebec budget. Taxpayer income splitting will only benefit 15% of families in Canada, but will reduce government revenues by $ 2.2 billion in 2015. 
Health and Education Transfers 
A dramatic example of these communicating vases between the two budgets: the financing of health and education expenditure. Ottawa maintains a huge budget margin of maneuver, which it reduces in its liability, destabilizing the finances of Quebec for the next few years. In 2011, Ottawa decided to unilaterally reduce the growth of the Canadian health transfer (TCS) a? From 2017-2018 to at most 3%, while since 2004, average growth has been 6%. This decision will deprive the beak of nearly $ 10 billion over the next ten years for the benefit of Canadian priorities, including oil and weapons. 
The same is true of this other unilateral decision of Ottawa, caping 3% the annual indexing of the Canadian Social Transfer (TCPS) for the coming years. The return at the 1990s, would lead 875 million in Quebec, to redress the finances of universities without increasing tuition fees and even reducing them. 
It is certain that our nation will not be able to resume its radical transformation of the Canadian tax system. This pathway being blocked, the majority of the Canadian population and the major Canadian parties opposing it, the only way for the future for Quebec is to realize its independence to bring together its two budget halves according to its priorities. 
