Quebec- The member for Joliette and sentence of the official opposition in higher education, Véronique Hivon, denounces the fact that the Liberal government withdraws its financial support to BLD publications, including responsible for the scientific popularization magazine the scratches, as well as the Science-Press Agency. 
"Are we the means, in Quebec, not to interest young people in science? After the desolate episode of school libraries, it is another example of the government's lack of vision of knowledge development. Scientific extension allows thousands of young people, throughout Quebec, to develop their taste for science. These young people pursue their journey and studies, and can become scientists who, in a multitude of areas, advance knowledge and society, "said Véronique Hivon. 
The member also stresses that the amount of the cuts imposed on BLD publications, or $ 175,000 per year, is less than the premium received by the Minister of Higher Education, Yves Bolduc, a bonus he has still not fully refunded. "This amount is also lower than the $ 278,000 spent by Minister Jean d'Amour for the redevelopment of his constituency office. Where are the priorities of this government? Without the resource, how many future scientists will let us lose? How are we able to interest all young people, especially those from disadvantaged circles, to cultivate their scientific mind, with the aim of opening new doors to realize their dreams? Added Véronique Hivon. 
Always no news of the National Research and Innovation Policy  "The scientific and research community has expressed a lot of concern about the future of the national research and innovation policy, filed by the Parti Québécois government. What is further reserve for liberal austerity in research and higher education, while the cuts in universities accumulate? Unfortunately, the Liberal government, in addition to splitting the responsibilities of this policy between two departments, which will greatly undermine its deployment, seems to be any importance. The environment, which has to date more than 5,000 researchers mobilized by the petition initiated by the ACFAS, must be reassured, "concluded the member for Joliette. 
