This week, on tour in the west of the island of Montreal, the head of the CAQ François Legault reaffirmed his federalist belief. He even added that it "is time to put this conversation [on independence] as soon as for all" and promised that "Quebec would never separate from Canada." 
An attack on democracy 
The problem of François Legault is not only his lack of credibility, it is the design of the state it promotes. By deciding what may or may not be discussed in the public sphere, it is democracy itself that it attacks. It's our ability to decide ourselves that he is elected. It is freedom of expression, concept of return in the news these days, which it involves. 
The future of Quebec, like any political issue, belongs to the population. It's not a single politician to decide what the people want to talk about. It is to the Quebec people that the decision comes to pronounce on his future. And it will always be the case. 
A dismembering coalition 
The CAQ had to be a coalition of sovereignists and federalists. That's the theory. It is clear that it today brings together federalists and ... provincialists. It cuts the legs of the independence by removing their option from the possibilities. It places in the limbo the nationalists who had gone together in good faith giving the federal course. Would it be the return of pipelines imposed by Ottawa and other intrusions in our lands? What is François Legault's balance of power with Ottawa after such positioning: none. It is therefore a Quebec that will strike again and again in the Canadian Federation that it offers us. 
A strong state in the service of people and the march towards independence 
Quebeckers wanted more freedom, more possibilities. They wish to be realized individually and collectively. For this, it is important that our elected representatives give the people to the center of the state's action, not they dictate taboos. The Parti Québécois proposes to value and strengthen democracy by a reform of the voting system, a rapprochement between the elected representatives and their principals and a less partisan approach. It also proposes to update the studies on independence, so that Quebec is ready from 2022 to give oneself full and freedom. 
Gabrielle Lemieux, President of the Parti Québécoisalexis Gagné-Lebrun, President of the Parti Québécois Political Committee 
