Quebec, on March 5, 2021 -The member for Bonaventure and spokesperson for the Quebecois Forest Party, Sylvain Roy, fears that the government's laxity in his management of public forests brings a new US sings, which could serve as this situation to justify their taxes on Quebec timber. It also urges the Ministry of Forests, Wildlife and Parks (MFFP) to regain internal expertise and coherence necessary for the prosperity and sustainability of the Quebec forest industry. 
IN SHORT 
"What we learned yesterday is very disturbing: the Ministry of Forestry does not know what is happening on its own territory, which belongs - must it be reminded - to all Quebeckers. The Americans, who are watching that, might be tempted to use this laxism to once again attack the Quebec forest economy, "worries Sylvain Roy. 
For several years, the Québécois party has denounced the problems of predictability and planning in public forest and requires concrete changes. "Prime Minister François Legault promised a reform of the forest regime. After two and a half years of waiting, it is clear that the CAQ can not honor its commitment. All that drags is dirty, and we see that the Caquist failure harms the development of the regions of Quebec, "observed the spokesman. 
Sylvain Roy makes a connection with another flagship promise of the government that has not yet materialized: to transfer 5000 jobs from civil servants to the regions. "Upon his arrival, the CAQ should have put in place a timetable to respect his commitment. It would have avoided that the situation deteriorates to the point where we are today. Expertise, it must be on the ground, in the regions, not in tours in Quebec! The member for Bonaventure is indignant. 
Reconcile uses 
In 2017, Sylvain Roy had made a tour of Quebec's wildlife and forest actors. Already, at the time, speakers talked about chronic problems in forests. "In the regions, the Ministry of Forest, Wildlife and Parks is unable to highlight the generating sectors of jobs and significant economic benefits. It is not complicated, however: the forest, wildlife, anchery, you have to make them work together. It's possible. But to do this, it takes political will, which is clearly not the case at the MFFP, "concludes the member. 
- 30 - 
SOURCE : 
Anne-Sophie Desprez 
Communications Coordinator 
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois 
418 271-0485 
@As is NAT. Second. After rubbing 
