Quebec, October 11, 2017- The head of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the parliamentary leader, Pascal Bérubé, deplored the lack of listening and consideration of the desire for change expressed by the population of the Prime Minister Philippe Couillard. For, despite another reshuffle, that it presents as a new start, the Quebeckers know: the action of the Liberals will not change, 92% of the government budget remaining between the same hands. 
IN SHORT 
"He told us several times: the change of support actors that the Prime Minister did today will not change the most important actions of that government, since the main actors remain. Indeed, health, finance and education keep the same minister. In fact, 92% of the government's budget remain between the same hands. Liberal austerity will continue, and barrette reforms will not be corrected; On the contrary, their failure is now bonded by Philippe Couillard. The Prime Minister has only increased the number of his ministers; We do not see anything in this reshuffle for patients, families, regions, nor the elders of Quebec. The solid change is the one that the government of the Parti Québécois will bring in the fall of 2018, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
"Robert Poëti was dismissed by the Prime Minister. Today, it comes back. Philippe Couillard admits his mistake, but what exactly does he admit? That he should not have been dismissed? What does it mean to want to sweep under the carpet ethical issues? What place will have Robert Poëti, minister without portfolio? It is too late, on the other hand, to try to restore the ethical varnish of this government, and Quebeckers know it, "added the leader of the official opposition. 
Le PLC AQ 
"The Liberal government has completed its CAQ-ADQ turn. The main actors - Gaétan Barrette, Sébastien Proulx, Dominique Anglade - all come from this furnish. We already knew it, since the Minister of Health had confirmed it: the Liberals apply the CAQ program. One year of cosmetic transformations will not change the effects of liberal austerity inspired by the CAQ, nor to the dramas it entails, "added the leader of the official opposition. 
New challenges 
The official opposition also held a few recommendations to the new ministers: 
