Quebec- The hon. Member for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, and the member for Rousseau and the sentence on finance, Nicolas Marceau, ask the Liberal government to act quickly, either by the beginning of The parliamentary session, and to file a credible economic policy, promoting economic development and job creation. 
"The economic situation of Quebec has deteriorated since the arrival of the Liberal Party in power. All indicators in the labor market are red; He has lost 27,400 jobs since the end of March. Liberal choices mean job losses and aggravation of the state of the economy for Quebeckers. Philippe Couillard must act now by depositing a clear plan for development and support for job creation, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
The hon. Member for Rousseau holds to remember that the government has put the ax in economic development policies filed by the Parti Québécois government. "The Liberals spent 18 months complaining about the state of the economy. Since they are in power, the situation is worse than expected. Laurentian Bank, a former employer of the Minister of Finance, Carlos Leitão, has revised his economic growth forecast for 2015. The liberal effect does not exist; It's time for the government to admit it and act to straighten the bar, "he said. 
When a vision for the economic development of Quebec? 
Nicolas Marceau also regrets that expenditure and income targets, for the first two months of the fiscal year, are not at all achieved by the government. The numbers tell us that expenditures increase by 3.2%, while the target provided for in the budget was 1.8%. Indeed, for April and May, expenditures are $ 169 million higher than forecasts and income Lack reached $ 63 million, for a total stalemate, compared to the budget, $ 232 million. 
"What we see, by observing the figures, is that the management of the government, in April and May, is synonymous with fewer revenues and more expenses. The deficit, after only two months, is $ 1 billion! , "Added the spokesman. 
"It's time for this government to have a real vision for economic development. All we know is that the Minister of Finance jeopardizes the Quebec model. What will this involve for our families, our workers, our regions, for the poorest? This government should begin to reflect on a way of injecting fuel into the economy to boost growth, stimulate job creation and support our regions and families, "concluded the head of the opposition. 
For more information 
