Quebec- On this week of school year, the official head of the official opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, and the member for Lac-Saint-Jean and spokesman of the Parti Quebecois in terms of education, research and perseverance, Alexander Cloutier, asking for an umpite time to the Liberal government to give education to the rank of national priority. 
"The rotating door set up in the Liberal Education Ministers Office since 2014 has hurt the network, which is struggling to breathe because of the avalanche of compressions it has been undergoing for a few years. Today, human chains surround several schools; This demonstrates how people are mobilized against the cuts in our schools. For the future, they must stop, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
Illegal schools 
"Several records hang along in the firm of the Minister of Education, including illegal schools. While the Liberals are passively succeeding the ministers of education, whole cohorts are sacrificed in these schools who do not respect Quebec educational programs, hundreds of students come out without a degree. Ministers recognize that they lack tools, but refuse to file a bill to give them! Nothing has been done since 2014. However, do not act on the issue of illegal schools amounts to them. Would it be the true position of the Liberal government? For his part raised Alexander Cloutier. 
Undocumented students 
"The file of undocumented students is another who sleeps on the minister's office. Hundreds, perhaps even thousands of students will not go to school this year, because their immigration status is not confirmed, for one reason or another. While Ontario and British Columbia have settled the problem, the Government of Philippe Couillard persists in refusing access to our schools to these children, mortgaging their future, "continued the member for Lac-Saint- Jeans. 
False reinvestment in infrastructure 
"While many files hang out on his desk, Minister Proulx travels Quebec to repeat and recycle his old ads. In August, for example, it announced sums for infrastructure; We already knew them, they were at the March budget. Even worse, by analyzing the numbers, we realize that the sums announced do not even compensate for the cuts of previous years. The liberal recipe is simple: cut for two years, give a little money on the table, and claim that it is a reinvestment. Rather than focusing on false announcements, Minister Proulx should try to convince his prime minister that a real reinvestment in our schools is essential, "concluded the official opposition. 
