Quebec, on March 25, 2021 - After having read Quebec's 2021-2022 budget, the member for René-Lévesque, Parliamentary Leader of the Parti Québécois and Finance Spokesperson, Martin Ouellet, deplores a past budget, years 1990, which does not take into account the necessary green turning or the reality of many Quebeckers who still suffer from the CVIV-19 crisis. 
IN SHORT 
The government has presented a concrete-focused budget, which completely misses the window that comes to Quebec to take a real green turn. The government seems to forget the effects of the health and social crisis currently living in Quebec and ignores squarely. the need for investment in the social component; It is a lack of sensitivity and humanity. With this budget, the CAQ still lacks the boat of economic nationalism to revive the Québec economy.The government deprives many new sources of income that could have helped revive The economy of Quebec and to maintain quality public services. 
An economic vision of the last century 
To those who expected a budget reflecting the necessary transition to the 21st century economy, there is nothing. Worse, the government invests more in concrete and misses the turn to a new green economy. Our largest trading partner, the United States comes to announce investments of 2000 billion to verdir its economy. Meanwhile, in Quebec, we continue to ignore the reality of climate change. 
"At the end of a health crisis, the CAQ government proposes a budget focused on infrastructure development, accelerating 60% investments over the next 4 years in the PQI. This budget is the right continuity of Bill 66, adopted last fall, "commented Mr. Ouellet. It also recalled that to meet the challenges related to the fair and green transition, the Parti Québécois proposed to invest one billion dollars through the Generation Fund, to help our businesses and our workers better Live this transformation of the economy. 
Reducing social inequalities: the death angle of the budget 
"It looks like the government willfully forget the consequences of the pandemic on the most vulnerable Quebecers. At the end of the health crisis and the greatest recession since the last hundred years, we would have expected massive investments to reduce growing social inequalities, "also mentioned Martin Ouellet. 
Despite their essential work on the front line and the chronic underfunding of which they suffer, community organizations get only crumbs. "It's like a slap in the face; While $ 460 million was needed to enhance funding to the mission, in order to meet the needs of the most vulnerable Quebecers, the government has chosen to increase funding of only $ 50 million over 5 years for health organizations, and only $ 27 million this year for organizations in autonomous Community action. Let's take help with women victims of domestic violence: while Quebec lamented this week its seventh feminicide, the $ 70 million expected immediately for hosting homes are not even at the rendezvous! We only talk about a meager $ 10 million a year, "denounced the member for René-Lévesque. 
As for the housing crisis - widely updated for a year, and more spectacularly with the increase in homelessness - it will still be reality in the coming years. For its third budget, the CAQ announces that it will build 5,500 homes in 5 years, when it comes to the number of dwellings that should be built each year. What's more, these housing, she had largely promised them. 
Finally, parents (usually women) who are waiting for a place in CPE to return to work will have to continue to wait. While currently lacking 3,000 educators, the measures to deal with this shortage is insufficient, and there is no measure in this budget to create the missing 51,000 places. The government is going so far as to reduce investments to support the opening of new CEPs by $ 20 million. 
Economic facade nationalism 
In terms of economic nationalism, the CAQ still lacks the boat. The success of our economic recovery was to go through the adoption of a real national Quebec purchase policy and changes to the tendering processes, which currently only consider the only criterion of the lowest price. 
"The government continues to refuse to use the state to revive the Quebec economy. While we could impose a purchasing thresholds of 60% or 70% in several areas - for example personal protective equipment, state supplies, québécoise food supply in our public bodies or equipment In major collective transport projects - the government chooses to deprive yourself of an important leverage that would promote Quebec companies. Meanwhile, our neighbors, they do not interfere to advantage their local businesses, "insisted Martin Ouellet. 
"In addition, he continued, the government still does not impose environmental performance criteria, including the impact of GHGs, in tenders. Not only is this decision harmful for the environment but, in addition, it is for the many Quebec companies that highlight green technologies. How do you want to develop companies that work for the green turn when you do not even take into consideration this variable when it comes time to grant contracts? » 
Many sources of incomes escaped 
Although it welcomes the decision to collect the QST on imported tangible goods, the Parti Québécois notes that the government continues, on the one hand, to deprive Quebec of several sources of income, including by the taxation of GAFAM (146 m $), the taxation of diverted profits ($ 154 million) and the abolition of health planning agencies ($ 270 million). On the other hand, it persists in believing it will make gains in Canada by continually registering the budget the amount of 6 billion that the federal government owes us for health transfers. "Even the Minister of Finance himself does not believe it. It is curious, so that this money continues to be budgeted. It's as if the CAQ lived in an imaginary country, "summed Martin Ouellet. 
- 30 - 
SOURCE : 
Laura Chouinard-Thuly 
Press Officer 
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois 
514 880-9594 
Laura.c After i's -t care liquid @as is NAT. Second. Wipe 
