Quebec- The member for Vachon and sentence of the official opposition on transport, maritime strategy and electrification of transport, Martine Ouellet, and the member for Jonquière and spokesperson for sustainable development and Environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, are disappointed with the attitude of the National National (CN) in several files, including that of the so-called "shole" salmon pit, located in Sainte-Florence, along the Matapédia River: last April The CN has filledged with more than 6,000 tons of unwashed stone, without authorization from the Québec Ministry of the Environment, and without advising the Corporation for the Matapédia and Patain River Management. 
"The attitude of CN is unacceptable. This error will have long-term consequences for salmon and tourism industry in the region. At the moment when the Oil Port Belledune project is on the table, this event only reinforces our opposition, considering that daily, some 240 petroleum tank wagons would cross Quebec through the Matapédia Valley. The confidence of Quebeckers towards the railways and Transport Canada is at its lowest, and the attitude of CN does not decide to help, "said Martine Ouellet. 
"The irregularities are numerous in the folder of the pit of the shoemaker. Not only did the CN make any wildlife inventory before the work, but, in addition, it acted at the worst moment of the year, either during the month when the eggs hatch. To defend themselves, the company invokes the urgency, while it has been more than two years since it analyzes the file. We ask the Ministry of the Environment to crack down and to impose on CN a fine for this fault that will have serious consequences. A compensation must also be granted to the regional industry to offset the losses related to the incident, "continued Sylvain Gaudreault. 
Quebec Bridge 
In the Quebec Bridge file, the CN continues to scroll down. During its privatization, in 1995, the company was committed to maintaining its infrastructure, and it now refuses to paint the Quebec Bridge. Remember that CN has made profits of the order of $ 3.1 billion in 2014, an increase of 21% compared to 2013. 
"CN would have any interest in adopting a better corporate attitude. The laws, the regulations of Quebec must be respected, "concluded Martine Ouellet. 
