The candidate in Rousseau and spokesman of the Parti Québécois in the field of finance, Nicolas Marceau, as well as the candidates Jean-Martin Aussant (Pointe-aux-Trembles) and Dieudonné Ella Oyono (Saint-Henri-Sainte-Anne), find that The financial framework of the CAQ does not hold the road. "It's an imposture, a real joke, or even fraud. The calculations and hypotheses of the CAQ simply do not work. François Legault claims that the experts of the Ministry of Finance, Desjardins and the great banks are wrong, while he is right! It's not serious, "said Nicolas Marceau at the right out. 
Indeed, to finance its many election promises, François Legault invents revenues based on wacky assumptions. "François Legault once again demonstrates that the CAQ is unable to present a strong financial framework. It begins by inventing upper economic growth of 0.5%, which is not based on any concrete hypothesis, to bring up $ 700 million with a magic wand. In total, it is $ 2.7 billion that François Legault comes out of his hat, "said Jean-Martin immediately. 
The CAQ's financial framework also relies on confidential savings - $ 210 million in IT management, $ 381 million by attrition, $ 590 million in supplies, $ 300 million by program evaluation, and $ 350 million by increasing the dividends of Crown corporations. However, never did the CAQ explain how it intended to go for these sums. "These billions of dollars constitute the hay brooch which loops the financial framework of the CAQ. François Legault does not say what programs he will cut, which employees he will dismiss, which contracts will be suddenly cheaper. Nor does it explain how it will increase the dividend of Crown corporations, while the only way to arrive at these sums is to increase the Hydro-Québec invoice of families and to inflate the price of wine And spirits at the SAQ, "said Mr. Aussant. 
In addition, it should be noted that the CAQ fell on the issue of physician remuneration. "Just a few weeks ago, François Legault clamited loudly he would look for $ 1 billion in the pockets of doctors. It seems to have been lying, since in front of their lobby, now holding absolutely to stop the working conditions of Ontario doctors, currently negotiating increases. At the Parti Québécois, we are firm in our resolution to freeze the physician remuneration envelope, "reiterated Dieudonne Ella Oyono. 
Finally, François Legault swept under the carpet the need to maintain services. "The pre-election report, approved by the Auditor General, confirms that to avoid compressions, $ 868 million will have to be invested in services, from next year. By ignoring this reality, François Legault confirms that with the CAQ, it will be the return of the cuts in the services. But, of course, he will not talk about it ... ", concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
