Thetford Mines- The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto announces a grant of $ 407,800 for the setting up of the Archives Center of the region of Thetford. The Director-General of the Appalaches MRC, Marie-Eve Mercier, the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Archives Center, Pascal Binet, and the Cégep de Thetford, François Dornier, participate in this event. 
"For more than twenty-five years, the archive center has raised a unique and irreplaceable documentary wealth on the history of the region covering the entire territory of the Appalachian MRC. This place of memory plays a major role in the cultural vitality of the region and represents a primary documentary resource. The archives allow a community to understand its history, to tell it and think about it, "said Minister Maka Kotto. 
The planning project aims to ensure that the archive center has the necessary infrastructure for the conservation, dissemination and development of the archival heritage of the Appalachian RCM area. Major change, conservation spaces will be borne by installing mobile shelves and a temperature and humidity control system to ensure compliance with Quebec's library and national archives (Banq). ) in the conservation of archives and accessibility for the population. Founded in 1985, the archive center has been approved by Banq since 1990. 
The total project cost to which the department contributes to $ 453,130. The participation of the Ministry of Culture and Communications, under its Capital Assistance Program, represents $ 407,800, or 90% of the total cost. The archive center and the CEGEP of Thetford complement the financial assembly. 
The contribution of the Government of Quebec is part of the 2013-2023 Infrastructure Plan, released in April. Recall that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 2 billion investments for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebeckers, to measure the associated costs and to make informed choices. 
