Sherbrooke- The Deputy Prime Minister of Quebec, Mr. François Gendron, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, as well as the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for the region of Estrie, Mr. Réjean Hébert, took part today at the opening ceremony of the 24thsjeux of Canada. The Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, also associated with the event. This big festival of sports excellence and youth takes place this year in Sherbrooke from August 2nd to 17th. 
On the occasion of this very first summer edition of the Canada Games organized in Quebec, the event will host some 3,400 athletes that will compete in 20 sports disciplines. The 13 provinces and territories will be represented, including the Quebec delegation, which has 345 athletes. 
Addressing young people who take part in the event, the Deputy Prime Minister said: "It's been 30 years old that Quebec was hosting Canada Games. Since then, new generations of athletes have emerged. They have established new records and let their mark in the sports landscape. It is now at your turn to deploy your talent, go to the end of yourself and advance a little further in the realization of your dreams of excellence. » 
Created in 1967, Canada Games are organized every two years, alternating winter and summer. Under the Board of the Canada Games Board, this event is the largest Canadian multisport competition. 
"A sporting event like Canada Games offers exceptional showcase to sport and physical activity. So I wish the performances that the athletes who participate will give to all, whatever their age and fitness, the taste of moving! Minister Malavoy said. 
As Minister responsible for the Estrie Region, the Minister of Health and Social Services, Mr. Réjean Hébert, emphasized the quality of the organization and the invaluable work of the volunteers: "I want to thank all the Volunteers who play a vital role in organizing and holding an event of this size in our beautiful region. These games will be like our region, that is, dynamic and accessible, "he said. 
"The presentation of the Canada Games is a wonderful business card for the region. I am convinced that our visitors will go away from here with excellent memories they will want to share. We can not find better ambassadors! ", Continued Minister Bérubé. 
Recall that the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport supports the Organization of Canada Games up to $ 13 million through the Fund for Sport Development and Physical Activity, including an amount 8 million for the organization and holding of the 2013 Games, and nearly $ 5 million for the upgrading of sports infrastructure. The event also benefited from financial support of Tourisme Québec's $ 250,000 as part of the tourism industry development program in festivals and tourist events. 
On a daily basis, the course of the Games of Canada can be followed atwww.sherbrooke2013.ca. 
