Quebec, July 31, 2014 -The official opposition spokesman responsible for the Charter of the French language and MP for Bourget, Maka Kotto, takes advantage of the 40th anniversary of the adoption of the first law on the official language (law (22) To recall the importance of the defense and promotion of the French language, as well as the need to modernize the legislative tools in force in order to continue the work initiated in 1974. 
"This anniversary highlights all the way traveled to make the French language our true common language. It also allows us to trace a balance sheet of the last four decades and to see, beyond any doubt, that the game is not won. We must make the promotion and protection of the French a struggle of all the moments, because in this matter, our worst enemy is waitition, "said Maka Kotto. 
Remember that Law 22 constituted the first milestone of a real affirmation of the French language as a single language of communication, teaching and business in Quebec. It was followed, three years later, by the adoption of the Charter of the French Language (Law 101) by the Government of René Lévesque. Despite these significant legislative advances at the time, the linguistic situation has been transformed since and our language protection and promotion tools should be updated. 
"The Minister of Culture and Communications and Minister responsible for the protection and promotion of the French language, Hélène David, must act and continue the modernization efforts of the Charter deployed by the Government of Pauline Marois, insisted the member. Bourget. The context has evolved greatly for 40 years and we will not reach our targets for the protection, valorization and promotion of the French language if we do not have the necessary tools to do so. » 
In the parliamentary committee, Minister David unfortunately did not show any desire to implement a reform of the Charter of the French language, which is nevertheless necessary to affirm the right to live and to work in French, to improve the presence of the presence of the presence of French in the workplace, especially in SMEs, as well as to promote the francization rate of immigrants. 
"Forty years after the birth of the law that made it our official language, it is clear that French still undergoes strong pressure. How will we manage to ensure the survival of our language if the government does not recognize the need to adapt the steps we have put in place to protect it? The minister must do more than just emphasize the anniversaries of a more binding past for the Liberal Party of Quebec, it must register in history and, in turn, to put the necessary strong gestures, "concluded Maka Kotto. 
