Mackinac Island, Michigan - It was at the end of three days of meetings today the Regional Government Summit of the Governors of Great Lakes, held in Mackinac Island, Michigan. Representing the Government of Quebec, the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, welcomed the decisions taken in several cases relating to water management, In control of invasive alien species, maritime transport and the development of the Great Lakes and St. Lawrence River Economic Area. 
The Economic Area represented by the eight US riparian states of the Great Lakes, Ontario and Quebec is a common market of more than 100 million inhabitants and is the fourth economy worldwide. The Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence also form a unique ecosystem that contains nearly 20% of the planet's freshwater reserves. This reality explains the strong consensus among participants about their commitment to sustainable development as an engine of economic growth. 
"We share with our American neighbors not only a geography, but also a story, and above all, a future. Our participation in forums like this is great value, as it promotes consensus on solutions and regional actions in the face of common issues. Marine Great Lakes Gateway, Quebec is an associate member of the Great Lakes Board of Governors since 1997 and is a major partner who has advanced many important issues since joining the Minister, "said the minister. 
The issues related to the economy and the environment were at the heart of the exchanges. At the end of the work, the governments of the region adopted several resolutions. 
The Maritime Track of the Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence River generates more than 227,000 jobs in Canada and the United States as well as revenues of $ 34.6 billion. It is an exceptional link, which has been grafed over the years a dense network of rail and road links. In order to improve the Maritime System of the Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence River, governors and first ministers committed to launching a regional collaborative initiative and forming a working group to ensure the implementation . 
In terms of economic development, governors and first ministers have also agreed on the importance of establishing common rules so that projects funded by the US federal government recognize the integrated nature of the Canadian and US economies. They agreed to work together to facilitate access to public procurement on a reciprocal basis. The resolution adopted in this sense constitutes a first for the region: it will have a positive impact on the overall competitiveness of our value chains and could open new opportunities to Quebec companies. Finally, it will equip the governments of the region in their search for solutions for infrastructure rehabilitation and financing. 
In the area of environment, it should be noted that the record of invasive aquatic species - a major issue in the region - is now the subject of a mobilizing regional consensus. The participants agreed on the importance of preventing the introduction of new species in the Great Lakes Basin and St. Lawrence and to limit the spread of those already established to protect the environment, the economy and society. 
As part of the Summit, the governors and the first ministers made the list of the most undesirable species, including Asian carps appear. Note that a hundred exotic aquatic species are already present in the St. Lawrence River, compared to more than 180 in the Great Lakes. 
For Quebec, the establishment of common detection and monitoring networks is essential. "Without sharing of information and expertise between the provinces and the states of the Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence River, we will not be able to stem out this very worrying problem. Invasive exotic aquatic species are sometimes fierce predators of native species, often cause irreversible damage to ecosystems and biodiversity in addition to harming the economy, including sport fishing. I am very pleased that the heads of governments have agreed unanimously of concrete actions to combat and prevent this scourge, "said Minister Blanchet. 
The Minister also participated in the meeting of the Governors and First Ministers Members of the Regional Water Resources of the Great Lakes and St. Lawrence River, which manages the Sustainable Waters Resources Agreement of the Great Basin Lakes and the St. Lawrence River. Remember that this historic agreement recognizes that the waters of the Great Lakes and St. Lawrence River are interconnected and that they require close collaboration between states and provinces to protect this valuable collective resource. The minister reported on the actions made by Quebec with regard to the implementation of the Agreement. The Water Collection and Protection Regulations, which aims to introduce a new water levy authorization regime in Quebec, is currently subject to public consultation. Its adoption will complement the regulatory obligations of Quebec with respect to the agreement. 
Such a meeting allows Quebec to have access to several high-level interlocutors. Thus, the minister was able to talk to Ontario's Prime Minister Kathleen Wynne, and with 4 governors, Mr. Patin of Illinois, Mr. Mike Pence of Indiana, Mr. Rick Snyder Michigan and Mr. Scott Walker of Wisconsin.  The minister also met with decision-makers from the state of New York, Pennsylvania, Minnesota, as well as the Lieutenant Governor of Ohio, Mary Taylor. 
"A summit like that of Mackinac Island is a privileged opportunity to strengthen the links between the partner states with whom we share many priority sectoral issues. We have made significant economic and environmental advances, which will have a significant and concrete impact on the St. Lawrence River and riparian populations. I am also very happy with the cordial exchanges I had with the leaders of several American states, with whom I discussed the relief of regulatory constraints to trade and the development of the carbon market, "concluded the minister. 
