Community credit is an innovative tool for the fight against poverty, economic growth and fulfillment, both individual and collective. It allows people who are unemployed, such as the unemployed, low-income workers, people on social assistance to access sources of credit to create their own employment by entrepreneurship. These people do not have access to traditional sources of credit. 
Community credit is based on financing and supporting individuals and promoting a global approach. This comprehensive approach aims at proximity support (mentoring) full of openness and flexibility to allow people to acquire the creator's trade know-how and know-how. 
For Quebec, it is an essential lever for prosperity for the sustainable development of communities. 
The microcredit "Quebec version" has been in existence for more than 20 years and it is under the mandate of a government of the Quebecois Party, in 2002, that Quebec Credit Community Credit receives first government funding. In 2012-2013, the Community Credit Quebec network accompanied more than 2,000 people in the realization of their corporate project, awarded 210 loans totaling $ 1.4 million and maintained more than 1,000 jobs in all The regions of Quebec. 
The reimbursement rate of loans obtained by Community credit is 93% and the survival rate of companies is 73%, after 5 years, compared to 34% for the Quebec average (business survival rate in Quebec, Mdeie, 2008). 
Community credit is part of the movement of the social economy that directly joins the government's guidelines for the fight against poverty and social exclusion. It is part of the values of mutual aid, social justice and prosperity for all, carried by the government. 
March 11 is the National Day of Community Credit. This day makes it possible to recognize the contribution of microcredit to the economic and social development of Quebec. On March 12, the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Economic Development Bank, Zakaib, emphasized in these terms to the National Assembly, the 5th National Community Credit: 
Updated, 17h: Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, confirmed the payment of a financial contribution of more than $ 4.7 million to the Quebec Credit Network Community (RQCC), on the occasion of the Annual General Meeting of the organization. 
Update, June 18, 2013: At the same time the Community Credit Québec network broadcast videos explaining the benefits of Community credit and its operation. Here are a few. They are all available on the official YouTube Lachaine of the Quebec Community Credit Network - RQCCTV. 
