Québec- Enjoying the presence of the candidate and candidates of the Parti Québécois Caucus of MPs of Political Training, the leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, wanted to remember that they have concrete solutions to propose to improve health care and services. 
"The Liberal government has cut nearly $ 1 billion in health care, which has had concrete impacts on patients, seniors, vulnerable people, in all regions of Quebec. Then, while it reduced the expenses, the government had an unacceptable skid in the compensation of physicians, at a point as their salary exceeded the Canadian average. In fact, 3 billion dollars were consented to these 20,000 people among the Best Natigies of Quebec. This amount should have been invested in patient services, services that have been severely reduced because of liberal austerity policies. It is more time to reverse the trend, freeze the remuneration of doctors to reinvest the amounts of health care and services. Our candidates advocate concrete solutions to reverse this movement; They plead for a network close to people, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
In Arthabaska, for example, the CLSC files of maple and the Hôtel-Dieu d'Arthabaska are particularly concerned about the candidate Jacques Daigle. "For me, it is important to restore an adequate care offer at the CLSC of maple. As for the urgency of the Hôtel-Dieu d'Arthabaska, we must not stop at the electoral promises; We must make sure that the first shovel of earth is done before 2018, "he insisted. 
In Marie-Victorin, the Catherine Fournier candidate reiterated his commitment to the establishment of a superinfloor clinic in the Saint-Robert district in Longueuil. "We need to increase access and proximity to health care. SuperInfirmières can provide a host of care and help disengorge the urgency of Charles-Le Moyne and Pierre-Boucher hospitals. A superimmer clinic in the Saint-Robert district, it's more health services for all families and elders in Longueuil, "she summarized. 
Marc Bourcier, candidate in Saint-Jérôme, proposes to improve the use of existing infrastructures in order to disengage the urgency of the Regional Hospital of Saint-Jérôme. "By transforming the Houville accommodation center into an overflow unit for the emergency, and adding superimmeries, we can quickly help reduce wait times to the emergency room. This is an effective and quickly applicable solution to help JeroMians and Jéômians, "he says. 
Finally, for Richard Langlais, candidate in Verdun, the solution goes through better access to health care. "We need to improve access to local health care, particularly for the 5000 residents of the island of Sisters who have just lost their family doctor. In Verdun, you have to realize the expansion of the Verdun Hospital; Thus, patients will have access to care and liberals will not be able to make an umpteenth election campaign on the subject in 2018. " 
