Montreal- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by his parliamentary assistant for the electrification component of the transport, Daniel Breton, the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Volvo, Olof Persson, and the Chairman of the Board of Directors. Transportation Company of Montreal, Michel Labrecque, today announced a financial assistance of nearly $ 12 million for an innovative pilot project that will create the entirely electric bus metropolis, using a state-of-the-art recharging method. Technology and manufactured in Quebec by Nova Bus. The buses will circulate in the streets of Montreal from 2015, for three years. 
"Montreal will be the first city in North America to carry out a Cité Mobility project using buses with fast-conductive charging technology. Our metropolis now becomes a leading international city for the deployment of technological solutions and for the development of clean, renewable and relatively inexpensive energies. Cité Mobility is a project that fits perfectly in Lastrategium of transport of transport of the Government of Quebec, "said Pauline Marois. 
From the Green Fund, government financial assistance will be paid to the Montreal Transportation Corporation (STM) for the acquisition of three buses and infrastructure needed to recharge. This is a project of nearly $ 23 million, which will be realized as part of a partnership with the Volvo Group, through its Nova Bus division, and the STM. The next step will determine the optimal path as well as the most strategic locations for the installation of the terminals, the essentials being to minimize the charging time and ensure the fluidity of the service. 
Montreal thus becomes a "cited of electromobility", like other major cities in Sweden or Germany. Overall, the Cité Mobility program is to establish strategic alliances with key actors in urban mobility to promote both transport electrification, the design of high international influence projects, the creation and development of Collaborative know-how and green jobs, as well as decreased fossil fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. 
With this project, Quebec is part of a strategic partnership with Volvo Group. For the Transportation Corporation of Montreal, this is an opportunity to test new technologies under real operating conditions and to evaluate the effects on planning, operations, maintenance and, most importantly, the Improvement of customer service. 
"This project is carrying and structuring for the future. Cité Mobility could possibly be used to plan a system that, in the long term, will electrify all public service vehicles, including collective transport and commercial vehicles of the city, such as waste collection trucks and recycling, "supported Daniel Breton. 
