While the candidates of the Quebec Liberal Party (PLQ) and the Coalition Future Québec (CAQ) withdrew, because judged to represent the constituent, the leader of the Parti Quebecois, Jean-François Lisée, and the Parti Québécois candidate Normand Beauregard, wanted to reiterate their commitment to the population of Louis-Hébert. 
"Since the announcement of the Norman Beauregard candidature for the Parti Québécois, we have been able to discover the voters of Louis-Hébert a man integrates, competent and close to the concerns of his fellow citizens, that he has been working with 30 years. We have a major candidate for Louis-Hébert and the Capitale-National Region. We are learning now that the Liberal Eric Tétrault and the Caquist Normand Sauvageau withdraw, because of revelations about their past behaviors. It belongs to the PLQ and the CAQ to explain why they have not been able to find candidates with respect for voters, while they had six months to do it. The appointment of these candidates, then their withdrawal, all of this must be seen by the voters of Louis-Hébert as a serious lack of respect towards them, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
Normand Beauregard intends to continue the Quebec party game plan to win the partial election of October 2nd. "Today, in addition to the meeting of the citizens of Louis-Hébert, I proceeded to the official opening of my electional room alongside the leader of the Parti Québécois, members of our political training and More than a hundred activists. All are inflated to block to chat with voters, present our priorities and listen to their concerns. My goal, as early as October 3, is to devote 100% of my time to serve the citizens of Louis-Hébert, without distraction and with all my integrity. I hope the errors of the PLQ and the CAQ will not live cynicism and that the voters will go massively to the polls on October 2 to choose someone to their image to represent them, "he said. 
The Parti Québécois intends to continue campaigning on the major issues of Louis-Hébert; In addition to integrity, it will be discussed families, the environment, transport and the economy. With an integrity candidate who represents the true succession for the constituency. 
