Quebec- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, and the Parliamentary Assistant to the Premier - Transport Electrification Component, Daniel Breton, announces the allocation of financial assistance From $ 675,000 to EntrepreneaBus Lion Inc.For a project to develop a fully electric school bus. This project is part of the wake of economic priority Employee and Lastratégie of transport electrification, recently made public by the government. 
"Our government wants to make Quebec a world leader in transport electrification. This is a milestone in Quebec's economic development. By allowing projects like this one to see the light of day, we invest throughout Quebec. In fact, it's about developing our economy using less oil and more electricity. Quebec has all the assets to get there. We have the incomparable advantage of being able to count on clean, renewable and relatively inexpensive energy, "said Pauline Marois. 
The Lion Bus Project., Whose funding comes from the Ministry of Natural Resources' innovation energy efficiency program, is to develop and operate, in real operating conditions, a fully electric school bus. The company wants to prove the technical feasibility and the economic viability of this motorization technology. She also wants to document the benefits in a massive marketing perspective. Thanks to projects like this, an annual reduction of more than 44,800 tonnes of GHG emissions would be obtained, thus removing the equivalent of some 13,000 cars from Quebec roads. 
The electric school bus will be built on the chassis of a vehicle currently marketed by Lion Bus inc., Or a 72-seat type C buses. It differs in particular by its bodywork made of composite materials, which increase the service life and reduce the weight, as well as a wider interior of 15 cm, which translates into more spacious seats and a central alley. more aerated. 
With the help of three Quebec partners, TM4, B3CG Interconnect and the National Advanced Transport Center, Bus Lion Inc.. Develop a motorization allowing it to reach an autonomy of about 90 km. A mid-day refill will bring this autonomy 180 km daily. As for energy consumption, the buses will use 8000 liters of diesel annually less than a conventional buses. Finally, Autobus Lion believes that over the next few years, the market potential should gradually increase to 250 buses annually in 2018. 
"The Lion bus project is part of the Transport Electrification Strategy announced by the Prime Minister on 1 November. This initiative demonstrates, once again, that sustainable development goes hand in hand with economic development and to take advantage of Quebec's electricity know-how, "said Daniel Breton. 
"We can be proud of Lion buses. With this project, Quebec could produce the first electric school bus in North America. Our government intends to continue to support such visionary and dynamic entrepreneurs who highlight Quebec's know-how, "concluded Minister Martine Ouellet. 
