Montreal -The Chairman of the Congress Steering Committee, Philippe Dufort, and the President of Election, Pierre-Hugues Miller, confirm that he received 13 valid applications for the 10 election posts at the National Executive of the Parti Québécois. "It is with great enthusiasm that we have received these exceptional applications. They testify to the craze of activists and activists for positions at the national executive. , "Said Philippe Dufort, Chairman of the Steering Committee. 
Valid applications are: 
Presidency - 1 PostGabrielle LemieuxPrésidence of the Political Commission - 1 Postalexis Gagné-LeBrunConseillrs - 4 PostsDaniel Brassardjocelyn Caronmarc DesnoyersFrederic St-Jean 
Consultants - 4 PostsJennifer Drouinannie Morinlizabel-Corina Nitoélise Peloquinclaudel Petrin-Desrosiersuzanne Proulxise-Mary Thai Thi Lacle President of Election therefore announces that the Presidency, the Presidency of the Political Commission as well as the positions of advisers will be elected by acclamation at the National Congress Québécois party of 8, 9 and 10 September. As for the counseling positions, as 7 valid applications were received, an election will be held at the Congress. "By this, I confirm that all the newsletters received have been filed within the time prescribed with the necessary documentation in compliance with our regulations. It is therefore 13 applications in order to the total which will give rise to an election to the positions of councilors, "concluded the election president, Pierre-Hugues Miller. The list of candidates and their letter of presentation are available by following this link : pq.org/candidatscen 
The President of Election therefore announces that the Presidency, the Presidency of the Political Commission as well as the positions of advisers will be elected by acclamation at the National Party Congress of 8, 9 and 10 September. As for the counseling positions, as 7 valid applications were received, an election will be held at the Congress. "By this, I confirm that all the newsletters received have been filed within the time prescribed with the necessary documentation in compliance with our regulations. It is therefore 13 applications in order to the total which will give rise to an election to the positions of councilors, "concluded the election president, Pierre-Hugues Miller. The list of candidates and their letter of presentation are available by following this link : pq.org/candidatscen 
