The Mrs. Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, launched today, has launched today's work, a program on the installation of electrical terminals in the workplace. This program will contribute within three years, to the installation of 3500 terminals in the workplace as well as the deployment of electric vehicles in both businesses of businesses and employee cars. 
"We are numerous to hope for the day it will be usual to cross electric cars on Quebec roads. This dream, the Government of Quebec is determined to make it a reality. We believe it and we act accordingly, "said Martine Ouellet. 
Thus, companies, municipalities or organizations that acquire and install a charging station by December 31, 2016, will be able to benefit from financial assistance covering 75% of the eligible costs for the acquisition and installation of an electrical terminal in the middle working up to a maximum of $ 5,000 per terminal. The program provides that the recharge will be offered free of charge to employees of the organizations targeted. The work-related program will promote the introduction of electric vehicles in Quebec and help reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in the transportation sector. 
"In the name of the Desjardins movement, I greet the decision of the Government of Quebec, marked Ms. Pauline d'Amboise, Vice-President, Governance, Social Responsibility and General Secretariat. Last October, as part of the consultation on the Energy Future of Quebec, we wanted programs to support businesses and individuals in the transition to electric vehicles, including the establishment of infrastructures such as terminals of loading. The work-related program is therefore appointed and we will promote it to our crates and subsidiaries for their employees. We believe this is an effective lever to reach critical masses of electric vehicles in the different regions of Quebec. Desjardins already has loading limits at the Desjardins complex in Montreal, in Six Caisses and, shortly, will be added the Desjardins City of Cooperation in Lévis. 
Still in the fight against GHGs, Madame d'Amboise recalls that Desjardins Assurances allocates its 10% insurance discounts for 20% hybrid vehicles for electric cars. In addition, its Adjustment program leads to a reduction in fuel consumption through more ecological driving. 
The transport electrification strategy provides for the deployment of 10,000 new electrical terminals throughout Quebec. At the 3500 electrical terminals announced today as part of connected to work, 1000 electrical terminals in government institutions and 500 electric terminals in the electrical circuit that will be added. In addition, 5000 additional terminals will be added in the residential sector through the ride electric program. 
"Transport electrification will have a very positive impact for all Quebec and will not only reduce our GHG emissions and our oil consumption, but will create value-added structuring jobs for both the Quebec market and for the Quebec market. export. That's why our government wants Quebec a world leader in the field, "said Martine Ouellet. 
More than $ 500 million will be devoted to encouraging transportation of transport in Quebec. With its transport electrification strategy, the Quebec government wants to stimulate economic development and create quality jobs in all regions of Quebec. In addition to improving the supply of electric collective transport, the use of electric vehicles as well as research and innovation will be promoted. These actions will contribute to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 25% by 2020. 
