Quebec- According to the member for Verchères and the official opposition spokesperson for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, the present federal election campaign again makes it possible to see the softness of Philippe Couillard when it comes to Defend the interests of Quebecers and Quebeckers. Yesterday, the Prime Minister did, according to his / her day, his only intervention of the campaign by adding, from the end of the lips, some shy requests to the federal parties. 
"Philippe Couillard once again demonstrates his apathy when the time comes to defend Quebec face in Canada. Instead of being combative, it is content to formulate some demands, well insufficient, stating that it will no longer intervene on the subject. For many particularly sensitive issues, the Prime Minister did not even bother to claim any commitment from federal parties; It is only necessary to think of the necessary financial compensation for the destruction of the data of the firearms register, respecting the jurisdiction of Quebec in the regulation of securities, the integral maintenance of the management of the offer or to restore the tax credit for workers' funds. This is not the attitude of a Prime Minister of Quebec worthy of his function, "said Stéphane Bergeron. 
The Prime Minister has been aware that the federal parties will deserve to respond to its modest demands from here the October 19 elections ... "Otherwise, what? If the federal parties do not know or answer him downright no, what will Philippe Couillard do? It is a pernicious message that he has just referred to federal parties: you can afford to ignore Quebec without too many consequences. And, as everyone in Canada knows that he will accept unconditionally just about anything to avoid any questioning of the federal regime, I would say that Quebec is badly barred! ", Continued the member for Verchères. 
The finding is unanimous, and even the provincialist Philippe Couillard had to recognize him: Between Quebec and Ottawa, there is no dialogue. Our requests are invariably ignored, since Canada's priorities are still elsewhere than in Quebec. "Faced with this reality, the Parti Québécois offers a solution, the solution: independence. But Philippe Couillard, what does he propose? Stéphane Bergeron concluded. 
