A year ago and one day, I pronounced the opening speech of my government, in which I talked about a vision of the future that I made a priority and that I placed under my Direct liability: the electrification of transport of Quebec. 
Since then, we have devoted a lot of resources to its preparation. We are now ready to move forward. I am very proud to announce today the implementation of the transport electrification strategy. 
The goal is simple but ambitious: we want to make Quebec a global leader in transport electrification, as we have done with aeronautics and multimedia. 
With this packaging project, we can enrich ourselves while reducing our greenhouse gas emissions to reach the ambitious targets we have set for 2020. Moreover, this project brings us closer to energy independence and, as well as , collective freedom. 
The rigor of our climate and the immensity of our territory have forced us to be creative and resourceful throughout our history. How many patenty and genius inventors have been given to us? 
Today, we act so that the Joseph-Armand Bombardier, the Armand Frappier and the stone sewing of tomorrow can continue to innovate and reinvent us. 
I can not miss thinking about René Lévesque, who left us 26 years ago today. This is what he wrote about the development of our economy in his book the Passion du Québec, published in 1978: 
"This involves a gradual and necessarily partial policy of replacement of oil, which could be done, for a good part, by electricity. » 
Today, science has progressed, and it is precisely thanks to the courage of our predecessors that we can move forward. 
My most sincere wish is that the decisions we take now will allow our children and our grandchildren to turn to new conquests. 
Our strategy is divided into four components: quickly make greater place to electrical transport; take advantage of Quebec's electricity know-how; Building in Quebec an industrial sector of strong and efficient electric vehicles; And to ensure that the Quebec state demonstrates its commitment to electric transport by becoming a model itself to follow. 
While the whole earth is found at the time of environmental choices, Quebec can pave the way and impose itself as a leader. We have considerable advantages, since our electricity is abundant and comes from renewable resources. 
I am convinced, electric transport will propel Quebec to this 21st century still young. With the transport electrification strategy, we build a more proud nation, a more solidarity society, a richer country. 
Together, we will build a stronger Quebec! I count on you! 
