Quebec - The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the member for Taschereau and spokesperson responsible for the Capitale-National Region, Agnès Maltese, accompanied Normand Beauregard at the announcement of his candidacy. Investiture of the Parti Quebecois for the partial election to come in Louis-Hébert. The investiture assembly will take place on September 20 in Saint-Augustin-de-Desmaures. 
"Normand Beauregard has been living in the riding of Louis-Hébert for 30 years. He has devoted his life to the environment and sustainable development; This makes him the ideal candidate against those, pro-pipeline, the PLQ and the CAQ. Indeed, here in Louis-Hébert, the Liberal Party and the CAQ, it is the same to the same. The PLQ candidate was approached by François Legault, and both parties are in favor of East Energy, which would happen here, at the heart of the riding. People here have the choice: they can support Normand Beauregard, who is against energy is and in favor of sustainable development, or the federalist parties, which are for the pipeline, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
Normand Beauregard worked for nearly 20 years in the Quebec public service, especially as Quebec's energy policy coordinator. His experience in the Québec state apparatus is conjugated to a knowledge of the riding that he will use for the benefit of the citizens of Louis-Hébert. "By choosing the Parti Québécois, the population of Louis-Hébert can send a strong message to the Liberal government. By supporting my application, voters choose the intelligent development of our transportation network, sustainable development for our territory, our banks, and the influence of our economy, "he said. 
The upcoming election campaign will be an opportunity for the Parti Québécois, to assert its priorities for Louis-Hébert. All significant themes - including Quebec identity, public services, territory protection or the improvement of the transport network - will be addressed. "We have seen it recently: the challenges of defending Quebec identity, secularism and the French language continue to be of concern to Quebeckers. While the Liberals stubbornly refuse to debate serenely, the Caquists, they offer simplistic solutions. The Parti Québécois approach is the one that best reflects the will of Quebeckers, and we will bring this voice during the partial election, "added Jean-François Lisée. 
Agnès Maltese is also very enthusiastic about this application. "A team player like Normand, who, in addition, knows the workings of the state well and has always been close to his community, it's a certain asset. Not only for the people of Louis-Hébert, but also for the entire region of the Capitale-Nationale. The whole party of the Parti Québécois will be at its side to support and meet the electors and constituents in the riding in the coming weeks, "she concluded. 
For more information on Normand Beauregard, visit LenormandbeauGard.org. 
