Saint-Siméon-de-Bonaventure -Runis in Assembly of Inauguration in the presence of the leader of the Party Party, Pauline Marois, and several members of the party, the members of the Quebecois Party of the Bonaventure district designated Sylvain Roy in order to Represent as a party candidate for the partial election to be held on December 5th. 
"On December 5, the citizens of Bonaventure will have two choices. The Liberal Party of Jean Charest burned in the scandals and sharpened with allegations of corruption. A party that is concerned about his friends rather than the Gaspé population. A party that always refuses to hold a real public inquiry committee on the construction industry. I invite them rather to make the choice of a proper party, to vote for the Parti Québécois. An integrity party that offers real changes for Quebec and Gaspésie. A party that has always been concerned about the development of Gaspésie. By voting for me, they will be insured to be able to count on a deputy who will have as first priority the defense of their interests. On December 5, I invite Bonaventure's voters to take the Party of Gaspésie, "said Quebec's candidate, Sylvain Roy. 
"We offer citizens of the Bonaventure riding an exceptional candidate. Sylvain Roy is irreproachable, his faultless integrity is recognized. It is a real visionary who will fight to advance and develop Gaspésie. The citizens of Bonaventure can choose the integrity, transparency and jurisdiction in voting for Sylvain Roy, "said the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois. 
The leader of the Parti Québécois took the opportunity to reaffirm his commitment to chair a revival committee of the Gaspésie. "My will is clear. Under a government of the Quebecois Party, as Prime Minister of Quebec, I will first chair a revival committee of Gaspésie. The development leadership of the region must be done at the first political level. " 
47 years old and from Pointe-à-la-Guard, Sylvain Roy is a father of two boys of 16 and 19 years old. He currently lives in Escuminac on a farmhouse on the edge of the sea where he operates with his wife a small tourist and recreationalative business. After his university studies in 1994, he decided to return to live in Baie-des-Chaleurs, despite a career as a promising academic researcher. He becomes a forest worker and discovers a living environment that teaches perseverance, humility and pragmatism. PhD student in sociology, he is a teacher in the Cégep de la Gaspésie and the islands of Carleton-sur-Mer. Since 2009, he is a municipal councilor at the municipality of Escuminac. 
"It's a two for one who is offered to voters in the bonaventure riding. On December 5, they will be able to choose a real member of Quebec and send a clear message to Jean Charest against corruption and liberal arrogance, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
