Montreal- The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, said this Sunday, August 18, which she was ready to trigger the partial election in the riding of Viau to allow the leader of the Quebec Liberal Party to enter the assembly national as quickly as possible. She also committed that the Quebecois party does not have a candidate to facilitate the election of Philippe Couillard. The Council of Ministers could be seized of this issue from this week if Mr. Couillard undertakes to run for a candidate. 
"The Leader of the Opposition has declared in recent days that he was thinking about the riding he would choose. I think it's his duty and responsibility that he quickly became his entry into the National Assembly. Thus, I undertake to quickly trigger the partial election in the riding of Viau and not to present a candidate from the Quebecois party, "announced the Prime Minister. 
Remember that the riding of Viau has been vacant since the resignation of Emmanuel Dubourg, which has expressed the wish to represent the Liberal Party of Canada in the riding of Bourassa, free from the departure of Denis Coderre. 
Mr. Couillard has been head of the Liberal Party of Quebec since March 17, 2013, a little over 5 months. When she was elected Leader of the Parti Québécois, on June 26, 2007, Ms. Marois seized the first opportunity for him to be present at the National Assembly, in a context where Jean Charest formed a minority government. It was thus elected in the constituency of Charlevoix on 24 September 2007. 
The Premier also said, "I call it in the sense of the state of the opposition. In a context of minority government, the opposition has an important responsibility for the adoption of the laws. » 
If the partial election in the constituency of Viau was triggered following the next Council of Ministers, which will take place on Thursday, August 22, in Quebec, the ballot could be held on September 30th. If that is his wish, Mr. Couillard could later choose to report in another riding at the time of the general election. 
