Quebec- The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, congratulates the 1,103 mayors and Maires, the 6,947 councilors and the 13 prefects and prefects that were Elected in the framework of the 2013 municipal elections. He also welcomes the commitment of some 13,000 people who have submitted to an elective position. 
"Over the next four years, you will be called upon to face many challenges and deal with multiple issues for the development of your municipality. I take advantage of it to reiterate my entire collaboration, as well as that of the whole government, in the accomplishment of your functions, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
The minister also welcomed the increase of nearly 5% of the participation rate in relation to the 2009 election. According to him, "this increase reflects the importance of the actions of our government to restore the confidence of the Quebecers and Quebeckers to their municipal elected officials. Indeed, from the first instants, we placed integrity at the heart of our action and our decisions in addition to working with determination to counter cynicism to the municipal environment. " 
Among these initiatives, three measures are to be emphasized: Bill 1, which aimed to put an end to several collusion and corruption practices; Bill 10, which now allows its functions a municipal elected representative which is the subject of a punishable or more imprisonment. as well as changes to the applicable rules on municipal political funding for the 2013 municipal elections. The minister intends to continue the integrity efforts by depositing, in the coming days, a bill finalizing the initiative approach In the spring to reform municipal political funding. 
"I want to make sure that integrity, ethics and transparency will remain stakes at all times for our government. That's why we will continue to make strong gestures to increase the confidence of the population to their democratic institutions, "the minister concluded. 
