Carleton-sur-Mer -The leader of the Partician Party, Pauline Marois, announces that she will launch a vast stimulus plan for the forest industry once in power. That's what she said this morning at a press conference in the Bonaventure riding in the company of the Québécois party candidate, Sylvain Roy, and the member for Roberval and spokesperson for forests, Denis Trottier . 
"The forest industry has been in crisis in Quebec since 2005. It has lost more than 20,000 jobs and more than 200 factories have closed their door. Gaspésie does not escape. In Quebec City, the Liberal government has never delivered the goods. Jean Charest even stated in 2008 that forest workers should be recycling in the mines. It is time for a political party to take the forest industry seriously and the fate of families living from the forest, "said Pauline Marois. 
"At the Quebec party, we do not lower your arms. We are convinced that the forest industry has a future. The forest remains one of our greatest wealth, said Denis Trottier, recalling that the Parti Québécois had filed a bill to promote the use of wood that was rejected from the reverse of the hand by the Government of John Charest. When we are in power, we will make it adopt. 
The stimulus plan for the forest industry proposed by the Parti Québécois contains the following actions: 
The adoption of a real wood charter that will promote the use of 2nd and 3rd transformation wood materials;
The creation of a forest action capital plan to encourage the financial participation of workers and Quebeckers in general for the revival of forestry companies;
A program for the development and support of the knowledge of forest, forest culture, training and trades related to the forest and the forest industry;
Support for the use of wood as a second-generation biofuel;
The launch of a vast sylvicultural project to double the value and forest production in 25 years;
Support and modernization programs for the forest industry according to their ecological character.
"The Liberal government has literally abandoned forest workers since 2005 and the Liberal candidate in Bonaventure promises continuity!, Exclaimed Sylvain Roy. At the Parti Québécois, we promise to break with continuity and truly dealing with this industry and families for whom the forest is livelihood. 
Sylvain Roy has already been a forest worker and knows this reality very well. "The people of Bonaventure must mean the government that they no longer accept liberal indifference to the forest crisis. On December 5, voters here will have the opportunity to launch a clear message to Jean Charest's government by electing a member of the Parti Québécois ". 
