Québec- At the moment the Liberal Government launches its 2015-2020 Transport Electrification Action Plan, the member for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the member for Vachon and spokesman of the Quebec's transport in transport and electrification of transport, Martine Ouellet, deplore the lack of ambition of the Liberal Party, which presents a plan twice as ambitious for Quebec that the Marois government had proposed. 
"Our expectations were high, after the procrastination of nearly 18 months of the Liberal government. It has fallen by half the budget dedicated to the electrification of transport in its policy, compared to the strategy presented by the Marois government. Indeed, we injections more than half a billion dollars, or $ 516 million over 3 years, to stimulate transport electrification. It was an investment of $ 172 million a year. The Liberal government decides to invest $ 420 million over 5 years, equivalent to only $ 84 million a year. Obviously, he did not understand that the transport electrification site is a major economic development potential for Quebec and its businesses, "explained Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"The Liberal government is mirroring Quebeckers that there will be 100,000 electric vehicles on Quebec roads in 2020. We are currently nearly 7500 vehicles, and this action plan does not bring anything more than what was Already in place for electric vehicle owners. With the $ 8,000 discount, if the Liberal government really wanted to achieve its target of 100,000 vehicles, it would have to invest more than $ 750 million to achieve it, proof that this plan does not have the means of its ambitions " , added Martine Ouellet. 
In addition, the Liberal action plan is muddy on the adoption of a zero emission bill. The Prime Minister was unable to argue on a schedule and rendered the Zero Conditional Conditional Standard for other partners. "We will never be able to get real results under these conditions. We find that the Liberal government sets its fine goals, but it does not take the necessary means to reach them. We simply ask him to call the zero emission bill deposited by the Parti Québécois last spring, "said the leader of the official opposition. 
Finally, there is, in what is announced, no clear signal about the extension of the Blue Line of the Montreal Metro, and there are still studies and other studies on the SLR. "True to his habit, the Liberal government is doing beautiful marketing. It leaves the idea of long-term impact, without attaching real investments to obtain them. Quebec can and must be more ambitious because the electrification of transport is a carrier axis for its future, "concluded Martine Ouellet. 
