Quebec- The member for Sanguinet, Mr. Alain Therrien, is pleased to underline, on behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that considerable investments were granted At the various organizations of the Roussillon MRC. 
In the context of the mitigation measures of road congestion, certain provisions announced in 2011 are renewed in 2013, including: 
The costs of snow removal of the Saint-Constant incentive parking, of $ 1800, will also be subsidized in 2013. In addition, the expansion work of Châteauguay's incentive parking will be in their second phase in 2013. 
Also in the context of the mitigation of road congestion, two new measures will appear in the territory of the Roussillon MRC, including the addition of 160 places to the Prairie incentive parking, for an investment of $ 220,000, As well as the addition of a bus folding service to Candiac station, a fee of $ 55,000. 
"Our Government encourages and supports the development of collective transport, which optimizes the use of the road network while increasing the fluidity of displacements, the decrease in the level of congestion and the reduction of pollution attributable to the consumption of hydrocarbons. "Said the Deputy Therrien. 
As part of the Government Assistance Program for Persons Public Transit (PAGTCP), Operating Grant, $ 3,760,740, which are still injected this year into the organizations of the MRC Roussillon territory, including: 
The Grant Grant of the PAGTCP aims to support the management of public transit by municipalities outside major urban centers and improve services with respect to frequency and service as well as 'to offer greater diversity to private carriers called to act as service providers to municipalities. at 
Investments totaling $ 795,000 also appear on the Five-Year Capital Program 2013 and may be paid to the various CITs of the Roussillon MRC, in the context of the PAGTCP, a grant component for fixed assets. This part of the aid program aims to promote the maintenance, improvement and development of effective service networks. Financial assistance is paid for the realization of infrastructure projects, the acquisition of buses and rolling materials (suburban and suburban train) and various transit equipment. 
Subsidies to improve services, including the budget envelope amounting to $ 6,229,394, as part of the Government Assistance Program for Improving Transit Services, are also available. The department may then reimburse 50% of the costs associated with the increase in services, up to a maximum amount establishes according to the estimated data submitted by each of the agencies. 
Finally, more than $ 3 million is available in 2013 for CITs the Richelain, Southwest and Top-Saint-Laurent for capital projects, as part of the Company Transit Capital Assistance Program Funding for Local Infrastructure of Quebec (SOFIL). As part of this program, organizations have a closed and distributed budget envelope according to their traffic. SOFIL's sources of financing come, on the one hand, the transfer of a portion of the federal excise tax on gasoline and, on the other hand, a participation of the Government of Quebec equivalent to the contribution required from the municipal environment. 
"By participating in the financing of collective transport, we invest in sustainable development and the mobility of people, an at the same time social, environmental and economic challenge that is at the heart of our government's mission," said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
