Saint-Anicet- The member for Beauharnois and Vice-President of the Committee on Economy and Labor, Mr. Guy Leclair, is proud to announce on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, regions and occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the municipality of Saint-Anicet will benefit from government assistance for the construction of a new municipal garage. This assistance is granted under the new subpaid 5.1 of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructures Program (PIQM), which is devoted to municipal and community-based infrastructure projects. 
"I am very pleased to announce today the government's participation in the implementation of this important municipal infrastructure project in the Montérégie region. The construction of a new municipal garage in Saint-Anicet will allow the municipality to ensure the health and safety of its employees as well as the adequate maintenance of road services, and this, in the best interest of the community, " declared the deputy guy leclair. 
"The selection of RECIM projects perfectly reflects the will of my government to put integrity at the heart of its decisions. The chosen projects comply with the standards in force and take into account the objectives of occupation and vitality of the territories for the benefit of all Quebeckers and from all Quebeckers, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
A new municipal garage in Saint-Anicet  Located in the same building as the administrative offices of the City Hall, the current garage is too small to park all municipal trucks and no longer corresponds to the standards in force. In fact, it no longer satisfies the needs of the municipality because of its disuse and the small size of the places. 
The Saint-Anicet project therefore aims at the construction of a new municipal garage that will allow the municipality to acquire a safer, more functional place and in accordance with the standards in force, thus meeting the needs of employees and citizens, And this, for many years. In the long term, the new infrastructure will be intended only for trucks and will allow the municipality to recover the space left vacant in the current building for storage. The realization of this project will benefit about 2,540 people. 
The realization of this project requires a total eligible investment of $ 1,788,091 under the PIQM sub-flap 5.1. The contribution of the Government of Quebec amounts to $ 1,162,259 and that of the municipality of Saint-Anicet at $ 625,832. 
With a budget envelope of approximately $ 60 million over five years, the 5.1 PIQM sub-flap allows Quebec municipalities to carry out projects of construction, setting up, rehabilitation or refurbishment of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offering and the quality of life of citizens in addition to overcoming the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures. 
The support of the Quebec government to the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) released last April. It should be remembered that this decennial plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
