Saint-Eustache - On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the hon. Member for Deux-Montagnes, Daniel Goyer, announces $ 272,500 in the city of Saint-Eustache to restorele Manor Glopsky. This historic building now houses the House of Culture and Heritage as well as various temporary exhibitions. This announcement was made with the Mayor of Saint-Eustache, Mr. Pierre Charron. 
"Several investments have been made over the years to preserve and highlight the Glopsky mansion. The financial assistance announced today aims to continue the restoration of this heritage building that has great historical and architectural value. By maintaining the integrity of the places, we want to ensure the sustainability of its cultural vocation for the benefit of the surrounding population, "said Minister Maka Kotto. 
"The involvement of the city of Saint-Eustache in the preservation of its built heritage is exemplary. The maintenance and restoration of the Glopsky mansion at different stages are very eloquent. The Quebec government is proud to participate in the restoration of this heritage jewel that is important to people in the region, "said the member Daniel Goyer. 
"We are really happy with this major financial support from the Government of Quebec, which, through this concrete help, demonstrates its concern for the preservation of Quebec heritage. Financial assistance, combined with our efforts, will allow us to undoubtedly, which will give solidity, chandelier and pretance to this iconic building of Old Saint-Eustache, to the invaluable heritage value, "said Mayor Pierre Charron. . 
The Glopsky Domain is a large bourgeois property that has been converted into the second half of the nineteenth century. The estate is located in the heart of the village nucleus of the former seigneurie of the River-du-Chêne, in the city of Saint-Eustache. It was ranked in 1961 and this protection includes the mansion which is a witness of the end of the seigniorial regime and the vast landscaped ground which is surrounded by a stone wall.  In addition to the $ 272,500 grant granted by the Ministry of Culture and Communications from the Quebec Cultural Heritage Fund, the city of Saint-Eustache devotes $ 302,669 to the restoration work announced today. These focus more specifically on the restoration of two exterior walls of the building, including a wall of stones and woodwork, as well as that of the stone wall surrounding the domain. 
