Chandler- The hon. Member for Bonaventure, Mr. Sylvain Roy, inaugurated today on behalf of the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, the new hemodialysis satellite unit at Chandler Hospital Center , an installation of the Health Center and Social Services (CSSS) of Rock-Percé. 
"Considering the growing number of people in the region who need this service, this inauguration is of particular importance. And for good reason! It is actually the first hemodialysis service in Gaspé-Îles-de-la Madeleine, and it will ensure that patients will no longer have to leave family and friends to receive these services elsewhere, " said MP Sylvain Roy. 
In activity since November 18, the new hemodialysis unit receives and currently processes seven patients, but may eventually receive up to 24. Note that in addition to benefiting from the team's services in place, patients Unity can also rely on the specialized services team of the Rimouski Regional Hospital through telenephrology. 
"When we know that many of our fellow citizens have literally moved to receive their care in another region, with all the emotional and financial inconvenience incurred, the importance of today's inauguration. I look forward to today's announcement, which demonstrates our government's willingness to offer quality services in all regions of Quebec and allows our fellow citizens to receive care near their place of residence He concluded Mr. Roy. 
The implementation of this Rocher-Percé CSSS hemodialysis unit was able to materialize through an investment of $ 1,226,000, covering both development and equipment costs as training costs. Indeed, it should be noted that the four nurses attached to the hemodialysis unity, as well as the multidisciplinary team at the service of dialysis patients, composed of pharmacists, nutritionists, social stakeholders and technicians in biomedical engineering, were able to perfect their knowledge. CSSS of Rimouski-Neigette. This team totaled more than 1,700 hours of training to ensure the highest quality hemodialysis services to the locals. 
