Saint-Jean-de-Matha- The member for Berthier and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, André Villeneuve, is happy and relieved to hear that his name and that of his company are removed from the list produced before the Inquiry on the Granting and Management of Public Contracts in the construction industry. Recall that on September 27th, the Eric Vecchio investigator of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) had presented to the Commission a list of company names whose vehicles had been seen in front of the Club Social Cosenza, presumed pressed of the Mafia Montreal. The name of the company of Mr. Villeneuve, Floor Mirage André Villeneuve Inc., appeared on the incriminating list. 
Since then, Mr. Villeneuve has repeatedly told and vehemently had no relationship with anyone being known to the Mafia. Seeking to understand how and why the name of his company was quoted during the work of the Charbonneau Commission, he, through the lawyer representing the Quebec party, filed an application so that the Commission demonstrates the evidence Of which it had, inter alia, the year, the month, the day, the time and number of the vehicle plate of its company identified by the RCMP during the Colisean operation which took place between 2002 and 2006. 
However, it turns out that after consideration of the evidence filed, the Commission concludes on a reversal of numbers in the registration of the number of the license plate. Here is the statement made to the Commission, on this subject, on January 31, 2013, by Mr. Sonia Lebel, Prosecutor in Chief of the Commission: 
"On 27 September 2012, the investigator of the Eric Vecchio commission reported in his public testimony before the Commission of the name, among others, of the company Floor Mirage André Villeneuve Inc., whose presence of a vehicle would have been observed On a parking lot near the Social Club Censza by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police as part of the Colosseum project. 
However, after investigation by the Commission, we are now able to say that the name of this company Floor Mirage André Villeneuve inc. should not have been evidenced before the Commission, the plaque noted by the RCMP is not that of a vehicle of that company. I must explain that this error stems from a reversal in the plate numbers, which led to the identification of the company in question. 
So, of course, I will ask you for permission to withdraw from the Commission's evidence that name, the name of Floor Mirage André Villeneuve inc., As well as any reference to this company. » 
"This is an answer that comes to erase any doubt as to the suspicions given in question my integrity that had been raised by the Charbonneau Commission and which, unfortunately, have been widely disseminated, questioning, in public opinion. , my honesty as a citizen and as a politician. However, it must also be understood that the damage caused by the dissemination of this faulty information has been important, both by the perplexity and the loss of confidence in my regard that it has been able to create from citizens of my constituency, of colleagues. , relationships and knowledge, only by the stress provoked by such a situation of misunderstanding, waiting, uncertainty, punishment and questioning that we have, my family, my friends and I had to bear during the four Last months, "said Villeneuve. 
"The Charbonneau commission, by its mission and the credibility it must have in public opinion, therefore recognizes that there has been information that has proved erroneous for me and present today This declaration fully restoring my reputation. I hope that all the media who had to deal with the question, in a concern for truth, resume this statement by granting at least as much weight as when my name was falsely associated with dishonest and illicit activities, " concluded the member for Berthier. 
N. B.In the aim of directly addressing citizens and citizens of his riding, the member for Berthier, André Villeneuve, will provide interviews with local media and radio 103.5 FM. He will not give any other interview. 
