Montreal- The member for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Martin Lemay, today announces the citizens of his riding that he will not be a candidate at the next general election. This decision is the result of a reflection started for a few months already. Martin Lemay reiterates all his support and solidarity at his leader Pauline Marois, members of Parliament and members of the Parti Québécois. In the future, he intends to continue his involvement in the promotion and advancement of Quebec's independence in another way. 
From here to the election, Martin Lemay will continue to perform his position as a member as he has done for almost six years. Here is the statement he made: 
_ "There are many ways to focus on public things. Make active policy for more than twenty years was one. It's not the only one. Following a long reflection, so I announce that I will not be a candidate for the Parti Québécois at the next general election. However, I will continue to follow our political debates with interest, because, although it is thought, this area of collective action remains the privileged place to discuss ideas. I intend to continue to participate, but I will do it in a different way. I may succumb to the temptation of writing. 
I want to say that it was an honor for me to represent the citizens of Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, a unique riding in Quebec. I thank the population for the confidence she demonstrated throughout the last six years. I also thank the activists and citizen activists who, despite the many jolts, have shown exemplary loyalty. I salute my colleagues deputies who have demonstrated as much skill as attachment to Quebec. Finally, I thank Pauline Marois for the confidence she had to me. She was able to count on mine. It is rewarded that the force of character and determination are now recognized as essential qualities in politics. 
Thanks to the generosity of all these people, I have been able to participate in one of the greatest human adventures: the struggle for the independence of my people. 
Leaving active political life, I have only one regret: not to have alert the public opinion reserved for the hometown of Honoré Mercier, the biggest prime minister in our history. This regrettable situation says a lot about our inability to remember and recognize the contribution of those who have made the greatness of our people. The great peoples know and assume their history. In Quebec, it is clear to me that we are far from the account. A few years ago, the professor and sociologist Fernand Dumont posed the most important question of our time: "How would a capacity of creation surrendered to a people if he is convinced in advance that what he has previously accomplished is without value?" In the coming years, I will try to answer it. 
So I leave the active policy, I said, recalling this wise council of this fabulous political man that was mercier and who was for me a source of constant inspiration. As early as 1863, then a journalist, Mercier formed the first time what will remain the raison d'être of his political commitment: "In the name of the homeland and his interests, the resentments of the past and the jealousies of the present must disappear; you have to disappear; 'unite." This call to the unity of nationalist and independence forces resonates until today. This unit is necessary more than ever before the real risk of disappearing and, contrary to the situation of our ancestors, it is not so much English that threatens us as our own reflexes demonstrating a poorly assumed story. A few years before Mercier, our first national historian, François-Xavier Garneau, wrote that the destiny of French Canadians will be "to fight constantly". Capitulation to our historical responsibilities is not an option._ 
