Sherbrooke- The member for Sherbrooke, Mr. Serge Cardin, inaugurated today, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to the Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Ms. Véronique Hivon, new administrative vocation premises at the Youth Center of the Estrie. 
"These are more than 60 youth center employees who will benefit from this new more modern work environment and better suited to their needs. Whether they are in the field or in clinically support, rehabilitation or administrative, the teams of the Youth Center perform on a daily basis of great importance with vulnerable young people and their families. I take this opportunity to thank them for their commitment and for all the difference they do in the lives of these young people, "said Mr. Cardin. 
The repair and implementation work that has been completed concern the three pavilions of the Queen-Victoria Building of the Youth Center, which also has two other points of service where clinical and rehabilitation services are offered. The three pavilions of the Queen-Victoria Building were built between 1863 and 1963 and house the administrative sectors and the head office of the Youth Center. 
At first, the Elizabeth pavilion was completely rebuilt. The second phase, which is still in progress, focuses on the renovation of queen and central pavilions. In particular, improvements have been made to the accessibility of air conditioning places and equipment to have better control of air quality, and work to electrical and heating systems are also planned. 
"The teams of the Youth Center of Estrie have always demonstrated a lot of dynamism and motivation in the fulfillment of their mission, and I look forward to knowing that they can continue their efforts in a new environment, with the constant objective To always accompany better young people and their families, "added Mr. Cardin. 
A total sum of $ 2,110,000 is scheduled for the entire project, ie $ 1,241,000 for the first phase and $ 869,000 for the second, which will be completed by the end of 2014. 
