Québec, on September 27, 2017 - like several Quebec citizens who, this morning in the press conference, have expressed their concern, the Parti Québécois requires the pure and simple withdrawal of the hydrocarbon regulations and their complete rewrite. Moreover, the official opposition spokespersons in terms of energy and natural resources, Sylvain Rochon, and the environment and the fight against climate change, Sylvain Gaudreault, denounce the imposture of the Liberal government and CAQ. "The PLQ tries to make us believe that it takes a green turn. But, like the CAQ, its actions show that it does not care about the risks for the climate, the environment and the public health, "they declared. 
IN SHORT 
Sylvain Rohapes Information, U ided it to Water At Quebec, Grace to La Caq, oily soil to Ind Industry and Gazière. «Le Plq et la caq N'ts Would it reign at LAçon de la Gaz de la gaz de schiste du Saint-Laurent town? N aont pas saisi whose social registration et la Notreu's Nontre Repinion is meeting Écological meeting Sont meetrables? Pourquoo-ils to Vouloir fracturer le québec? "S'et hemandé. 
As for Sylvain Gaudreault, he stressed that a government of the Parti Québécois will have only one principle in mind: to defend the interests of the population. "If the PLQ and the CAQ want to accommodate oil and gas companies, the Parti Québécois, makes another choice. The population opposes hydraulic fracturing as well as any other similar chemical process in the soil. It is concerned, with reason, many risks posed by the hydrocarbon industry for drinking water, climate and public health, "he supported. 
In the eyes of the deputies, the PLQ and the CAQ are far from meeting the expectations of Quebecers. "Citizens have passed over the old Economy of the twentieth; They demand an energy revolution that would create jobs everywhere in Quebec. They wish to transform our economy, which we innovate and export Quebec's know-how ", continued the spokesperson. 
The green economy, the energy transformation and the protection of climate and the environment are part of the political luggage of the Parti Québécois. "These issues will guide our proposals for the general election of 2018," have entered Members. 
