Quebec- In the light of statistics showing the increase in the number of young people under 25 with social assistance, the hon. Member for Rimouski and the official opposition to the fight against poverty, solidarity and social economy, Harold Lebel, as well as the member for Saint John and spokesperson for employment, vocational training, literacy and youth, Dave Turcotte, ask the Liberal government to act firmly and Without waiting to stimulate job creation and economic development in all regions of Quebec. 
"The number of young social beneficiaries has increased by 14.4% over the past year. The harmful liberal effect visibly spares no one; It is now noticed among young people, who are often the first to lose their jobs when the labor market goes wrong. The important rise in the poverty rate among young people is not an isolated phenomenon. It is the direct consequence of liberal actions, which attack the most vulnerable and the poorest of our society. While the national strategy to combat poverty and social exclusion has expired in 2013, this government has no vision or concrete measures to propose in terms of social solidarity. Moreover, I fear that his future social assistance reform is just an additional attack on our youth, "said Harold Lebel. 
Liberals, Job Loss Champions 
"The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, François Blais, put the cause of these setbacks in light: the poor state of the labor market and employment. Indeed, it has lost 35,900 full-time jobs since the arrival of the liberals in power. Quebec has the worst assessment in Canada for job creation, and the government does nothing to remedy this unfortunate situation. He is waiting. This liberal inaction hurts families and young people. The government must find how to stimulate job creation. If he seeks ideas, we invite him to resume our Employment Priority Policy, "added Dave Turcotte. 
The member also points out that the Jeunesse-Employment Reform (CJE) reform ensures that thousands of young people find themselves without services and without support. "In several regions, the CJE budgets are cut by 10%. How does the government think it can prevent other young people on social assistance, while cutting important resources to support them? , "He concluded. 
