Quebec - Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois participated in the ceremony highlighting the 65th anniversary of the Quebec flag. Accompanied by the Minister of Justice and Minister responsible for the application of the Flag and Emblems Act of Quebec, Bertrand St-Arnaud, Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for The women's condition, Agnès Maltese, dignitaries and a hundred students from four secondary schools in the Quebec City region, Ms. Marois praised the Quebec identity symbol. 
It was at 15 hours at Parliament's hotel that the Premier attended the official ceremony of salvation at the flag, as tradition. In addition, she delivered a short speech in front of the high school students of the Joseph-François-Perrault School of the Cardinal-Roy School and the Jean-de-Brébeuf School. "Today, around Quebec, young and old unite to celebrate this anniversary. The story of the flower, it is a heart story; This is the story of all Quebeckers and all Quebeckers. Be proud! Learn and perpetuate the formula of salvation at the flag, because it is our most powerful distinctive symbol. It reflects our identity and it is the affirmation of our common roots. It will also be the privileged witness of your future and the future you build for Quebec, "she said. 
Everywhere in Quebec, municipalities have been invited to highlight the event. In collaboration with the National Movement of Quebeckers, school boards and primary and secondary schools have been solicited to take part in the festivities by organizing educational activities. 
On January 21, 1948, at 3 pm, the flowered flag was hoisted for the first time at the top of the Central Tower of the Hotel du Parliament, replacing the British flag, the Union Jack. That day, by decree, Quebec granted the status of official flag. The application of the Flag Act and the Quebec Emblems is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. For more information, the population is invited to consult the flag website at www.drapeau.gouv.qc.ca. 
