Saint-Stanislas-de-Champlain- Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, accompanied by the member for Champlain, Mrs. Noëlla Champagne, announced the award, as part of the Economic Diversification Fund of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie, Loans Totalizing $ 830,536 to three manufacturing companies, Either ADF Diesel Saint-Stanislas inc. ($ 650,000), Rosary Tessier and son inc. ($ 110,000) and Industrial Mechanical Service ($ 70,536) for their expansion and modernization projects. In addition, ADF Diesel has obtained a loan of $ 850,000 from Investissement Québec, intended to increase its production capacity to continue its growth. 
"The manufacturing sector is a major spearhead in our economy and we contribute to the evolution of competitive enterprises that compose it by many investments," said Élain Zakaïb. "The Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie took advantage of the creation of a diversification fund of $ 200 million in the fall last fall, for the reasons we know, and this fund begins to bear fruit. The three companies, of which I am proud to highlight the initiatives today, have thus been able to initiate the necessary turning to automation, which is at the heart of Quebec industrial policy. As part of this policy, we put in place some twenty measures for manufacturing companies from all regions to help them modernize and verdir their activities, to innovate, grow and become the Fleurons of tomorrow . » 
"We have, in Quebec and particularly in our beautiful and great region, dynamic and visionary companies that contribute to the growth of our manufacturing industry, in all sectors of activity," added Christmas Champagne. "These three companies are among those who know how to raise the challenges and who are actively involved in the diversification and growth of our regional and Quebec economy. They consolidate the industrial vocation of Mauricie while diversifying and creating structuring and quality jobs. » 
Founded in 1986, the company ADF Diesel Saint-Stanislas is a manufacturing center for machining and assembling diesel engines that employs 53 people. Its expansion project, estimated at more than $ 3 million, will create 20 new jobs. It aims to increase the automation of its production of motor blocks and injection pumps by acquiring programmable machining equipment. It also consists of creating an injection hall with advanced technologies and implanting a Quebec training center to standardize its activities. 
"Thanks to this important automation and expansion project, we will become the official diesel engine engine manufacturing center in Fournier Diesel inc. She highlighted the ADF Diesel St. Stanislas controller, Mr. Mario Desmarais. "The creation of our training center will also enable us to facilitate integration and contribute to the development of our employees as well as to increase our expertise in this dynamic sector. » 
Created in 1964, Rosary Tessier and son is a company that designs, manufactures and distributes basics of wooden beds. The company has a factory and a warehouse in Saint-Narcisse and provides employment to 15 people. Its project, which totals more than $ 500,000, consists of the acquisition of the building and equipment of the company degerco inc., Located in Saint-Narcissus. It also aims to buy a second automated noeuse with trolley. 
"The support of the Government of Quebec is a valuable help that will enable us to increase our production, by the addition of automated equipment," said Rosary President Tessier and Son, Mr. Claude Tessier. "Thanks to this project, which combines automation with our know-how, we will be able to respond to customer demands involving large volumes and get contracts, both here and in the North American markets. » 
Founded in 1998, the Industrial Mechanical Service of Trois-Rivières, which employs 13 people, specializes in the field of machining, welding and folding of metal parts. Its expansion project, estimated at $ 352,680, aims at the acquisition of specialized machining equipment, the consolidation of its presence in the current small parts machining market and the development of a new machined parts market. average scale. 
"This expansion project will be used to modernize our equipment to increase our competitiveness," supported President and CEO of Industrial Mechanical Service, Mr. Richard Dubé. "The financial assistance of the Quebec government will ensure the completion of this major project, which will enhance the work environment of our employees while increasing our expertise. We will be able to offer our customers more and more complex and specialized products. » 
The Diversification Fund has developed so far investments in 8 companies, totaling $ 40,139,687 and creating or consolidating 1179 jobs. 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicidustrielle. 
For more information on the Fund, the Table and Plan for the Economic Diversification of Center-du-Québec and Mauricie, consult the www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie. 
