Quebec- The Minister of Justice, Attorney General and MP in Chambly, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, the allocation of $ 15,000 financial assistance to the Chambly Basin Recreationary Corporation for the presentation of the 12th edition of beers and flavors, which will take place from August 30 to September 2, 2013. A hundred exhibitors. Will be present and offer artisanal beers and microbreweries, local spirits as well as Quebec foods on the occasion of the many tastings to which festival-goers are invited. 
"As a member of Parliament for Chambly, I am delighted with considerable success over the years by the Coreooristic Corporation of the Chambly Basin. In addition to the economic benefits of the 12th edition of beers and flavors, this event greatly contributes to highlighting the region's agrotourism offer and the excellence of Quebec products, "said Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud. . 
Participants will, in particular, visit the capitaus of flavors that is presented, once again, by the "Food of Quebec Foods: always the right choice! " Renowned leaders, members of the society of chefs, cooks and pastry chef of Quebec, will perform culinary demonstrations, will share their best recipes made of products from here and make the fruits of their know-how for the greatest pleasure of Visitors. The beers and flavor activity will also offer a host of entertainment to families, such as shows and games for children to the Lordship of Petits. 
"Beers and flavors follows the right of the" Food of Quebec: always the right choice! " and contributes to the implementation of the food sovereignty, in particular by putting the supply and the particularities of Quebec products at the foreground. It will allow thousands of gourmet ends to discover some of the 16,500 products certified "Foods du Québec" and "Food prepared in Quebec". I invite you to celebrate the great diversity of microbrewery beers and Quebec foods - products that testify well with the creativity and know-how of companies from home, "said the deputy first Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron. 
It should be noted that the recreational corporation of the Chambly Basin is a legally constituted non-profit organization that has its headquarters in Chambly. Best known as a party basin, the corporation is dedicated to the recreational development of the Chambly area. 
To learn more about the food sovereignty policy, the blog (www.politicsa.gouv.qc.caou websitewww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politique) of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
