Québec- The hon. Member for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, spokesman for the Parti Québécois on municipal affairs and decentralization, accompanied by the member for Rimouski, Harold Lebel, and the member for René-Lévesque, Martin Ouellet, arrested this morning The Minister of Municipal Affairs and the Occupation of the Territory, Martin Coiteous, about negotiations between Quebec and Ottawa in the infrastructure and impacts on the vitality of the regions of Quebec. 
"With that of Newfoundland, the Quebec government is the only one not to have agreed with the Federal of the Building Canada Fund. This failure of the Quebec's $ 1.7 billion is $ 1.7 billion in investment so that our municipalities can have modern infrastructure and give a boost to the economy of our regions, "said the member for Jonquière. 
"In addition, the Coiteux Minister has not only been unable to advance a date but, in addition, the Liberal ministers contradict himself on a historic position of Quebec: the sums from the federal and falling within our fields of competence shall Be transferred to block ", continued Sylvain Gaudreault. 
Indeed, as Stéphane Bergeron recalls, spokesperson for Quebec's Quebec? Canada and Deputy of Verchères, "last week, the Minister Fournier appeared to be clear in the House on the fact that the Liberal government would not retreat. On traditional demands of Quebec and that federal money was to be paid in block in Quebec so that we can define our priorities. However, it seems that the Coiteous Minister took care not to reiterate this position during the interpellation. This apparent decline of the Couillard government is disturbing for the future. " 
Regions 
"What we feared since the training of the last Council of Ministers has confirmed this morning: the new Minister of Municipal Affairs has no idea of the reality of the different regions of Quebec. When I asked it about the impacts of liberal cuts in our regions, he tried to make diversion by invoking the global economic context. I did not literally have any concrete response. It's nothing reassuring for the future of our regions, "concluded Sylvain Gaudreault. 
