Quebec- The member for Terrebonne and official opposition spokesman on sustainable development, environment and climate change, Mathieu Traversy, reacts to the announcement of the Minister of the Environment, David Heurtel, Which will mean, by 2030, reduce Quebec GHG emissions from 37.5% compared to the 1990 rates. 
"How could we believe in the government's will, whereas it has chained the Canadian energy strategy? By choosing to facilitate the opening up of the oil sands oil from Alberta, it is exactly as if it thwarted an increase in GHG emissions, "said Mathieu Traversy, adding that the Parti Québécois advocated, for his part, Removing Quebec from the Canadian Energy Strategy, and the development of a petroleum postage policy. 
"What credibility have the Liberals in the environment? Because of them, Quebec did not reach the target of the Kyoto Protocol. We were aimed at an average reduction of 6% of emissions between 2008 and 2012, but they decreased by 4.2%. The result would have been worse still if the Liberal government had gone from the front, as it was planning, with its natural gas plant projects, from Rabaska and Gros-Cacouna LNG ports, or exploitation Shale gas, "said Mathieu Traversy. 
Quebec must affirm its environmental sovereignty 
The Parti Québécois considers that Canada is a ball for Quebec in the fight against climate change; Sovereignty would allow Quebeckers to have the last word in this area, particularly with regard to the transportation of oil on its territory. "Since his arrival in power, the Liberal government abdicates its environmental power to the federal government, which has aims contrary to ours. If we want to preserve the quality of our environment, we must absolutely become masters at home in this matter. Quebec must have control over its energy, focus on energy efficiency and support renewable energies, among others. That's why we tabled Bill 390, which affirms the primacy of Quebec environmental skills, "concluded Mathieu Traversy. 
