Québec-The Quebec party accuses the Liberal government to deliberately delay the development of child care places and calls on the Minister of the Family, Yolande James, to lift the administrative pitfalls so that places of places to $ 7 are realized. 
"Minister Yolandes James says the Liberal government was in a hurry to develop places at $ 7 in 2008. How can it explain today that there are still 4100 places that are not created? His defense to the devastating report of the Auditor General to say that the government wanted to act quickly does not hold, "said the member for Iberville and sentence of the official opposition in family, Marie Bouille. 
In recent weeks, the member has met with several leaders of early childhood centers (CPE) who have complained of bureaucratic pitfalls that multiply. "The government gives the general impression that it does not want projects to be done in the short term by imposing new restrictions. What is the intention of Minister James knowingly delaying the development of these places? The spokesman is questioned. 
It gives an example a situation, in its riding, where the Ministry of the Family has forced a CPE to negotiate land with the school board. In the absence of an agreement and in disability for the municipality of Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu to offer a land, the Ministry has forced the CPE to move its project in the neighboring municipality which was able to offer a Gracious land. In the present case, the needs of the environment, according to the criteria defined by the department, is listed by the Mary Bouille. 
For her, the Liberal government will certainly not be able to fart the straps by asserting it will have created places during its mandate. "The 2008 project call has been sloppy, favoring the liberal family before Quebec families. Of the 18,000 promised places, 4100 were not realized. They then promised 15,000 new places. None of them will be created before 2013, it's black written on white in the March Bachand budget last March, "said the member. 
She recalls that Minister James already has several projects totaling 3500 places that responded favorably to the department's criteria, but that the former Minister of the Family, Michèle Courchesne, rejected the reverse of the hand for partisan interests. 
The Parti Québécois is also concerned about the process that promises to be 15,000 places. "If Minister James does not resolve to review the mechanisms in his ministry, Quebec's families will wait for years before he hopes to have a place for their child. It has the obligation to lift the administrative pitfalls or say why it seeks to put sticks in the wheels of the promoters who want to relieve parents waiting for a place, "concluded Marie Bouille. 
