Saint-Eustache - On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the member for Deux-Montagnes, Daniel Goyer, announces a grant of $ 959,000 for the restoration of the Chenier-Sauvé house. 
"The Chenier-Sauvé house is part of the ancient nucleus of Saint-Eustache, and this restoration will make it a luster. It represents a heritage interest for its architectural value, but also for its historical value since it is associated with the many politicians who inhabited it into the 1980s. It is essential to maintain these heritage properties which are benchmarks of our History and keep them for future generations, "says Maka Kotto. 
The financial contribution will carry out restoration work on the external envelope of the Chenier-Sauvé house. This wooden house is representative of the bourgeois residences constructed at the end of the 19th century, by its details of external ornamentation among others. 
"This action of protection and enhancement of heritage is added to the cultural dynamism that reigns in the city of Saint-Eustache. The perseverance and willingness of municipal elected officials ensure that today built heritage can faithfully reflect the face and memory of the past. Let us mention the Glopsky Manor, the Legaré Moulin and the Church of Saint-Eustache, which constitute eloquent examples of protected heritage buildings in the territory, "said Daniel Goyer. 
In 2001, the House and Gardens Foundation Chenier-Sauvé, a non-profit organization, acquired this heritage jewel. In 2006, the city of Saint-Eustache acquired the house and the gardens and entrusted the Foundation with organizing various activities, in addition to allowing cohabitation with various cultural and community organizations. Thanks to today's announcement, the Chenier-Sauvé house can be restored in accordance with the objectives of the Québec Cultural Heritage Fund as well as the Department of Culture and Communications Aid Program. 
The financial support of $ 959,000 from the Department comes from the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. Additional information about this property cited by the municipality in 2007 and benefiting from a status under the Cultural Heritage Act is available on the Quebec Cultural Heritage Directory (RPCQ) website, AWWW. Heritage-culturel.gouv.qc.ca. 
New cultural heritage dissemination tools are added to the RPCQ to discover all its richness and diversity, making it accessible to all. Part of the RPCQ content is now on the Open Data Portal of the Government of Quebec at www.donnes.gouv.qc.ca, as well as on the Pinterest Social Network, in the form of virtual exhibitions, AWWW .pinterest.com / RPCQ. 
Online training is also offered, at the address www.formation-patrimoine.mcc.gouv.qc.ca. Composed of video capsules and learning activities, it presents the basic notions of the Cultural Heritage Act and explains the roles and responsibilities of each to promote the knowledge, protection, development and transmission of the Cultural Heritage. 
