Quebec- The member for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, as well as the member for Verchères and Spokesperson for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, denounced the passivity of the Prime Minister, who refused to Try again to get from Stephen Harper the data from the Federal Firearms Registry for Quebec. 
"Quebeckers partially funded the Federal Firearms Registry; It is unacceptable that they pay another time to harvest data that has already been. We ask the Liberal government to put pressure, if it is not too late, on Stephen Harper. He is deplorable that the Prime Minister Couillard refused to do so today. Why does he act as well? Is it for fear of being said no? Asked Stéphane Bédard. 
"Cooperative federalism does not work; We have new evidence with this decision of the Supreme Court. The dissident judges also claimed that they could not abstract the declared intention of the federal legislature to harm the other government order. The court also says that beyond legality is a political issue; If he wishes, Ottawa can still give the data to Quebec, "he added. 
The National Assembly reaffirms the Quebec consensus 
Stéphane Bergeron welcomes the National Assembly reaffirmed the Quebec consensus denouncing the federal intent to destroy the data of the register. He asks the Liberal government to join acts, and Prime Minister Stephen Harper to retreat on his decision. 
"The attitude of Prime Minister Philippe Couillard lacks consistency; contrary to the judgment of the Supreme Court, which stipulates that it is first of all a political question, it takes refuge behind the culmination of the legal procedure not to undertake this ultimate approach to its federal counterpart, and then It rises to the National Assembly to support a motion that enjoins it to do so. What explains his waltz? Hesitation? His duty, as Prime Minister of Quebec, is however to defend high and strong our best interests, which translates into Quebec consensus; In the case of the firearms register, the National Assembly comes to reaffirm it, "concluded Stéphane Bergeron. 
The motion adopted unanimously reads as follows: 
"That the National Assembly denounces the federal government's intention to destroy the data from the firearms registry, against the will of Quebec; 
That it recalls that this register has been partially funded by taxes and taxes of Quebecers; 
She asks Prime Minister Stephen Harper to retreat on her decision and order the immediate transfer of data to the Quebec government, so that he can put in place his own registry. » 
