Montréal - The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, and the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb, confirmed the Attribution of financial support totaling more than $ 50 million to the company The ALDO Group, to support an investment project of $ 363 million. The company will transform its technological infrastructures so as to take the digital turn. The ALDO Group plans to create a minimum of 400 jobs at its Montreal headquarters over the next five years. 
"My government is proud to contribute to the growth of a Quebec jewel and world leader in the fashion industry. Our financial support for the realization of the company's project The Aldo Group will create in Quebec several hundred quality jobs by focusing on advanced technologies, in addition to helping to shine the creativity and know-how Quebec worldwide. The creation of sustainable jobs and the increase in private investment are the very foundations of our economic priority employment priority, "said Pauline Marois. 
Government assistance consists of a loan of $ 40 million, a non-refundable contribution of $ 10 million and a grant of more than $ 2 million for the deployment of a hand-D training plan 'artwork. 
"Since its inception, more than 40 years ago, the Aldo Group has been first and foremost visionary," said Nicolas Marceau. Once again, the company demonstrates it by innovating and adapting its commercial activities to the global context. To increase the competitiveness of Quebec, our government supports structure, innovative and wealth creators, such as the company today. » 
The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, and the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb, confirmed the attribution Financial support totaling more than $ 50 million to the company The ALDO Group, to support an investment project of $ 363 million. // (c) Mélanie Malenfant (source) 
