Québec- As part of the walk organized by the Single and Traveling People Aid Network (RAPSIM), held this morning, the member for Rosemont and the official opposition spokesperson for social services and for The metropolis, Jean-François listed, asks the federal government to renew the strategy of roaming partnerships (SPLI) respecting the Quebec guidelines in this area. 
"Just like RAPSIM and the community community, we consider that the federal government's intentions are in total discordance with Quebec's orientations in the fight against homelessness. In concrete terms, if the new federal plan was to be implemented, dozens of community organizations could be withdrawn their funding. It is unacceptable, we can not remain the arms crossed while attending that Ottawa decides what should be preferred to counter homelessness at home! Ottawa's refusal to respect our approach proves that there is too much government in our lives, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
The member asks Minister Lucie Charlebois to defend the interests of Quebec against the federal government and to conclude a comprehensive agreement that respects our guidelines in the fight against homelessness, and this as soon as possible. She has to quickly deposit the action plan arising from the national approach to the roaming of the Parti Québécois government. Jean-Francois Lisé also asks the minister to unblock the $ 6 million that had been planned for this purpose. 
"We must make a common front to defend the interests of Quebec on this issue, and especially the interests of the most vulnerable people in our society. In terms of roaming, there is no single recipe. The expertise developed in Quebec shows us that a diversity of approaches, elaborated according to the needs of people and the environment, is the winning solution, "said the member of the Parti Québécois. 
Remember that a motion on this subject was adopted unanimously on April 30, 2013. It reads as follows: 
"[That the National Assembly] requires the federal government that it renews the strategy of roaming partnerships under the current model, or respecting the Quebec orientations in the fight against homelessness. » 
