Québec- Following the broadcast of the issue invoice, last week, the official opposition was surprised to hear that the government finally heard reason and will act in the issue issue of access to the plans water. 
"It's still amazing to hear the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Pierre Moreau, say that he will take action. It is barely three weeks ago, its own political training as well as the CAQ rejected our proposal to follow up on the petition of more than 7000 signatories requesting better access to Quebec water bodies. Should we understand that we must now pass the bill for the government right? Asked the member for Jonquiere and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois on municipal affairs, Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The report has clearly demonstrated that government laxity has reached its limits. It was learned that non-resident citizens should pay sums up to $ 600 in order to access a water plan, if only for one day. This situation can not continue. In parliamentary committee, the member for Labelle and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in sports and recreation, Sylvain Pagé, pleaded the cause of citizens. "The water bodies are public and non-private spaces. As such, the government has a duty to ensure that access management is equitable for all Quebeckers, "he said. 
The Parti Québécois also wants Minister Pierre Moreau to solicit the federal government to simplify the heavy process that allows municipalities to regulate public nuisances on their bodies of water. Remember that the municipality of Saint-Adolphe-d'Howard has been dismissed in Supreme Court, ten years ago, because the bodies of water, even in Quebec territory, are of federal jurisdiction. Recently, an agreement has intervened between Quebec and Ottawa to enable municipalities to legislate, but many of them are discouraged before the municipal, national and federal administrative marsets. "It's obvious: the process would be much simpler and effective if Quebec held all its powers. This is another concrete reason to make Quebec a country, "concluded Sylvain Gaudreault. 
