Quebec- The responsible minister of the regions of the Capitale-Nationale and the Chaudière-Appalaches, Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltese, the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, and the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy, are proud to announce a government contribution of $ 106,500 for the 2005th International Pee-Wee Tournament in Quebec. 
This minor hockey tournament, one of the most important like in the world, will be held from February 12 to 23, at the Pepsi Coliseum. Since 1960, this winter rendezvous has aroused the craze of more than 2,000 young hockey and hockeyers, from around the world, animated by the same thirst for overrun and a foolproof team spirit. 
"The interest in our national sport is not denied and represents a privileged opportunity to see the work of young people from here and elsewhere who dream of becoming professional hockey and hockeyers. In addition to generating major economic benefits for the region, this sports and family rendezvous reinforces Quebec's reputation as an exceptional host for international sporting events, "said Minister Maltese. 
"The International Pee-Wee International Tournament in Quebec is a major competition that helps to radiate our national capital on the international scene and to make it one of the world's leading winter destinations. Hockey is certainly a sport that mobilizes the crowds and which diversifies our tourist offer by allowing visitors and visiting to live an authentic experience of Quebec's winter, "said Minister Bérubé. 
"Here's an important appointment for hockey enthusiasts! Always also popular year after year, the Quebec Pee-Wee International Hockey Tournament features young people passionate about their sport that wants to demonstrate their talent, but especially, to enjoy the pleasure of moving and playing together. Inspired by the exploits of their idols, these hockey and hockeyers will certainly be able to put full view to the spectators and spectators. I invite themselves to come and foster them! , "Rengine Malavoy Minister. 
The financial contribution is as follows: $ 50,000 from the Secretariat at the Capitale-Nationale, $ 50,000 of Tourisme Québec, as part of the Tourism Industry Development program - Financial Assistance component at festivals and tourist events, and 6 $ 500 from the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport, as part of the Sports Event Support Program. 
