Saguenay- The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announced a $ 175,000 grant at the current Bang Art Center, for the renovation of one of its dissemination places, the sequence area. 
"In all regions of Quebec, artists need places like the sequence area that support their practice and who provide them with a context for reflection, research, exchange and creation. These diffusion spaces are all the more necessary that they stimulate the meeting between the current art and our citizens eager for artistic discoveries, "said Minister Kotto. 
"Culture and the arts are for the region essential tools for economic development and contribute, by the same effect, to enrich the quality of life of a whole population. With so many talented artists in our region, our mandate was to give them the means to create a unique gathering place. I am very proud that we participated in the emergence of Bang, current art center, "said the member for Chicoutimi, President of the Treasury Board and Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean Region, Stéphane Bédard. 
This project will not only make the space sequence even more attractive and inviting, but also to increase the visibility and attendance of this production, dissemination and promotion center in current art. By the fact, the aesthetic improvement of the building will contribute significantly to the revitalization of the city center of Chicoutimi in Saguenay. 
The overall cost of the project is estimated at $ 292,200 and is allocated as follows: $ 175,000 is allocated under the Department of Culture and Communications Capital Assistance Program, $ 100,000 from the Centers' Revitalization Program. Cities of the city of Saguenay and $ 17,200 will be paid by the current Bang Art Center. 
Remember that the current Bang Art Center will be officially inaugurated tonight on October 17, 2013, on the occasion of the opening of a collective exhibition to which the Ministers Kotto and Bédard will participate. The Bang Current Art Center was born from the pooling of the two centers of Saguenéens artists, either virtual space and sequence, in order to create a single strategic pole of broadcasting and production of current art in the region. Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean. It provides areas with spaces, facilities, services and specialized resources and offers the community different activities such as exhibitions, conferences, debates, performances, publications, residences and documentation. 
