Quebec- reacting to the postponing consultations related to the Green Paper on Bioalimentary Policy, the hon. Member for Kamouraska-Témiscouata and official opposition spokesman on agriculture and food, André Simard, said absolutely discouraged Liberal attitude. "This government has no desire to develop and support agriculture in a convenient manner. By cutting in income assurances, not adequately protecting agricultural land and now refusing to discuss a real policy for the agricultural environment, it clearly demonstrates that agriculture is a secondary sector for it, "A-T -he assures. 
It is clear that the Liberal government has decided that the North Plan allowed it to put aside all other sectors. "Agriculture makes more than 60,000 Quebeckers work and when adding all sectors of processing, distribution and restoration, more than 400,000 workers are concerned. It is a major economic sector, but the government is only focusing on the prime minister's attempt to leave a political legacy with his Northern Marketing Plan, "said the member for Kamouraska-Témiscouata. 
In addition to postponing the consultations on the Green Paper, the government pushes the bill aimed at increasing fines for pet offenses. "It's been more than three years since the report of the Pets Working Group recommended increasing these fines and nothing has been done since," lamented André Simard. 
The Parti Québécois offers an enlightened vision for Quebec agriculture. "We have developed a real food sovereignty policy, we want to proclaim our farmland natural wealth and intend to reduce agricultural financial for its primary purpose, that of supporting our farmers. "The agricultural crisis is still ramping in Quebec. Thousands of farms have disappeared since 2003 and this cadence has been accelerating since 2008. It's time to have a government that truly puts on agriculture, a government that will understand and help farmers, a Partician government, "has concluded André Simard, mentioning that the CAQ has nothing to propose to revive the agricultural sector. 
