Québec- In the presence of parents of children with disabilities, the member for Rosemont and spokesman for the Parti Québécois in social services, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the member for Labelle and Tray in Family, Sylvain Pagé , met with the press this morning, shortly after submitting, in the room, a petition signed by 12,000 people demanding better support for these families. 
"Being a parent of a heavily disabled child requires a lot of resources and energy; There are care to be provided, medical follow-ups to perform, medicines to administer, stimulating to be done, not to mention sometimes frequent hospitalizations and additional expenses related to disabilities. Unfortunately, one of the two parents is forced to leave his job to meet these immense challenges and take care of his child. The government must be listening; By signing this petition, it is a cry of the heart that these thousands of women and men, "said Jean? François Lisée. 
"When you are a parent of a disabled child, we receive from the $ 2240 per year, while a host family can count on the equivalent of $ 40,000 in cash and services. It's a blatant injustice, and it is necessary to change! The Minister delegated to Rehabilitation, the Protection of Youth and Public Health, Lucie Charlebois, who says understand the problem, must quickly find solutions and provide these families with all the services they need, particularly for what is respite and adapted transportation, "added the member for Rosemont. 
"We welcome all these parents who, in addition to devoting themselves to their children with disabilities, remain mobilized to make their voices heard and get support. They can be assured of the support of the members of the Parti Québécois in their quest for accessible and quality services, such as those offered to foster families, "continued Sylvain. 
It is particularly concerned about the effects of recent compressions on children with disabilities and their families. "In education, for example, stakeholder and accompanying positions for children with disabilities have been cut off. We also saw an autistic child being expelled from a CPE. These situations are unacceptable; The government must come out of its torpor and floor on solutions, for the benefit of all, "he concluded. 
For the Parti Québécois, this issue must be treated outside any partisanship; In this respect, the members were pleased to be accompanied at their press, from the representative of Quebec Solidaire, Françoise David. 
