Québec- As the Government of Stephen Harper has announced its newstégion in international education, the Government of Quebec denounces this intrusion of Ottawa into education, an exclusive competence of Quebec. 
Education, Primary School at the University, is a scope of competence that falls exclusively from the provinces. For reasons of constitutional efficiency and order, Quebec intends to remain master of its priorities and guidance on student mobility and international relations in higher education. 
The federal strategy has two components: an amount of $ 10 million over two years spent in the international brand image and the $ 13 million over two years for mobility scholarships for Quebec students and foreigners. The strategy is also targeted to double the number of foreign students in Canada by 2022. However, Quebec already has its own programs in this area and considers it unnecessary this duplication. 
In this perspective, the Quebec government intends to withdraw from the programs arising from the strategy in addition to applying for full financial compensation. 
The Government of Quebec could use these amounts to better equity by boring including: 
"Quebec must be able to invest according to its needs and priorities in education, not according to the interests of the Government of Canada. That's why Quebec must receive this money by a transfer rather than in the form of various programs established by Ottawa, "said the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne. 
The federal government does not take into account the particular reality of Quebec. We are still in the presence of a Canadian strategy that does not take into account Quebec specificity. Attracting foreign students into a French-speaking nation involves a strategy different from that of an English-speaking nation. The application of the Doctrine Gérin-Lajoie, the Constitution and the common sense call for what Ottawa respects the competence of Quebec, "said the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Listed. Moreover, Mr. Lisée is still waiting for a return of the federal government on the possibility that Quebec receive full compensation for programs arising from the strategy. 
The Government of Quebec has its responsibilities in these subjects for a long time. Indeed, the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, for the year 2013-2014, totaling $ 17.5 million in scholarships and mobility programs for students Colleges and universities wishing to study internationally. In addition, the share of foreign students who study in Quebec increases from year to year, thanks to the 40 international agreements signed between Quebec and various countries. A growing number of these foreign students then makes the choice to immigrate to Quebec permanently, which is facilitated by the Quebec experience program, to the extent that these students have acquired a sufficient mastery of French. This program is a success, the number of students who have received a selection certificate from 606 in 2010 to 2156 in 2013. 
"The growing presence of foreign students in Montreal poses linguistic challenges. Many of them do not master French on arrival, occupy jobs in the businesses in the city center and represent an important potential in the permanent welcome that Quebec can offer them, since they know Quebec and hold a Diploma of a Quebec educational institution. Reconciling this challenge and potential, it is the responsibility of the Government of Quebec, not the Canadian government, "said the Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane de Courcy . 
For the Government of Quebec, the use by the federal government of the international dimension to interfere in an exclusive competence of Quebec is unacceptable. 
"It is in Quebec to determine its needs for the recruitment of foreign students and the mobility of Quebec students. It goes without saying that it does not belong to Ottawa to establish the parameters of the international positioning of our education network. This federal government's strategy is an additional illustration of the problems that Ottawa's interference in Quebec's exclusive skills, "said Minister of Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Governance, Mr. Alexander. Cloutier. 
To obtain full financial compensation, the Quebec government continues its representations with the federal government. Minister Duchesne has been sending a letter to the Minister Fast this morning, where he opposes the federal government's international education strategy unveiled on January 15th. 
