Sept-Îles- The Minister of Public Safety, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, accompanied by the member for Duplessis, Ms. Lorraine Richard, confirmed today that the construction project of the new seven-Îles detention institution was approved by The Council of Ministers and that calls for tenders will be launched from this autumn. 
"The construction of the new seven-Îles detention facility is a major project that has been expected for several years. It will provide a better environmental environment at this institution and will respond more to the needs and requirements of a modern detention facility, particularly in terms of security. Injecting $ 90.9 million in order to directly support seven-island economy and the region, the government will stimulate job creation, which the population of the North Shore can only benefit, "announced the Minister Bergeron. 
The new seven-Îles detention facility will accommodate 55 offenders. It will offer 28 places more than the current establishment, housed in the basement of the courthouse. This new construction will, among other things, ensure regional autonomy in terms of prison infrastructure and facilitate the supply of social reintegration programs. The first public tender will be launched in October and the start of the work is scheduled for the winter of 2014, for project delivery in the fall of 2015. 
"The approximately 150 jobs created during the construction work as well as the 50 new permanent positions that will be filled at the opening of the new seven-Îles detention facility will energize the economy of our region," added the MP Richard. 
The specific needs of the Aboriginal clientele that will be incarcerated there has also been taken into account in this project, including providing special developments for Aboriginal people. 
The contribution of the Ministry of Public Safety to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) which will eventually result in the $ 92.3 billion investments for the government, moreover more $ 1 billion for public safety institutions. This plan will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
