Montreal- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Pierre Duchesne, and the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Jean-François Lisée, is pleased to announce that $ 173.4 million is reserved by his Government for the construction project of the University of Montreal Science Complex, on The Outremont website. 
"Investing in teaching, research and innovation is investing in our future. Investing in our youth, in our students and in our researchers, is investing in this great ability we have to stand out, create and push the boundaries of knowledge, "said the Prime Minister. 
In addition to a science flag of 44,512 square meters, this project also provides for the construction of a teaching pavilion, a library as well as parking. Four science departments (chemistry, physics, biological and geography) will be grouped together in this new complex whose construction, spread over three years, generate more than 4600 jobs. The overall plan of the sector also has residential spaces, four parks and a tree-lined esplanade. 
"The Science Complex is the largest project of university infrastructure granted in higher education. Through this major investment, the government confirms its choice to support the largest French-speaking university in North America, allowing Quebec to radiate internationally through advanced infrastructure for scientific education and research ", added Minister Duchesne. 
The estimated total cost of this project is $ 350 million, half of which will come from the Government of Quebec. $ 173.4 million has also been reserved for this title in the 2013-2023 Infrastructure Québec Plan. Of this amount, $ 92.3 million is intended for teaching areas and $ 81.1 million in search areas. Note that this is the biggest amount ever invested by the government for a building dedicated to higher education and academic research. 
// © Stéphanie Tougas 
"This project that we are with rigor and enthusiasm progresses with the collaboration of several partners, the Government of Quebec in the first place. The members of our community will soon be able to benefit from classes, laboratories and living spaces adapted to the continuation of their training and their scientific research. Moreover, our scientists are among the best in their field and often among the best in the world. We want to give them space where they can continue to deploy their talent, "said the rector of the University of Montreal, Guy Breton. 
In accordance with the provisions of the governance framework of major public infrastructure projects of the Government of Quebec, which provides for a rigorous planning process to ensure optimal control of costs and timelines, the University recently filed its file. initial affairs at the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology. The construction of the Science Complex will begin in the fall of 2015. 
"Montreal is more and more recognized worldwide as a capital of knowledge and creativity. Thanks to this new pole of innovation, which will benefit from modern infrastructures, we are even more focusing on the forces that characterize our metropolis, "added the minister. 
The site of the University of Montreal Sciences Complex is at the Junction of Outremont, Park-Extension, Mile-End and the City of Mont-Royal. The site rehabilitation work, funded by the Canada-Quebec Chantier Program, began in the spring of 2012 to end in the summer of 2013. Completed within the budgets and expected delays, this work has made the site ready to Receiving buildings, parks and a residential sector. 
