Montréal- On the occasion of a conference delivered before the Chamber of Commerce of Metropolitan Montreal, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, assured this noon that The government is committed long with stable and sustainable funding in higher education and research. 
"Our government is committed to a knowledge society. To get there, our universities need stable resources that ensure their sustainability. Higher education is a powerful social and economic lever for Quebec. For this reason, we made the decision to trade universities until 2018-19, recognizing the importance of our university network, "said Minister Duchesne. 
At the higher education summit, last February, the government introduced the financial framework for universities, confirming a massive reinvestment of nearly $ 1.8 billion from 2012-2013 to 2018-2019. In concrete terms, this means that from 2013-2014 to 2014-2015, the budget will increase from $ 3.075 billion to $ 3.337 billion. This is an increase of $ 262 million. The Ministry will undertake in the coming weeks a series of meetings with the leaders of each university to establish the partnership agreement with each of them, which will determine the height of the reinvestment for their establishment. 
In subsequent years, credits will continue to grow until 2018-2019. In the long term, in 2018-2019, government subsidies to universities have increased by more than $ 800 million from $ 2.97 billion in 2012-2013 to $ 3.8 billion in 2018-19. 
On the occasion of a conference delivered before the Metropolitan Montreal Chamber of Commerce, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, assured the noon that the government long-term commitment with stable and sustainable funding in higher education and research. // (c) Joël Bouchard (source) 
On the research side, with the recent entry into force of the national research and innovation (PNRI), it is $ 3.7 billion over five years that is invested by the government. As early as January, several calls for projects will be launched to set up the different measures. 
Quebec's economic development involves, among other factors of success, by better mobilization of research, teaching and business circles. PNRA provides different initiatives that will build bridges between the various actors, in a variety of disciplines and sectors. Thus, fundamental and applied research benefits from significant support, as well as the natural sciences as well as the social and human sciences. 
By promoting the synergy between the network of higher education and the private sector, by investing more in research infrastructures, encouraging research centers, institutions and businesses to work more in partnership, the government wants to reach a level investment in research and development corresponding to 3% of its gross domestic product (GDP). 
"More than ever, higher education and research are at the heart of government priorities because they allow the end the enrichment of Quebeckers. The recent implementation of the PNRI confirms it. Knowledge is a common good. We must develop it and enrich it, and that's what our government does, "concluded Minister Duchesne. 
Through its policies and actions, the Department supports the development of higher education, research, science and technology, including the coordination and consultation of the various actors working in these areas of competence. It also encourages the increase in the level of education of Quebeckers and facilitates access to the highest forms of knowledge and culture, among others by programs related to financial assistance to studies. Finally, the ministry supports and values the progress of research, science, innovation and technology in academic, industrial and social environments, from a sustainable development perspective. 
Lapniest one of the four major strategic initiatives around which the economic priority employment of Quebec government is articulated. 
For more information on the department and the NPCP, visitwww.messt.gouv.qc.ca. 
