Malbaie - Québec Prime Minister and MP for Charlevoix-Côte-de-Beaupré, Pauline Marois, announces an investment of $ 496,000 at the Cégep de Jonquière, for the transformation of the multipurpose room from the College Center in Charlevoix ( CECC), a constituent of the Cégep de Jonquière. 
"Give priority to accessibility to higher education throughout Quebec remains essential for my government. Education is a great asset: it allows citizens and citizens to invest more in the development of their community. The College Center is therefore an important player in social and economic development for the Charlevoix region, "said the Prime Minister. 
The new multi-purpose room of the CCRC will make available to students a small show room, a cafeteria and a student cafe. This work is part of an upgrade of CECC facilities. 
"In our knowledge society, it is essential that all Quebeckers and all Quebeckers have the opportunity to go to the end of their talents and ambitions. To do this, students should benefit from training incentives and an environment conducive to studies and personal development. This new multifunctional room will directly benefit the student population and will undoubtedly become a rewarding place of gathering, meetings and rewarding exchanges, "the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology , Pierre Duchesne. 
The CCRC has opened its doors almost 20 years ago thanks to people engaged in their environment, who wanted to equip their region with a higher education institution. 
For Guylaine Proulx, Executive Director of the Cégep de Jonquière, "It is essential that young people and adults can have the choice to study in their area. Knowing the regional realities, the Cégep de Jonquière works to equip the center of college studies in Charlevoix of adequate infrastructures to offer quality training and an attractive living environment for students. Ms. Proulx takes this opportunity to announce additional financial participation of the CEGEP of Jonquière $ 200,000, which will be used to continue the upgrading of CCRC facilities. 
The CCRC welcomes approximately 250 students each year. Since opening, he has graduated more than 2000 college students. This educational institution offers high quality technical and continuous pre-university training. It also strives to propose training that meets local labor needs. 
"The multipurpose room will reinforce the sense of belonging to the CCRP and will surely interest more young people to study in the region. These transformations will testify to the will to move forward and offer 21st century facilities to a population that now lives in the era of digital information. We are proud today to say that the CCCS, in a clientele increase in recent years, has helped to enhance training and schooling in the Charlevian environment, "said CCRC's director, Gina Pinet. 
The Cégep de Jonquière receives annually from the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology an investment allowance of $ 3.4 million for maintaining all of its assets, including those CECF. 
Given the extent of the cost of the planned processing, $ 496,000 will be added to the investment allowance. It will adequately execute the work associated with the multifunctional room of the CCRP. 
At the end of the Higher Education Summit held in February 2013, five work sites were put in place, including one relating to the offer of collegial training. By June 2014, recommendations will be made on the establishment of the collegiate training offer in Quebec, the definition of regional training niches and the optimization of the continuing training offer. For more information on the sites arising from the summit, consult the www.messt.gouv.qc.ca/le-sommet/Changes-De-Travail. 
