Saint-Étienne and Beauharnois- As part of a tour of Quebec, which starts today in Montérégie, the Minister Delegate to the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, Accompanied by the member for Beauharnois, Mr. Guy Leclair, confirmed the granting of more than $ 13 million to rural RCMs in the Montérégie region for the implementation of the national rural policy. Following a commitment from the Quebec Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, to improve the rural pacts, the national rurality of rurality was renewed for a period of 10 years with an envelope of $ 470 million. Created in 2001 by the Parti Québécois, the national rural policy provides unprecedented support to rural and regions of Quebec. 
"The aid announced today will allow those who care about the development of their community to give a new impetus to the most inspiring and promising projects in their environment. Long mature, this policy is based on the capacity of rural areas to mobilize and work on an intersectoral basis: an innovative and decisive approach to occupation of territory and rurality in Quebec. This new national rural policy will allow the establishment of major projects in the regions of Quebec, "said Minister Lelièvre. 
The $ 4.5 million will be devoted by 2014-15 to the MRC of Montérégie for the financing of rural pacts and rural development agent positions in the region. The minister has also confirmed a supplementary commitment of $ 8.8 million, for up to $ 750,000 per $ 750,000 per ten years, to the realization of "Covenants more" on the rural territory of the region. Large novelties of the new policy, "Covenants Plus" are aimed at supporting the realization of major intersectoral projects and bringing the future across the MRC. The intersectoral approach will now have to characterize the management of the rural pact as well as that of the "pacts plus" since it is by rallying around a common vision and ensuring the complementarity of their actions that the actors of rural development will be optimized the fallouts on their environment. 
Pivots of the National Rural Policy, rural pacts are contracts between the Government and the RCMs to finance projects in rural territory. As for rural development agents, they are real actors of change for rural communities. Note that the Montérégie region currently has 15 rural development agents. 
"I am delighted with the important amounts announced today to support the realization of projects that will undeniably contribute to building stronger and more dynamic communities in Montérégie. Our government sends a clear signal of its willingness to support rural Quebec. The Parti Québécois demonstrates that it is the real party of the regions, "said the member Leclair. 
