Quebec- As part of the Document of Guidelines and Initiatives Solidarity: a wealth for Quebec, the Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, announced the establishment of ambitious and structuring initiatives requiring an additional investment of 320 m $ by 2017. 
These measures will act on three plans: support for single people, support for caregivers and the preparation of the future. 
Thus, measures to act with people have been announced to improve their living conditions, to facilitate their participation in the labor market, to promote their social inclusion and support families and children: 
The bonus of financial assistance to individuals alone providers of social assistance 
Single people, social assistance providers, are the poorest people in our society, particularly those benefiting from housing assistance. The constant rise in the cost of rents weakens their situation. To cover their housing expenses, their social assistance benefits will increase by $ 20 per month from February 1, 2014. The increase will continue over three years to reach $ 50 per month on January 1, 2017. This bonus will benefit closely 60,000 providers, and represents an investment of $ 71.4 million by 2017. 
The deployment of the action plan a strong Quebec of its immigration 
This action plan will act on several fronts, a better selection of candidates, more francization and support to employers and regions to facilitate integration. This action plan relates to the promotion of francization services and increase the offer of full-time courses to increase fluency in French and promote professional integration. Its total budget is $ 57 million by 2017, including $ 13 million additional francization. 
The supervision of the working conditions of domestic workers 
A bill will be developed to ensure greater protection for domestic workers and correct the inequalities they live. The bill is consistent with the highest international standards for decent working conditions for these workers. 
The supervision of temporary investment agencies 
The Government will, in the coming months, proceed to the supervision of temporary investment agencies to ensure greater protection for people working there. These measures include, in particular, to give a guarantee of the legality of the tax practices of companies, to protect employee wages and to increase the transparency of the sector. 
The launch of a societal campaign against prejudices with respect to poor and vulnerable people 
Poverty and recourse to social assistance are stigma that can brake the steps to break the cycle of poverty. In order to continue the fight against poverty, the government will launch a societal campaign to counter these prejudices. 
Enhancement of integration support in child care for children with disabilities 
Aid is already paid to child care in order to cover support for about 250 children with disabilities with significant needs. The bonus will double the number of children with disabilities accompanied, to increase the number of hours of accompaniment offered to each child and to increase the hourly rate of financial assistance. This represents an investment of $ 6 million by 2017. 
Enhancement of Halts-Community Dayscare Services 
Community day-care centers provide parents with a temporary custody service to participate in particular for francization or social or professional integration. An investment of $ 2.86 million by 2017 will allow 20 new organizations to offer these services to parents and increase the number of hours of presence by 3%. 
Support for the deployment of community educational interventions for healthy eating 
Organizations will be supported to provide different education models for healthy eating to disadvantaged families, representing an investment of $ 8 million over the next three years. 
In addition, measures to support those who help have been presented to support the action of community organizations and social economy companies while improving their conditions of practice: 
The increase in government funding to the mission of community organizations 
Community organizations are essential partners to achieve proximity solidarity. To help them, the government will increase their $ 54 million funding a year for the next three years, which is $ 162 million by 2017. This will improve support for organizations working in particular in health and social services, in education, family, employability and housing to increase services to the public. 
The launch of consultations on the government action plan for Community and voluntary action 
Consultations on the new Action Plan will take place in the fall of 2013. The one will build on citizens' commitment, will strengthen the ability to act of community organizations and ensure consistency and consistency of government interventions. 
The establishment of a program of acquisition and renovation of collective buildings 
This program will provide support to community organizations for their group acquisition or renovation projects, which will allow them to consolidate their mission and reduce their operating costs. This $ 10.2 million support by 2017 will improve their physical conditions and services offered to the population. 
Improving working conditions in community community with better access to social benefits 
The working conditions of community organizations are sometimes unattractive, which can affect the maintenance of the best resources and thus affect services to the public. To support these organizations, the Government proposes three measures: 
The government has also planned several measures to prepare for the future that will be unveiled in the coming months. 
Also check out the communiqué issued at the same time: the Government of Quebec presents its third pillar- solidarity: a wealth for Quebec 
Visit the Quebec party blog and check out the ticket from Pauline Marois: "Solidarity: a wealth for Quebec" 
For more details on the Document of Guidance and Initiatives Solidarity: a wealth for QuebecAssi than on the measures, it is possible to consult the websitewww.mess.gouv.qc.ca. 
