Quebec- Quebec's Premier, Pauline Marois, today announced that the Quebec government goes ahead with many of the proposals made by the Working Group on Cultural Philanthropy, which submitted its report on June 11 . 
"Culture is one of the pillars of Quebec and our identity. We must, as a people, do everything we can to ensure its fulfillment. The proposals of the Working Group will allow us to increase the place of sponsorship and private donations in the financing of our cultural organizations. It is not a question of replacing the public funding of culture through private financing, but to give our creators additional means with the support of citizens, "said the Prime Minister. 
Ms. Marois announced that two new tax credits are introduced. One of them will be used to encourage first donations of importance in culture with an additional tax credit by 25% for a first donation of $ 5,000 to $ 25,000. The other, a 30% tax credit for major donations of $ 250,000 or more paid over a maximum of 10 years, will aim to attract large donors. 
The Prime Minister also announced an improvement in the Patronage Investments Culture Program. 
"This program is our main tool for stimulating donations and increasing the impact of philanthropy among cultural organizations. As of October 1, 2013, patronage investments Culture will provide a short-term cash conscripaning subsidy to organizations that make fundraising to meet their immediate financial needs. In addition, the program will offer a counterparty grant for campaigns to finance tours outside Quebec, "said Pauline Marois. 
In addition, to ensure stable and predictable support for philanthropy and promote the long-term commitment of patrons to the cultural environment, the Prime Minister announced the creation, in 2014-15, the Fund Fund patronage culture. This fund will allow the sustainability of the Patronage Investments Culture program. 
"We believe that sponsorship goes through education and awareness of culture. This is why different measures are put in place to promote the visibility of art and the presence of artists in urban areas. Thus, the amount giving entitlement to tax assistance for the donation of a public artwork is increased by 25%, and 50% if this donation is intended for a teaching institution. In addition, we make 25% the amount of the gift of a landscaped building to accommodate workshops of artists or cultural organizations, "said Marois. 
Finally, the Prime Minister clarified that it would mandate the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, the Ministry of Culture and Communications and the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport to analyze all of the others proposed measures in the report of the working group. The measures selected will be put in place in the coming months. 
"I am convinced that the actions that my government poses today will have major benefits on cultural sponsorship and the participation of Quebeckers in financing our cultural organizations. Together, we can all contribute to the support of our culture, "concluded the Prime Minister. 
The 2013-6 information lebulletin, broadcast today, describes in detail the methods of application of the tax measures that will be put in place to take into account the recommendations made by the Cultural Philanthropy Working Group to stimulate donations in favor of culture. This document can be consulted on the website of the Ministry of Finance and the economy atwww.finances.gouv.qc.ca. 
