Montreal- The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Jean-François Lisée, and the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Pascal Bérubé , announce the allocation of $ 1,960,000 government financial assistance for the next edition of the completely circus Festival, which will be held from July 3rd to 14th. 
"Completely circus Montréal allows to highlight the immense talent of circus artists, whether originating in Quebec or abroad. This event encourages the diffusion of different forms of art that amalgamates the world of circus - for the greater good of our cultural metropolis that is Montreal. This bold festival can boast of participating in the diversity of the Quebec cultural offer thanks to a programming that continues to be renewed and successfully surprising, "said Minister Kotto. 
"Quebec is internationally recognized for its unique expertise in the art of circus. The talent of our artists, creators and entrepreneurs is the strength of this well-rooted industry in the metropolis and radiates beyond borders. Montreal completely circus is a reflection of this success, and the event has the merit of extending access to this entertainment to a wide audience. That contributes to the positioning of Montreal as a global choice of choice in this regard, "said the minister listed. 
"The Government of Quebec is proud to participate in the success of Montreal completely circus, an event that contributes to making Quebec a creative and animated tourist destination. This event, which has only three editions to its credit, is already recognized as a must-see appointment for all Circus arts fans, "said Minister Bérubé. 
The financial contribution of the Government of Quebec is as follows: $ 1,100,000 from the Ministry of Culture and Communications, $ 600,000 from the Secretariat to the Metropolitan Area and $ 260,000 of Tourisme Québec, or $ 130,000 for the realization Event and additional $ 130,000 for the development of an innovative and distinctive project. 
