Québec- The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, today presented the document of guidance and initiatives of solidarity: a wealth for Quebec, which integrates an innovative vision of solidarity at the heart of the whole of the whole of the Government action. Ms. Marois also announced the establishment of several structuring measures arising from this vast plan. 
For the occasion, the Prime Minister was accompanied by the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltese, the Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Diane de Courcy, the Minister Delegate to the Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Véronique Hivon, the Minister of the Family, Nicole Léger, and the Minister of Health and the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert. 
"Quebec is an avant-garde nation that has built itself in a spirit of solidarity and mutual aid, in coherence with the values that have led to the social achievements of which we are proud today. To remain a leader in social policies, the Quebec government highlights an unprecedented vision of solidarity, both human and inclusive, which implies that all the actions posed must be oriented to ensure the good. Being from Quebeckers, and to give everyone the opportunity to flourish and contribute to the development of the community. From now on, any project will have to be imbued with the government 's vision of solidarity, "the Prime Minister explained. 
Today, the Government of Quebec has announced several new concrete measures from Drugilier Solidarity. These represent additional $ 320 million investments by 2017. In total, it is $ 2.9 billion in favor of solidarity that will have been invested by the government between September 2012 and 2017. 
The Government's vision for Solidarity Leperité is supported by its desire to increase the coherence and cohesion of its action. It is articulated around a triple balance: between solidarity and prosperity, between the solidarity and responsibility of each, and between the current needs and those of future generations. From this triple equilibrium emerge three orientations that will guide the strategic planning of departments and agencies for the development of future public policies: 
Already, the government has been involved nearly $ 2.6 billion since September 2012 for strategic solidarity initiatives. This willingness to act for the benefit of people has resulted in the announcement of several flagship measures such as: 
In addition, the government has mobilized rapidly to respond to the drama that hit the Lac-Mégantic community by announcing a first $ 60 million aid envelope. This tragedy caused a sense of devastation, but also demonstrated the great solidarity of Quebeckers. 
Solidarity should be addressed from a long-term perspective, while recognizing that the complexity of social problems requires global and integrated solutions. Thus, not only the government puts in place important measures to intervene today, but it also acts to enroll its policies from a long-term perspective that takes into account the interdependence of social, economic, cultural factors and territorial. 
"By putting in place Solidarity, we aim to make Quebec a society where justice, equity, equal opportunities and inclusion translate into a human vision of solidarity. The measures announced today are a step closer to this Quebec, and our government will continue on this path to put its action from a long-term perspective. We want to prepare for the future by strengthening our support and reiterating our vision of solidarity as a wealth for Quebec, "the Prime Minister concluded. 
See also the release issued at the same time: the Government of Quebec announces additional $ 320 million for the establishment of ambitious measures in solidarity. 
Visit the Quebec party blog and check out the ticket from Pauline Marois: "Solidarity: a wealth for Quebec" 
For more details on the Document of Guidance and Initiatives for Solidarity, visit the websitewww.mess.gouv.qc.ca. 
