Montreal- The Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Jean-François Lisée, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Pascal Bérubé , are pleased to announce the allocation of financial assistance totaling $ 1,935,000 for the presentation of the 31stival dufestival just to laugh. 
From July 13th to 28th, the Montreal shows neighborhood will host the best humorists from here and elsewhere. They will make every effort to entertain the crowds that attend the many shows. This festival is one of the flagship events of the summer season and it helps to make Montreal one of the largest cultural metropolises in the world, focusing on various artistic expressions and accessible to the public on external scenes. 
"The fair festival for laughter is a cultural event that benefits from a great reputation on the world stage. All the big names of Quebec humor have occurred there, and the new artists of the profession dream of taking part. It was this festival that allowed us to discover and appreciate the humorists of other countries, which are for their fell in love with Quebec by discovering our metropolis, "said the minister listed. 
"Major event of our cultural life, this festival embodies our joy of living, as well as our legendary sense of humor. It also contributes to the influence and positioning of Montreal as one of the largest cultural cities in the world, "said Minister Kotto. 
"It is with great pleasure that the Government of Quebec associates with the festival just for laughter, an international event that helps to make our destination attractive. Humor has been making for several years an integral part of our cultural and tourist offer. We are very proud to contribute to the fame of this event that highlights our uniqueness and dynamism, "said Minister Bérubé. 
The contribution of the Government of Quebec is distributed as follows: $ 500,000 comes from the metropolitan funding and influencers, administered by the Secretariat to the Metropolitan Area, $ 270,000 of the Distribution Aid for Variety. The Cultural Business Development Corporation and $ 1,165,000 from the Festivals and Tourisme Financial Development Program and Tourisme Québec events, or $ 1,000,000 for the completion of the event and additional assistance. $ 165,000 for the development of an innovative and distinctive project. 
