Quebec- The member for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, and the hon. Member for Bonaventure and Forest Spokesperson, Sylvain Roy, denounce liberal cuts in the forest sector. The study of budget appropriations tells us that several measures arising from the national rendezvous of the Quebec Forest are already or will be canceled by the Government. 
The Ministry of Forests, Wildlife and Parks indicates that: 
"[D] years the economic context  current, several measures proposed  have been canceled and the Commission of  ongoing revision of programs,  Under the presidency of Madame Lucienne  Robillard, will examine the actions  existing or envisaged. » 
Now, the government of the Parti Québécois had accurately held National Weight of the Quebec Forest in the aim of getting along with the various players in the community about the measures that would ensure the prosperity of the Quebec forest sector. The Prime Minister even said yesterday that there were "very interesting consensus areas" and that the work would continue in that sense. 
"This is another ax of the Liberal government in the economic development of Quebec and the jobs in the forest field. The prime minister boasts the forest industry and speaks much but, obviously, it's a double speech. Indeed, on the other hand, we cut important measures for the industry and for our forest workers, "said Stéphane Bédard. As proof, the Minister of Forests, Wildlife and Parks, Laurent Lessard, confirmed that the extra money devoted to the forest comes entirely from the royalties paid by the environment for the wood harvested in public forests. No new credit is therefore allocated to the forest sector. 
"We have also received the confirmation of DUPCEF funding, which will increase from $ 15 to $ 6 million, while this program is essential for the survival of many communities where, often one of the sole employers is a forest group or a forest group. cooperative. The decline in PCEF funding will hurt the regions, including Bas-Saint-Laurent and the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine, which have been hard hit by the forest crisis, "added Sylvain Roy. 
Remember that the 9 years of reign of the Liberal Party were catastrophic for the forestry sector. The results of this liberal era is striking: 30,000 jobs lost - the Minister Lessard - 300 factory closures (permanent or temporary), as well as multiple action plans that failed one after the other . It has even come to the point where Prime Minister Jean Charest, noting his government's failure, invited forest workers to go to work in the mines. 
"The workers in the Forest Regions of Quebec call for better support. The consultation efforts we undertake with the appointment should not be abandoned. Currently, the speech and the words take over the concrete gestures, which are cruelly absent from the Liberal government, "concluded the hon. Member for Bonaventure. 
