Quebec- The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, and the Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches, Ms. Agnès Maltese, announce the granting of $ 875,000 financial assistance for the Jamboree DusNowboard Organization - Snow Surf World Cup 2014. 
"Welcoming once again the world elite snowboarding for a stage of the World Cup is a privilege for Quebec. This year, the event offers acrobatic and half-moon descent athletes an ultimate chance to qualify for the Sochi Olympics. That promises to give rise to high performance! I therefore invite the future population to admire them and enjoy the other activities proposed by the organization. It's a nice way to enjoy winter! , "Said Malavoy Minister. 
Presented in Quebec City and Stoneham from January 16th to January 19th, this big snow surf party has the male high jump (Big Air) event as well as the male and female tests of half-moon and acrobatic descent (slopestyle ) On the margins of these, regional and provincial caliber competitions, as well as various family activities, are also organized. 
"The Government intends to make Quebec one of the world's leading tourist tourist destinations by focusing on the development of a range of a variety of activities that will allow visitors and visitors to experience a global winter experience. Holding major competitions in the Capitale-Nationale, such as the 2014 Snow Surf World Cup, helps to enrich our offer and to show off our destination in winter, "Minister Bérubé reported. 
"Less than a month from the Olympic Games, what pride and what privilege to pop off our slopes the best snowboard athletes! For the first time in Quebec City, this combined presentation of the free practice tests of the International Ski Federation (FIS) and the World Snowboard Tour increases the international influence of the capital. People will be able to follow athlete performance on their screen and discover the attractions of the region, "said Minister Maltese. 
Monsiders that government financial support comes from the international sports or pan-Canadian sports event program of the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport ($ 650,000), the Tourism Industry Development Program - Festivals Financial Assistance Tourism Québec tourist events ($ 125,000) and the Economic Development Fund of the Capitale-National Region of the Secretariat at the Capitale-Nationale ($ 100,000). 
