Quebec, June 19, 2020 - The member for René-Lévesque and spokesman of the Parti Québécois in the area of economics and finance, Martin Ouellet, takes note of the portraiture of the economic and financial situation 2020-2021 today deposited by The Minister of Finance, Éric Girard. In particular, it notes that if the financial situation for the current year is very serious, Quebec has nevertheless the ability to return to a budget balance in a fairly close horizon and to put in place more energetic stimulus. 
IN SHORT 
The government's forecast that Quebec is able to return to fiscal balance within five years, is excessively conservative. "For this year, the dramatic fall of GDP and income is certainly impressive, but the government itself provides for a rapid recovery from next year. Thus, it is very likely that Quebec will return to a fiscal balance faster than the government suggests. Already, the fall of GDP - 6.5% - is less acute than some observers provided for earlier this year, while an economic contraction be announced exceeding 10%, "said Martin Ouellet. 
It also indicates that the government has in hand all the tools to ensure efficient, intense and fast economic recovery, provided, of course, that it makes the right choices. "First, we must not lose sight of the nerve of the war, it is the prevention and attenuation of the second wave. Indeed, if the possible revival of COVID-19 is well controlled, not only the health of Quebecers will benefit and the number of deaths will be minimized, but, in addition, the economic recovery will be accelerated, "supported the member. 
"Second, he continued, the government must be bolder and put in place costly economic measures to support businesses; So far, the announced measures have been rather shy and too conventional, taking mainly the form of loans. In our opinion, the solution spends more through direct help because every dollar invested to save SMEs will generate tax revenues over the next few years. I invite the CAQ to be inspired by the creative proposals that the Parti Québécois do to stimulate the economy: for example, directly help companies adapt to teleworking will accelerate the economic recovery, even in the event of the possibility of 'a second wave. Keep in mind, too, that we are in front of an opportunity to create a more nationalistic, greener, more thoughtful economic recovery, "said the member for René-Lévesque. 
Finally, the Parti Québécois believes that the government must provide tools available to the public, to better understand the financial situation of Quebec. "The credits deposited by the President of the Treasury Board are now expired; It must absolutely file new ones by the end of August, so that the population and parliamentarians have access to the precise information concerning the way the taxes paid by Quebecers are spent. In addition, the government must create a position as Parliamentary Budget Officer, a long-standing idea of ​​the Quebecois party that the CAQ supported in the opposition. This will ensure greater transparency, and will collectively allow us to better monitor the constant evolution of the Quebec financial situation - let's remember that last year, the government has, again, underestimated the surplus of a billion of dollars! On this subject, on the other hand, I filed a motion on 13 November that the National Assembly adopted unanimously, "said Martin Ouellet. 
