Saint-Cyprien- The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister Delegate to Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region, Pascal Bérubé, announced the creation of nearly 130 jobs at Groupe AMT. The project consists in particular to replace and add molding cells and machining centers to increase the production potential of the company, whose factories currently operate with maximum capacity. 
"My government redoubling efforts to ensure Quebec companies prosper and create sustainable jobs in each of our regions. We answer present to accompany them in the realization of carrier projects, as evidenced by our support for the AMT group. This support is another beautiful example of concrete gestures that we posed to achieve our growth goals for Quebec, including the creation of more than 43,000 jobs, such as this has been announced in economic priority employment, "said Pauline Marois . 
Thanks to the assignment of a loan of $ 10 million through investment Québec, the AMT group, which specializes in the production of high integrity die-cast aluminum parts, will be able to go from the Before with the realization of an investment project of $ 47.5 million. 
"The AMT Group is one of the most dynamic companies in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region," said Pascal Bérubé. Its high quality products make its fame and allow it to be distinguished in niche markets. With this expansion project, the company will benefit from future business opportunities in growing sectors. It is with great pride that we support it in the pursuit of its carrier activities for the Bas-Saint-Laurent economy. » 
The AMT Group operates the following production units: AMT Pressure Molding Inc., which includes two factories in Saint-Cyprien, Bélisle Industries Inc., located in Saint-Jean-de-Dieu, and Darona Inc., located in Saint- Jean-sur-Richelieu. The company manufactures aluminum parts mainly for automotive markets, recreational vehicles and electrical equipment, electronics as well as medical. 
To learn more about the Employment Priority Economic Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueEconomique. 
