Quebec, June 27, 2014 -The MP for Jonquière and official opposition spokesman on sustainable development and environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, and the hon. Member for Mary? Victorin and Word in Energy and Energy Natural Resources, Bernard Drainville, welcome the Government's decision to hold an office of public hearings on the environment (BAPE) for the entire route of the TransCanada pipeline in Quebec, including the development of the oil port of Cocouna. Thanks to the action of the Parti Québécois, the government begins to stand against Ottawa's unilateral energy initiatives. 
On June 13, the Liberals had refused to discuss a motion asking for a BAPE on the whole project. In front of the insistence of the Parti Québécois, the Ministers David Heurtel and Pierre Arcand finally confirmed his hold during the study of budgetary appropriations. Minister HROLETEL said that "the project be analyzed and studied thoroughly, the project is cocouna and the pipe". His colleague mentioned on his side: "No problem, I have no difficulty with that." 
"However, questions remain. I asked Minister Hurtel to take responsibility and demand from the company that his environmental impact study be completed taking into account the challenges of building the pipeline throughout the territory of Quebec. The minister remained blurred on the issue, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
Not a simple highway for Oil Oil Bernard Drainville judges that Quebec should not become a highway for oil sands oil from Western Canada, without the insurance of significant spin-offs. 
"The spin-offs mentioned so far are quite minimal. When you look at the risk of 1.1 million bituminous oil barrels every day, does Quebec find it? Minister Arcand meets a yes, with conditions. What are these conditions? Asked the hon. Member for Marie? Victorin. 
The National Energy Board's decision on the TransCanada project is expected in the fall of 2015. The Government must ensure that all the communities and stakeholders concerned in time so that Quebec can affirm its balance of power with the federal agency. 
"We hope that BAPE brings all the answers so that Quebec can make the best decision in the environmental, social and economic interest of Quebecers. We will continue to be vigilant, "concluded members. 
