Québec- In the wake of the debate surrounding the censorship at the recent Gala Les Olivier, Agnès Maltese, MP for Taschereau and spokesperson for the Partiété in secularism, calls for the withdrawal of Bill 59 on hate speech. The Parti Québécois considers that this bill would have a harmful effect on freedom of expression in our democracy. 
"Bill 59 has been given to the foreground with the saga surrounding censorship at the recent Gala Les Olivier. This is a bitter taste of the fate reserved for the public debate if it was adopted. This bill will impose a climate of even greater and harmful self-censors than the current situation, a police regime of the thought where anyone will be constantly likely to be prosecuted by self-proclaimed defenders of political rectitude " , said the hon. Member for Taschereau. 
Indeed, the bill will open the door to an extreme judicialization of public debate. Any person or body may, in all confidentiality and even if it is not covered directly by the remarks, contact the Human Rights and Youth Rights Commission (CDPDJ) by filing a complaint to trigger An investigation into the author of a speech. A complaint may even be filed before the speech is held. This complaint may aim for anyone who would allow the holding of a disturbing speech, including the owner of a showroom, as specified by the Minister Valley in Parliamentary Committee. 
"This judicialization of the debate would even even though the time for processing complaints and investigation at the CDPDJ extend over more than one year, and that the organization's financial resources do not allow it to engage resources. Additional to deal with an increase in complaints in the passage of Bill 59. It is ridiculous, "said Agnès Maltais. 
"Defamation laws and the Criminal Code are sufficient to counter hate and to mark the public discourse. According to the Parti Québécois, it is the freedom of expression itself, by allowing to argue, to discuss, to counter and to dismiss the hate speeches, which remains the solution, not the censorship and the deterrent fines. We therefore ask for the withdrawal of Bill 59, "concluded the member for Taschereau. 
