Lac-Mégantic- On the occasion of the unveiling of the reconstruction plan of the city center of Lac-Mégantic, the Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory and Minister Transportation, Sylvain Gaudreault, announce financial assistance of $ 16.2 million for the creation of a new commercial center in Lac-Mégantic. This sum is taken at the mixture of $ 60 million made available from the tragedy of July 6th. 
"From the first instants, the government is committed to supporting the municipality in the reconstruction of a city center in the image of the people who live in it: strong, warm and dynamic. Today's announcement allows you to resolutely pose the first milestones of this mobilizing project for the community, its citizens and business people. The future starts today, and rest assured that it is with determination and enthusiasm that I support this project that marks the renewal of Lac-Mégantic, "the Premier stressed. 
Concretely, the aid granted will allow the realization of a commercial axis in the extension of Papineau Street as well as the construction of a permanent bridge over the Boiler River to facilitate access to these new commercial sectors. The commercial axis will have buildings that can permanently host the majority of businesses that are always affected. The new buildings will offer a commercial area of 48,000 sq. 
"This financial assistance will respond to one of the priorities expressed by the City of Lac-Mégantic, or to act quickly to relocate municipal businesses to promote the resumption of economic activities. The survival of these businesses is paramount since they represent neuralgic centers of the city's economy, and our government is pleased to contribute to their recovery, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
In addition to the new commercial division, the plan provides for the creation of a commemorative area erected in memory of the victims on the site of the accident, including the commemorative park of July 6. 
