Quebec- The member for Terrebonne and spokesman for the Quebecois on the environment and the fight against climate change, Mathieu Traversy, as well as the member for Vachon and spokesperson for the electrification of transport, Martine Ouellet, Welcome with disappointment the admission of the Liberal government, according to which it will not reach its target of 100,000 electric vehicles in 2020. 
As a document demonstrated, tabled at the announcement of the Zero Emission Standard, the Minister of the Environment confirms that in 2020, some 83,252 electric vehicles will ride in Quebec following the adoption of The zero emission standard. "It is 17% below the objective announced by the 2015-2020 Transport Electrification Action Plan. The Liberal government therefore confirms that it does not take the necessary means to achieve its objectives, "spokespersons said. 
The member for Terrebonne also notes that the zero emission law will only be placed in place in 2018. "With this deadline so far away, we understand why the government will return its target of 100,000 electric vehicles in 2020," a-T- he indicates. 
Mathieu Traversy insists: In the absence of an immediate turn in the transport sector, the first emitter of greenhouse gases, Quebec will not be able to reach its target to reduce its emissions by 20%. Here 2020 compared to the 1990 levels. "Without a strong zero law, it is certain that the government is moving towards another failure," he said. 
Nevertheless, the Parti Québécois reiterates its support for the principle of a zero emission law, which has been the first political party Quebec to table, in April 2015, such a bill to improve the supply of electric vehicles on The Quebec market, with a perspective of reducing GHG emissions. Today, on the other hand, the spokespersons are concerned that Bill 104, in addition to having several major gaps, contains no specific commitment. 
According to Martine Ouellet, Bill 104 is missing an essential data, the minimum number of branchable vehicles. "It's a major gap! The Minister of the Environment does not make any commitment to the minimum number of branchable vehicles. The minister reserves the discretion to regulate this fundamental aspect, without public consultations. Why does he refuse to put a commitment to his bill? She asked. 
In addition, the member for Vachon is concerned about the absence of another major commitment, the level of royalties that will have to be paid by automakers if the minimum number of branded vehicles is not reached. "The seriousness of the zero emission law will in large part of its ability to establish royalties at the height of the objective. Again, the minister does not make a commitment and reserves the right to fix the height and terms of the amounts per settlement. It must be known to his intentions right now, "added the spokesman. 
