Montréal - Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs, Elizabeth Larouche, Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, Minister Delegate to Tourism, Pascal Bérubé and the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister Responsible for The Montreal Region, Jean-François Lisé, announce the award of financial assistance of $ 450,750 in support of the 23rd aboriginal development, which will take place in Montreal from July 30 to August 5, 2013. 
"The Government of Quebec is proud to partner with the Aboriginal Presence Festival, which aims to celebrate, to honor, but also to make known to the whole population of Quebec, history and Aboriginal culture in Quebec. In short, it is a privileged moment to strengthen the links between our nations, and thus to build beautiful friendships, "said Minister Larouche. 
"Once again this year, Aboriginal presence offers citizens and visitors a privileged opportunity to discover all the richness and diversity of Aboriginal culture and to be impregnated. In a warm and friendly atmosphere, the public can appreciate the works of talented artists, a real immersion in the rich creative universe of Aboriginal nations. Congratulations to Lands in views that organizes this unifying and necessary event, "said Minister Kotto. 
"The Aboriginal Presence Festival enriches the tourist offer of Montreal and all of Quebec. This unique and dynamic event contributes to the attractiveness of our destination. Both singing and music lovers and theatrical benefits, cinema, dance, gastronomy and letters will make remarkable discoveries, "said Minister Bérubé. 
"The space of a few days, the Aboriginal presence festival modifies the Montreal landscape to immerse ourselves to the heart of Aboriginal cultures thanks to the staging of their rites and customs and the practice of their languages. The metropolis proudly welcomes these activities that testify to the presence and vivacity of the first peoples, "concluded the minister listed. 
The contribution of the Government of Quebec is distributed as follows: $ 300,500 comes from the Aboriginal Affairs Secretariat, $ 55,250 from the Quebec Arts and Letters Council, $ 50,000 from the Tourism Industry Development Program - aid Film Festivals and Tourist Events of Tourisme Québec and $ 45,000 from the Fonditions of Initiative and Radiation of the Metropolis, administered by the Secretariat to the Metropolitan Region. 
