Quebec- Minister responsible for the Government Administration and President of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, and the Minister of Public Safety, Stéphane Bergeron, are pleased with two measures to support the work of employees in services. correctional. It is, on the one hand, the adoption of the No32Modifying Laloi law on the peace officer's pension plan for correctional services and, on the other hand, the settlement of the pay equity program of certain agents of the peace. 
These measures were announced in the presence of the Speaker of the Peace Officers Union in Correctional Services, Mr. Stéphane Lemaire. 
"We are proud of the adoption of a bill that ensures the sustainability of the peace officer's pension plan in correctional services, regulating a situation that had been dragging for about ten years. This bill will not only allow better capitalization of the plan, but also a new risk-sharing, "said Minister Bédard. 
The bill proposes several amendments to the Peace Agent Pension Plan Act in Correctional Services, including: 
"Employees who participate in this plan and the government have done together the responsible choice to better capitalize the plan and to partner, within the pension committee, for the decisions to be taken in the future. I salute the spirit of collaboration of all stakeholders who have contributed to this positive result for all parties, "said Minister Bergeron. 
In addition, ministers confirm the settlement of the pay equity program of certain peace officers. Employees in the predominantly female job category "Correctional Officers, Class 15" agents will be entitled to retroactive wage adjustments to November 21, 2001, plus interest. Payments will be done during the month of June 2013. 
The Government of Quebec thus concludes the last initial program of pay equity of the public and parapublic sectors dated 21 November 2001. 
This is the first time such a broad consensus on the value of the jobs of the peace officers covered by this program of pay equity, including that of health care agents, members of the order Quebec nurses working in correctional services. 
The conclusion of the program thus puts an end to the dispute which opposed the parties to the pay equity committee made up of representatives of the Government and the following unions: 
"These two measures are a recognition of the work of people who work in often difficult conditions, with respect for the ability to pay the government. They are the result of a fruitful work between the unions and the government to solve two problems that have been dragging for several years. This is a winning solution for all parties, "concluded ministers. 
