Quebec, August 17, 2017 -Assistant to the International Conferencing on the prevention of overdiagnosis, Diane Lamarre, official opposition spokesperson for health, accessibility to care and home support, asks the Liberal government. Finally, to counter overdiagnosis and overraces, as well as their harmful impacts on the health of Quebecers. 
IN SHORT 
"SuperDiagnosis is diagnosing, in a person, a disease that will never cause symptom or death, or make a gesture that adds any added value to treatment. The overracedness can result in surgery, an examination or, more often, by the use of unnecessary drugs. While 20% of hospitalizations are caused by poor drug use, it is imperative to act, "first exposed Diane Lamarre. 
The Liberal government recognizes that overdiagnosis is a problem, but refuses to commit to addressing it, on the pretext that the issue is the issue of the College of Physicians. " We do not agree. The current method of remuneration of doctors - which encourages them to work in volume and billing acts - is part of the problem. However, the duty of a government is to manage the money that taxpayers entrust to it, "continued the member. 
In addition, patients need to be better informed and the professionals, consulted, says. "Are the multiple proposed tests all necessary? We must ask the question. We live in a culture of overmedicalization that must be modified. The doctors themselves have proposed several ways of solution; I greet and thank the Medical Association of Quebec for its sustainable commitment in this regard. Unfortunately, on this issue that orders that it is handled with the professionals, the minister, faithful to himself, maintains his attitude of confrontation for three years. It therefore does not act, depriving the population of better care and savings. » 
"Minister Gaétan Barrette had promised savings with his reform of structures, but they never came. The abolition of more than 2000 executive positions since the establishment of the reform, which could cost up to $ 200 million to taxpayers, is the proof. By tackling overdiagnosis and overponcription, not only could we reinvest several hundred million to improve access to care but, in addition, the health of Quebecers would be improved. It is more than time to act, "said Diane Lamarre. 
