Montreal- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announced, on the occasion of the opening of the Transmeric Festival, the allocation of close government financial assistance. One million dollars for the 7th edition of the event, which will be held until June 8th. 
"In addition to inviting us to get to know the aesthetic and avant-garde currents, the Transferic Festival offers the creation companies of Quebec a springboard to the external markets thanks to the presence of artists, journalists and broadcasters coming from from all over the planet. Dance and theater are cultural leaders in Quebec. Their contribution to Quebec society is undeniable and valuable, "said the premier. 
"The scope of this festival allows the public to appreciate bold and unpublished works that combine dance and theater, in addition to being able to interact directly with the creators. The exceptional works presented are called to cross borders. The presence of international broadcasters and programmers makes it possible to increase their traffic potential outside Quebec, "said Minister Maka Kotto. 
"By mixing the disciplines and artistic currents, and gathering on the Montreal scene creators from here and elsewhere, this internationally renowned festival acts as a launching ramp for several Quebec companies. It allows to export and shine the creativity that characterizes the artistic talents of our home. The contribution of this festival to the development of the dance and theater sectors is considerable, "said the minister responsible for the Montreal area, Jean-François Lisée, unfortunately absent at this announcement. 
The financial assistance of the Government of Quebec comes from various programs: that of the national and international events of the Council of Arts and Letters of Quebec ($ 831,500 for the 2013 edition), that of the fund of initiative and influence Métropole, administered by the Secretariat to the Metropolitan Area ($ 120,000), and the aid to the Ministry of Culture and Communications projects ($ 42,000). 
