Québec- As it had committed to do so, the Government of Pauline Marois today tabled a major overhaul of the Charter of the French language to strengthen the status of the French language in Quebec. This project touches on the use of French at work, school and businesses and involves measures to ensure successful in French, immigrant people. 
"At the beginning of his term, my government is committed to adopting a new Charter of the French language. We hold our promise today by submitting a rallying bill that strengthens French, said Premier of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois. It devotes the right to live and to work in French in the Charter of Rights and Freedoms of the person, in addition to registering in his preamble that French is the official language of Quebec and that it constitutes an essential element of its cohesion. social. » 
Since the creation of the French Language Charter 35 years ago, Quebec has become profoundly transformed. "The Charter was to be modernized to reflect these changes, supported the Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane de Courcy. In a context where the presence of English intensifies in the Quebec environment, not only on the island of Montreal, but also in the suburbs and in the region, it is our duty to ensure vitality and sustainability. French. » 
The great adventure of Quebec French is strong centuries of perseverance, decades of progress and years of trampling, recalled the minister. In his speech at the National Assembly, she invited colleagues deputies not to "let the Charter of the French language 35 years still". To follow the evolution of French in Quebec, it will work on the development of vigry tools that will include reliable, objective and recognized indicators. 
"In the coming months, if my colleagues from the National Assembly support me in this sense, Quebeckers will be invited to a traveling parliamentary committee, because the language is everyone's business. I want to take action to improve the integration of immigrant people and give new impetus to the French language in Quebec. I am convinced that many progress can and must be made now to achieve our most unifying goals: making Quebec a place where all can live, succeed and flourish in French, "concluded Madame de Courcy. 
For more information on this bill: spl.gouv.qc.ca/projetDeloi 
Consult other news releases issued by the Government 
Modification of the Charter of the French language: French as a common language at work 
Modification of the Charter of the French language: enrich the teaching of French for all 
