"Opemican National Park will become the second park to be created since the current government's arrival. This clearly demonstrates our desire to highlight each region of Quebec and to support their economic and social development. This future park will allow us to protect the environment and create wealth in the region. We will make this park a unifying project and an object of pride, for the population of the region and for all Quebec, "said the Prime Minister. 
The creation of the Opemican National Park will protect and showcase a territory of approximately 250 km2, bordered to the west by Lake Témiscamingue and east by Lake Kipawa. This territory is at the meeting of the leafy forest and the boreal forest, and contains diversified habitats that house many typical wildlife and floristic species of the Témiscamian landscape. The Opemican historic site, a real natural stop on Lake Témiscamingue, will be restored and its historic buildings, including the Jodoin Auberge, one of the oldest buildings of Abitibi-Témiscamingue, will also be highlighted. 
"Quebec feeds great hopes for its tremendous, but fragile, biodiversity, and the realization of these go through protection, awareness and development mechanisms. However, the key, it is undoubtedly the development of our network of protected areas in all its forms. The people of the Témiscamingue will soon enjoy a new park of great beauty and a great relevance, and all the Quebec can boast of taking responsibility for a planet often undermined. It is in this spirit that we aim to protect at least 12% of Quebec, "said Minister Blanchet. 
"This beautiful region of lakes and rivers has everything to seduce tourists. The possible coming of 40,000 visitors per year is likely to generate economic benefits of about $ 7.5 million in the region. This means creating about thirty regular or seasonal jobs in the area and a real boost for tourism and regional economy, "said the Deputy Chapadeau. 
The report of the public consultation on the creation of the Opemican National Park is available atwww.mddefp.gouv.qc.ca/parcs/opemican. 
