Saint-Prime- On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the member for Roberval, Denis Trottier, today announced the award of $ 113,150 to the corporation of the old cheese factory Perron of Saint-Prime, for the development of the building with the Cheddar cheese museum. The Advisor, Gemma Lamontagne, representative of the Mayor of Saint-Prime and Prefect of the MRC Domaine-du-Roy, Bernard Generous, and the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, Carl Bouchard, participated in this press conference. 
"No doubt that the municipality of Saint-Prime owes its reputation, largely, to the Porron family and its cheeses. The old cheesery transformed into a museum will be fully highlighted in order to offer a place of sharing and discoveries that will appeal to both history and heritage enthusiasts as well as good cheeses at home, "said the Minister Maka Kotto. 
The corporation of the old Perron cheesery of Saint-Prime owns the old Perron cheese factory, erected in 1895. The building, classified in 1989, is one of the last examples of the many artisanal cheese factories implanted in rural areas at that time . With the financial support of the Ministry of Culture and Communications, the Corporation has been committed since 1989 in an internal and external restoration program that has allowed the installation of the current museum dedicated to the history of the cheese industry. yesterday to today. 
"This investment, in addition to consolidating the supply of cultural tourism, will have the effect of maintaining jobs in the region and to showcase a representative building of the region's industrial heritage," said the member Denis Trottier.  Renewal of permanent exhibition 
Thanks to a grant from the Ministry of Culture and Communications of $ 223,500, paid in the fall of 2012, the museum may also renew its permanent exhibition. Perron unfinished, 125 years of know-how, this project aims to present the evolution of the cheaner industry from the 1950s to today. The project also includes the development of traditional knowledge related to cheese trade. This new permanent exhibition will be offered to the public to the reopening of the museum in the summer of 2014. 
