Quebec- The responsible minister of the regions of the Capitale-Nationale and the Chaudière-Appalaches, Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, and the Minister Delegate to Tourism , Mr. Pascal Bérubé, are pleased to announce the award of $ 141,500 financial assistance to support the lamarathon of the two SSQ banks. 
Unmissable event for running fans, the Marathon of the two SSQ banks is one of the most important high-level sports competitions in the Capitale-Nationale region. The 16th edition will take place from 23 to 25 August upcoming and will offer a vast program of activities, including the famous marathon, the half marathon and 10 km oasis. 
"Sport is part of the attraction forces of our region. In recent years, Quebec has acquired its nobility in organizing sports events. The Government of Quebec is proud to partner with this appointment that allows the capital-national to reaffirm its position in this area, and thus maintain its reputation for excellence, "said Minister Maltese. 
"This event undeniably enhances the Quebec tourist offer. Sports tourism is a segment of the industry in full effervescence, on which Quebec has to structure its event offering and attract a new clientele. The marathon of the two SSQ banks embodies this vision, and the Quebec government is proud to participate in its success, "said Minister Bérubé. 
Thus, the Secretariat at the Capitale-Nationale pays $ 86,500 as part of the Capitale-National Region Economic Development Fund, while $ 55,000 comes from the tourism industry development program- aid. Financial at the festivals and tourist events, Tourisme Québec. 
The Secretariat, attached to the Ministry of the Executive Board, advises the Government and the Minister responsible for the Region, Ms. Agnès Maltese, on any question or measure having a significant impact on the region and its social, cultural, tourism development and economic development . The Secretariat acts in consultation with its various governmental and regional partners, while financially supporting the implementation of projects contributing to the growth of the Capitale-Nationale for a mobilized, innovative, festive and international region. 
Tourisme Québec promotes, in consultation and in partnership with public and private stakeholders, the rise of the tourism industry in a perspective of economic prospects and sustainable development. Through concrete actions such as the financing of festivals and events, the Government of Quebec supports initiatives that contribute to the tourism development of the Capitale-Nationale and encourage its national and international influence. 
