Terrebonne- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert, and the Minister Delegate to the Social Services and the Protection of Youth and Minister responsible for the Region of Lanaudière, Véronique Hivon, today announced that the Southern Lanaudière Health and Social Services Center will be authorized to carry out the initial business record for its project for the addition of 146 beds of Short care at Pierre-Le Gardeur Hospital. This project, the costs of which are estimated at more than $ 150 million, will be fully funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services, under the next Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI). Ms. Marois also confirmed an investment of $ 1.2 million to enable the establishment to carry out the studies necessary for the development of the initial business record. 
Several scenarios are envisaged to increase the capacity of Pierre-le Gardeur's hospital, but it is as a result of the completion of the initial business record, which is expected by the spring of 2014, that a Real estate solutions can be retained and will specify the costs and the project schedule. 
"When I was Minister of Health, I gave the green light to the construction of the Pierre-Le Gardeur Hospital. This is one of the achievements I am very proud of. This institution has become a state-of-the-art institution and it is a success in management and development. As part of the PQI, our government makes responsible choices by selecting the most promising projects for the socio-economic development of Quebec. The steady increase in the demand for services in the region makes the improvement capacity of the Pierre-Le Guector Hospital a priority choice, "said the Prime Minister. 
Many factors explain the increase in the demand for services to the institution. In particular, the Lanaudière region is experiencing the highest population growth in Quebec, and the phenomenon of aging population is also more marked than in other regions. As Minister Hébert explained, "the addition of these short-term beds will also allow the repatriation of the Lanaudoise clientele that is currently being addressed in Montreal. The region will be able to attract the necessary professionals to provide citizens from the quality care region, without they needing to cross on the island of Montreal. " 
"This investment demonstrates our confidence in Pierre-le Gardeur's hospital and his team, who play a major role here in Lanaudière. Our government is committed to supporting our health and social services institutions. We want to provide the population with major centers, such as that of regions, adequate and functional infrastructures, which guarantee high quality care and services, "concluded Minister Hivon. 
