Macamic-touring in the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the member for Abitibi-West, Minister responsible for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue Region, Minister of the Agriculture, fisheries and food and vice-prime minister, François Gendron, announced a $ 670,000 grant for the relocation of the Macamic Library and a $ 543,668 agreement agreement for the addition of A center of interpretation and administration at the school of Rang-II-d'Authier. 
"These investments in reading, assets and museology testify to the government's determination to contribute to the cultural development of all regions of Quebec. The Abitibi-Témiscamingue enjoys without a doubt a strong and diverse cultural life. Using us in the development of local cultural heritage and the improvement of access to quality sites and quality interpretation is a tangible demonstration of our desire to consolidate this cultural vitality for future generations " , said Minister Kotto. 
"I look forward to these projects that, I am satisfied, will encourage the attendance of culture and the practice of reading Abitibi-Témiscamingue. Communities where knowledge and heritage are recovered have this coefficient of pride that gives wings to women and men who participate in the development of our regions. I salute the commitment of the population and elected officials who share our vision of a creative and cultural Quebec, "said Minister Gendron. 
Ministers first announced a $ 670,000 grant to the city of Macamic for building a library. Housing for thirty-four years in the Joachim-Tremblay recreation center, the library will be relocated to the heart of the urban core, on the ever-existing foundations of a burned building. The area will triple, passing from 69.5 m2 to 249 m2. The more modern, accessible and functional premises will allow a more diverse offer and help build users and attract new ones. 
The total project cost is $ 1,042,331 and is divided between the Ministry of Culture and Communications, the City of Macamic, the Desjardins School Development Fund, the local Lions Club and the Macamic Development Corporation. 
The Ministers then reported that a $ 543,668 agreement had been concluded with the School's Heritage Committee of the Authier Range II School for the addition of the school, a center interpretation and administration. 
Protected heritage building since 1982, the School of Rang-II-d'Authiest is a recognized and sustained museum institution by the Ministry of Culture and Communications, which aims to discover the school life in the Quebec campaign of the past . 
This construction will preserve the authenticity of this classified heritage property, to offer a programming of richer and more diverse activities and significantly increase the attractiveness of the site. For example, pedagogical material as well as previously stored books and objects can finally be exposed, and all parts will be accessible to visitors, whereas certainly certain have been used only for the administration. 
