Montreal- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, and the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, sir Jean-François Lisé, today participated in the inauguration of the Public Health School of the Université de Montréal (Espum). 
"The Université de Montréal participates in the training of public health professionals and knowledge development for more than 60 years. With more than 225 professors and researchers, 630 master's and doctoral students, as well as many major partners in the field of public health, the University of Montreal's public health school in hand in hand Impose as a real pole of excellence in this area, "said Minister Pierre Duchesne. 
Created in June 2013, ESPUM offers many curricula approved by North American organizations such as the Accreditation of Healthcare Management Education (COME) and the Council on Education for Public Health (CEPH). It should also be part of the international health unit (IUS), which contributes to the development of population health in developing countries, and the University of Montreal Public Health Research Institute (IRSPUM) . 
The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, participated today at the inauguration of the University of Montreal (Espum). // (c) Joel Bouchard 
"The University of Montreal's Public Health School is not only the greatest concentration of public health researchers and experts in Canada, it is also the largest francophone center of public health in the world. It is therefore at the same time a great pride for Montrealers and for all Quebeckers to see how to create such a school here, "said the minister listed. 
"This public health school, the first in Quebec, will certainly contribute remarkably to the advancement of knowledge in a key sector of the field of health. The inauguration of today testifies to our common desire to improve the health of populations, to better manage health risks, to perfect the care system and reduce social inequalities, "said the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert. 
Minister Duchene took the opportunity to announce that the Government of Quebec grants $ 1.865 million to enable the realization of a feasibility study for the construction of a building specific to Espum. 
Once this study is completed, the Government of Quebec and the Université de Montréal plan to erect the building of 18,000 square meters on the southern section of the traveler island. This is a strategic location that will maximize interaction with the University of Montreal Hospital Center, the Public Health Department and the National Institute of Public Health. 
"In order for our researchers to continue to stand out internationally, we need to increase the sharing of knowledge to create a synergy conducive to overtaking and innovation. The construction of a building to house Espum is directly related to this vision of collaboration exhibited in the national research and innovation policy I recently disclosed. By physically bringing together researchers and students, this project promotes collaboration and excellence, "said Minister Duchesne. 
"The moment is historic for the Université de Montréal and I thank the Government of Quebec to associate with it, has concluded the rector of the University of Montreal, Dr. Guy Breton. The public health sector is booming and our researchers contribute powerfully while forming the succession of Quebec and the entire Francophonie. The creation of a dedicated faculty specifically to public health will give a new breath in this area of expertise for the benefit of all Quebeckers. » 
