Quebec- The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Marie Malavoy, the Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and the Chaudière-Appalaches, Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister Responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltais, and the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, announce the award of $ 71,000 financial assistance for the holding of the segments. 
Taking place from February 22 to March 8, 2014 on the Plains of Abraham, this unique competition is the largest multisport winter event in the world according to the International Union of Triathlon (ITU). On the program for amateurs: bike, running, cross-country skiing, skating and racket. 
"Thanks to the expertise of the organizers, the snow pentathlon is now part of one of the unmissable events in Quebec for winter sports enthusiasts. I am convinced that the craze raised by this multisport event will continue and that it will continue to encourage young and old to move and stand in shape, "said Malavoy Minister. 
To mark his 10th birthday, the Pentathlon presents a world first, Quebec ITU Triathlon winter. This 25 km elite race of racket, speed pad and cross-country skiing, will close the event on March 8th. Several world-renowned athletes confirmed their presence and try to win the victory. 
"The National Capital is pleased to be the host of the 10th Pentathlon des Snow, which presents this year a first, the winter triathlon. This competition will certainly contribute to attracting new visitors who will appreciate the Nordic charms of Quebec. I also invite athletes and spectators to enjoy their stay to discover the many assets of our beautiful region, "said Minister Maltese. 
"The Government of Quebec is pleased to support this event, which aims to strengthen the positioning of the City of Quebec as a worldwide winter destination. Quebec tends to stand out with its structured tourist offer, which offers ever more original and diversified experiences. In this sense, the snow pentathlon, which already enjoys a beautiful reputation, succeeds in renewing and contributing to the influence of Quebec internationally, "said Minister Bérubé. 
Let us mention that the financial assistance announced today comes from the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport ($ 28,000), from the Secretariat to the Capitale-Nationale ($ 25,000) and Tourisme Québec ($ 18,000) . 
