Quebec- The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, and the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, welcome the report today deposited by the working group on cultural philanthropy. 
"I would first like to thank the members of the working group for what they accomplished. Our culture is an essential element of Quebec identity that needs to be preserved and encouraged. By its proposals, the working group on cultural philanthropy contributes to the evolution of the support we offer, as society, our artists and our creators. My government has always been an indefectible ally of the cultural sector, and we intend to continue in this direction, "said the Prime Minister. 
Minister Marceau emphasized that among the tools that exist to promote donations to cultural organizations, there is advantageous taxation. "The judicious use of tax measures can cause the structuring and positive changes for the long term for Quebec culture. We already offer the most generous incentives in Canada to encourage private donations. I am pleased to see that the report contains tax proposals. » 
Minister Kotto stressed the importance of the work of the Working Group for the Future of Culture in Quebec. "The midst of culture changes, and our ways to support our artists must adapt to new realities. I am confident that the recommendations presented in the Working Group's report will help us find ways to stimulate cultural philanthropy to improve the situation of our cultural organizations and to provide long-term funding. » 
The Prime Minister clarified that the proposals of the Working Group will be analyzed in the coming weeks. "While considering the status's ability to pay, I intend to respond quickly to the work that has led to the filing of this report," she concluded. 
Remember that the implementation of the Cultural Philanthropy Working Group was announced at the 2012 Rendez-vous - Montreal, Cultural Metropolis, last November. The Prime Minister responded to this commitment in January 2013. 
The mandate of the working group was to identify the causes of the delay observed in Quebec in terms of cultural donations, to propose solutions to promote private donations and access to aid measures for cultural organizations, and suggesting tools to develop a new generation of patrons. 
The working group on cultural philanthropy consisted of: 
Reporting, for a philanthropic culture in Quebec is available on the websites of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, atwww.finances.gouv.qc.ca, and the Ministry of Culture and Communications, atwww.mcc.gouv. QC.ca. 
