Québec- As part of the Capital-Nationale Agreement (concerted action for regional development cooperation), the Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale Region, Agnès Maltais, and the Mayor of Quebec, Mr. Regis Labeaume, announce their financial support for the establishment of a research platform in the field of biological vaccine manufacturing and other treatments. The project, the costs of which are estimated at $ 670,000, benefits from $ 215,000 funding from the Capitale-Nationale and Department of Finance and Economy and $ 200,000 from the City of Quebec. Participating companies, Either Medicago and Folia Biotech will invest $ 255,000. 
This research platform, known as bioproduction21, will be based on a technology developed by Medicago and will be carried out in collaboration with the company Folia Biotech and the Research Center in Infectiology at Laval University. This technology is based on the use of plants to produce different varieties of useful proteins in the development of vaccines and other technologies or applications, such as therapeutic proteins and diagnostic solutions. It is the Economic Development Agency, Quebec International, which is mandated to manage financial assistance. 
"I am proud to say that the government of the Parti Québécois respects its commitments and invests in research and innovation in the capital. This synergy in R-D will strengthen the region's scientific and industrial leadership in international bioproduction. It is important to remember that this strategic positioning in the region in this area is the result of structuring decisions made more than ten years ago. On its own, the biomedicine market would represent more than $ 182.5 billion by 2015. In addition, this initiative will be used to attract more providers of solutions and technology applications as well as business partners for the region. , said Mrs Maltais. 
"This project illustrates the spirit of innovation, dynamism and trust that animate the entrepreneurial community of Quebec. Through our economic development strategy, launched in December 2011, we are pleased to support the bioproduction project21. We will thus promote the creation of quality jobs, the strengthening of exportable advanced expertise and the positioning of Quebec in the world elite of innovative cities, "concluded Mr. Labeaume. 
The Agreement is intended to boost the economy of the regions of Quebec. It aims to position the regions of Quebec as special industrial skills seats recognized in the world. This approach relies on regional forces as well as the mobilization and dynamism of business people in the region. 
The Niche of Excellence in Life Science will contribute to the growth of businesses and the sector by supporting the convergence and integration of technologies aimed at accelerating development and maximizing the marketing of health products and services. -to be. The key sectors of this niche are diagnosis and vaccines, cosmeceutics and telehealth. 
