Quebec- Minister responsible for democratic institutions and citizen participation, Bernard Drainville, presented today with the member for Laval-des-Rapides and Parliamentary Assistant of the Premier (Youth Component), Leo Bureau-Blouin, the Bill 13, which will allow young people to vote in their post-secondary institutions. 
This bill provides for a general election, the establishment of voting offices in post-secondary institutions to allow out-of-riding voting to students attending these institutions. Thus, students who temporarily live in a riding other than that of their homes will be able to vote at the Secondary Office of the returning officer and their vote will be recognized in their constituency. 
"What we want is to promote the increase in election participation. Greater voter turnout serves our democracy and Quebec. By submitting Bill 13, we make a gesture that will promote youth vote and encourage them to take an active part in Quebec political life, "said the minister. 
"This bill is part of the government's willingness to bring the policy of young people together. This is another action in order to restore bridges between generations, "added for his part Leo desk-bluin. 
According to studies, the electoral participation of young Quebeckers aged 18-24 increased from 64% in 1985 to 36% in 2008. A situation that the government is alarming because it serves democracy and citizen participation. "It is shown that a young person who votes a first time is more inclined to vote in subsequent elections," said Bureau-Blouin. 
"By making every effort to promote the vote of young people, we send them a very clear signal: Express yourself and make yourself heard! The elections are a privileged moment, the most important appointment of our democracy. They have a material impact on our present and our future. It is through the elections we make our collective choices, "said the minister responsible for democratic institutions and citizen participation. 
"With this bill, the government respects another of its commitments. We are continuing our work for greater democratic integrity and greater citizen participation, "he concluded by inviting all parties to collaborate in the passage of the bill. 
