Montréal - Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Jean-François Lisé, announce financial assistance of $ 202,000 AUFESTIVAL INTERNATIONAL FILM ON ART (FIFA), which will hold its 32nd edition from March 20th to March 30th in Montreal. 
"Audacity, avant-garde, discovery ... The International Film Festival on Art is an invitation to open these doors of our imaginary that we usually leave closed. The films that are presented to us destabilize, astonish us, sometimes fill us with admiration, sometimes of perplexity, always fascination before the act of creation. This is, again, proof of the cultural diversity and the opening of Quebec, "said Minister Kotto. 
"The International Film Festival on Art has conquered the world by presenting, for more than thirty years, a selection of original and strong cinematographic productions. This annual appointment, where the diversity of creative practices from the four corners of the globe is celebrated, highlights the talent of the artists by, in addition to contributing to the cultural influence of our metropolis internationally , "Said the minister listed. 
The Cultural Business Development Corporation (SODEC) grants $ 92,000 by the Promotion and Dissemination Assistance Program (component 4- aid to film festivals). This contribution add $ 50,000 from the Ministry of Culture and Communications, as well as $ 60,000 from the Fund of Initiative and Radiation of the Secretariat's metropolis to the metropolitan area. 
The SODEC reports to the Minister of Culture and Communications. It supports the production and dissemination of Quebec culture in the field of cultural industries. Since 1995, SODEC has resolutely pursued its mission to promote and support the implementation and development of cultural enterprises, including the media, in all regions of Quebec. 
Attached to the Ministry of the Executive Board, the Secretariat advises the Government of Quebec on any matter or any measure with a significant impact on the Montreal Metropolitan Region and its development. He assured the Secretariat of the Departmental Committee of the Metropolitan Region, chaired by Minister Jean-François Lisée. The Secretariat acts with its various partners in conjunctioning the consistency and convergence of all interventions, as well as the growth and dynamism of the metropolitan area. 
