Québec- The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois family, Sylvain Pagé, regrets that the Liberal government, after having denied its electoral promise by increasing CPE rates up to 174%, now being destroyed the network. Quebec educational custody services, and that the Minister of the Family, Francine Charbonneau, does not even realize it. 
"While doctors will receive $ 800 million more than expected, $ 74 million was removed from the daycares last year, and they will be deprived of another $ 120 million next year. According to network spokesperson, these cuts could rise, a total of $ 320 million. The government's message is clear: parents must pay more for less service, "said Sylvain Pagé. 
In addition, the Minister of the Family has never unveiled his intention to cut 16% the hours of educators. However, these cups will have a direct impact on the quality of services and will be able to carry out job losses or even to facility closures, a bad scenario that the minister, moreover, is unable to dismiss. "The Liberals make a simplistic accounting operation, without any regard for the quality of services. Yet quality should be at the heart of our concerns! , Continued Sylvain Pagé. 
Meanwhile, several questions remain about the factors that could explain the low cost of the "effective third party". "Is it the factor of the location? Or the parents' schedule? Or rather the social environment? Are these antique facilities almost paid? Have the land been given by happy municipalities to see a custody service to settle at home? We have no response from the minister, "said the member. 
This morning, at the National Assembly, in a mobilization ever seen, the four national associations came to denounce a single voice the cuts imposed by the Liberals to the Network of Care Services. They indicated that they did not listen to the Minister of the Family, that the discussion is one way. " It's not complicated; The associations are ready to discuss, but they want the minister to take the time to listen to them. This must guarantee equal opportunities for all the children of Quebec. It is time for the minister to realize that she is destroying this magnificent network, whose primary mission is to prepare for the future of our children, "concluded the spokesperson. 
