The Angel-Guardian- The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto announces the award of $ 47,200 financial assistance for the restoration of the house Laberge, a classified heritage building located at the guardian angel . 
"Heritage and architecture allow us to stop in time to admire the art and know-how of the past. These cultural properties are witnesses of the times that scroll and play a role of benchmarks in our history. It is essential to maintain them and keep them for future generations, "says Maka Kotto. 
The financial contribution will carry out restoration work on this protected Tricentenary building under the Cultural Heritage Act. The exterior liner, consisting of a lime mortar coating applied to the stone, as well as the windows and traditional wooden doors will be refurbished, while respecting the heritage character of the building. 
The financial support of $ 47,200 from the Ministry of Culture and Communications comes from the Quebec Cultural Heritage Fund and represents 40% of the eligible costs for carrying out the work. The Maison Laberge project responds to the goal of the Fund concerning the restoration and conservation of cultural property protected under the Cultural Heritage Act. 
The house Laberge, built in 1674, is of a heritage interest for its historical, architectural and ethnological values. This house, which has been inhabited by 12 generations of the Laberge family, evokes the first homonization homes in New France. Its location at the top of a hillside dominating the St. Lawrence River, its representative architecture of a rural French-inspired house and its dairy testifying to rural know-how today disappeared make the house Laberge a cultural property notable in Quebec. Additional Information About Laberge House is available on the Cultural Heritage Directory of Quebec (RPCQ) website, Auhttp: //www.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca 
New cultural heritage dissemination tools are added to the RPCQ to discover all its richness and diversity, making it accessible to all. Part of the RPCQ content is now on the Open Data Portal of the Government of Quebec, atwww.donne.gouv.qc.ca, as well as on the Pinterest social network, in the form of virtual exhibitions, AWWW. Pinterest.com/rpcq. 
Online training is also offered, at the address www.formation-patrimoine.mcc.gouv.qc.ca. Composed of video capsules and learning activities, it presents the basic notions of the Cultural Heritage Act and explains the roles and responsibilities of each to promote the knowledge, protection, development and transmission of the Cultural Heritage. 
