Quebec- The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Mr. Maka Kotto, and the Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale Region and the Chaudière-Appalaches Region, Ms. Agnès Maltais, took part today at the ceremony marking the heritage of the Augustine heritage of Quebec by the Cultural Heritage Trust Augustine. This ceremony took place in the presence of Augustian representatives of the Quebec City Hôtel-Dieu and other monasteries of Quebec. 
"The symbolic gesture posed today by the Augustines formalizes the transfer, towards a social utility trust that they have created, an exceptional legacy. On behalf of all Quebeckers and all Quebeckers, I want to thank this community of admirable women for this invaluable gift, for all they did for us and what they continue to do today in their various places of commitment. What is delivered to the community by the Augustine is an incomparable inheritance in the history of our heritage, "said the Prime Minister. 
"I express my gratitude to all those who work hardly to share the heritage of Augustine and who make his conservation a unique project in the world, based on the reappropriation of heritage, the democratization of culture and the transmission of knowledge . I welcome the Augustine, these women of vision, who, by offering us their inheritance in sharing, demonstrate how much they are aware of the importance of leaving the teachings to future generations, "said Minister Kotto. 
"The Augustiners pose a historic gesture, and I thank them for sharing with us the magnificent conventive set as they occupy since the time of New France. When the restoration of the Augustine monastery of the Hotel God of Quebec will be completed, the locals of the National Capital Region and visitors everywhere will discover, for their greatest happiness, spaces for commemoration, culture and sharing She stressed the Maltese minister. 
Pampa the terranerité du pèse Terniver Adminumera Adminism Reingenreria Intermia Servicel De la Communuterel of La Communuterle and that render accessible AU Public. Aussi, Les Romues Confieront leurs out to short bashives to en dealers for reservations et la valid. 
Remember that governments have financially supported the completion of this project. The total cost is estimated at $ 36 million, and the Quebec government paid $ 15 million for the establishment of this innovative complex, while the contribution of Quebec City is $ 6 million. For its part, the federal government has allocated $ 15 million for the realization of the museum component, among others. 
