Montreal- MPs of the Montreal Caucus of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, Carole Poirier, Nicole Léger and Maka Kotto, as well as the member for Rousseau, Nicolas Marceau, and the member of the Bloc Québécois de la Pointe-de-l ' Island, Mario Beaulieu, today demonstrated the harmful effects of two years of rage on the metropolis. "Since the arrival of the Liberals in 2014, the metropolis is in less economic and social health," said the President of the Montreal Caucus of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée. 
Foreign investments 
The year 2013, while the government of the Parti Québécois was in power, was a record year on foreign investment in Montreal. "Our government has provided the necessary efforts to attract investment. We had priorities and will, and this resulted in $ 1.3 billion in foreign investment in Montreal in 2013, "Nicolas Marceau, spokesman for the Parti Finance and income. "In 2014, these investments fell at $ 867 million. Liberals have no economic policy; The effects are found by these downward figures, "he added. 
Fanization aid 
"The French declines in Montreal and what does the Liberal government do? He cuts the development and recognition fund of the workforce, dedicated to aid to francization, "continued Maka Kotto. The budget of this fund has increased from $ 8.5 million in 2013-2014 to $ 4 million for 2015-2016 and 2016-2017. "How does the government hope to integrate newcomers well if it cut into their training? Obviously, it hurts their integration into employment, "said Kotto. 
Dwelling 
Cups in social and community housing on the island of Montreal are major, too. "The fact that we went from 1150 units built in 2013-2014 to 550 in 2015-2016 on the island of Montreal, while the needs do not diminish, shows the true face of the Liberal government: without heart. Why cut again in supporting the poorest? More people will not find affordable housing in the future, "said the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesman for the Quebecois Housing Party, Carole Poirier. 
Education 
"The liberal compressions have made it short of $ 209 million in the school boards on the island of Montreal," says Nicole Light, MP from Pointe-aux Trembles. The Parti Québécois calculated that if the Liberals had respected their election promise to increase education spending by 3.5% per year, there would be $ 209 million more in the five school boards in Montreal. "These are some services to students who need them who are not given," deplored the member. 
Blue metro line 
Mario Beaulieu notes on his side the failure of the Couillard to convince Justin Trudeau in the file of financing the extension of the blue line of the Montreal metro. "The extension of the blue line is the public transport priority on the island of Montreal. Obviously, the Prime Minister of Quebec failed to convince Justin Trudeau; Funding does not appear in the federal budget. The federal government is not listening to the needs of Montreal, and Philippe Couillard is unable to change anything, "he denounced. 
Liberals must act 
Jean-François Lisée finally notice that "what is increasing in Montreal is unemployment. The number of unemployed increased from 97,200 in April 2014 to 116,700 in February 2016. During the same period, the unemployment rate jumped from 9.4% to 11.0% ", a- he illustrated. 
In short, Mr. Lisée and his colleagues Carole Poirier, Maka Kotto, Nicole Léger and Nicolas Marceau, as well as Mario Beaulieu, ask the Quebec government to act for the metropolis, other than by cuts. "The compressions must stop, people have suffered enough. And we dare to hope for the prosperity of Montreal that foreign investment will have risen sharply in 2015, "concluded the member for Rosemont. 
Watch the press briefings of the members of the Caucus of Montreal. 
