Quebec- The member for the Madeleine Islands and Parliamentary Assistant of the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Fisheries component), Ms. Jeannine Richard, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François GENDRON, announces $ 133,200 financial assistance to the Quebec Semi-Hautural Fishermen Federation. 
This financial assistance is awarded under the Financial Support Program for Collective Initiatives in the Fisheries and Trade Aquaculture sector. "The program, which supports the grouping of sector players in strong and representative national associations, is a confirmation of the role of privileged stakeholders that the government recognizes. Its implementation reaches the objectives of the food sovereignty policy, which aims above all to develop a prosperous bioalimentary sector, "said Gendron. 
Thanks to this financial assistance from the department, the Federation provides the representation of its members on the national scene, in particular by defending the interests of the fishermen of Quebec with Fisheries and Oceans Canada at the sessions of the Advisory Committees. The Federation is also engaged in promoting different associative files for reducing the operating costs of fishing companies and the sustainable exploitation of the resource. 
Remember that the Federation of Semi-Hautural Fishermen in Quebec represents the vast majority of Quebec semi-haunting fishermen. It brings together the association of the owners' owners of the Gaspésie, the Association of Gaspé Cracks, the Fishermen Association of the Pabok MRC and the grouping of professional fishermen of the Îles-de-la-Madeleine. In total, nearly 125 snow crab semi-hood fishermen, northern shrimp and bottom fish are members of this association. 
"I welcome the Federation's efforts in finding common solutions on important issues of this fishery that provides considerable economic benefits in the Maritime Regions of Quebec," Richard recalled. 
The action of the Federation of Semi-Hautural Fishermen of Quebec, which contributes to the representation of the sector and the consultation between the actors of the commercial fishing industry, is part of the priorities of the 2013-- Action Plan. 2018 for the development of the fisheries and aquaculture industry. 
The Action Plan of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food concerning Quebec Trade Fisheries and Aquaculture is available atwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/pecheaquaculture. It is also possible to view the minister's video dealing with this topic at HTTP: //youtu.be/88bknic6dty. 
For further information on food sovereignty policy, we invite you to regularly consult the blog (www.politicalsa.gouv.qc.ca) and the section of the website (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa) of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food dedicated to it, or to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
