Quebec- The member for Rosemont and official opposition on social services, Jean-François Lisée, finds that the Couillard government disappointed the expectations of all those who work with the itinerants and the poor in Quebec by rejecting The modest but consensual proposals that would have improved their fate from this year. 
Rening a motion voted by the members of the Liberal Party a year ago - which called for a mobility enhancement - the Liberal budget plan cancels an increase of 54 million of the sums paid to the 4000 Quebec community organizations, the $ 600,000 planned for itinerant women, the million dedicated to itinerant Aboriginal people and the 4 million devoted to other victims of homelessness. 
"The government of the Parti Québécois had the political will to identify, on an expenditure budget of 82 billion, the approximately 80 million to reduce roaming and support the most fragile Quebeckers," said Jean-François Lisée. It is sad to see that the Couillard government does not have this political will. » 
The Liberal Budget Plan spreads the national approach to the fight against homelessness, yet unanimously welcomed in February, and ignores several years of consultation and priority setting. It only retains the construction of 500 dwellings dedicated to roaming people. Although this measure is hailed by the member for Rosemont, he noted that unfortunately, she remains insufficient, the Government having subtracted 250 homes with the target that the Parti Québécois had set. 
Community agencies work among the population in several business lines: health and social services, education, poverty fight, rights, housing and family, among others. 
"The Couillard Government Announces An" Cran of Stop "on expenses, continued the member. Unfortunately, it is a counterproductive countercut, because the small amounts saved today in prevention will result in much more considerable expenditures in managing the increase in homelessness and poverty. » 
The national homelessness policy, presented last February by the Parti Québécois government, contains several guidelines with an ambitious and sustainable vision to prevent and counter homelessness. The Leitão budget tries to blur up the maps by evoking an investment of 8 million, while these are sums already announced in the four-year liberal action plan and who does not respond to the objectives identified by all the speakers in politics. 
