Quebec- Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron, and the President of the Treasury Board and Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean Region, Stéphane Bédard, They are pleased to announce that the Quebec government will collaborate in the establishment of an agri-food research fund devoted to Nordic agriculture dedicated to Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean. $ 300,000 financial assistance will be paid for this purpose. 
"Nordic agricultural conditions have certain challenges that are specific to the territory and the concept of Nordicity represents an opportunity for differentiation of markets for businesses. To achieve this, research and innovation are essential elements to ensure the productivity and competitiveness of companies. The Marois government is pleased to contribute to this mobilization effort of this magnitude to support the development of the agri-food sector of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, "said Minister François Gendron. 
The creation of this fund is the result of a specific regionalization agreement, coordinated by the Regional Conference of the elected representative of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, the four regional county municipalities of the region, the city of Saguenay, the Union Agricultural producers and the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. 
This partnership will finance research and innovation in relation to Nordicity and agribusiness to develop the agricultural potential of the region. The Fund's Board of Directors, including municipal elected officials, producers and departmental representatives, will determine the research and innovation priorities and will call for projects, to which all research centers in Quebec. will be able to participate. 
"The mesh between researchers and entrepreneurs in Nordic agriculture will be profitable because it will go further in ingenuity, if we rely on the creative talent in Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean. The contribution of all partners aims to develop local products in the region and their influence with consumers. This unique and inspiring approach arrives and perfectly frames with the goal of food sovereignty of our government, "concluded Mr. Stéphane Bédard. 
