Quebec, on November 14, 2017- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the Finance Spokesperson, Nicolas Marceau, welcomed the Plan of Action on Tax Hospise Published last week by the Liberal government. They also announced that they arrested the members of the Public Finance Commission (CFP) to hear the Ministry of Finance (MFQ) on these key issues for the entire population of Quebec. "The MFQ refused the consensus of parliamentarians and protects Letatu quo, which is only favorable to the users of tax havens. He must come to explain to the members of the PSC and answer their questions, "said Mr. Lisée immediately. 
IN SHORT 
"The PSC has drafted an expanded report that was adopted unanimously of political formations. It contains concrete measures and strong gestures to counter tax evasion and avoidance. The government, by proposing some more minor measures, which are consensus but do not imply muscular actions, passes next to the target, "says the leader of the official opposition. 
Let's take only the example of cross-border e-commerce: the Liberal government, which wants to demand the perception of taxes at the source only for intangible property, says no to Peter Simons and most traders who have stores in Quebec. Indeed, all material goods - clothing, jewelry, electronic and computer products, for example - may be sold from abroad to Quebeckers, without sellers from taking taxes. In short, it's Letatu Quopour most traders and entrepreneurs from here. 
"In addition, not only the Government of Quebec is still recovering to Canadian customs-conditions for their inefficiency - but, in addition, it proposes to contribute financially to the improvement of federal customs, as if we did not already pay collectively For this through our federal taxes, "continued Jean-François Lisée. He recalled, at the same time, the overall solution to restore the fairness of last week by Nicolas Marceau: Require the perception of sales taxes by foreign sellers, and reduce the rate of the GST and the QST In order to obtain a neutral effect, overall, on the tax revenues of the state and the tax burden of consumers. 
The Ministry of Finance has voted against the two major changes proposed by the PSC, the imposition of a tax on diverted profits ("Google Tax") and the abolition of tax treaty with tax havens. "With regard to the tax on diverted profits, the government had to carry out a comprehensive study to analyze the effects of its implantation. In reality, he simply hypothesized that the targeted companies would only reduce their activities in Quebec by proportional to the tax increase imposed on them. However, this assessment does not comply with what happened elsewhere, particularly in Great Britain, where the establishment of a tax on diverted profits gave results beyond expectations, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
Such a tax has been introduced in Great Britain in 2015. It reported Canadian $ 470 million in 2016-2017, which is more than forecasts. The tax authorities plan that it will report Canadian $ 3 billion by 2021. Some 145 companies have been advised that they entered the diverted profit tax. 
Tax policies with certain countries must be abolished 
"Although the Quebec government says it has full legitimacy to do so, it refuses to act to abolish tax agreements with certain countries clearly identified as tax havens. Such agreements are not problematic when they are concluded with other Western countries whose tax structures are comparable to ours. However, they become unacceptable when signed with jurisdictions of complacency, whose strategy is to attract disproportionate masses of capital that they impose on derisory rates. Once again, the Ministry of Finance brands the threat of relocation and reduction of economic activities to justify its inaction. The lack of courage from the Liberals is deplorable, "concluded the member for Rousseau. 
