Québec- The responsible minister of the regions of the Capital? National and the Chaudière-Appalaches, Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, and the Minister Delegate to Tourism , Mr. Pascal Bérubé, are pleased to announce the award of financial assistance of $ 90,000 to support Lefestival of the Lights of Quebec, to be held from 21 to 31 December. 
Bearing the beginning of the winter season, the Lights Festival of Quebec offers, in the evening, a bright course joining the Place d'Youville and the Grande Alley, as well as original highlights. The Quebec government is proud to support this event that will contribute to a magical atmosphere during the holiday season. 
"I look forward to keeping this festival high in color. This is an additional attraction that will allow both to increase our attractiveness and showcase the festive nature of our region. No doubt people will marvel at the beauty and richness of our architectural heritage, "said Maltese minister. 
"The Lights Festival of Quebec contributes to positioning the capital as a unmissable winter destination. In the midst of the holidays, the streets of Quebec will shine with a thousand lights and will be animated with an incomparable magical atmosphere. We invite the entire population of Quebec and people visiting the region to become so impregnated with the magical spirit of the holiday season, in the enchanting setting of our capital, "said Minister Bérubé. 
The contribution of the Government of Quebec is distributed as follows: $ 65,000 comes from the Secretariat at the Capitale-Nationale and $ 25,000 come from the tourism industry development program - Financial Assistance at Festivals and Tourist Events, Tourism Quebec. 
The Secretariat, attached to the Ministry of the Executive Board, advises the Government and the Minister responsible for the region, Ms. Agnès Maltese, on any question or measure having a significant impact on the region and its social, cultural, tourism and economic development. The Secretariat acts in consultation with its various governmental and regional partners, while financially supporting the implementation of projects contributing to the growth of the Capitale-Nationale. 
