Quebec- The responsible minister of the regions of the Capitale-Nationale and the Chaudière-Appalaches, Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, and the Minister Delegate to Tourism , Mr. Pascal Bérubé, are pleased to announce the award of financial assistance of $ 350,000, to support the presentation of Lesgrands Loto-Québec. 
For the second edition of this renewed formula, which will take place from 3 to 21 August, the artificial masters have prepared six thematic pyromalus benefits that will with radiance each of the major events animating the region of the Capitale-Nationale during the summer season. 
Presented on Saturdays and Wednesdays, the free shows will highlight the Quebec Opera Festival, the New France SAQ festival, the Jazz Festival Etcetera Lévis, the exhibition from the stage, in collaboration with the Museum of Civilization. From Quebec City, Wendake to honor and the International Festival of Military Music of Quebec. 
"No doubt this new concept will raise the craze and will charm the people and visitors. In addition, choosing the St. Lawrence River as a launch area of these fires, both banks will be able to benefit from this festive and unifying show. I invite you to participate in large numbers of this unique pyromalus experience that will certainly put you on, "said Minister Maltese. 
"I would like to congratulate the members of the organizing committee of the great Loto-Québec fires, who have reinvented the formula of pyrotechnic shows in order to make it a more festive event, and have demonstrated the importance of working in partnership. In value the whole region and make the tourist offer even more attractive, "said Minister Bérubé. 
The contribution of the Government of Quebec is distributed as follows: $ 250,000 comes from the tourism industry development program to the festivals and tourist events, Tourisme Québec, and $ 100,000 comes from the Secretariat to the Capital -National. 
