Québec- Enjoying its presence at the "Neglected Margin" Symposium of the GLBT Québec, the Minister of Justice, Attorney General and Minister responsible for the fight against homophobia, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud , announced the granting of complementary financial assistance from $ 465,000 to 23 community organizations that defend the rights of lesbian, cheerful, bisexual, transsexual and transgender (LGBT) rights. This assistance is added to that already allocated by the Ministries of Employment and Social Solidarity and Health and Social Services. 
"This financial support demonstrates the importance that the Quebec government grants the shares of community organizations that meet the realities and needs of LGBT people. The remarkable work of these organizations, in addition to the government's interventions of Quebec, is necessary to effectively combat homophobia. Together, we contribute to building a Quebec open to the difference, a Quebec for all! "Said Minister Bertrand Saint-Arnaud. 
Consolidating support for Community action is one of the priorities of the Government of Quebec in the fight against homophobia. This additional assistance from the government will provide these organizations with greater financial stability and strengthen community intervention on the ground. 
This complementary financial assistance adds to that of $ 430,000 paid in 2012-2013 for the enhancement of assistance to the mission of organizations engaged in the fight against homophobia. 
Recall that, for a year, the government's commitment to the fight against homophobia has resulted in an increase in financial support to more than twenty rights promotion and advocacy organizations people of sexual minorities; by a national awareness campaign; and by the filing, last April, law No. 35, An Act to amend the Civil Civil Code, Successions and Advertising of Rights, which proposes to lift certain obstacles to which transgender and transgender people must do Faced within the governmental apparatus. 
In addition, on October 22, the Quebec government launched a $ 330,000 project call for supporting the action of LGBT Community groups. This financial assistance will be granted for the realization of projects to counter homophobic and transphobic violence and intimidation in all their forms. It will also support cultural activities that contribute significantly to the fight against homophobia. 
