Saguenay- While the Prime Minister participates in the World Economic Forum of Davos, Switzerland, the spokesman for the Parti Québécois in finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, and the spokesperson for economy, energy and natural resources, Alain Therrien, indicated that for 2016, in economics and finance, expectations are particularly high to the government. 
"The government has work to work. If it can not obviously catch up with almost two years of total inertia, particularly in terms of job creation, it will have to make every effort to curb the economic slowdown in Quebec. We therefore try to give him some tips, "said Nicolas Marceau immediately. 
The absolute priority of the government must be the deposit of a real economic plan, believes the member for Rousseau. "Quebeckers have waited for too long. The regions tear off, with the disappearance of certain sectoral or regional tax credits as well as the dismantling of their economic development tools, including Crees and CLDs. Several projects - FerroatLántica, IFFCO - have been abandoned, and others, like Mine Arnaud or those of our winemakers, do not receive the planned support. The government denies its commitments, can not attract investors and concludes poorly crafted agreements, as was the case with Bombardier. In short, the absence of a coherent strategy and the unpredictability of government decisions undermine confidence and create a lot of uncertainty, concern, and this is reflected in a decrease in economic activity and private investment. We need a clear plan, and quickly! "He claimed. 
Alain Therrien abounds in the same direction. "We learned yesterday that Quebec exports had declined and today that Quebec GDP contracted. In addition, the decline in oil prices should have helped the Quebec manufacturing industry. However, it is not. We continued to lose jobs at a fragrant pace. And what have the missions of Philippe Couillard internationally reported to the international? Nothing at all. Obviously, a foreign investor will not be very tempted to come to Quebec if he finds that the Prime Minister tears contracts and cancels already authorized projects, as in the case of Petrolia, "he insisted. 
The hon. Member for Sanguinet also pointed out that even the most notorious Liberals were now admitting that the economy was the Achilles heel of their party. "Nathalie Normandeau stated that the Liberal Party was no longer the party of the economy. That a former liberal minister to make such a statement is particularly significant: discontent and impatience are now widespread. We wish Philippe Couillard and its ministers will benefit from this beginning of the year to straighten the bar and start delivering the 250,000 jobs promised in the election campaign by the Prime Minister. The only plan of the Liberals is austerity. And even; This austerity is very selective! , "He concluded. 
