Montréal - Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto announces the award of $ 6 million in Montreal in Stories, for the Cité Memory project, which will allow Montrealers and visitors to discover, explore and celebrate the history of the metropolis. Multimedia projections among others will be presented on blind walls, on trees or on the ground along an outdoor course in Old Montreal. 
"The ambitious technological project cited memory, which will be deployed at the Montreal heritage site, will be an essential event of the celebrations of its 375th anniversary. The reputation and achievements of associate artists Michel Lemieux and Victor Pilon, responsible for developing this facility, are already a guarantee of the cultural, tourist and economic success of this project, "said Maka Kotto. 
The financial participation of the Ministry of Culture and Communications (MCC) will be made on its budgets in the Montreal Cultural Development Agreement. Partner of this agreement, the City of Montreal supports the Ministerial Decision, especially since it has granted a grant of $ 5 million to the same project last September, whose payment is divided over four years, until In 2016. 
Aware that the realization of this project poses many technical and technological challenges, particularly in the context of the Montreal heritage site, the MCC will accompany the promoter to ensure that the facilities will be integrated into harmony with the environment of Old Montreal. . 
The Project Cité Memory has four phases of realization. The Quebec government accompanies the Montreal organization in stories since its inception. The investment of $ 6 million announced today will achieve phases 3 and 4 affecting the production, implementation, launching and operation of the project. It also confirms the commitment made by Ms. Pauline Marois, Prime Minister of Quebec, at the 2012- Montreal meeting, Cultural Metropolis, to participate in the celebrations of the 375th Anniversary of Montreal in 2017, by focusing on the realization of the project Cité Member. . 
