Quebec- The Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches, Ms. Agnès Maltese, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Mr. Maka Kotto, and the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, are pleased to announce The award of $ 542,000 financial assistance to support the news from New France SAQ. 
Under the theme "to our heroines! This year's 350-year-old holidays will highlight the first girls from the Girls, landed in New France in 1663. Many activities surrounding these celebrations will be offered to festival-goers to make them live a rich experience. In history and culture. 
"For this 17th edition, the population is invited to learn more about these heroines, courageous and adventuring women who have played an important role in Quebec City. In addition, by contributing to the vitality and dynamism of our region, New France's festivals rank among the most important events of our capital-national year after year. I would like to thank the organizing committee that makes this big party a real success, "said Minister Maltese. 
"Once again this year, people will have the opportunity to live an unparalleled experience by visiting the flavor market, where Quebec food will give them the opportunity to make extraordinary discoveries. I therefore invite all Quebeckers and Quebeckers, as well as people from outside, to discover the extraordinary diversity of the premium foods available here in Quebec, but also the unique know-how of agricultural producers, processors Food and fishermen from home. It's an appointment not to be missed! Mentioned Minister Gendron. 
"New France SAQ festivities are part of the cultural landscape of our National Capital for more than fifteen years. They celebrate our collective identity by stressing, in passing, the French origins of the founders and founders of our nation in America, allowing the public to dive into this marking period of our common history. It is a unique event, which enriches the cultural offer of the region and the whole Quebec, "added Minister Kotto. 
"New France SAQ festivities contribute greatly to the tourist attractiveness of the region. During the five days of the festivities, the streets of Quebec are animated by several demonstrations and animations. Throughout the city, people put on their most beautiful costumes, which, every year, makes the happiness of young and old. This dynamic and unifying event makes Quebec a must-see destination, "concluded Minister Bérubé. 
The contribution of the Government of Quebec is divided as follows: The Secretariat at the Capitale-Nationale gives $ 257,000; The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food pays $ 40,000; $ 110,000 comes from the Ministry of Culture and Communications; $ 135,000 comes from the tourism industry development program - Festivals and Events, Tourisme Québec, or $ 125,000 for the completion of the event and additional $ 10,000 for the development of An innovative and distinctive project. 
