Gaspé- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the member for Gaspé, Minister Delegate to the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspé-Islands-de-la-Madeleine Region, Gaétan Lelièvre, today announced that the Center Health and Social Services (CSSS) of the Côte-de-Gaspé is authorized to continue its project for the modernization of the emergency, the operating room as well as the intensive care unit at the Hospital Hotel God of Gaspé . Just over $ 14 million has been provisioned at the Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) for the completion of this project, which will be fully funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services. 
"The Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine is a priority for our government, just as we have demonstrated this morning by unveiling the strategic plan for the region. Here is another concrete example. This project responds to shouting needs. Like all the other projects that our government has chosen to privilege and register infrastructure in the Quebec of the infrastructure, it will materialize for the benefit of people from here and the whole of the Quebec community, thus fulfilling the criteria we We are given and the commitment we have made to do exclusively responsible choices under this program, "said the Prime Minister. 
The CSSS project of the Côte-de-Gaspé consists more precisely in the modernization of an emergency unit of six consultation rooms and six stretchers, including a shock stretcher, and an intensive care unit nearby emergency. It also plans the construction of an operating room that will have two modern operating rooms, as well as an off-blocking unit. Finally, 15 stretchers will be intended for day medicine and day surgeries, and the reprocessing areas of medical devices will also be updated. 
"I am very pleased with today's announcement, both for its social and economic influence. People in the region will have access to better organized health care and health services and, as a result, more efficient and accessible. In addition, the completion of a project of this magnitude also generates significant economic benefits, which is an excellent news for Gaspésie, "said the Minister Delegate to the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspésie Region. -Is-de-la-Madeleine, Gaétan Lelièvre. 
"The project to reorganize the services of the Côte-de-Gaspé Côte-de-Maintenance Center for a few years now. I am proud that our government will allow him to move forward today. I want to congratulate the establishment for the work done so far and I wish him the best chance in the realization of this important project that will result in higher quality care and services for the people it serves " , said the Minister of Health and Social Services, Réjean Hébert, unfortunately absent at this announcement. 
The contribution of the Ministry of Health and Social Services to this project is part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan 2013-2023, released in April. It should be remembered that this decennial plan will eventually lead to investments by nearly $ 19.4 billion for the health and social services component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the associated costs and thus to make informed choices. 
