Quebec- The member for Jonquière and the official opposition spokesman on sustainable development and environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, the member for Marie-Victorin and spokesperson for energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville , and the member for Vachon and spokesperson for transportation of transport, Martine Ouellet, deplore that the Quebec government is slow to take leadership in the fight against climate change, stressing that it has the duty To echo the 25,000 people who walked on Saturday in the streets of Quebec. 
On the eve of the Quebec City summary summit, the Parti Québécois therefore asks the Government to file its target for reducing greenhouse gases (GHGs) for the Paris Conference of December, which will cover the period 2020. -2030. States had until March 31 to disclose their intentions relating to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. As of April 9, 2015, 34 countries - including the 28 of the European Union, the United States and Russia - had done so. "Where is Quebec? The Minister of the Environment, David Heurtel, seems to wait until Canada, a crancus in the fight against climate change, is decided one day to act in the case and position themselves. However, Canada has made it clear to play a positive role in international negotiations. Therefore, it is in Quebec to show the way, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The Government of Quebec will be deadly if it does not integrate its future post-2020 target with a long-term oil franking strategy. Remember that the energy sector represents 71% of GHG emissions. "We need to consider the environmental cost of different sources of energy, and better supervise decisions related to spatial planning, transport infrastructure and buildings building standards. The government must act concretely to lead Quebec to an oil-free economy, "said Bernard Drainville. 
In the energy sector, transportation by far the main GHG issuer: it is responsible for 45% of emissions. "In just one and a half years in power, the Parti Québécois has filed a transportation electrification strategy and a national strategy for sustainable mobility, two ambitious initiatives to make Quebec a leader in the environmental field. Since April 2014, obsolete by austerity, the Liberal government has literally abandoned these strategies. This lack of vision will harm Quebec's reputation as a leader in the fight against climate change, "added Martine Ouellet. 
Finally, the member for Jonquière again asks Minister David Heurtel to call Bill 390, aimed at meeting the primacy of Quebec's environmental competence. "It is fundamental that Quebec resume leadership in the fight against climate change without waiting for Canada, but it must also ensure that its territory does not become a highway for the export of Canada's oil sands." , concluded Sylvain Gaudreault. 
