Mont-Tremblant - Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Pascal Bérubé, and the Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport and Government Manager of the Laurentian Region , Sylvain Pagé, today announced a financial assistance of $ 800,000 over two years for the holding of five Ironman competitions in Mont-Tremblant. 
The Prime Minister took the opportunity to congratulate the organizing committee for these competitions for the Ironman 70.3 World Championship, which will be held in 2014. "The choice of the city of Mont-Tremblant for the holding of this event. Industrial scope demonstrates our great ability to organize high-level competitions and to face ambitious challenges. This is recognition for the region of the Laurentides, the status of internationally level sports destination. We are proud to support Ironman, which makes it possible to generate tourism revenue estimated at nearly $ 15 million, "she said. 
"I want to emphasize the work of the organizers; They managed to create a unique Ironman circuit, which stood out in the first year. Obtaining a distinction as prestigious as the price of the International Sports Event of the Year, awarded by the Canadian Sport Tourism Alliance, in fact. The Organization also received the Mauritius Prize for the International Event on the 40th Gala of Sports Quebec. These new events are revealed, once again, an unprecedented showcase for the influence of our destination beyond our borders, "said Minister Bérubé. 
Let us mention that the Ironman 70.3 World Championship, scheduled for September 2014, is in addition to the other two steps (Ironman 70.3 and Ironman), which will take place in June and in August over the next two years. This championship includes competitors who have qualified during the 17 Ironman races, organized by the World Triathlon Corporation. Ironman 70.3 competitions are races consistent with 1.9 km from swimming, 90 km of cycling and a half-marathon of 21.1 km. 
"Thanks to the Ironman competitions, the city of Mont-Tremblant has infrastructures adapted to this type of competition, for the benefit of the population of the Laurentians as well as athletes from here and elsewhere. I am convinced that with the holding of great sports events like these, more Quebeckers and Quebeckers will take a taste for physical activity, which is perfectly consistent with the vision of our first minister, who wants by 10 years, the Quebec nation became one of the most fit in the world, "said MP Sylvain Pagé. 
It should be noted that the financial assistance granted comes from the tourism industry development program. Remember that $ 5.8 million financial assistance from the Quebec government was granted in 2012 for the upgrading of several roads, the acquisition of specialized equipment as well as for traffic management during sports competitions . 
(c) Ministry of the Executive Board: (source) 
