Montreal - Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, and the Minister of Culture and Communications, Mr. Maka Kotto, announce the award of $ 977,500 Government Financial Assistance for the demonstration of demonstration, which will take place from February 20th to March 2, 2014. 
Over the winters, Montreal in Light has been able to climb the world's largest winter festivals, attracting an increasingly diverse audience. For its 15th edition, the metropolis will make room for light, performs and shows and gastronomy, not to mention its traditional white night in Montreal, at the closing of the festival. In addition to the artistic services and unpublished creations, the gastronomic component of Montreal in light will honor, this year, to the flavors of Montreal, Haiti and San Francisco. 
"We are proud to support this festival that helps to position Quebec as a winter tourist destination, both nationally and internationally. This gathering reinforces the reputation of the Quebec population characterized by its dynamism, originality and warm welcome. Come see and taste the urban winter, "said Minister Bérubé. 
"Out of the ordinary, this large urban festival does honor to the diversity and quality of the talents of our artists and our great Montreal chefs. This is an ideal opportunity to celebrate the city's winter and discover the charms of the metropolis which, thanks to the work and dynamism of its promoters, is distinguished internationally as a cultural destination of high caliber, "said the minister listed. 
For his part, Mr. Maka Kotto held out: "In the heart of February, Montreal comes alive and widens as in summer. Congratulations to the organizers who put heat and color in the streets of our metropolis! Another example of the extraordinary Montreal cultural dynamism ". 
Tourisme Québec has granted $ 500,000 as part of the Festivals and Tourist Festivals component of its tourism industry development program. This contribution addressed $ 427,500 from the Fund of Initiative and Radiation of the Metropolit of the Secretariat to the Metropolitan Area and $ 50,000 of the Variety Diffusion Assistance Program of the Cultural Business Development Corporation. 
