Québec- On the occasion of the International Youth Adjourna, the Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, reiterates the importance of the government grants to youth. Inaugurated on 12 August 2000 by the United Nations, the International Youth Day has since the opportunity to become aware of the contribution of young people to the development of companies. 
"Young Quebeckers are an essential force for the present and the future of our nation. On this International Youth Day, it does notify me to pay tribute to all these young students, workers, entrepreneurs and parents who form our succession and to thank them for their contribution to Quebec society, "said the premier, too Responsible for youth files. 
In the current demographic context, the government is more than ever aware of the important contribution of young people. "By 2030, the proportion of persons aged 65 and over will increase from 15 to 25% in Quebec. This radical transformation of our society will have important consequences. We must now prepare our succession so that it has all the tools needed to meet the challenges that this reality imposes, "said Marois. 
In this regard, on May 23, the Prime Minister entrusted his parliamentary assistant (youth component) and MP for Laval-des-Rapides, Leo Bureau-Blouin, the mandate to conduct the Destination 2030 consultation tour. This regional tour Aims to probe the concerns of young people from all regions of Quebec to renew the Quebec Youth Policy. Organized by the youth secretariat, in collaboration with the regional youth forums and their consultation table, the tour allows young people to express themselves and to participate in governmental government decisions. 
Young people and stakeholders are also invited to contribute to the interactifww.destination2030.gouv.qc.ca site. In addition to providing useful information, this site allows all citizens to participate in the discussion and influence government thinking. The Destination 2030 tour, which has already made it possible to meet more than 1,200 people in 8 administrative regions of Quebec, will resume its activities on August 19th in Abitibi-Témiscamingue and will take place until October. The elected officials will have the opportunity to hear the youth's point of view from across Quebec to propose a youth policy that is in their image. 
The Youth Secretariat is mandated to advise the government in the field of youth and to assist the Prime Minister in the exercise of his responsibilities in this regard. It ensures the coordination and monitoring of government action in this area. 
