Quebec- Minister responsible for the Government Administration and President of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, is proud to unveil the implementation of the Public Contract Integrity Act, which has been tabled today at the National Assembly. This report refers to the tangible results of Law 1 and the Contract Authorization Plan administered by the Autorité des marchés financiers (AMF). 
"Since 2012, our government has taken the necessary means to bring the public confidence to its institutions. After more than 4,000 verifications made and 235 contracting authorizations issued by the AMF in one year, the process we have put in place already has major repercussions on the integrity of companies that want to do business with the state ", said Minister Bédard. 
The report presents the results of all the measures taken by the Government since the adoption of the Integrity Act. The measures are intended to strengthen the conditions of integrity of companies wishing to deal with the state, and to increase the effectiveness, efficiency and coherence of the rules established by the Contracts Act of Public Bodies. The results obtained confirm that the rigorous and orderly implantation of the Public Contract Integrity Act results in the expected effects. 
"There is already a change in culture within companies. In addition, Law 1, combined with other measures adopted by our Government to revise its contractual practices, will allow us to effectively combat collusion and corruption. Certainly, this will result in lowering the cost of contracts and savings for Quebecers, "said Minister Bédard. 
Remember that Law 1 was adopted on December 7, 2012. Under this law, companies that want to do business with the state must meet the high integrity requirements to which the public is entitled to expect. The law targets all public contracts and subcontracts of service or construction of more than $ 10 million granted by departments and agencies, as well as municipalities and government companies. 
The report can be consulted on the Treasury Board Secretariat website, atwww.tresor.gouv.qc.ca. 
The measures provided for in the Public Contracts Integrity Act aim at two main objectives, either strengthening the conditions for the integrity of companies wanting to deal with the State and enhance the effectiveness, efficiency and consistency of the Act respecting contracts of public bodies. 
The establishment of the Contract Authorization Plan is a major component of combating collusion and corruption on public procurement in Quebec. Its progressive implantation has made it possible to promote the harmonious implementation of this reform which already leads to the expected effects. This is a first step towards the subjugation of the vast majority of state contractors. 
The main findings that can be drawn up as a result of the first twelve months of application are: 
Thanks to the efforts of the partners, the establishment of the authorization regime prior to obtaining a contract has been carried out within the planned deadlines. 
Since January 15, 2013, public contracts and sub-contracts of services and public-private partnership contracts of $ 40 million are reserved for companies with the authorization of the authority of the Financial Markets (AMF) attesting to their integrity. As expected by the government, these subjugation thresholds were lowered at $ 10 million in the fall of 2013. 
The partners of the Contract Authorization Plan have put in place processes that have made more than 4,000 audits and to issue 235 authorizations to contract during the first year of application. 
The failure of certain companies to take the Contract Authorization Plan test has resulted in the loss for them public contracts as well as the impossibility of getting new contracts and public sub contracts, from any value whatsoever, during their period of inadmissibility. 
The retained model allowed the rehabilitation of certain companies to whom was removed or refused the authorization to contract. In addition, some companies lose the opportunity to obtain public contracts by avoiding the AMF test. Still others have voluntarily undertake the necessary actions to keep their privilege on doing business on public procurement. 
The ensuing of the role of the competing rules of the contractual rules in the Public Bodies Act reinforces the importance given to the respect of the normative framework, ethics and sound contractual management practices within organizations. subject. 
The turn driven by the allocation to the Treasury Board of certain authorization and guidance powers previously devolved to ministers responsible for the education and health and social services networks has operated effectively in the new organizations subject. 
