Quebec, March 13, 2021 -The Member of Parliament for Bonaventure and Spokesman for Forest, Wildlife and Parks, Sylvain Roy, urges the Minister of Forests, Wildlife and Parks (MFFP), Pierre Dufour , to use the tools it already has to regulate the price of wood, which has tripled in recent months. 
IN SHORT 
The Parti Québécois wants the MFFP to solve two chronic problems that overwhelm the forest industry: 
The principle of residuality, enshrined in the law, is simple. "Before granting volumes of wood in public forest, the manufacturers must first source in private forest. However, even if this mechanism has been in the law since 1988, it is not put into practice. However, its use would help our private producers who are ready to mobilize wood and thus reduce pressure on our collective heritage, our public forests, "says Sylvain Roy, who deplores the inaction of the MFFP in this respect . 
In addition, we have observed that the price of wood has increased excessively and totally unreasonable for a few months, among other things because of the strong demand from the United States. "In the Americans, the explosion of housing starts, paired with a desertion of cities by families who are built houses outside the major centers to make teleworking, makes our industry solicited like never," has Added the member. 
Now, if Sylvain Roy is looking forward to seeing the forest economy functioning so well, it nevertheless worries that it does not seem to benefit all the links of the chain. "Does factory workers, forest truckers and wood producers have benefited from the stunning price increase? Ask the question is to answer it: not at all. If wealth was better distributed, it is clear that the entire economy of our regions would benefit, "he argues. 
"I hope the government will soon solve these problems, which have been known and have been discussed for a long time in the forest sector, but on which the Ministry of Forests never works," concluded Sylvain Roy. 
- 30 - 
SOURCE : 
Laura Chouinard-Thuly 
Press Officer 
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois 
514 880-9594 
Laura.c After i's -t care liquid @as is NAT. Second. Wipe 
