Quebec- The responsible minister of the regions of the Capitale-Nationale and the Chaudière-Appalaches, Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, and the Minister Delegate to Tourism , Mr. Pascal Bérubé, are pleased to announce the award of $ 45,000 financial assistance to support the festivaltenvol and Macadam. 
From September 5th to 7th, the 18th Festival Envol and Macadam proposes to make an incursion into the world of alternative music in order to appreciate original and diversified benefits from here and elsewhere. In addition, the Festival presents Planetrox, an international musical competition whose objective is to discover the best emerging groups from several countries. 
"Boosting the news district of Nouvo Saint-Roch, this event, unique, attracts artists whose reputation is no longer to do, in addition to participating in the development of the musical succession of our region. I congratulate the organizing committee, musicians and musicians as well as all participants who make this cultural meeting a real success, "said Minister Maltese. 
"Envol and Macadam is an important ever-expected event in the Quebec City region. Gathering a young and dynamic audience, this distinctive event is diversifying the tourist offer of the region. Several alternative music lovers will converge towards Quebec in the coming days in September, to attend the renowned artists' shows, "said Minister Bérubé. 
The contribution of the Government of Quebec is distributed as follows: $ 20,000 comes from the tourism industry development program - Festivals and tourist events, Tourisme Québec, and $ 25,000 come from the Secretariat to the Capital -National. 
Attached to the Ministry of the Executive Board, the Secretariat advises the Government and the Minister responsible for the region, Ms. Agnès Malteis, on any question or measure with a significant impact on the region and its social, cultural, tourism and economic development. The Secretariat acts in consultation with its various governmental and regional partners, while financially supporting the implementation of projects contributing to the growth of the Capitale-Nationale, for a mobilized, innovative, festive and international region. 
