Montreal- The Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Jean-François Lisée, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Pascal Bérubé , are pleased to announce the allocation of $ 111,000 financial assistance at the International Pop Montreal Music Festival, which will take place from 25 to 29 September 2013. 
"Highlighting new independent artistic forms, LeFestival Pop MontréalPermet to many successful artists to go on stage. The benefits of these bold musicians contribute to enriching the emerging musical scene of the metropolis. Reflecting the high inventiveness of its organizers, the unpublished programming of this festival makes it a unique event that radiates beyond our borders, "said the minister listed. 
"Thanks to its original and eclectic programming, the International Pop Montreal Music Festival has established itself, over the years, in the Montreal festival sphere. By offering the public a bold mix of various forms of artistic expression, Pop Montreal is part of the cultural events that make our metropolis one of the most connected in the world, "said Minister Kotto. 
"Pop Montreal leaves a large room for the discovery of new talents. This festival remains essential for the expression of artistic creativity. He presents international reputation artists in front of a loyal and enthusiastic audience. Visitors from here and elsewhere will be charmed by the uniqueness of the event, but also by the many attractions that characterize the metropolis. I am proud to support festivals that enrich both the quality of tourist offer and Quebec culture, "said Minister Bérubé. 
Funding comes from the initiative and influence of the metropolis of the Secretariat at the Metropolitan Area ($ 36,000), the Variety Diffusion Assistance Program of the Cultural Business Development Corporation ($ 30,000) and of the tourism industry development program as part of financial assistance to tourism festivals and tourism events ($ 45,000). 
