Montmagny- Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, confirmed this morning, before representatives of the Montmagny agricultural community, that the financial support program at exhibitions Agricultural (PAFEA) was renewed for the year 2013-2014. 
"For consumers, agricultural exhibitions are a great way to get in direct relationship with producers. Also, if the consumer loves a product, he will want to put it in his grocery basket afterwards. Quebec's products are therefore highlighted with the objectives of the food sovereignty policy we have just disclosed, "said the minister, also indicating that the government already worked to maintain the program for a longer period. 
PAFEA provides support for agricultural exhibitions to carry out activities related to the valorization of agriculture and agri-food Quebec, the agricultural succession, the development of regional products and public awareness of the various aspects of the agri-food area. . The program supports 32 agricultural exhibits in 12 regions of Quebec by providing for 2013-2014 a total of $ 1,760,000. It should be noted that agricultural exhibitions host nearly one million visitors each summer and their annual economic benefits are estimated at more than $ 61 million. 
Mr. François GENDRON also took the opportunity to congratulate the Montmagny County Agriculture Corporation, who has obtained the mandate to organize for the first time the Quebec final of animal judgments, which will be presented during the course of the Agricultural exhibition of Montmagny from August 16 to 25 2013. 
"A new page is written with this new Quebec final. This is a great news for the region that works hard to organize a quality agricultural exhibition. By getting the Quebec finals of the animal judgment, it is a mark of recognition for all the craftsmen who ensure the success of this event year after year, "concluded the Gendron minister. 
For further information on the food sovereignty policy, consult the blog dedicated to it (www.politiquesa.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food ( www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa). It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
