Saint-Pierre-de-éîle-d'Orleans- The Prime Minister of Quebec and MP for Charlevoix-Côte-de-Beaupré, Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, today announced today The conclusion of an agreement totaling $ 562,000 with the MRC of Île-d'Orleans, for the restoration of the real estate heritage, as well as an agreement of principle of $ 224,900 with the municipality of Saint Peter of the Island of Orleans, for the expansion and redevelopment of the Oscar Ferland library. The Mayor of Saint-Pierre-d''Île-d'Orleans, Jacques Trudel, and the prefect of the MRC of the island of Orleans, Jean Pierre Turcotte, were present at this event. 
"The economic and social health of our regions goes through regularly upgraded local services as well as by protecting and enhanced our heritage. It is therefore real investments for the future that are announced today. I am very happy for the population of Saint-Pierre-d'Île-d'Orleans, which will benefit from a cultural offer adapted to its needs, and for the owners of the heritage buildings, which will be able to ensure The preservation of an inheritance of invaluable wealth, "said the premier. 
"The Heritage Restoration Agreement with the MRC will support the authorities in a structuring approach for citizens and the entire community with the development of the architectural wealth of buildings. The island of Orleans, which appears on the list of twelve heritage sites reported by the Government of Quebec, is an important witness in Quebec's history, "said Minister Kotto. 
This new triennial agreement, totaling $ 562,000, consists of setting up a financial assistance program for the restoration of the Island of Orleans, in order to keep it, to highlight it and Ensure transmission to future generations. 
"This heritage restoration agreement asserts the will of the elected representatives of the MRC to conserve, protect and enhance the richness of its architectural heritage. It helps preserve the exceptional beauty of our rural environment and to ensure that future generations can enjoy it too. We are delighted with this agreement, and it will be implemented quickly, "said the prefect of the MRC of Orleans Island, Jean-Pierre Turcotte. 
The owners of buildings located on the heritage site of Orleans Island will therefore receive financial support for eligible restoration work. 
The participation of the Ministry of Culture and Communications, under the Partnership Initiatives Program, represents $ 364,000 over three years. As for it, the MRC pays $ 198,000 for the same period. 
The Prime Minister also announced that a $ 224,900 agreement agreement has been concluded to increase the area of the Oscar-Ferland library, located in the municipality of Saint-Pierre-d'Ole-d'Orleans, in order to To provide an exhibition space, additional rays for books and a new loan counter. More spacious premises will facilitate access to the library and allow the development of new consulting and animation areas. Thus, the services offered to the population will be improved. 
"Today, our desire to increase the quality of life of our fellow citizens and our fellow citizens becomes a reality. This contribution from the Government of Quebec will allow us to take a step further for the improvement of cultural services and thus to respond more to the needs of our environment. We are proud of our volunteers who are committed to seeing progressing the community, "concluded the Mayor of St. Peter on the island of Orleans, Jacques Trudel. 
The redevelopment of the library is part of the 2013-2023 Infrastructure Duplan, released in April. Recall that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 2 billion investments for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec by creating or nearly 60,000 jobs, on average, per year. This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the associated costs and to make informed choices. 
