Rimouski- On behalf of the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, the Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region and Minister Delegate for Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, announcing investments of $ 5.13 million for the infrastructure improvement of the Society of Outdoor Institutions in Quebec (separate) in the BIC and Lac-Témiscouata national parks as well as in the wildlife reserves of Rimouski and Matane. 
"We are investing in order to improve accessibility to these territories, to continue to set up public service infrastructure standards and ensure the sustainability of built heritage. In doing so, our government creates jobs that will accelerate Quebec's economic growth, "said Minister Bérubé. 
For its part, the member for Rimouski, Mr. Irvin Pelletier, also welcomed the announcement: "The BIC National Park and the Rimouski Wildlife Reserve are florets of our natural heritage. Their infrastructure offers the area of high quality facilities to welcome tourists and provide them with the foundations for a memorable experience. » 
"I am particularly pleased to confirm these investments in collaboration with my colleague Minister of Tourism, because the separate facilities are both a remarkable tourist product and a set of conservation and education sites with a good environmental value," emphasized for his part the Blanchet minister. 
The BIC National Park will receive $ 700,000 for the standards of its campsite, including some 200 sites are distributed in the three park sectors. In addition, the park counts on its territory many buildings that have a heritage value. These buildings, for public use, will also benefit from this investment for their restoration. On the side of the Lac-Témiscouata National Park, last born of national parks in southern Quebec, $ 1.65 million will be devoted to improving the road network that will allow the development of a new sector, southeast of Lake Touladi. 
In the Rimouski Wildlife Reserve, whose marketing promotes the succession of hunting and fisheries, $ 1.58 million will be granted to improve its road network. An amount will also be taken from this envelope for the setting up of the infrastructure dedicated to the customer's clientele, including its chalets. 
In addition, an amount of $ 1.2 million will be granted for the repair of roads, bridges and trails, for the setting up of fishing-related infrastructure standards and for the sustainability of the built heritage of the Matane Wildlife Reserve , which offers a hunting success for the highest in the wildlife reserve network. 
Let us mention that the Chic-Chicus mountain hostel has also benefited from a government investment of the order of $ 725,000 as part of the second phase of chic-shock enhancement announced by Minister Lelièvre on 23 November latest. 
All these investments is part of the Government of Quebec's economic policy, Employee and Prime Minister of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, on October 7th. 
Remember that this target economic policy, in its first component, four flagship measures to stimulate job creation now, including the acceleration of government investments for the renovation and modernization of public infrastructure, including those of the sepait. 
The second part of the Employment Priority Economic Policy aims in particular to stimulate the vigor of successful business, such as the tourism industry in Quebec, to support competition on the international scene. From this component, structuring investments will allow the sepait to participate, over the next three years, the tourism strategy as part of the development of the St. Lawrence River and the development of winter tourism. 
Overall, the investments associated with the various components of the Priority Employment Policy in the separate establishments of the Bas-Saint-Laurent region will create 35 jobs, of which 23 are direct jobs. At the Quebec scale, these investments will create 702 jobs, including 384 direct jobs, and report $ 10 million in tax revenues and parafiscal in the Caps of the State by 2016. "These investments confirm the role of sepait. Lever for economic development in the regions of Quebec, "says the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Sépaq, Mr. Raymond Desjardins. 
