Montréal - while an "housing" tour of the Quebec party speech on the home, Carole Poirier, the official head of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve arrested The Liberal government to stop the cuts in the AccessLogis Québec program and that its financing is totally restored. They were, for the occasion, accompanied by representatives of many organizations, including the Single and Traveling Network of Montreal and the Community Accommodation Avenue. 
"The financing of the AccessLogis Québec program has been halved by the Liberals for 2015-2016. It must be restored. AccessLogis is the only existing social housing program, and is currently at risk. It was to be able to finance 3000 social housing per year, but the recent government cuts brought back to 1500 units. In addition, 6000 units approved and technically under construction are blocked. Why? Asked Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"Our great" housing "tour has allowed us, all week, to take the pulse on the ground. I visited living groups, especially in Greater Montreal, Laurentians, Montérégie as well as in Outaouais. I have seen the always crashing needs in housing. The problems are clear: more and longest delays to the Quebec Housing Corporation, abolition of subsidies contributing to the financial assemblies, for example for the Rénovation Québec and Climatsol programs, lands and more rare buildings. The very survival of accesslogis is heavily threatened, it is unacceptable, "added Carole Poirier. 
An ideological brake 
Members recall that the Liberal government has, by ideology, chosen to curb the development of social and community housing for the benefit of private owners. He transferred the 1500 units withdrawn from access to the rent supplement program. He promised to finance 5800 rent supplements over 5 years, but this program does not allow to build new rental housing or to improve the quality of existing housing. 
"The Liberal government forgets that the development of social housing is a key way to combating poverty and homelessness, as well as support the economy and revitalization of neighborhoods. The construction of social and community dwellings allows the economic development of all regions of Quebec. It creates employment, promotes social mix and allows urban revitalization. Social and Community Housing, in addition to being an example of a social program whose economic profitability is proven, makes it possible to respond to an important housing demand for seniors, single people, families and persons with needs Individuals or who are roaming ", insisted Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
Carole Poirier also recalled that only in Montreal, at November 30, 2015, no less than 24,863 households were on the waiting list of the Municipal Housing Office for obtaining social or community housing. In addition, in 2011, 143,900 Montreal tenant households devoted more than half of their income to their home. A situation that also affects several other thousand households across Quebec. 
"The Quebec Community Housing Fund is also under the Liberal Cleaver. Bill 83 threatens to abolish, providing for the transfer of amounts to the Quebec Housing Corporation. For us, it is clear that the fund must remain, "added Carole Poirier. 
"The Liberal government is, in housing, exactly what it does with CPEs: it lets the public and cooperative system die to replace it with the private. The offer of social and community housing must not only be maintained, it must be enhanced, and this, to meet the needs of the population, "concluded the leader of the Quebecois party. 
