Montréal - The Caucus of the members of the Parti Québécois de Montréal, as well as the member of the Bloc Québécois de la Pointe-de-l'Île, Mario Beaulieu, arrested the Liberal government concerning several projects that seem to be dead in the East. from Montreal. "Since the arrival of the Liberals in 2014, everything is idling in the East. The year 2016 must be the revival of the structuring projects for this sector of our metropolis, "said Jean-François Lisée, Member of Parliament for Rosemont and President of the Caucus of the Parti Québécois de Montréal. 
Unhealthy housing 
In September 2015, a devastating report by the Montreal Public Health Director (DSP) on the safety conditions of the Métropole Real Estate Park revealed that the unhealthy problems in Montreal affect 38% of the apartments for rent. "Five months have elapsed since then we do not feel any sense of urgency among the Liberals. They must act at the next budget. There is a necessary reinvestment to implement, not only in housing, but also in schools and for decontamination of soils, "said Carole Poirier, Member of Parliament for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesman of the Parti Quebec. housing. "The risks to public health are real, especially for our children," she continued. 
Blue metro line 
The extension file of the blue line of the Montreal metro to Anjou seems paralyzed. "Since the surface subway project has been buried by the Findings of an AMT report last year, the government has no longer been a sign of life. People had hope, but the Liberals of Philippe Couillard have forgotten them and leave a large part of the eastern population of Montreal in nothingness. Currently, buses are full. Congestion and lost time affect the economy. East of Montreal obviously undergoes the consequences, "denounced Nicole Light, MP from Pointe-aux-Trembles, and Mario Beaulieu. "In 2016, the extension must be confirmed; We expect the sums to be devolved to the project and that it is included in the Quebec infrastructure plan of the next budget, "they added. 
Olympic Stadium Roof 
For its part, Maka Kotto deplores the little eagerness of the government to address the Olympic Roof issue. "On November 3rd, the former Minister of Tourism received the second phase of the study of the Olympic Installations Régie, the Rio, on the replacement of the roof. For the sake of transparency, it would be good that the new minister reveals this study. Montrealers and Quebeckers have the right to know what the Rio recommends for the roof of the stadium, "said the member for Bourget. The latter calls on the government to act quickly in the interest of eastern Montreal and Quebec. "Eastern Montreal's economy needs an infrastructure such as the Olympic Stadium, but it must be available. The government must stop waiting. » 
Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital 
In the election campaign, in 2014, the Liberal Party committed to realize the modernization of Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital, an essential project for the 670,000 citizens served by this establishment built in the 1950s. Now, not a penny. for this purpose, in the first two liberal budgets. "The government has made great promises. The east population has been waiting for this modernization for several years. In the long term, it took at least ten years for this project to come true. In the next budget, the sums must be unlocked; 2016 is the year of truth for the Liberals, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
In short, the members of the Montreal Partician Party, Jean-François Lisée, Carole Poirier, Maka Kotto and Nicole Léger, as well as Mario Beaulieu asking the government to revive these important projects for Eastern Montreal's economy. "We leave a chance to the government to prove to us that he has not abandoned the East. He must prove it in the next budget, it urges! The Ministers of Eastern Montreal, Lise Thériault, David Heurtel and Rita de Santis, as well as the head of the metropolis, Martin Coiteous, act promptly and concretely for the east of Montreal, "they concluded. 
