Quebec, July 9, 2014 -The MP for Saint-Jean and official opposition spokesperson for employment, vocational training, literacy and youth, Dave Turcotte, asks the Government to accompany the 600 waterfall workers, East Angus, and Energizer, in Montreal, who learned this morning that they would lose their jobs soon. 
"The government must ensure that these workers will find a job as well as the one they occupied. This is the loss of paid jobs that has been announced this morning, said Dave Turcotte. Accompanying measures must be put in place by Jobs Québec. The member for Saint-Jean recalled that the Government of Philippe Couillard cut $ 17 million in employment aid measures while thousands of jobs are lost in Quebec. 
No plan for the member of the member of Saint-Jérôme and spokesperson for the official opposition in terms of economy, entrepreneurship, SMEs and exports, Pierre Karl Péladeau, deplores that the government of the Liberal Party, which Promised 250,000 jobs in five years, has no employment plan in Quebec. "The only measure of this government in employment was to reduce investments in infrastructure at $ 15 billion. Not only has Philippe Couillard denied his promise, but in addition, he has not developed a spare plan to create jobs in Quebec, "pursued Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"While the Philippe Couillard candidate claimed during the election campaign that corporate confidence would come back with the formation of a Liberal government, it is clear that no vision of a real economic policy appears in the Leitão budget. The Quebec population attends the resignation of the Liberal government that does nothing for wealth creation, "said the member for Saint? Jerome. Remember that the government of the Parti Québécois had developed a vision for the Quebec economy with the economic priority policy that contained structuring measures. 
Loss of 50,000 full-time jobs "with the loss of 50,000 full-time jobs over the last two months and the resentment of the Employment Priority Employment Policy for partisan reasons, what will be done by the premier Couillard to create jobs in Quebec? The simple arrival at the Liberal Party government has had a negative effect on employment; It is now necessary to concrete actions, "have concluded members. 
