Témiscouata-sur-Le-Lac- On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, Minister Delegate to Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region, Pascal Bérubé, Announces the Allocation of a Financial support of $ 337,120 to the Témiscouata History and Archeology Society, for the restoration of Fort Ingall. 
"This historic high place must be preserved and today's announcement demonstrates the importance of our government with the Group's collective legacy. The buildings on this heritage site are a testimony of our past, and their restoration will allow present and future generations to appreciate their great value, "said Maka Kotto. 
"Fort Ingall is a place of great cultural value in the region. The investment of the Government of Quebec but also that of the various partners demonstrate the interest and the desire to ensure the preservation of this institution which is part of our cultural heritage, "added Pascal Bérubé. 
Fort Ingall, located in Témiscouata-sur-Le-Lac, is a heritage site classified under the Cultural Heritage Act. This place of heritage interpretation recognized by the Ministry is a military fortress erected between 1839 and 1841 and reconstituted in 1975 as a result of archaeological excavations. This financial assistance will allow the conservation of the eight buildings of the Fort Ingall by the restoration of wooden structures, roofs and, finally, mortar joints between the walls of the walls and around the chimneys. Drainage around buildings will also be improved. This work will be executed according to the historical and architectural characteristics of this heritage site. 
The Témiscouata History and Archeology Society and the City of Témiscouata-sur-Le-Lac are partners in this project as a total cost of $ 376,581. 
The department's contribution comes from the Capital Assistance Program and is part of the 2013-2023 Infrastructure Plan. Recall that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 2 billion investments for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. 
