Quebec- reacting to a daily cuff Duty, the hon. Member for Drummond and the official opposition spokesman in terms of language, immigration and cultural communities, Yves-François Blanchet, was stupefied to learn That the Quebec government restricts access to French courses for new immigrants while insisting on the need to know English. "The solution is not to Anglicize immigrants, but to francize workplaces," he said. 
"This decision of Minister Kathleen Weil is an affront too much to the right to work in French in Quebec. It is no longer a drift, but of dangerous negligence. By offering English courses and limiting access to French courses for part-time courses, the Charest government participates in the Anglicisation of Immigrants, "denounced Yves-François Blanchet. 
The Parti Québécois fully shares community stakeholders and departmental employees who believe that the message that the Minister Weil is that in Quebec, the language of integration is at the choice of the immigrant. "In Montreal, too many companies posted in English, too many leaders are unilingual anglophones, access to CEGEP in English is free. Neither more nor less, it is suggested that the true language of success, it is English and that French is pushed back to the suburbs and for fewer jobs. That is the work of the Liberal government, "said the member for Drummond. 
"The minister can not ignore what's going on in his own department. She is responsible, and it's his own employees who denounce it. There is someone, somewhere, who told him to tolerate anglicization. As if it were not enough, it is now intimate to promote it. Access to francization courses must be maintained; The minister must also ensure that all people recruited abroad participate in training in order to master French and his colleague Christine St-Pierre must enforce the law 101 in the workplace ", continued Yves-François Blanchet. 
The Parti Québécois believes that workers, immigrants or not, who are offered English courses, justify it by proof of employment at the end of the training and a valid explanation of the requirement of English to occupy this job. 
"The coherent and harmonious integration of people who choose to live among us, in Quebec, is our first duty to them. It obviously goes through the teaching of French and the right to a decent job in French. To the Parti Québécois, we consider it necessary to rewrite and enforce the law 101, to extend its reach to companies from 11 to 50 employees as well as CEGEPs, while ensuring the harmonious francization of all immigrants ", concluded Yves -François Blanchet. 
