Chibougamau- The member for Ungava, Mr. Luc Ferland, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, and on behalf of the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élain Zakaïb , announced a major investment to improve the tourist offer of the region of Eeyou Istchee / Baie-James. 
The financial assistance of $ 1,886,999 is granted to support three profitable projects for the tourism industry in the region, the Capissisit Lodge inn, the Waswanipi Sibi Lodge and the Receptive Travel Agency (DMC). 
"I am delighted that our government is committed to those of the partners of the Eeyou Istchee / James Bay. The financial supports announced today will, inter alia, contribute to the economic and tourism development of the regions north of the 49th parallel. They will also enhance the quality of accommodation, an element essential to the growth of an international Nordic destination, "said the member for Ungava Luc Ferland. 
"I am very pleased to support these projects that will enhance the tourism offer and the development of such a grandiose territory, containing exceptional tourism potential. I also salute the mobilization and dynamism of all business people as well as economic stakeholders in the region, "said Minister Bérubé. 
"The niches of excellence Agreement, created in 2002 by a government of the Parti Québécois, have been crucial in the development of the regions, by focusing on their specific assets and promoting the mobilization of economic actors," said Ms. élain Zakaïb. "I am proud that we can contribute to economic diversification the region of Eeyou Istchee / Baie-James". 
"It is with pride that tourism Eeyou Istchee focuses on teamwork with its partners and makes consultation between the different tourist development actors, unavoidable. This allows to have a common vision for the development of sustainable tourism and international caliber for our region. These announcements thus realize that these joint efforts have been beneficial for Eeyou Istchee / Bay-James, that makes us all the more proud and encouraged us to continue in this direction, "added the President of Tourism Eeyou Istchee, Mr. Raymond Blackned . 
"It is with pleasure that I welcome this announcement of the financial participation of Tourisme Québec in these three tourist projects that are very important to our region Eeyou Istchee / James Bay. The tourist strategy north of the 49th parallel, which is accompanied by our region of a niche of excellence in tourism as part of the agreement approach, is an unprecedented opportunity for the tourist development of our beautiful region. The announcement of these new tourist projects is part of an approach to economic diversification and permanent impacts for our Nordic region, "concluded Tourism President Bie-James, Mr. Luc Leterend. 
For his part, the Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs welcomed these announcements: "We can only rejoice in these structuring projects that will contribute not only to the economic development of North-du-Québec, but also to the influence of Aboriginal cultures," -Do she indicated. 
Through the tourist industry development program in northern 49 parallel tourism, Tourisme Québec invests $ 1,320,000 in the realization of the project for the enlargement and renovation of the Capissisit Lodge inn. Oujé-Bougoumou. These investments will meet the current business clientele. 
A support of $ 349,999 is allocated to the Waswanipi Sibi Lodge Hotel for the construction of a three-star hotel with 20 rooms. Tourisme Québec injects $ 250,000 through the tourism industry development program north of the 49th parallel, while $ 99,999 is allocated under the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement (EPRT ) from Eeyou Istchee. Only community hotel, the property will have meeting rooms and business services. 
Finally, a financial assistance of $ 217,000, to support the creation of a receptive travel agency, was granted to the Cree Outfitting and Tourism Association. The objective of this agency is to contribute to the increase of international clientele in the territory of Eeyou Istchee / Baie-James by developing partnerships, creating new packages and improving the conditions of access to the territory. An amount of $ 62,000 comes from the tourism industry development program in the north of the 49th parallel and an amount of $ 155,000 comes from the development support program for strategic sectors and niches of Excellence (Pads) of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy. 
Remember that the Quebec tourism strategy in the north of the 49th parallel is one of the measures of the 2012-2020 tourism industry development plan. It is aimed at the development of world-class tourism north of the 49th parallel and focuses on the development of distinctive infrastructure, attractions and tourism products, training and human resources management, promotion and marketing and the need to act in partnership. 
As for EEYOU Istchee's EPRT, it aims to involve local, regional and government partners in achieving regional tourism offer development priorities to maximize the contribution of this industry to the economy. The financial partners are Tourisme Québec, Tourism Eeyou Istchee, the Cree Regional Administration and the James Bay Development Corporation. 
Finally, the PADS supports the implementation of niche development strategies of excellence as part of the Agreement (concerted action of regional development cooperation). 
