Quebec- Minister responsible for the Government Administration and President of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, said today to the National Assembly Law No.41, An Act to amend the Public Service Act primarily in terms of staffing jobs. This bill comes to simplify the hiring process and allow the state to be more competitive in the labor market. 
"The changes we propose will facilitate the task of citizens who want to make a career in the government. At the same time, they will allow the public service to have access to the required expertise at all times and to attract succession. In other words, we want to make sure that good candidates do not run between the fingers because of the hiring deadlines, "said Minister Bédard. 
This bill echoes the concerns of departments and agencies for several years on hiring in the public service. The scarcity of labor apprehended in several sectors of activity, the many retirements and the aging of the population are all factors that upset the world of work. They force the public service to adapt and be more competitive in the labor market. 
Under the current provisions, applicants must first respond to a call for nominations in the context of a competition. Then they must meet the admission requirements and pass an assessment to be registered on a list of aptitude. All these steps must be crossed by all applicants at the same time before they can be convened in an interview and possibly be named to a position. This way of doing things often leads long deadlines, which can cause the loss of good candidates.  Bill No.41 proposes to replace the notion of competition with a qualification process which, while remaining rigorous, introduces the possibility of: 
continuously perform the display of the call for applications and registration; 
This new process therefore has simplified and accelerate recruitment, with respect for the principles and objectives of the law.  In addition, the bill provides for measures to attract and retain students and trainees, as well as to recognize the qualification already acquired by public service retirees when their special expertise and experience are required to meet a need punctual. 
Finally, the bill gives tools to the President of the Treasury Board, particularly to strengthening governance and accountability for human resources management. 
"The next step, this year is to allow everyone to apply online, as is the case for several major organizations. In this way, the state will become truly competitive in the labor market, "concluded Minister Bédard. 
