Quebec -The MP for the Official Opposition for the Treasury Board, the Public Service and Government Services, Sylvain Simard, is satisfied with the amendments presented yesterday afternoon by the President of the Treasury Board, Michelle Courchesne. These amendments realize a formal request from the official opposition to maintain RECYC-QUÉBEC and the pay equity commission, two entities under Bill 130. "From the announcement of their abolition, we stood the minister so to know his real motivations. However, in front of the strength of our arguments and the strong challenge of the groups concerned, she had to be evident that society did not earn anything to abolish, said Sylvain Simard. 
The hon. Member for Richelieu wishes to clarify that the official opposition does not call into question the necessary revision of government structures and agencies. "A systematic revision is necessary; In the present case, the Liberal government proceeded in the most complete improvisation. It is also its trademark in its state management, "he added. 
Upon the announcement of the abolition of RECYC-QUÉBEC, the Liberal government ended up completely isolated and no one understood the reasons that motivated it to put the ax in an organization that, not only works well, but releases financial surpluses. ! "I note with satisfaction that the government has finally gone to our arguments. Recyc-Québec plays a major role in the management of residual materials and sustainable development in Quebec. It is so true that the government has recently entrusted to it new programs, when it was about to abolish it! As a member of Parliament for Vachon and the official opposition on the environment, sustainable development, parks and water, Martine Ouellet. 
For its part, the member for Rosemont and the official opposition on the status of women, Louise Beaudoin, is pleased that the Government has also heard reason by removing the bill with the articles concerning the Committee on Equity payroll. "Since the beginning, we have told high and strong that the decision of the Government to abolish the Commission, barely one year after the amendment of the Pay Equity Act, was totally foolish and threatened the right of women to pay equity. All this could have been avoided if the government had not acted in the greatest improvisation and had bother to consult women's groups before making this decision, "said Louise Beaudoin. 
The Parti Québécois always tries to convince Minister Courchesne not to make the merger of the three granting funds, as planned by Bill 130. In recent weeks, he wants to make the government understand that it is a bad decision. 
"One day, the government boasts the three grant funds and says it is a model envied by all; The next day he decides to change the model under the pretext of saving money. It makes no sense. All research partners tell the minister not to touch what works well. This is all the more true as the goals covered by the government can very well be reached without the merger. It is still time to the government to give it up, "concluded the hon. Member for Kamouraska-Témiscouata and official opposition spokesperson for research, technology and innovation, André Simard. 
