Quebec - the member for Drummond and the official opposition spokesman in terms of language and immigration, Yves-François Blanchet, is in the light of the law-to-do - law and the complacent indifference of the Liberal government and the Minister responsible for the application of the Charter of the French language, Christine St-Pierre. 
"Cases of Charter Offenses multiply everywhere in Montreal and Laval. This phenomenon spreads all around the metropolis and in the regions. Seventy-six offenses were recorded in commercial display only in the constituency of Minister St-Pierre. His answer? Businesses are not all in situations of illegality ... A given moment, it does! Quebeckers are entitled to expect from the minister that she acts with intelligence! "Said Yves-François Blanchet. 
Language of work in the public sector: an alarming study 
This situation occurs at the same time when a new study of the Contemporary Economics Research Institute (IRIS) for the French French Research Institute (IRFA) demonstrates that there are 13.9% of public jobs. In Quebec whose language of work is mainly English while the Anglo-Quebec people account for 8.7% of the working-age population, a gap of 5.2%. This represents $ 2.2 billion worth of payroll surplus. If we add employees who say regularly use English at work, in the public sector in Quebec, it is 31% of them working in English most often or on a regular basis in the health network, while that this proportion amounts to 40% in public administrations. 
"These data are alarming, except for the Liberals. What state in the world also actively contributes to ensuring that its national language is as competitive by another within one of its public service? There is no question of touching the linguistic rights of Anglophones in health, education or public services, but these $ 2.2 billion in funding have the opposite effect of what they should serve: Francize The public service of the only state of America whose only official language is French, "said Yves-François Blanchet, who estimates this crucial study and intends to ensure that the government acts accordingly. 
"The government and the minister responsible for Law 101 participate in the Anglicisation of Montreal. They are, in fact, the passive accomplices. This passivity and this, intentional or complacent, have become the very mark of Jean Charest's linguistic policy and Christine St-Pierre. It is not surprising that the movements multiply and people come down on the street. The minister is right: the problem is not a lack of means. It is a lack of will, "concluded the member for Drummond. 
