Quebec- Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, the Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, and the Minister Delegate to the Regions and Minister responsible for the Region of The Gaspésie-de-la-Madeleine, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, today reported the actions that the government intends to implement with regard to the situation involving the city of Gaspé and the company Petrolia. 
"Support economic development in a perspective of sustainable development requires taking into account the protection of the environment and social impacts of projects. It is clear that there are points to clarify for the city of Gaspé in the case of the Haldimand 4 well, "said Yves-François Blanchet. 
The drill license was issued by the Ministry of Natural Resources in June 2012 according to the rules in force. It authorizes no hydraulic stimulation including hydraulic fracturing. Pétrolia has not presented any request to this effect. "No hydraulic stimulation license will be issued for a project near homes until the government has evaluated the safe minimum distance to be respected near residences and drinking water sources," said Martine Ouellet. 
In addition, any project including a fracturing operation to find or operate oil must be allowed beforehand by the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and provide for a consultation of the population. 
Since the beginning of autumn, the new government has been in contact with the city of Gaspé in the Haldimand Well file 4. Several important concerns have been raised by the municipal administration and the municipal administration wishes better support from the government. . The Blanchet and Lelèvre Ministers will travel to Gaspé as a week to meet the representatives of the city so that they understand their position and the requested support. 
Petrolia is currently finalizing the preparatory work for drilling and the government will meet the company before drilling to discuss the file. A meeting, which will participate by Minister Martine Ouellet, is scheduled with the company this week. It will also provide an update on the issue of social impacts of the project and government concerns. 
The three ministers recalled that the Quebec government had at heart the health and safety of all Quebeckers and that no compromise was possible. "Gaspé people need to know that we take the situation very seriously and that the Haldimand 4 project does not escape the government's vigilance. The coming actions will be guided by one principle: that of acting in the best interests of the Gaspésians and all Quebeckers, "concluded Gaétan Lelièvre. 
