Quebec- The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, press the federal government to commit financially to To help owners of homes damaged by pyrrhotite. In a letter to the Federal Minister of Employment and Social Development and Minister responsible for the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC), Mr. Jason Kenney, Minister Sylvain Gaudreault reiterates Quebec's demand that the federal government Recognize the problem of pyrrhotite and financially participates in the compensation of victims. 
"Despite repeated requests, the federal government refuses to hear the call for the many citizens struck by the plague of pyrrhotite. The situation is very worrying and affects hundreds of households in Quebec. And this number could increase significantly as new cases will be confirmed. Ottawa can no longer ignore the dramas that are lived by these people and must act, as he did for the victims of pyrite in the 2000s, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
As of 2010, one year before the program for the residences damaged by the pyrrhotite, the SHQ had started approaches with CMHC so that it assumes 25% of the costs of the program. Since then, many exchanges have occurred between the SHQ and CMHC in this regard, and although CMHC confirms that the file is still under consideration, no clear response to the participation of the federal government has been given to this day. 
Minister Sylvain Gaudreault has stimulated that on May 22, the National Assembly of Quebec adopted unanimity a motionafin to squeeze the federal government to participate in the compensation of victims of pyrrhotite. "This file is a priority for our government and we do not intend to give up," said Minister Gaudreault. 
Note that because of the growing extent of the needs and accelerated pace of commitments, the SHQ had to use the entire $ 15 million envelope dedicated to the program set up by the Quebec government in 2011. "I Am very sensitive to what people affected by this deplorable situation live and that's why I work tirelessly, together with the elected officials of the Caucus of Mauricie, to find a solution quickly, "concluded Minister Gaudreault. 
