Québec- The member for Sanguinet and official opposition spokesperson for the work and pension plans, Alain Therrien, believes that the Couillard government breaks the consensus established by the Parti Québécois government on pension schemes. 
"It is necessary at all costs to protect the purchasing power of the men and women who have built Quebec. The government must stop allowing doubt to share 50-50 past deficits. The minister must undertake not to affect the pension from the Quebec retirees. The project deposited by the Government of the Parti QuébécoisPrevoy that the basic pension granted to retirees could not be reduced, "said Alain Therien. 
Four main orientations had led to the development of the bill presented on February 20 by the Quebec government government: equity between generations, the protection of retirees' annuities, the truth about the costs and respect for the ability to pay taxpayers. 
"We must stop raising anxiety from our retirees. The government must undertake to make every effort to promote negotiations in the dossier of municipal pension deficits. He must be responsible and commit to creating an imbalance in the relationship between the parties by granting a power to decreet, "the member continued. 
The Liberal government has an obligation of result on this issue. The report of the Committee of Experts on the Future of the Quebec pension system, chaired by Alban d'Amours, had taken the turn of the question of pension plans, while identifying the problems to be resolved. The government of the Parti Québécois had quickly started discussions with the various stakeholders in order to arrive at a concerted solution. This solution has realized in the bill tabled. 
"We will carefully analyze the bill that must be tabled in the Liberal government soon. The Parti Québécois will ensure the protection of municipal workers and retirees as well as that of taxpayers in Quebec. We will also ensure the presence of the concept of economic transparency, which is essential to a healthy negotiation in such an important issue, "concluded Alain Therien. 
Watch press clause. 
