Quebec- The Minister Delegate for Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, denounces the DIY and improvisation of the federal government in the infrastructure file. Mr. Cloutier is sorry to see Ottawa be able to want to impose in his new restriction infrastructure program that may compromise sports, recreation, culture and tourism projects throughout Quebec, for the ten. coming years. 
Minister Cloutier asks the federal government to listen to the positions expressed by the municipalities of Quebec and to set up the proposal made months ago by the Quebec government. 
"If the restrictions considered by the federal government had been in effect since 2007, dozens of structuring projects for the Quebec economy and for the vitality of several communities, including the Super PEPS in Quebec, the Museum of Fine Arts in Montreal or The Gatineau Ice Sports Excellence Center, could not have funded funding from this infrastructure program, "says Cloutier. 
In terms of cultivation, major projects such as the Museum of Pointe-à-Callière, the Museum of Contemporary Art, the theater of the city in Longueuil, the Diamond de Robert Lepage in Quebec, the project the 7 fingers of the hand , as well as the Aboriginal place expect funding from the federal government. The restrictions announced by Ottawa are therefore likely to have serious impacts on them. 
"Quebeckers are entitled to expect the money of their taxes to serve projects that are priorities for their communities," says Cloutier. 
Minister Cloutier regrets that the federal government dives at the last minute Quebec and its municipalities in uncertainty, while the Quebec government sent it more than four months ago a proposal for an agreement aimed at a transfer. Block of budgets for Quebec. 
"The simplest and most logical solution is an agreement for a block transfer to the Government of Quebec from its fair share of the Building Canada Fund, of the type of 2005 on the Excise Tax Fund On gasoline, "says Cloutier. "This would provide adequate and ordered funding for sports, leisure, culture and tourism infrastructure. Our government is already investing $ 9 billion a year in infrastructure projects. We have always been collaborating with municipalities and know their priorities. " 
