Quebec- The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Mr. Jean-François Lisé, announce the deposit of the law. Regarding the Inspector General of the City of Montreal. This bill, developed in collaboration with the City of Montreal, provides for the creation of the position of Inspector General of the City of Montreal while defining its status, its mandate and its powers. 
"Integrity is one of the pillars of our government's action and the bill that I present today aims to prevent corruption and collusion. The Inspector General would have unprecedented powers in the municipal system. This is a single case in response to the unique situation prevailing in Montreal, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
The mandate of the Inspector General would be to monitor the procurement and enforcement of the City and related bodies, to recommend to the Council measures to prevent inconsistency in integrity, to promote compliance with the provisions Legal and the requirements of the City of Contract as well as to train elected officials, civil servants and employees of the city. 
Compared to the Auditor General, whose verification mandate is carried out by periodic activities, the Inspector General would make constant supervision of the procurement and execution of contracts. To this end, he would have increased powers that have neither the Comptroller General nor the Auditor General of the City. In fact, it would include a right of access in third parties to read documents, copies, and to request information. 
He would have the right to use any computer and ask for any help to access his content. The fact of not responding to his requests, or to harm him, would constitute an offense punishable by a fine. The Inspector General could also cancel any processes of contracting of the City or an organization related to him or terminate any contract concluded by them or to suspend their execution. However, in accordance with the principle of accountability of the elected representatives of the city and the leaders of organizations, the latter could annul a decision of the Inspector General. 
"Once again, by this strong gesture, our government acts quickly to meet the needs of the City of Montreal. The position of Inspector General is added to other measures, such as the integration of the municipal integrity protection squad (the EPIM) to the UPAC. In the end, these actions contribute not only to strengthen the confidence of Montrealers and Montreal, but also that of the entire population of Quebec, "concluded the minister. 
