Quebec- The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, and the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, want to remember that the Government of Quebec does not will not cut the amounts that will be awarded to municipalities as a refund of the QST. On the contrary, there will be increased refunds from the QST for municipalities, because the total amount will increase from $ 472 million in 2013 to $ 482 million in 2014. The percentage of reimbursement of the QST paid by the municipalities will remain the same in 2014 than in 2013. 
Changes to the accounting rules that will apply to the refund of the QST have become necessary because of the TVQ-TPS harmonization agreement that has been signed with the federal government in March 2012. As of 2014, the reimbursement plan from the QST that will apply in Quebec will be similar to the GST rebate regime. In concrete terms, the municipalities will be reimbursed according to the amounts actually paid, and not according to an amount fixed from a pre-established formula, as is currently the case. 
"Several municipalities will be winning, since we now go to an invoice payment. This means that municipalities that invest heavily in their infrastructure will receive their fair share of repayment, "said Minister Marceau. 
The old regime allowed municipalities to use the VAT refunds related to capital expenditures to finance other expenses, while incorporating into the investment borrowing all the QST paid, regardless of reimbursement . This way of doing things allowed to increase the liquidity of the municipalities by an increase in their indebtedness, and it does not appear desirable to perpetuate this practice. 
The effect on the liquidity resulting from this accounting practice adjustment represents only 0.7% of the budget of the municipalities of Quebec. To adapt to this change, municipalities will not have to increase citizens' taxes. Indeed, they will be able to use their usual management tools, such as a tightening of expenses or use of their unallocated surpluses, which account for about $ 1.3 billion. 
"In addition, to help municipalities adapt to the new accounting rules, our government will soon propose measures to support them for a four-year period. These transitional measures will allow them to gradually stop borrowing to pay some current expenses, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
