Quebec, April 10, 2019 - It is today that the special consultations and public hearings be started on Bill 17, An Act respecting the remunerated transport of persons per car. It is within this framework that the member of the Madeleine Islands and spokespersons of the Parti Québécois on transport, Joël Arseneau, held a press point; He was accompanied by representatives of the taxi industry and other groups who rightly demand more than listening to them. 
IN SHORT 
In its current form, Bill 17 does not go to the merits of the problem and does not guarantee the sustainability of this important economic sector. "We agree with the objective of modernization. However, we fake against the destructuring of the taxi industry proposed by the CAQ. The consequences of such an approach have not been sufficiently documented. A more depth reflection is needed, "first declared the spokesman 
"To date, issues affecting the working conditions and training of drivers, security, state revenues, the impact on the services adapted to persons with disabilities and seniors, has been neglected. The outside of the big centers, and I pass!, continued Joël Arseneau. The government seems to believe that these issues will settle for themselves. However, magical thinking has never been able to replace a serious impact study, which, for now, is sorely lacking. » 
The member presses Minister Bonnardel to listen to the demands of the industry and all the groups concerned. "In this case, there is no need to act in precipitation. If we want to adopt a bill that is beneficial in the long term for Quebec, we must base our reflection on facts, on verified and complete information. We would certainly benefit, at the very least, to know the results of the pilot projects that have been carried out, and those of the experiences that have been conducted abroad. We should also have the opportunity to hear all the variety of perspectives in parliamentary committee. The solution currently proposes to the CAQ is simplistic and incomplete; We invite it to improve it, and we offer, to do this, our entire collaboration, "concluded the member for the Madeleine Islands. 
