Montreal- The Minister of Justice, as Minister responsible for the fight against homophobia, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, and the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, are pleased to support the eventFood Montreal, which will take place in the metropolis of 12 to 18 August 18, announcing the assignment of aid. totaling $ 90,000. 
Pride Montreal presents cultural celebrations and appointments that highlight the significant contribution and commitment of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual and transgender (LGBT) people to the Montreal culture and influence. During the seven days of festivities, the heart of the metropolis will be animated by various activities, including the highly expected parade of the 2013 pride. 
"This celebration of diversity testifies to the values of openness and equality that define the Montreal and Quebec society so well. I want to thank all community organizations and all partners involved in Pride Montreal. You contribute to building an ever more open Quebec, a Quebec for all, "said Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud. 
"Every year, the large Montreal pride parade arouses growing interest in Montrealers and visitors. I salute this international event that illustrates Montreal and Quebec diversity. I am delighted with the effervescence and creativity of Pride Montreal, which largely contribute to the influence of the metropolis, "said the minister listed. 
"I welcome the members of the organizing committee for their determination to make pride Montreal a single international event, which enriches the tourist offer of the metropolis and all of Quebec. The Quebec government is proud to support this festive and colorful event that contributes to making Quebec an attractive and diverse tourist destination, "said Minister Bérubé. 
The contribution of the Government of Quebec is distributed as follows: $ 60,000 comes from the tourism industry development program - Film Festivals and Tourist Events, Tourisme Québec, and $ 15,000 from the Initiative Fund and radiation from the metropolis, administered by the Secretariat to the metropolitan area. Finally, a financial assistance of $ 15,000 comes from the discretionary budget of the Minister of Justice and Minister responsible for the fight against homophobia, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud. 
