Tadoussac - Tadoussac Song Passage On the Opportunity of the Opportunity of this event, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, took the opportunity to announce a financial assistance of $ 120,000 to the organization From the festival, especially to purchase more specialized and better adapted stage equipment. 
"For the past thirty years, the enthusiasts of the song vibrate to the sounds and melodies of this major event of the region. Nicknamed rightly "the largest festival", this francophone song celebration has extended its reputation around Quebec. As a multidisciplinary broadcaster, the Tadoussac song festival will now be able to have a set of scene equipment that will certainly help them improve the regional cultural offer, "said Minister Maka Kotto. 
"The Tadoussac song festival, a village at the confluence of the regions of Charlevoix, Bas-Saint-Laurent and Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean and Gateway to the North Shore, kicks off At the tourist season of Eastern Quebec. This event, a must for the tourism industry, is important for the region's economy since it generates more than two million dollars each year, "said Marjolan Dufour. 
The $ 120,000 Ministry of Culture and Communications (MCC) grant was paid under the Capital Assistance Program. As a specialized broadcaster, the Tadoussac song festival receives annual financial assistance from the Cultural Business Development Corporation. It is also supported by MCC operation through an annual $ 25,000 grant. 
MCC's contribution to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Infrastructure Plan, released in April. Recall that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 2 billion investments for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebeckers, to measure the associated costs and to make informed choices. 
