Quebec, 12 Dec. 2013 / CNW Telbec / - Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, and the Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Governance and Member of Parliament for Lac-Saint-Jean, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, announce that the decree authorizing the establishment of a place of technical landfill (let) by the residual matters of the Lac-Saint-Jean in Hébertville-Station was adopted yesterday in Quebec City by the Council of Ministers. 
The Government of Quebec has been rigorously following the file for several months. The different stages inherent in the realization of this project have been successfully crossed. Last September, the report according to the information and consultation period of the Office of Public Audiences on the Environment (BAPE) was made public. At the end of this consultation, the BAPE Commission indicated that the project was justified. The Committee on the Protection of the Agricultural Territory of Quebec (CPTAQ) gave Monday, December 9, the authorization to use the lots necessary for the establishment of the site. The adoption of the Decree by the Council of Ministers now authorizes the construction of the landfill in Hébertville-Station. 
"The residual materials of the territory are currently transported to the letter-of-Our Lord ascent. However, the latter must soon cease its activities, and it is not possible to prolong long-term burial there. Allow the project of LET in Hébertville-Station is therefore an environmentally acceptable solution and responds to a regional application for the continuation of a safe residual material elimination service in Lac-Saint-Jean, " Declared Minister Blanchet. 
This step will allow the residual matters of Lac-Saint-Jean, which includes the 36 municipalities of the region and the Montagnaise community of Mashteuiatsh, to request the authorization certificates of the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, of the Environment. Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP) and then start the work leading to the new Let in Hébertville-Station. This new landfill will replace that of the Ascension-de-Our Lord, whose closure is scheduled for August 31, 2014. The Let will have a total capacity of 2,500,000 m3, or 70 000 tonnes per year, for a useful life of about 30 years. 
"We followed the file diligently in order to ensure that it normally walked in accordance with the applicable rules. The process followed its course, the population was consulted, the BAPE and the CPTAQ made recommendations favorable to the project. I am pleased to announce that the decree has been adopted yesterday, which will allow the Régie des Residuals to begin work upon obtaining certificates of authorizations, "said Minister Cloutier. 
"It is the entire population of Lac-Saint-Jean who comes out winner because a delay in the construction schedule of the landfill would have had major financial consequences for the 108,000 citizens of the three MRCs concerned," added The member for Roberval, Mr. Denis Trottier. 
The decree concerning the issuance of the certificate of authorization and the environmental analysis report may be consulted soon on the website of the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, following the publication of the Order in the official Gazette du Québec. 
