Quebec- The member for Gaspé and official opposition for the development of the regions, Gaétan Lelièvre, and the hon. Member for Rimouski, Harold Lebel denounce the decisions of the Liberal government who deprive regions of their tools and their development resources. Moreover, the government has not even deigned to meet the representatives of rural solidarity, passing today to the National Assembly. 
The rural solidarity organization is a new victim of liberal cuts, the government that has decided to cut a large part of its funding. "Regions can not do without the competence and commitment of people working in local development centers and organizations such as rural solidarity. In all regions of Quebec, developers, leaders, even former Liberal deputies feel abandoned by this government that lacks vision for regions. We are the only ones to worry about regional economic development and to respect its actors. In addition, this lack of vision adds the denigration and contempt; The government did not even think it's good to meet people who took the trouble to move to discuss it! "Laded Gaétan Lelièvre. 
Under the mask of austerity, centralization 
For its part, Harold Lebel stresses that all the local and regional consultation established for several years has been under way by the Liberal government. "Under the mask of austerity, it is an unprecedented centralization of the resources and regional development that takes place. By cutting the financing of rural solidarity, the Liberal government wishes to silence those who, day after day, bear the voice of the regions, those who energize rurality, those who develop our villages and who ensure a prosperous future for families who choose to live. in the region. In the eyes of the Minister of the Economy, Jacques Daoust, local development centers were too expensive in paper; He therefore cut them. This expresses the liberal contempt for volunteers who work there and for regional developers, "he added. 
The member for Gaspé also questions the fate of the Government to the National Policy of Rurality (NRP), renewed by the government of the Parti Québécois. "We had been around Quebec to consult the communities on the renewal of the NRP, and the result has been received favorably by all the stakeholders. Does the government intend to pursue actions and efforts to policy? "A concluded Gaétan Lelièvre. 
MEPs invite people wishing to join the mobilization to visit the web platform: www.touchepasamesregions.ca. 
