Quebec- The member for Vachon and the official opposition spokesman for transport, transportation and maritime strategy, Martine Ouellet, the member for Verchères and Spokesperson for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, and the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the metropolis, Jean-François Lisée, doubt seriously about the capacity of the Couillard government to defend the interests of Quebecers in the toll file on the new Champlain bridge. 
Radio-Canada achieved the study by Steer Davies Gleave before yesterday, held by Ottawa, who teaches us that the toll will have a catastrophic impact on the congestion of other bridges. It can be read indeed only in 2021, with an equivalent toll at Highway 25, near the quarter of the vehicles would leave the Champlain Bridge for the benefit of another way for passage. In rush hour, the Victoria Bridge could thus reach 135% of its maximum capacity and the Jacques-Cartier Bridge, 175%. 
Today, the Parliamentary Budget Officer has also published a report on the effects of the toll on the new Champlain Bridge. The latter concludes that a toll would mostly affect low-income families who, they, would be ready to make a detour to avoid toll. Indeed, for a toll of $ 2.50, it is about 25% of citizens whose annual income is $ 30,000 that would do the detour, against less than 5% for those whose salary exceeds $ 50,000. 
"At the moment when the federal government announces surpluses, it imposes a tax disguised to Quebecers. Even worse, this tax will affect the poor. Meanwhile, Minister Poëti tells us about Ottawa's arguments, "said Martine Ouellet. 
"On the one hand, the minister tells us that he is against the toll. On the other hand, it is accomplice about the federal government to hide from studies to Quebecers. If our Minister of Transport does not even strive to defend the interests of Quebecers in the toll file on the Champlain Bridge, who will do it? Stéphane Bergeron added. 
"Ottawa offers a nightmare on the Montreal roads, even though we know that chronic congestion currently costs between one and three billion dollars a year in the economy of the metropolis. It is difficult to imagine the additional cost of congestion Made in Ottawa, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
