Québec- On the eve of the next federal budget, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, and the Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier , wanted to recall the main expectations of the Government of Quebec. 
"The last federal budget reserved very bad surprises for Quebeckers. This year, we first ask the federal government not to start new baffles and avoid damaging the Quebec economy, "said the Minister of Finance and the economy. 
The federal government announced nearly a year ago a new infrastructure plan for the period 2014-2015 to 2023-2024. However, as the expiry of the current plan, on March 31, 2014, Quebec is still without news from the federal government as it sent it a draft agreement on 23 October on the new plan. Buildings Canada. 
"It's been almost a year since we are waiting to know the details of the Building Canada Plan. I reiterate that the approach proposed by Quebec, the payment of funds in the form of a "en bloc" transfer is the most effective and respectful approach to our fields of competence; By doing so, negotiations would already be completed and the projects would be ready to start in this spring. In addition, we are waiting for a clear signal for Québec finally to have its fair share as part of the merit funds of the new federal plan, "said Minister Cloutier. 
With regard to the new Canadian Employment Grant (CES), the Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs and Souverain Governance has made it reminding that Quebec has already served on the federal government and the provinces it intends to Not participating in the federal approach and that it claims that the current labor market agreement is renewed. 
"This federal initiative, in addition to diverting $ 70 million a year for Quebec, is an interference in our skills and jeopardizes consensus programs that give positive results. The federal government must respond positively to the unanimous motions of the National Assembly by granting Quebec a right of withdrawal with full compensation by renewing the current agreement, "said Minister Cloutier. 
In addition, Quebec also calls for it to be transferred all federal funds for active employment measures for young people, older workers and people with disabilities in Quebec. Thus, it can ensure an intervention of the optimal public employment services adapted to the reality of the labor market in its territory. Quebec has transmitted a draft global agreement to the federal government on 11 October. 
Given the unilateral changes to the main federal transfers since 2008, the Government of Quebec accuses significant losses and will face a considerable impact. 
Indeed, since 2009-2010, Quebec has to compose with a loss of $ 8.7 billion in equalization because of the ceilings that have been imposed on the program and no more adequately compensate for tax capabilities between the provinces. 
In addition, the changes announced in 2011 to the Canadian Health Transfer (TCS) will create a $ 9.5 billion shortfall within ten years. "In fact, according to the estimates of the Bureau of the Parliamentary Budget Officer, the federal government will be fiscally surplus primarily through the changes it has made to the TCS, to the detriment of the provinces that will have to deal with growing needs in health and a reduction in federal funding. This situation will become critical, "said Minister Marceau. 
As a result, Quebec asks the federal government to gradually reduce to 25% in the last ten years the share of its financing in provincial health expenditures and to more equally distribute the CTS, taking into account the additional costs related to weight. Demographic of people aged 65 and over in each province. 
"Quebec also believes that the Canada Social Transfer (TCPS) is underfunded and should be raised to minimize its 1994-1995 level, taking into account the cost of life. This underfunding represents a shortfall of $ 800 million a year. The TCPS should be distributed more equitably, taking into account the number of social assistance beneficiaries, "said Marceau. 
The Minister Delegate for Intergovernmental Affairs and Sovereign Governance recalled that workers' funds are a major economic development tool for Quebec, including SMEs. "The federal government must take into account the specificity of the Quebec economy. Quebec therefore requires Minister Flaherty to come back to his decision to eliminate the workers' fund tax credit and ceases to tackle the pillars of our economy, "said Minister Cloutier. 
Minister Marceau reiterated that the federal government must give up its project to establish a national securities commission and respect the skills of the provinces. "Each province has specific financial and economic needs and must maintain the possibility of intervening locally. The Government of Quebec is ready to collaborate with the other provinces to any improvement in the securities management regime, as this project will respect our skills and will not have to centralize regulatory transactions in Toronto, " Declared Minister Marceau. 
The Minister also reiterated his request to Minister Flaherty not to impose new mortgage rules measures which, while meeting the needs of some markets like Toronto and Vancouver, would notify the interests of the Quebec economy.. "The federal government needs to be creative and must avoid pan-Canadian wall-to-wall policies. Our real estate market is currently in equilibrium. A new tightening would strongly harm our economy, "said Minister Marceau. 
On October 18, 2013, Canada and the European Union announced that they had reached an agreement in principle in the context of the negotiation of the global economic and commercial agreement. The Government of Quebec has supported this agreement in principle, but only after obtaining the assurance from the federal government that it would obtain compensation for the increase in cheese tariff quotas. In this regard, the minister recalled that it is important that concrete and adequate measures be announced soon. 
"The Softwood Lumber Agreement between Canada and the United States provides for a regional exemption mechanism that would allow Quebec exports to be exempted from taxes and export quotas. The new forest regime, in force in Quebec since 1 April 2013 and oriented on the free market, could, in our opinion, justify such an exemption. However, Canada and the United States have not yet put in place the regional exemption mechanism. The agreement provides for the establishment of a working group on the regional exemptions, to which Quebec must participate absolutely. Also, the regional exemption mechanism provided for in the agreement must be implemented so that we can formally demand an exemption from taxes and quotas. In doing so, Quebec exporters will benefit from better access to the US market, "said the minister. 
Quebec also requires the federal government to fairly resolve certain disputes, including the equitable treatment of Hydro-Québec dividends, such as Hydro One, to the corporate tax base in the Equalization Program, as well as a short-term resolution of the dispute relating to the income stabilization program. 
