Quebec- The Minister responsible for the Government Administration and President of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, is proud to announce the adoption of the Directive on the Management of Major Public Infrastructure Projects. The new directive, which is published today in the official Gazette, establishes a rigorous process of management of major projects, in order to make the right choices of investments and to have quality infrastructures, while respecting the planned budgets. . 
The Directive is part of the wake of government 's commitments for more than a year to ensure better planning for public infrastructure expenditures. It replaces the governance framework policy for major public infrastructure projects. 
"Our government today poses a gesture of more in favor of transparency, rigor and sound management of public finances. From now on, the choice to realize any $ 50 million infrastructure project will be subject to a prior decision of the Council of Ministers, from an expanded opportunity file. Control points will be established at every crucial step in project progress. Any changes to the total cost or the initial schedule of the project will have to be authorized beforehand by the Council of Ministers, "said Minister Bédard. 
These new measures will allow the Government to have all the information necessary to agree on the relevance of a major project, and to ensure that all required actions, since the start of the project until its fence has been planned. and completed. 
The investment choices and the management of major projects will now be subject to impartial rules of control and planning, for the sake of transparency and accountability in the face of the population and the elected representatives. Departments and agencies will need to prioritize their needs, within the budget that is allotted to them, and select the most promising projects for the socio-economic development of Quebec. 
"The revision of our practices marks a break with the mismanagement of public infrastructure under the former government. Our government is continuing on its launcher by establishing rules that will allow us to make the best choices for the future of Quebec, "concluded Minister Bédard. 
The new directive can be consulted on the Treasury Board Secretariat website atwww.tresor.gouv.qc.ca. 
