Quebec- "After nine years of power, the Charest government shows the wear of a diet end. Nothing works. The confidence of the population to the Prime Minister is broken. Dissatisfaction with the government has never been as high. The Prime Minister and the Liberal Party cling to power. We are in a cul-de-sac and the only way to change things is to trigger general elections and change government. » 
This is what the leader of the official opposition and hon. Member for Charlevoix said, Pauline Marois, while he spoke at the National Assembly in the context of the motion of censure that she has tabled today HUI. 
The government's balance sheet is disastrous. Not only Jean Charest has shown that he was unable to manage the student crisis he has created himself, but the other files where the Prime Minister has failed are also very numerous. The economy is out of breath; health expectation increases; Our natural resources are sold at discounts; The interests of Quebec are violated by Ottawa and corruption has invaded our institutions and has shaken the confidence of the population. 
In terms of the economy, the liberal record is hardly more likely. The numbers are implacable. In 2011, Quebec lost 51,000 jobs. In 2010, Quebec's trade deficit reached $ 25 billion. These are $ 69 million leaving Quebec every day to create wealth and jobs abroad. The government has no strategy to counter this catastrophic state of our trade balance. 
"The only Jean Charest policy for nine years will have been debating Quebec. The Prime Minister is currently responsible for 33% of all accumulated debt, one third of the debt. He can not even boast of better controlling expenses than previous governments. From 1994 to 2003, state spending increased by 21% while under the Liberal spending will have grown by 43% since 2003, "she denounced. 
"With respect to the defense of Quebec's interests, the Liberal leader is found today in a unique position in Quebec's history. Jean Charest is the only prime minister to give up any request to change the status of Quebec. For the first time in history, the Prime Minister renounced by not asking anything in Ottawa. The balance sheet is that Quebec will have been in such a weak position in front of Ottawa, "she added, recalling that the Minister of Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs has even declared recently that Ottawa had forgotten us. 
"The management of the student conflict is a real disaster. For 80 days, Quebec has been sinking into a student crisis provoked by the Prime Minister itself by drastically raising tuition fees. The government refused dialogue. He refused to suspend the rise and refused the appointment of a mediator. Then, the Prime Minister posted his contempt for students by making doubtful jokes. Regardless of its function and responsibilities, he threw oil on fire, "she explained, adding that the Prime Minister is indifferent to the consequences of this conflict and only seeks to divide Quebeckers . 
"The Prime Minister presided over an unprecedented ethical drift of his own government. By lowering ethical standards, requiring funding quotas of its ministers, accepting a secret salary, the Prime Minister has launched a lax signal. And the differences have multiplied. It took almost three years, more than a hundred questions at the National Assembly, motions, petitions and demonstrations so that the Prime Minister deign to trigger a public inquiry into the construction industry ", a -Do she recalled. 
"We can not continue like that anymore. The only solution is to change government. Quebec must be returned and to get there you have to get up, stand, proudly. You have to change direction. Let's leave Quebeckers decide. Quebeckers want to change government and want to change direction. The Liberal government has been time. The Liberal leader has been time. It is now necessary to give the population the opportunity to make its choices. Let the democracy speak, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
