Rimouski- The Minister Delegate to the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine Region, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, confirmed, on behalf of the Minister Delegated to Industrial Policy and the Economic Development Bank of Quebec, Ms. élaine Zakaïb, the award of $ 12,000 financial assistance from the Entrepreneurship Assistance Program (PAEN), for the Entrepreneurship Forum, which takes place today in Rimouski. 
This event, organized by the Ministry of Finance and the Economy in collaboration with Emploi-Québec, the Lower St. Lawrence Entrepreneurship Action Table, the Grouping of Local Development Centers (CLD) of the Bas-Saint- Saint- Laurent as well as various socio-economic partners, brings together some 240 participants attending workshops and conferences on the development of entrepreneurship and the importance of entrepreneurial succession in the region. 
"Entrepreneurship is an essential pillar of economic growth in all regions," said Gaétan Lelièvre. "We are therefore proud to support the holding of this forum aimed at strengthening the consultation of all actors in socio-economic and education around common goals to support the development of entrepreneurship in the Bas- region. Saint Laurent. » 
"More than ever, we need to give the areas the means to ensure their long-term growth, and this growth involves entrepreneurship," says Zakaïb. "This forum mobilizes economic stakeholders around this important issue for Quebec. It is also an opportunity for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Entrepreneurship Action Table to unveil its 2013-2015 Action Plan, which will enable the realization of projects for the region and encourage the influence of a culture. entrepreneurial Quebec. » 
The Bas-Saint-Laurent Entrepreneurship Action Table brings together eight corporate leaders and seven socio-economic agency representatives in the region. The main mandate is to develop and achieve a regional action plan that will promote the consultation of all economic players in the development of entrepreneurship in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region. 
"The Entrepreneurship Forum has allowed us to discuss the measures of our 2013-2015 Action Plan, which presents fifty structuring projects for our region," said the President of the Entrepreneurship Action Table. From Bas-Saint-Laurent, Mr. Bernard Bélanger. "We are also counting on the collaboration of all our partners to ensure success and to promote synergy, especially between the school and businesses, which will allow the retention of our young people and the rise of entrepreneurship in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region. » 
To learn more about the Lower St. Lawrence Entrepreneurship Action Table and its Regional Action Plan, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/pages-regional/bas-saint-laurent/tables- in-entrepreneurship-tae. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
