Quebec- Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is pleased to announce the allocation of $ 33,000 financial assistance to the Microbreweries Association Quebec (Ambq) for the organization and holding of its annual convention currently taking place at the Mont-Royal Center in Montreal. This is a unique opportunity to bring together all the actors of the brewing environment and their partners, in a context promoting professional meetings and discussions, and thus strengthen the links that unite them. 
"This is a compactive activity that greatly contributes to improving the know-how and the growth of knowledge and skills in our microbreweries. It is also a great way to achieve the objectives of the Brassicole Strategic Development Plan, which also frames with the orientations of the Food Sovereignty Policy. I must-see for all persons at work in this environment, the Annual Congress of the Ambq is a major training and energizing tool that should be proudly supported, "said Francois Gendron . 
Speakers, both in Quebec and abroad, participate in the annual conference this year. They will address different facets of the job and many aspects of the functioning of a brewing company. Everything is implemented to maximize knowledge transfer as well as networking with these guests or with the establishments they represent. In addition, the ambq organizes on this occasion the "supplier trade fair" that takes place of exchange for microbrewers and suppliers of products, services and expertise and which aims to consolidate or develop relations of 'business. 
The ambq was created in 1990. Its mission is to bring together Quebec microbreweries and ensures promoting and defending their common interests. The association includes among its members 33 brewer companies. These give jobs to more than 800 people in Quebec. 
Recall that with investments of $ 2.3 billion and an annual food demand of nearly $ 34 billion supporting 475,000 jobs, the bioalmic industry is a powerful engine of Quebec's economy. 
For more information on the Government of Quebec's food sovereignty policy, we can visit the blogww.politicsa.gouv.qc.caqui is dedicated to it or go to page www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesadu website of the website Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
