Montreal- The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Jean-François Lisée, and the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Pascal Bérubé , announce the award of $ 555,000 government financial assistance for the World Films of the World2013, which will take place in Montreal from August 22 to September 2. 
For its 37Edition, the festival will show more than 400 films from around the world. The cinematographic environment of here and guests from all over the world will participate in this annual cinema celebration in the Quebec metropolis. Animation activities and meetings are also on the program. 
"The World Film Festival offers, year after year, programming at the height of its international reputation. This competitive festival presents quality works and a great cultural diversity, which rallied a vast public composed as well as well-known cinephiles and amateurs of seventh art. Festivalgoers will have the opportunity to see many movies of global cinematography, that they would never have had the chance to discover otherwise, "said Minister Kotto. 
"Whether by the holding of great events of the genre or the large number of international turnings in its territory, the metropolitan area is defined as a capital of seventh art. Montreal is recognized for the creativity that lives in it and benefits, thanks to the World Film Festival, exceptional radiation, "added the minister. 
"The Quebec government is pleased to participate in the success of the World Film Festival. Many festival-goers will converge to Montreal in the coming days to soak up the culture and talent of foreign filmmakers. This event helps to position Quebec as a unique and diverse tourist destination, "said Minister Bérubé. 
The contribution of the Government of Quebec is distributed as follows: $ 225,000 comes from the Help component of the Film Festivals of the Promotion and Dissemination of the Cultural Business Development Corporation, $ 165,000 from Fonds Initiative and Radiation of the Métropole, administered by the Secretariat to the Metropolitan Region, and $ 165,000 of the Tourism Industry Development Program - Fiscal Festivals and Tourist Events of Tourisme Québec. 
