Québec- The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltais, announces a simplification of administrative procedures for citizens and families. Indeed, new forms have been put into circulation, by the Director of Civil Status, for death declarations, change of name or the mention of sex and birth. 
"The new statements are consistent with the will of our government to simplify the lives of citizens and families. Through these advances, we remove from the administrative heaviness for people who have already conjugate with the moving events that are the loss of a loved one, the change of identity or birth of a child. Thanks to new statements, citizens and families no longer need to complete several forms with the same information each time, "said the minister. 
With these changes, citizens and families inform in one step several ministries and agencies of their new situation. They also reduce the costs and deadlines for obtaining a civil status document aimed at proving their change in situation. In addition, the boring form for birth also gives the possibility of applying for direct deposit registration for the payments of the various family allowances. 
"As Minister responsible for the fight against homophobia, I have been made aware of the many obstacles that transgender and transgender people face within the government apparatus. This new statement raises an obstacle by facilitating the communication of the change of name or sex to the various ministries and agencies, "said the Minister of Justice, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud. 
The ministries and agencies covered by these new statements are: 
Note, moreover, that this concerted approach with other departments and agencies is based on the integrated service delivery and makes public administration even more efficient. 
This way of doing already knows a great success with the population with respect to the Quebec address change service for which more than 635,000 uses were counted last year. 
