Québec- The Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, today announced that she accepted the recommendation of Hydro-Québec about the closure of the Gentilly-2 nuclear power plant. This recommendation comes from the evaluation report, carried out by the Crown corporation and made public today on the costs of repairing the nuclear power plant. 
"This report demonstrates that the renovation of the Gentilly-2 plant is not an economically profitable solution for Quebeckers. We need to learn from the additional costs incurred during the repair of the Point Lepreau Station, New Brunswick, the atomic energy sale of limited Canada and the Fukushima nuclear disaster. In addition, we need to consider that we have a surplus of electrical energy, "said the minister. 
The decommissioning and dismantling stages will be done in order, rigor and, above all, the greatest concern for the safety of workers and citizens. The Crown corporation will also use Gentilly staff to carry out these operations of great complexity. In addition, the population will be informed of all stages of this exercise. Hydro-Québec, for its part, will be available to provide information. 
The minister wanted to clarify that she is wholeheartedly with the staff of the plant and their families. Thus, she obtained the assurance that the Crown corporation will use the expertise of the people already in place at the plant by associating them with the decommissioning activities. Eligible employees will also be able to retire and permanent employees will be reallocated to other functions within the Crown corporation. 
"For the future of the Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec, we have planned an important economic leverage, a diversification fund worth $ 200 million. This fund will make it possible to carry out carrying projects that will give a new breath to the region. Our government is listening to your concerns. We know that the region has all the assets needed to pull out of the game. I appeal to our strong forces, to our creativity, to our spirit of innovation and our ingenuity, the knowledge of our academics and the determination Of all to succeed this new start, "concluded Minister Ouellet. 
For more information on the Fund, the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie Economic Diversification Table, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
Consult the news releases issued by the Parti Québécois government concerning Gentilly-2 
The Parti Québécois requires excuses from the Liberal Party of Quebec to lie on Gentilly-2: Watch Judgment of Presse de Luc Trudel and NoëlThe Champagne. 
