Terrebonne- On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the member for Terrebonne, Mathieu Traversy, Announces the award of $ 148,500 Financial Assistance for the Restoration of the Bélisle House, a Classified Heritage Building In the heart of the Old Terrebonne. 
"Our city is responsible for history, and I am proud to belong to this community that has the willing will to protect and showcase a rich heritage testifying to our past. This work will have the effect of maintaining in good condition this classified heritage that is located in the heart of the Old Terrebonne and putting it more at the foreground in the cultural and tourist offer of the environment, "says Mathieu Traversy. 
The financial contribution will carry out restoration work on this protected building under the Cultural Heritage Act. The project consists of the restoration of the exterior masonry walls, chimneys and doors. 
"The Bélisle house, known as the country house, is a patrimonial place in the heart of the cultural life of Terrebonne. This place of cultural dissemination is an example of integration of all the dimensions of our Quebec identity, combining past, present and future. It is essential to preserve it, to highlight it and remember, "says Maka Kotto. 
Financial support of $ 148,500 from the Ministry of Culture and Communications comes from the Quebec Cultural Heritage Fund. The City of Terrebonne, owner of the Bélisle House, is the main financial partner of the project. Its estimated financial contribution is $ 174,325. 
"We are grateful for this notable contribution from the Ministry of Culture and Communications. The Bélisle House is a valuable Terrebonnian and Quebec heritage. Protecting and enhancing our built heritage is a cultural responsibility that we recognize and assume, as we were engaged in our cultural policy, "says Jean-Marc Robitaille, Mayor of Terrebonne. 
Additional information about Bélisle House is available on the Cultural Heritage Directory of Quebec (RPCQ) website, atwww.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca. 
New cultural heritage dissemination tools are added to the RPCQ to discover all its richness and diversity, making it accessible to all. Part of the RPCQ content is now on the Open Data Portal of the Government of Quebec, atwww.donne.gouv.qc.ca, as well as on the Pinterest social network, in the form of virtual exhibitions, AWWW. Pinterest.com/rpcq. 
Online training is also offered, at the address www.formation-patrimoine.mcc.gouv.qc.ca. Composed of video capsules and learning activities, it presents the basic notions of the Cultural Heritage Act and explains the roles and responsibilities of each to promote the knowledge, protection, development and transmission of the Cultural Heritage. 
