Québec- It is today at the National Assembly of Quebec that the Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Régie des rentes du Québec, Ms. Agnès Maltais, presented the project DELOI regarding the restructuring of defined benefit pension plans in the municipal sector and other amendments to these plans. This bill takes into account the four major government guidelines announced in LePlan of Public Action in December 2013, the intergenerational fairness, the ability to pay taxpayers, the protection of retirees' rents and the principle of costs. Costs. 
"As promised, we quickly tabled a bill that will allow, by focusing on the way of negotiation, to address the complex problem of the financial situation of the municipal sector pension plans. We also respect the commitments made at the municipal sector forum held on January 21, "said Minister responsible for the Régie des rentes du Québec, Ms. Agnès Maltais. "We take our responsibilities on behalf of the general interest. We innovate by offering courageous, realistic and adapted solutions, in order to quickly restore the financial health of municipal pension plans and to ensure its sustainability, "she added. 
The bill provides for the possibility of exceptionally returning to past commitments, limits this possibility for a period of 18 months, and protects the retirees' basic pension. Other provisions of the bill make it mandatory sharing 50-50 of the costs of the plans for the future, the abolition of the additional benefit and the establishment of a provision in case of a blow. In addition, leave of employers' contributions will no longer be permitted, and any improvement to a pension plan must be fully provisioned. 
The actual period of negotiations will begin on July 1, 2014 and will be for a maximum of six months. In the case of impasse, the process provides for a mandatory conciliation of six months followed, if necessary, the intervention of the Labor Relations Board, which will make a decision without appeal and enforceable. 
"With this bill, we have a strong gesture by giving the actors involved tools that will allow them to ensure the sustainability of the pension plans and to contain the burden that their capitalization represents for taxpayers. I am particularly proud that we have worked together with the common goal of finding solutions to this important issue, in the interest, once again, from all Quebeckers and Quebeckers, "said the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The bill provides that the restructuring will be mandatory for the defined benefit pension plans for municipal agencies with a capitalization rate of less than 85% as at December 31, 2013. Pension plans that allow for a grant for early retirement before 55 years. will also have to be renegotiated. The goal is to ensure that the duration and contribution rate take into account the increase in life expectancy. 
This bill is the government proposal in response to the situation of the municipal sector. The parliamentary committee study will hear the parties' point of view and improve it. The holding of the work forums last January found that the problems and needs were not the same for the municipal, university and private sectors. Thus, other university and private sectors are proposed in the coming months. 
