Quebec- The Minister responsible for the Government Administration and President of the Treasury Board, Stéphane Bédard, introduced today the consequences of the companies who are denied an authorization to contract by the authority of the financial markets (authority ), under Law 1, as well as the rehabilitation approaches in which they must engage. 
Under Law 1 on the integrity of public contracts, a company that fails to obtain authorization from the Authority becomes ineligible to obtain new public contracts, from whatever nature it is, by a Ministry, a public body, a Crown corporation or a municipality. It will have to file a new application and obtain the green light after a period determined by the Authority. 
"We want to deal with businesses that respect the law and who are ethical in their contractual practices. We will be intractable on this plan. We must reward honesty. This is a question of fairness and sound management of public funds, "said Minister Bédard.  Contracts in progress 
With regard to ongoing contracts, the Treasury Board may, however, allow a company to supplement a contract, submitting it if required, at its expense, to strict monitoring and support measures. 
Each case will be evaluated by the Treasury Board according to the public interest. It will take into account: 
In the event that a company would be allowed to complete a contract, among possible conditions, the Treasury Board may require that the enterprise be under the supervision of an external auditor designated by the Authority. This auditor could then monitor three levels, at the level of the governance, ethics and accounting of the faulty company. In addition, at any time, the Authority could request new audits of the Permanent Unit Anti-Corruption (UPAC) concerning the company involved. 
However, the government does not want to deprive the public infrastructure population, many of which are essential, among which hospitals and transport links. It does not want to penalize honest workers in the use of faulty companies, nor push them at bankruptcy at the expense of Quebec's economic health. He maintains a firm, balanced and responsible position, so that everyone comply with the law. 
The wrongdoing companies will therefore be called upon to carry out and supplement real rehabilitation approaches to changes in culture and practices, to possibly submit a new application for authorization to the Authority. Among the possible rehabilitation measures, there are: 
"Each file will be analyzed according to the public interest. Also, rehabilitation efforts will be decisive. The mere fact of moving some players or signing a check will not be enough. There is no question of makeup or buying indulgences. We send a clear signal to the faulty companies: Make the housework. For the good of companies as well as that of the Quebec population, "concluded Minister Bédard. 
