Quebec- The Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade (Mr Chairman), Mr. Jean-François Lisée, and the Minister Delegate to Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, Accompanied by the President of the Quebec Association of International Cooperation Organizations (AQOCI), Mr. Denis Labelle, today announced the creation of a joint committee with the mandate to reflect on what a Quebec international solidarity agency should be (AQSI). 
The guidelines adopted by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) in recent years have contributed to the decision to set up this working group. "CIDA has become closely integrated into the Canadian government's economic development strategy. Values that have traditionally guided Canadian international development policies, which were shared by Quebec, have gradually changed. The notion of international solidarity appears more and more marginalized, "said the minister listed. "We want our action in international cooperation reflects our values and priorities. This committee will evaluate how the creation of a Quebec International Solidarity Agency would allow us to get closer to this goal, "said the minister. 
The Quebec community of international solidarity is facing a situation more and more difficult. This is why the president of the AQOCI, Denis Labelle, is pleased with the establishment of this joint committee: "Solidarity is a fundamental value in Quebec. For decades, organisms of solidarity and international cooperation in Quebec have developed unique expertise and partnerships with civil society organizations in the South. An AQSI would allow Quebec to increase its commitment while continuing to focus on a mode of intervention based on respect and fairness. » 
An AQSI would allow Quebec to carry out its own development initiatives by asserting the Quebec cooperation approach that is based, among other things, on principles of respect and true partnership. "One of the objectives of the Working Committee is to consider the possibility of recovering our fair share of official development assistance for Quebec to become the prime contractor of his action on international cooperation. That's exactly the kind of gesture we will ask in the framework of sovereignist governance, whenever the interests of Quebec will apply, "added Minister Cloutier. 
It is naturally that the miscarriage and the AQOFI chose to collaborate for the realization of this project. The Quebec government and the AQOCI have been having a partnership relationship for over thirty years. The AQOCI is a leading player to facilitate reflection and raise awareness about Quebec populations on issues related to international cooperation. Many Quebec actors in the field of international solidarity will also be consulted in the work of this committee whose report is expected for the end of 2013. 
