Quebec- Minister responsible for democratic institutions and citizen participation, Bernard Drainville, presented today to the National Assembly Bill 2, An Act to amend the Elections Act to limit contributions to $ 100 per voter and to revise public funding of political parties. 
"By depositing this bill, we want to restore the bond of trust that must unite Quebeckers and their elected officials in the National Assembly. The revelations of recent years and those updated by the Charbonneau Commission in recent weeks have tainted Quebec's reputation, they have hurt our democracy, "said the minister. 
"The collective interest must provide special interests. As elected, we have a duty to work to strengthen our democracy. Our fellow citizens expect us to act with diligence and firmness. Limit to $ 100 Contributions to political parties will put an end to the trafficking of influence and the use of loans, "pursued Bernard Drainville. 
"Quebeckers want us to fight against corruption and collusion. They want us to bring back integrity into our democracy. We are committed to it, we will hold words, "added Bernard Drainville. 
In order to make the funding of political parties mainly public, at zero cost for taxpayers, the bill proposes the following amendments: 
"Our government is committed to making a merciless struggle to corruption and collusion, and combat cynicism. Our proposal will give Quebec one of the most rigorous and integral political party funding systems in Quebec, highlighted the minister. By filing this bill and Bill 1, we undertake the great household of our institutions. » 
Finally, Mr. Drainville invites all his colleagues from the National Assembly to collaborate in the adoption of the bill to introduce a political funding system that will meet the expectations of the Quebec population. "It is in the interest of Quebec that this bill is adopted as quickly as possible. Partisan interests must be left out. Unduly delay the adoption of measures to regain the confidence of the population would be judged hard, and rightly, by it. » 
