Montreal - The Greater Montreal area has just been recognized among the 21 smart metropolises of the year (Smart 21) by the Intelligent Community Forum (ICF), the largest international body in the field. The Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, and the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élain Zakaïb , consider that this recognition confirms the enviable and very promising positioning of the Montreal Metropolitan Region on Information and Communications Technologies (ICT). 
Unquestable economic engine, the ICT industry is of strategic importance for Quebec and the Greater Montreal Region. In 2012, the sector included more than 92,000 jobs in nearly 5,000 Greater Montréal businesses, representing 8% of the Montreal workforce. 
"The dynamism and creativity that characterize our metropolis has favored expansion in the territory of one of the most prosperous industries. The digital sector in the Greater Montreal area is effervescence, with many projects and activities, conducted by the forehead by the most at the forefront of the field. The recognition of the Greater Montreal Region, in this regard, confirms its world leader status in this state-of-the-art sector, "supports the minister. 
The Government of Quebec welcomes the initiative of the TechnoMontréal Industrial Cluster, which, in partnership with Montreal International, the City of Montreal, the Regional Elected Regional Conference (Créso) of Montreal, the Chamber of Commerce of the Metropolitan Montreal and the Council of the Arts From Montreal, submitted the candidacy of the metropolis to this prestigious competition. 
"Quality Job Generator, the Information Technology and Communications Industry is one of those that presents the greatest attraction potential for investors and young talents. As in other emerging sectors, the consolidation of the environment of the environment within Technomontreal testifies to the value of the strategic alliances resulting from the industrial clusters, "says Minister Zakaïb. 
The Distinction granted by the ICF is the first step in a process that will select, in January 2014, the seven most successful cities in the field and then appointing a great winner in June 2014. 
The Intelligent Community Forum (ICF) is a non-profit research organization established in New York, which studies the development of the 21st century cities. The Independent Reflection Group is dedicated to the creation of jobs and the development of the digital economy. ICF, centered on research, conferences, consulting services, educational services and an annual competition, identifies and shares developing best practices in smart cities. 
