In the framework of the conference together, make mobility advance, organized by the table of prefects and elected of the southern Crown, the head of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, accompanied by the spokesman for the files affecting the REM, Alain Therrien, presented the positive impacts for the Montérégie du Grand Unlock, a plan to reduce road congestion by 10% and significantly increase the mobility of citizens of the metropolis and neighboring regions. "The citizens of the Montérégie will see their quality of life improve concretely with the vision that the Parti Québécois carries for public transit. I also salute the mobilization of the elected representatives of the South Shore, which are committed to presenting concrete solutions to reduce congestion, "he said from the entry. 
Earlier today, in the company of the member for Verchères and spokesperson responsible for the Montérégie Region, Stéphane Bergeron, Jean-François Lisé has distributed flyers on the great unblocking in the incentive parking of Sainte-Julie, before Make the subway of Longueuil aboard the "mobile Véronique". He also made a tour in the riding of Verchères, to meet citizens and organizations. 
IN SHORT 
The Parti Québécois offers the great unlocking for the citizens of the Montérégie: 
"By 2025, we want to reduce road congestion by 10% in the metropolis and neighboring regions. This means 133,000 automobiles less on the roads, and a reduction of GHGs at least 8 times greater than what promises the REM. In addition, we know, citizens want to spend less time on the move, and more in family; We offer accessible, efficient and fast transportation solutions. It's our commitment! Then exposed the official Leader of the Official Opposition. 
"Our roads are blocked. It was yesterday a disadvantage, it is now a plague. In the great metropolitan area, a motorist loses 76 hours a year in the plugs. And no current project will reverse this crazy tendency. The REM is an expensive and inefficient project; By respecting the same timelines and the same costs, we present a much more useful and ambitious plan, "said Alain Therien. 
"The great unlocking we propose, it is, among other things, a better service for the citizens of the South Shore, which will finally have a public transport service up to their needs. The tram-express will be a breath of fresh air for many citizens of the region. In addition, it is an essentially electric plan; With 475,000 additional electrified displacements, the Parti Québécois confirms its willingness to actually turn your back on oil, "concluded Stéphane Bergeron. 
