A party of convictions. That's it, the Parti Québécois. People from all walks of life, devoted, involved and who only work in one thing: to defend the interests of Quebec. At the Québécois Party, we are convinced that the future of Quebec goes through sovereignty, that the Quebec nation is best able to choose what will be its destiny. When Quebeckers and Quebeckers are ready, we will be too. By then, and as our priority is to help make Quebec a place where it is good to live, we will continue our work: job creation, economic development, a better education system, a better network of Health, a better social net, the affirmation of our identity, our culture, our values and the promotion of sustainable development and respect for the environment. To succeed, the Parti Québécois has always been on solidarity and integrity. 
Yes, the Parti Québécois is a party of convictions. And we are convinced that the bond of trust between the political class and the population is essential, fundamental, to allow Quebec to move forward. The liberal years broke this bond of trust. From now on, mistrust and cynicism take more space than hope and ideals. "All parties are similar to the same. "Politicians are all liars. Corruption, collusion, coping ... That's what we hear, that's what we repeat. It must stop and the Parti Québécois worked very hard to bring integrity. Law 1 on the granting of public contracts, Law 2 on the financing of political parties, Law 10 under its functions an elected municipal accused of criminal, the law expanding the mandate of the Auditor General of Quebec to companies of State, Bill 33, which, in particular, abolishes the premiums for MPs who leave on the mandate, blocked by the PLQ, and Bill 53, supplementing the reform of municipal political financing at $ 100, are only 100 Some examples of our desire to clean up the political environment. The 18-month extension of the Charbonneau commission is another example. Bringing integrity, bringing confidence, that's what the Quebecois Party of Pauline Marois since the 2012 election. 
The number one enemy of the corruption camp is a government of the Parti Québécois. 
Try to dirty the reputation of our party through allegations, at a week of polling, says a lot about the level of cynicism of our opponents. 
Marc Bellemare, former Minister of Liberal Justice, invites voters to reject the Liberal Party of very eloquent way: "Quebec can not in any way plunge into the lack of integrity, on pain of seeing his economy suffering and the cynicism reach an unparalleled level. Quebec needs a majority citizen party. We will continue and finish the household we've started.ither says it so well mebellemare, "I am convinced that only the Parti Québécois is able to carry out this paramount mission." 
