Montreal, March 20, 2018- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée (Rosemont), accompanied by MPs Carole Poirier (Hochelaga-Maisonneuve), Stéphane Bergeron (Verchères), Nicolas Marceau (Rousseau), Lightweight Nicole (Pointe -S-Trembles) and Marc Bourcier (Saint-Jérôme), today presented the Grand Unlock, a plan to reduce road congestion by 10% and significantly increase the mobility of citizens of the metropolis and neighboring regions. 
IN SHORT 
133,000 cars, 10%, less in the great Montreal area. 
175 new stations over 200 kilometers. 
New Tramway Series on the Island of Montreal and the South Shore. 
New reserved routes for fast bus to Laval, in the North Crown, and on the South Shore, Sainte-Julie in Châteauguay. 
$ 1.4 billion in fixed assets for the Renaissance of the suburban trains. 
New inserts to Joliette, Saint-Hyacinthe, Saint John, the About. 
More departures for the eastern train, the two-mountain line, the western train, the train from Saint-Jérôme. 
280,000 tons of GHG less per year. 
Electrification: 475,000 additional electrified displacements. 
An oil economy is worth $ 150 million a year. 
More than $ 300 million worth of additional land value left to municipalities. 
A real efficient electrified transport network 
"By 2025, we want to reduce road congestion by 10% in the metropolis and neighboring regions. This means 133,000 automobiles less on the roads, and more time for our families. We know, citizens want less time on the move; We offer accessible, efficient and fast transportation solutions. It's our commitment! "Said Jean-François Lisée. 
"Our streets are blocked. In Montreal, on the south shore, on the north shore. It was yesterday a disadvantage, it is now a plague. In the great metropolitan area, a motorist loses 76 hours a year in the plugs. And no current project will reverse this crazy tendency, "continued the leader of the official opposition. 
We need a big unlocking. The Parti Québécois offers the largest anti-moving offensive of our history. The objective: to reduce congestion by 10% in a few years. With an ambitious program, but simple solutions, known technologies, on existing courses. 
"A project that will benefit everyone from Saint-Jérôme to Saint-Hyacinthe, from the Aboliette, with new options, faster, in Laval, Longueuil, as well as for the east, the center and the west of Montreal. Unlock our transport is to give yourself from the quality of life, "he added. 
An unprecedented leap for transport electrification 
"The electrification of our transport is a priority economic and environmental project for our team. Here we are an unprecedented leap: 475,000 additional electrified trips. Five electrified tram projects will be put in place. We position Quebec as a leader in the fight against climate change, reducing 125 million liters oil consumption each year, "said Marc Bourcier, spokesman for the official opposition. transport electrification. 
Congress in numbers 
1.3 million cars at rush hour in the metropolitan area. 
Economic cost: 2.0 billion. 
76 hours a year in lost time. 
The big unblocking compared to the REM 
508 020 Additional movements of which 475 000 electrified - 4x the REM. 
133,000 less cars (in rush hour) - 78x REM. 
280 040 tons of GHGs less - 8x REM. 
For an equivalent budget, 
For an equivalent calendar, 
And with the local purchase of rolling stock. 
