Montréal- The Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, and the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Mrs. Carole Poirier, on behalf of the Minister of Business municipal, regions and occupation of the territory and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, announce the award of $ 45 million financial assistance to the City of Montreal for the realization of three major infrastructure projects on The space site for life. 
The investment will allow the construction of a glass pavilion in the botanical garden, the enlargement of the insectarium and the redevelopment of ecosystems at the biodome. An architecture contest is launched to find bold concepts to make visitors live in memorable immersive experiences. With a recovery and recovery of the metropolitan area and supporting the celebrations of the 375th anniversary of Montreal, in 2017, these are structuring projects that will constitute meaningful government legacies at the metropolis. 
"2017 is a historical opportunity - as was Expo 67 - to build the Montreal tomorrow. Just title the pride of Montrealers, space for life is precious collective equipment that helps to boost Greater Montreal. By investments like the one we announce today, our government wants to leave the city a sustainable legacy and promote the recognition of Montreal, Quebec's economic engine, as modern and international metropolis, "said the minister. 
More important Natural Sciences Complex in Canada and the world's first place dedicated to the human and nature, the space for the Vieregroupe Biodôme, the insectarium, the botanical garden and the planetarium. More concretely, the first project aims at the construction of a glass pavilion with bold and organic architecture in the heart of the botanical garden, which will be the theater of international caliber horticultural events. The second project provides for a metamorphosis of the insectarium, which is based on the construction of new wings that will include, in particular, a large butterfly flying aviary for the winter as well as new showrooms and animation. Finally, the biodoma will be completely redesigned, and new infrastructures will be built to give access to its vault. 
"It is with pride that our government supports these three flagship space projects for life, an exceptional place that is now acting as a strategic attraction pole for the development of eastern metropolis. Today's announcement shows that Montreal leaders are currently mobilized to further stimulate Montreal's growth., "Said MP Carole Poirier. 
