Quebec- The Minister responsible for the Government Administration and President of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, announced eight measures that will allow the Government of Quebec to develop its expertise of free software and to intensify the use within the public bodies. 
"The government strongly believes in the benefits of using free software. Today's announcement is an important step forward in this direction. For us, free software represents both a must-have option for public bodies and a business opportunity for several Quebec companies. In short, free software, it is paying for Quebec, "said Minister Bédard. 
Among the measures announced include the creation from 1 April 2013 of a center of government expertise in support and development of free software. The Center for Expertise in Free Software (Cell) will be mandated to develop state-of-the-art expertise to support public organizations in the development of free software solutions. For example, document management tools, geomatics as well as collaboration and participation platforms would be developed from this type of software. 
Here are the other measures that will allow the Government of Quebec to take advantage of free software: 
"With these measures, which will increase the use of free software in public bodies, the government is one step further to give greater flexibility in managing its information resources," concluded Minister Bédard. 
Appendix: Mandate of the Center for Expertise in Free Software [www.tresor.gouv.qc.ca] 
To increase the use of free software within public bodies, government authorities must offer coaching, support and support. 
To do this, the government will put in place, within the Quebec Shared Services Center, a team of experts responsible for supporting public bodies in the use of free software. The Center for Expertise in Free Software (Cell) will help to develop internal expertise and know-how, to preserve them, to identify and mark government intervention slots, thus promoting the adoption of technologies currently little known. 
More particularly, the mandate of the Cell will consist of: 
