Quebec- Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Yves-François Blanchet, announces that the results of the sampling and analyzes made by the department following Lac-Mégantic events are Available for consultation. By broadcasting open data related to water and air quality, the government allows the population to have direct access to reliable data. Data on the state of soil contamination will also be disseminated in the coming weeks, as soon as the characterization has been performed. 
"I am committed to being published, explained and maintained up-to-date all data relating to the contamination of the sites affected by the disaster. It must, however, be scientific and transparent. Field stakeholders have been working since July 6 to ensure the protection of the environment and the health of citizens. Since the beginning of July, the situation has evolved tremendously. The sampling results we make public today respond to recognized scientific standards. This is the most up-to-date information we have so far, "said Minister Blanchet. 
Data collected by departmental experts are available in tables and charts. Several findings emerge and deserve to be highlighted as to the quality of the water: 
With respect to air quality, the analyzes carried out by the TAGA Mobile Laboratory have demonstrated a significant reduction in contaminants in the air from July 8 and a return to normal from July 10th. One-time analyzes are still carried out to ensure the health and safety of stakeholders on site. 
Moreover, remember that oil deposits have been observed, especially on the banks and on the first three meters of the board of the Boiler River. All the necessary work is made to clean this watercourse that has its source in the Mégantic Lake. The whole workforce and equipment required are involved in order to achieve the best results as soon as possible. 
"The disaster has inflicted heavy damage to the environment. It will never be a question of minimizing them. On the other hand, the health of people will be protected and the bulk of the damage will be repaired, "reiterated the Blanchet minister. 
It should be noted that only the results from the ministry's analyzes are disseminated on its website. Other data, produced by third parties or obtained as part of an investigation, will remain used for the evaluation and monitoring of the situation. Departmental data is available at the following address: www.mddefp.gouv.qc.ca/lac-megantic. 
