Quebec- The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announces the award of a financial assistance of nearly $ 23,000 to the owner of Maison Marc-Aurèle-de Foy-Suzor-side, located in Victoriaville, to perform restoration work. 
"By providing financial support for the restoration project of Marc-Aurèle de Foy Suzor-side, the Quebec government recognizes a privileged witness of our cultural history. A true space of creation, the house served as a privileged place for the creation and inspiration of several flagship works of the artist. It is with great pride that we support the development of this historic building, an essential element of the heritage of Victoriaville and Center-du-Québec, "said Minister Kotto. 
Built in 1859, this cottage style house is classified as a heritage building under the Cultural Heritage Act. In addition to its neoclassical architecture, it is of a heritage interest for its historical value related to the Marc-Aurrele artist of Foy Suzor-side. A true pillar of art in Quebec, this painter and sculptor was born and launched his career in this house which now wears his name. 
The financial assistance of the Ministry of Culture and Communications comes from the Quebec Cultural Heritage Fund and represents 40% of the cost of eligible work, valued at nearly $ 60,000. Remember that the purpose of this fund is to contribute to the conservation and development of cultural property and territories with significant heritage value for our nation. 
Additional information regarding the Maison Marc-Aurèle-de Foy-Suzor-side is available on the website of the Cultural Heritage Directory of Quebec (RPCQ), Auhttp: //www.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca. This dissemination tool of the Ministry of Culture and Communications makes it possible to discover the richness and diversity of the Quebec cultural heritage by making it accessible to all. Part of the RPCQ content is now on the Open Data Portal of the Government of Quebec, atwww.donnes.gouv.qc.ca. 
