Financial assistance from the Government of Quebec of more than $ 1.7 million 
Sherbrooke- The Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Elders, Minister responsible for the Estrie and MP Region, Dr. Réjean Hébert, is proud to participate in the inauguration of new developments of The Sherbrooke organization, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault. It benefits from this opportunity to remind you that Sercovie has received government assistance from $ 1,741,393 from the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM) for the completion of its project. 
"I am very pleased to participate today in the inauguration of the new developments of Secovie, which make it possible to gather and accommodate under one roof several organizations working with elders. With these improvements, Sercovie can now offer more services and activities for 50 years and over the Sherbrooke and the surrounding area. Also, by offering its services to a larger number of seniors, the organization contributes to their home maintenance as long as possible. Increasing seniors' services is to improve their life quality is to contribute to their development in their community, in the community, "said Minister Réjean Hébert. 
Remember that the project was aimed at the renovation and adaptation of the building of Secovie as well as the construction of a four-storey enlargement. The building concerned is an old church built in 1884 and located near the city center of Sherbrooke. Upgrading and improvements have been made to the existing part to make it more functional, safer and better adapted to customers. Other interventions have also increased the capacity of the cafeteria to 120 seats and the annual production of the kitchen at 200,000 meals, in addition to setting up twenty office space for tenant partners. An upgrade of the six existing halls and the addition of five multifunctional rooms complete the entire project. 
Let us mention that Sercovie is a non-profit community organization that has existed for 40 years. Its mission is to ensure the quality of life of the elders of the city of Sherbrooke and the surrounding area and has more than 1500 members who organize and participate more than 50 activities. Nearly 3000 citizens benefit from Sercovie services annually, which provides for an increase in attendance by about 50% in the coming years. 
The realization of this project required an investment of $ 3,482,786, assumed equally by the Government of Quebec and Skecovie, under the PIQM 2.1 component. The contribution of each one amounts to $ 1,741,393 in accordance with the requirements of this project. The participation of Sercovie comes from the city of Sherbrooke and other local and regional partners. 
The Government of Quebec's contribution to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) released last April. It should be remembered that this decennial plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
