Quebec- "We have often said that the policy of food sovereignty would be that of action. The filing of this bill confirms the firm will of our government to combat the phenomenon of agricultural land grabbing. We need to be guarded against the increases in the land price that could cause applications for agricultural land by foreign interests. We want land to remain in the hands of our businesses and accessible to succession. » 
C'est ce do what sta dislaré le Vice-Premier et Mininster of Avoir Francescentired, M. Generron, format bring bring axamential location of François Epiré on Loi No46 as a result in the assembly meeting, dementments with hamster luterm use the accapate of accasoless fairfighter. 
Essentially, the purpose of the bill is to strengthen the rules determining access to agricultural land by non-residents. More specifically, it highlights three measures: 
"We must act now to ensure that our legislation is better adapted to the reality of today. We can not remain inactive before the interest shown by foreign investors for our agricultural land. I believe these measures will reassure farmers and many stakeholders in several regions of Quebec, "continued the minister. 
Mr. Gendron also indicated that by making such amendments to the Act, the Government of Quebec is part of a global context where States exercise legitimate power over their territory. Not only are Canadian provinces impose such constraints, but also several US states and many countries strongly prohibit foreign interests from agricultural land. 
"The global food crisis in 2008 amplified the phenomenon of agricultural land grabbing because investors see agricultural land as a refuge value. Although the phenomenon is relatively marginal in Quebec, it should be prevented rather than cure, "said Francois Gendron. 
In addition, the minister indicated that he is currently working on the development of a financial tool to promote agricultural land conservation in the hands of Quebec producers and succession members. 
"Preserving our heritage will contribute to our relieved access to quality lands and better guarantee our food sovereignty. It is an essential gesture that we need to do for future generations, "the minister concluded. 
For further information on the policy of food sovereignty, consult regularly the blog dedicated to it (www.politiquesa.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www .mapaq.gouv.qc.ca / Policya). It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
