Quebec- The Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Elders and Minister responsible for the Estrie Region, Mr. Réjean Hébert, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and occupation of the territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that a $ 100,000 grant is granted to the MRC of the Haut-Saint-François for the organization of its collective transport and a grant of 73,866 $ is granted to ensure the improvement of a bus transportation service between Cookshire-Eaton and Sherbrooke. 
These subsidies are paid under the Government Assistance Program for Regional Collective Transportation for the development of collective transportation. 
"Our Government encourages and supports the development of collective transport, which optimizes the use of the road network while increasing the fluidity of displacements, the decrease in the level of congestion and the reduction of pollution attributable to the consumption of hydrocarbons. . Today's announcement will allow the Estrie region to support the community's commitment in its development, "said Minister Hébert. 
These subsidies aim to provide the people of the MRC of the High Saint-François with better collective transport services and to contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, ensuring the maintenance of the service between Cookshire-Eaton and Sherbrooke, the Ministry of Transport intends to contribute to the socio-economic support and regional development of the Estrie region, while promoting the participation of the environment. 
"By participating in the financing of collective transport, we invest in the sustainable development and mobility of people, an at the same time social, environmental and economic challenge that is at the heart of our government's mission," added Mr. Hébert. 
The collective transport is one of the sitting stones of the next Quebec Policies of Sustainable Mobility. In the process of drawing up, this policy will take over from the Quebec collective transport policy. The new policy, which will be adopted in the fall of 2013, will place the user at the heart of his concerns and guide the actions that will be undertaken by 2020 to enhance the offer of collective transportation service on the whole of the Québec territory. 
The parameters of the government aid program to the regional collective transport, as well as the preparatory documents and some of the memoirs filed as part of the policy consultation, on the website of the Ministry of Transport at the address wed out www.mtq .gouv.qc.ca. 
