Small Valley - On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the Minister Delegate to the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspé-Islands-de-la-Madeleine Region, Gaétan Lelièvre, Announces Financial Assistance of 106 $ 000 at Small-Vallée Télé-Smile and Télé-Soleil de Mont-Louis, to allow them to acquire specialized equipment. 
"Community media are important vectors of social cohesion in their region and they do essential work for their environment. I am satisfied with our support for tele-smile and télé-sun because these television are recognized media for their fairground near the Gaspésians and the Gaspesians, "said Minister Kotto. 
"Tele-smile is an indispensable information tool that produces and produces television broadcasts in the image of the community it serves. This financial assistance will enable the organization to undertake technological shift and to put in place the necessary infrastructure to provide a diversified programming focused on information, culture and services to citizens of the Estran sector, "has Indicated Minister Lelièvre. 
Petite Valley Community Television has been in existence since 1991. With the help of volunteers, this television has four hours of original local productions per week. A local and regional newsletter is also produced every week. The digital turn is essential for this community television to remain competitive. The realization of this project is therefore part of an ambitious high-definition catch and dissemination initiative on this part of the Gaspesian territory. 
Thanks to equipment better suited to new technological realities, the production conditions of the broadcaster will be considerably improved. In addition, the smile building requires minor planning: to repair the gallery and make it accessible to people with reduced mobility, redo the floor recovery and purchase extra furniture. 
Tele-smile will spoke Mont-Louis sunrainera, a community media from the neighboring municipality, and will make the acquisition of some specialized equipment. "We have a good example of creativity in the help of two organizations that have gear in two MRCs in addition," conclude Minister Lelièvre. 
The $ 106,000 grant paid by the Ministry of Culture and Communications comes from the Capital Assistance Program and is as follows: $ 71,000 is awarded to Small Valley-smile and $ 35,000 in Télé-Soleil from Mont-Louis. 
