Quebec- While National Mental Health Week since last Monday, the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert, wishes to highlight the involvement of our mental health partners in this Awareness effort. It recalls that mental health is a government priority and that it is essential to continue efforts to end prejudice and stigma. 
"Still today, people with mental health disorders are often victims of prejudice. Awareness and information is essential to combat stigma. That's why the National Mental Health Week and the many initiatives that accompany it are so important. I am very pleased to see the strong mobilization of our partners in mental health in the field and now hold to highlight their creativity, their commitment and the exceptional work they realize on this week of awareness - and every day of the Year - In the four corners of Quebec to bring down taboos and inform the population, "said Minister Hébert. 
The enhancement of front-line mental health services, maintaining the services offered in the community for people with serious mental disorders, the development of a service offer for marginalized clienteles, the improvement in networking between professionals The health concerned, the deployment of prevention tools and the continuation of the fight against stigma are among the main issues that will be addressed in the next mental health action plan currently in development and which will be made public in the coming month. Future prevention policy will also address the issue of mental health. 
"Mental health is for us a priority axis of intervention. Our approach is part of a new vision that promotes new modes of collaboration and new ways of doing things. We aim to improve accessibility and mental health services, for the entire population, "concluded the Hébert minister. 
In Quebec, it is estimated that one in five currently lives with a mental health problem. According to the World Health Organization, mental illness will be the second cause of distress and disability within a few years, preceded only by cardiovascular disease. 
During the Mental Health Week, various activities are organized in all regions of Quebec. With its themetu is great! Do you know, the Canadian Mental Health Association - Quebec Division wishes this year to focus on self-esteem. For more information, visit www.acsm.qc.ca/acsm_quebec/pages/accueil/00_introduction.php. 
