Quebec, on October 10, 2014 - Members of the Parti Québécois are dismayed by the decision of the Quebec Transport Commission to authorize the reduction and even the abolition of certain Orléans Express Certocar services inc. These changes will have enormous direct consequences in several regions of Quebec, such as a reduction in the mobility of seniors, young people and the poor, and could even threaten tourism development. 
"On the one hand, the Commission recognizes that all stakeholders have asked him to reject the requests for Orleans Express and is very sensitive to the disadvantages that the regions are undergone. On the other, it authorizes all applications from the company; It's inconceivable. This decision is harmful for the development of the regions. Minister Poeti must intervene and ensure the maintenance of services by means that alternatives are found, "said the member for Vachon and the official opposition spokesperson for transport, electrification transport and maritime strategy, Martine Ouellet. 
"With almost non-existent railway service and overpriced air service, the bus becomes the sole and unique means of collective transportation for a large part of the inhabitants of Gaspésie and Bas-Saint-Laurent. This decision will be to isolate these regions and jeopardizes our economic development! , Wanted to remind the member for Gaspé and the official opposition spokesman on the municipal affairs and development of the regions, Gaétan Lelièvre, on behalf of his colleagues in Rimouski, Harold Lebel, Matane-Matapédia, Pascal Bérubé, and Bonaventure, Sylvain Roy. 
Remember that the Parti Québécois launched a brief on the Commission's public hearings requesting the formation of a working committee bringing together the various private and public stakeholders. By the tabling of the Committee's recommendations, the Parti Québécois demanded the full maintenance of Orleans Express. Thus, it would have been possible to reflect on new solutions that can guarantee the maintenance of the unclear service of public transport in several regions, and the profitability of transport companies. 
