Quebec, May 3, 2016 - Mathieu Traversy, spokesperson for the Quebecois on sustainable development, environment and climate change, believes that the Minister of the Environment, David Heurtel, has managed the file of Water disastrously since arriving in office. As regards, more specifically, the national water policy, he asks him to engage in a much broader consultation process than the insufficient targeted consultations he has announced. David Heurtel must also transparently with the publication of a puzzle notebook and a financial framework, according to the Parti Québécois. 
Recall that in 2002, after a consultation that lasted three years, and during which the actors concerned had clearly posted their common desire to adopt a vision both more comprehensive and better integrated with the governance of the Water in Quebec, the national water policy is born. "Nearly 15 years later, the policy must be updated in depth. However, a simple consultation according to traditional modes can not replace a consultation process. For Québec to become an innovative and avant-garde nation for the protection of this single resource, David Heurtel must invite Quebeckers and Quebeckers to a broad public debate to develop the future Quebec strategy of water, "has Affirmed Mathieu Traversy. 
In addition, the Parti Québécois believes that Minister He Hrétiel must carry out with transparency and present now the state of the Reflections of the Government of Quebec as to the revision of the national water policy. It must also submit preliminary proposals and present water partners the financial resources available for the period covered by the next strategy. 
"The Minister of the Environment seems very little concern about our water resources; He visibly does not grasp their importance and inaction puts them in danger. The announcement of targeted consultations for a water strategy is very modest and will certainly not forget the disastrous balance of its mandate to date. Let's just think:  Calamitous management he has made the dump file in the billion liter of wastewater river by the City of Montreal;  at the postponement of 2 years of a permanent law on the conservation of wetlands;  abolishing the blue-green algae awareness program and compressions in the financing of the mission of watershed organizations;  Finally, to the accumulation of pesticides in our rivers, for which it does not provide any solution. 
In short, the water record has never been a ministerial priority for David Heurtel, "concluded Mathieu Traversy. 
