Islands-de-la-Madeleine - in the presence of several partners, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, and the member of the Islands of La-Madeleine And Parliamentary Assistant, Ms. Jeannine Richard, today unveiled an action plan for the next five years to develop the fisheries industry and commercial aquaculture in Quebec. The minister also took the opportunity to announce an investment of $ 12.5 million a year for the implementation of this action plan over the next two years. 
"The Fisheries and Aquaculture Industry of Quebec provides more than 8,000 jobs and produces sales of more than $ 350 million a year. The activity and employment generated by this sector are essential, especially for the economy of the maritime regions of Quebec and the coastal communities that depend on it. That's why our government intends to support this sector by devoting it an articulated action plan that moves to the development stage, "said Gendron. 
This action plan is made public a few weeks of the unveiling of the first policy of food sovereignty. Fisheries partners will be called upon to play a vital role in deploying this policy and have a distinctive action plan. In this regard, in the next two years, government investments on the fisheries sector will reach $ 25 million, an increase nearly 20%. 
The 27 actions will undertakes in LePlan d'Action 2013-2018. Developing our fisheries industry and commercial aquaculture, as well as the priorities exhibited therein, meet the expectations expressed by all industry partners. "The action plan is the result of a beautiful collaboration between the industry links that have worked in the same directions, with the same objectives, to set priorities for the development of our fisheries industry and the Aquaculture in the coming years, "said Richard. 
The first priority focuses on the development, competitiveness and sustainability of the sector. The second relates to the development of aquatic products and the third relates to the dynamic occupation of the territory and sustainable development. The three priorities concern capture, aquaculture, food processing and marketing. 
"Marketing is an aspect that particularly intends to me since the identification and valuation of Quebec's foods are at the heart of our food sovereignty policy. Our aquatic products, both original and high quality, have everything you need to seduce. It is necessary to better develop them, "concluded the minister, pointing out that consultation and innovation are two elements essential to the success of the action plan.  To learn more about the Action Plan to develop the Quebec's fisheries and commercial aquaculture industry, the document can be viewed at www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/pecheaquaculture, as well as That the minister's video: http: //pq.org/video/le-minister-gendron-devoile-un-plan-daction-pour-d/. 
