Quebec- "We have often said that the policy of sovereignty would eating that of the action. The filing of this bill confirms the firm will of our government to combat the phenomenon of agricultural land grabbing. We need to be guarded against the increases in the land price that could cause applications for agricultural land by foreign interests. We want land to remain in the hands of our businesses and accessible to succession. » 
Thisest's Systems Le Vice-Premier And Ministry de l'agroired Avoire Ceremonderation, M. Generrency, New Exected A Bussale Ret Road Nationale The Projet de Lo Projet de Lo Rod 16 ago 'the ural adapté, points lutter to the accapate of accaster agriculturales. 
Essentially, the purpose of the bill is to strengthen the rules determining access to agricultural land by non-residents. More specifically, it highlights three measures: 
Tighten the definition of the resident status provided for in the Act respecting the acquisition of agricultural land by non-residents, in order to prevent a foreign investor from using this provision to acquire agricultural land without submitting to the process of authorization of the Committee on Protection of the Agricultural Territory of Quebec; 
Review the evaluation criteria, at the time of consideration of an application, to take into account the possible consequences on the occupation of the territory of the acquisition of agricultural land by non-residents. The updating of the evaluation criteria will also take into consideration the positive impact of an acquisition when it aims to highlight under-exploited agricultural land; 
"We must act now to ensure that our legislation is better adapted to the reality of today. We can not remain inactive before the interest shown by foreign investors for our agricultural land. I believe these measures will reassure farmers and many stakeholders in several regions of Quebec, "continued the minister. 
Mr. Gendron also indicated that by making such amendments to the Act, the Government of Quebec is part of a global context where States exercise legitimate power over their territory. Not only are Canadian provinces impose such constraints, but also several US states and many countries strongly prohibit foreign interests from agricultural land. 
"The global food crisis in 2008 amplified the phenomenon of agricultural land grabbing because investors see agricultural land as a refuge value. Although the phenomenon is relatively marginal in Quebec, it should be prevented rather than cure, "said Francois Gendron. 
In addition, the minister indicated that he is currently working on the development of a financial tool to promote agricultural land conservation in the hands of Quebec producers and succession members. 
"Preserving our heritage will contribute to our relieved access to quality lands and better guarantee our food sovereignty. It is an essential gesture that we need to do for future generations, "the minister concluded. 
For further information on the food sovereignty policy, consult the blog dedicated to it (www.politiquesa.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food ( www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa). It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
