Montréal - Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Yves-François Blanchet announces the creation of an Advisory Committee on Climate Change. Composed of representatives of various sectors of Quebec society interested in the fight against climate change, this committee will advise the Minister on the measures to be taken to achieve the Quebec goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 25% , on the basis of the 1990 emissions at the threshold of 2020. 
Our approach to the fight against climate change needs to reflect the expectations and concerns of all stakeholders. The establishment of this committee will provide complementary lighting and valuable expertise in setting up a government strategy for unprecedented ambition on climate change, "said Minister Blanchet. 
Consultative accommodation will include: 
The minister brought together the Advisory Committee for the first time yesterday on November 14 in Montreal to launch the work. The minister stressed that this meeting, like all the other to come, will be carbon activity. 
Are members of this Advisory Committee: 
The Minister Blanchet took advantage of this first meeting with the members of this new climate change advisory committee to emphasize that the National Assembly unanimously gave the green light to the implementation of the agreement with California on the connection Cap systems and exchange rights for greenhouse gas emissions. This will give birth to a vast North American cross-border market. "Quebec and California are the first two states in a carbon market across North America. We will be scrutinized by all other jurisdictions on the continent, while the international community is also interested in great interest. The next step will be to quickly rally other partners to this market, such as California and Quebec are committed to reinforcing the carbon-related signal thus sent to all North American economic actors and From the planet, "said the minister. 
With emission units auctions, the Government of Quebec anticipates more than $ 3 billion in revenues by 2020, a sum totally reinvested in the fight against climate change, including the implementation of the Exhaustive Transport Electrification Plan announced by the Prime Minister. It is in this context that the Advisory Committee is put in place. 
It is also in order to present this model against climate change and the ambitious target of 25% of Quebec emissions for the period 1990-2020 that Minister Blanchet will visit Warsaw, Poland. The Minister has taken advantage of this first meeting of the Advisory Committee to inform it that Quebec's Quebec Emissions Reduction Initiatives in Warsaw, at this 19th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Changes. climatic. In particular, it was invited to participate in the "Implementing Climate Action On Cooperation" event, organized by the Climate Group and that organized by the International Carbon Action Partnership (ICAP) and entitled "Emission Trading Schemes Worldwide: Where do We Stand , What Lies Ahead ". The minister will benefit from these forums to make known the various climate change initiatives implemented in Quebec and who contribute to the latter one of the leaders in this area. Among these initiatives, the Québec-California Carbon Market, the Climate Change Action Plan, as well as important policies such as the Transport Electrification Strategy and the National Research and Innovation Policy. have just been announced, and who focus on innovation, on the development and export of clean technologies and Quebec's know-how. 
"By acting locally and internationally, Quebec significantly contributes to the global effort required to reduce the concentrations of CO2 in the atmosphere, while stimulating its economic development with a lower carbon footprint. Quebec should in all express themselves of his own voice, in his voice. The issue of GHG emissions and climate change is one where Quebec can not claim to suggest that the Canadian position is also self. In the context where the Canadian government has withdrawn from the Kyoto Protocol, it is important that all countries gathered in Warsaw know that Quebec has made a different choice. They also need to know that with other states, we are resolutely engaged in the fight against climate change and that we take the necessary means to reach our ambitious and objective officials. Means that could school, "concluded the Blanchet minister. 
Information about the Advisory Committee, the carbon market and the Warsaw Conference is available at the following address: 
Hey. The end of the alveolar. Hook v. Second. The rubbing / 嫦娥 should properly handle the horseshoe. 
