Saint-Jerome - Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, with the member for Labelle, Government Manager of the Laurentides Region and Chairman of the Government Caucus, Sylvain Pagé, and the Director-General and Artistic Dissemination. North River Scene, Gaétan Léveillon, Announces Financial Assistance of $ 14,603,400 for the construction of a major auditorium in Saint-Jérôme. 
"The places of distribution of the performing arts contribute to the cultural vitality of Quebec and its regions since they promote the ownership of the arts by all citizens. Today's announcement is the result of a consultation between different partners who rely on culture as a fundamental vector of the identity affirmation and socio-economic development of a whole community, "said Minister Kotto. 
"This news expected for several years has enough to rejoice the citizens of Saint-Jérôme and the Laurentians. Culture and the arts are essential tools for the social, economic and tourist development of the regions. I salute the municipal elected officials, the Board of Directors and the North River Distribution Personnel and the population of Saint-Jérôme for their commitment and perseverance, which allowed the realization of this project, "added The member of Parliament. 
The current showroom of Saint-Jérôme is inside its versatile. Built in 1968, its obsolete facilities no longer assure the best possible diffusion conditions. Faced with the magnitude of the required improvements in order to meet the scenographic and technical requirements of a state-of-the-art dissemination, it appeared more fruitful to build a room. Located in the city center, it will contribute to the revitalization of this sector and will be easy to access. Expected to accommodate nearly 900 spectators, it will serve more than 200,000 people from the North River, Argenteuil, Countries of and Mirabel. 
The city of Saint-Jérôme has mandated Diffusion in the North River as project manager and as the manager of the room. This organization, which celebrates this year its twenty-fifth anniversary, is recognized and supported as a multidisciplinary broadcast in the arts of the stage by the Ministry of Culture and Communications. It counts among the most dynamic broadcasters in the region and even beyond. Its varied programming attracts about 60,000 spectators every year. 
The total cost of the project is estimated at almost $ 21 million, of which 70% come from the Ministry of Culture and Communications by its Program Aid to Capital. The city of Saint-Jérôme is the second major financial partner. 
