Quebec- The Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, will lead a mission to Japan from 19 to 24 January, accompanied by about forty companies, universities and Quebec and Japanese organizations. 
This visit to the Minister Lined in Soil Nippon will be an opportunity to highlight the 40th anniversary of the Quebec Delegation in Tokyo. "The sustained presence of Quebec in Japan for 40 years has a great value for us. In the current global context, where trade tend to liberalize, we attach paramount importance to the continuity of these relationships. It is important to sensitize political decision-makers and Japanese business community on new Quebec priorities for economic development and business opportunities. , "Said the minister. 
Indeed, this mission is in line with the objectives of the Quebec Economic Policy launched by the Maroisen government October and will help create a favorable business environment for developing and strengthening international partnerships. 
The minister listed will benefit from this visit to Japan to present to representatives of the central government and the Japanese economic community the national research and innovation policy, the foreign trade development plan, industrial policy and the electrification strategy transports. The mission will also be an opportunity for Quebec universities and research institutes to develop partnerships in social sciences and humanities as well as in the field of transportation of transport and green energies. 
Third World Economy and Seventh Quebec Customer Worldwide, Japan is a highly competitive market and a world-class leader in science and technology that presents many business opportunities for Quebec companies, mainly in niche sectors such as Information technology, green construction, three-dimensional animation, aeronautics and life sciences. In terms of investments, Quebec has about fifty Japanese subsidiaries that currently generate a few 6,000 jobs, while Quebec exports to Japan increased by 23% in 2012, totaling $ 1 billion. 
