Quebec- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, reintroduces the words "Arts and Letters" in the title of the "Culture and Communication" pre-university program. From now on, the program will be titled, letters and communication. The title is amended but the changes to the content of the program that have been consensus in the collegiate network remain. 
Recall that after a long review of the program that has lasted 3 years and has been carried out in partnership with college teachers as well as the directorates of college and university studies, the content of the EARTS and Lettersa summer Revu and enriched. Since then, the requirements with regard to the quality of the French language are higher. In addition, with these 30 overtime to specific training, this college program will no longer be the pre-university program with the lowest number of teaching hours. This situation had to be corrected and this program will now have more than 700 hours of teaching, like other pre-university programs. 
Despite the enhanced content of this program, the amendment of the title caused a lot of reactions. The creation of it "culture and communication" and to eliminate the words "arts and letters" has been perceived by several middle actors as a way of devaluing this field of teaching. Which is not the intention of the minister. 
"The arts and letters are part of the precious knowledge related to humanities. These materials are the torches that illuminate the critical sense of students enrolled in our colleges. By offering a strong general culture for students enrolled in pre-university training than those in technical training, we help train young more responsible, generous and critical adults able to have a hold on their future, "said the minister . 
It is therefore in this spirit that the new program that had been named "culture and communication" will now lead the name Dearts, Letters and Communication. The title is changed but the changes to the content of the program remain. 
