Quebec- The member for Berthier and spokesman for the Parti Québécois in agriculture, fisheries and food, André Villeneuve, is questioned as to the future the Liberal government for the agricultural land tax credit program, whose relevance has been called into question in the most recent report of the Committee on Permanent Review of Programs. He asks the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Pierre Paradis, to commit to maintaining it. 
"In his report made last Monday, the President of the Commission, Lucienne Robillard, once again targeted the agriculture sector as fertile soil to make compressions. In probably judging that Quebec farmers are already sufficient, it calls into question the existence of the agricultural land tax credit program. However, in the regions of Quebec, producers and farmers are struggling with enormous pressure, created, among other things, by the constant increase in the value of their land; In Quebec, we do not have a mechanism for modulating taxes for agricultural land, hence the existence of the agricultural land tax credit program, "said the member for Berthier. 
Yesterday, Minister Pierre Paradis reacted to Lucienne Robillard's position; He stated that the program was there to stay, but did not shut the door to any "fix". "What order will these" fix "? And what exactly does he mean, "fix"? Is it to avoid using the word "compressions"? ", Pursued André Villeneuve. 
The Parti Québécois is worried, not without reason. Since the Liberal Party has been brought to power in April 2014, there are many agriculture commitments it has not respected. "The Liberal government simply abandoned farmers. Philippe Couillard, during his meeting with the UPA in the election campaign, had committed to maintaining the budgets of the agricultural financial financial; Once prime minister, he cut them $ 151 million. Then, a few months ago Pierre Paradis rename a historic promise made by his party in 2009, to repay the accumulated deficit of agricultural financial financial. This time, the minister must reassure farmers and make it clear not to affect the agricultural land tax credit, "the spokesman concluded. 
