Quebec- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is pleased to associate with the launch of the Hydro-Québec Expo-Sciences and invites the youth of the primary school, secondary and college to participate in large numbers. 
"Expo-sciences are often the first appointment of young people with science and technology. In developing their project, they use their skills and become familiar with the foundations that guide any scientific approach. Such an activity also gives the opportunity to reflect on the impact of science in our lives, "said Minister Duchesne. 
The Expo-Sciences Hydro-Québec are organized by the CDLS-CLS network, which includes the Scientific Leisure Development Council (CDLS) and the nine regional scientific (CLS) councils. These are scientific competitions allowing young people to present a design project, experimentation or scientific extension. Projects are presented locally and are evaluated to pass, where applicable, the regional and national components of the competition. More than 15,000 young Quebeckers participate each year in this contest. 
Through its NovaScience Program, the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology grants to the Scientific Leisure Development Board and each of the CLS Annual Financial Assistance to Achieve their mission. It consists of promoting the recreation and scientific culture as well as careers in science and technology in the regional population, and more particularly with young people. The 2014-2019 National Research and Innovation Lapinic (PNRI) recognizes the role played by this network in promoting science and technology. In 2013-2014, it is $ 1,582,219 that is paid to these organizations and which serves in particular for the organization of science expans. 
"Training succession and transmit the passion of sciences is a common goal for science and PNRI. I encourage young people to take an interest in science, technology, engineering and mathematics and consider careers in these stimulating and promising areas for the development of Quebec. I invite the population to encourage participants by visiting the Hydro-Québec Science Expo-Sciences that will take place everywhere in Quebec by the end of February, "concluded Minister Duchene. 
For more details on Hydro-Québec Science Expo, visitwww.exposciences.qc.ca. 
