Quebec- The Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, today begins a mission to London. This first British ground mission aims to establish contact with Quebec interlocutors in the United Kingdom. 
"First nourished by a common history, our relationship with the United Kingdom has been enriched over the decades of exchange and partnerships to the point where this country is now a priority market in Quebec abroad. This economic and financial center is a hub of world trade and gives access to a multitude of national and international companies. London is therefore a platform of choice to attract foreign investment, promote the creativity of Quebec products and services in addition to being a strategic entry point for doing business in emerging economies, "said the minister. 
As part of this mission held under the theme "London at the heart of emerging markets", the minister will meet a dozen representatives of the business community as well as several opinion leaders. 
The minister will meet with the Commonwealth Secretary General, Kamalesh Sharma, to expose the orientations and priorities that the Quebec government wishes to put forward in the countries of Africa, Caribbean and Pacific. Indeed, the development of trade between the International Organization of La Francophonie and the Commonwealth Secretariat aims to strengthen the integration of southern countries to world trade. 
Mr. Lisée will also share with the President and CEO of Climate Group, Mr. Mark Kenber, to assert the actions that the Quebec government intends to support for the development of a greener industry, including through the creation of A $ 200 million fund that will be intended for the development of clean technologies and transport electrification. The minister will have the opportunity to demonstrate the commitment of Quebec in the fight against climate change and to share the most recent initiatives in this area. 
Finally, the minister takes the opportunity to highlight the reopening of the offices of the Quebec delegation in London following recent renovation work. Just over 150 London guests, from cultural, political and business environments, confirmed their presence at the event. 
