Quebec- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is proud to announce the grant of $ 700,000 to the valorization society of the Univalor University Research to support a research project aimed at developing a treatment for myotonic type 1 dystrophy, also known as Steinert's disease. The total cost of the project is $ 900,000. The Biotechnology Departure Fund, will contribute $ 200,000 for its share. 
"At the dawn of the deposit of the National Research and Innovation Policy, the government can already rely on a health research network that stands out. I look forward to collaboration between research centers and businesses. This collaboration is one of the privileged axes of the future national policy for research and innovation. The researchers we support today will be able to do research to improve the quality of life of Quebecers, "said Minister Duchesne. 
The project promoter, UNIVALOR has been contributing for more than ten years to the valorization of university research by creating links between the University and the business world. In particular, it helps to market scientific discoveries and technological innovations from the work of researchers from the University of Montreal and its affiliated health centers, Polytechnique Montréal and HEC Montréal. 
"We are pleased that Dr. Pascal Chartrand and his team at the Université de Montréal benefit from the financial support of the Valuation Support Program and the Transfer of the Government of Quebec," said Jacques Simoneau, President and Chief Executive Officer Univalor. This program has an undeniable positive impact on the ability of researchers to advance their work and constitutes a key tool for unival in the fulfillment of its mandate to promote academic research. Twinned in support of a strong business partner such as Amorchem, which will inject additional $ 300,000 for the realization of other chemistry work done by Nuhem Therapeutic, the contribution of the Government of Quebec today allows us to Starting a message of hope for people with myotonic type of type 1. " 
Particularly widespread in Quebec, mainly in the regions of Charlevoix and Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, type 1 myotonic dystrophy is the most common form of muscular dystrophy in adults. People with symptoms of muscle tone loss, generalized muscle weakness, cardiac arrhythmia, excessive drowsiness and cataracts. The development of this disease is variable, but it progresses slowly and leads to a complete disability of the patient. There is currently no treatment for this disease. 
"Pharmaceutical companies are particularly interested in orphan diseases and are constantly looking for new innovative trails for their treatment. We rely on the fact that the work done as part of this project will meet their expectations, "says Inès Holzbaur, Main Associate at Amorchem. 
This $ 700,000 grant is part of the third component of the valuation and transfer support program, devoted to support for technological maturation. This component aims to promote the development of the results of institutional research with real commercial potential and which correspond to the needs of the business and society. 
The preclinical study project supported by the grant and aimed at the treatment of this rare genetic disease will be conducted within the University of Montreal under the scientific direction of Dr. Pascal Chartrand. 
For more information on the programs and services of the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, visitwww.messt.gouv.qc.ca. 
