Quebec- The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, today announced the extension and indexing of the Electronic Business Development Tax Credit (CDAE). The tax credit will be renewed for a period of ten years from 1 January 2016, until 31 December 2025. In addition, as an indexation, the $ 20,000 ceiling by employment will be increased to 22,500 $ from 1 January 2016. 
"The information technology sector, or IT is strategic for Quebec. It represents 4% of GDP, an amount of more than $ 13 billion, and generates investments in research and development of more than $ 650 million a year in the Quebec economy. Investments in this area support more than 100,000 jobs and are one of the main drivers of productivity growth. The renewal of support for this sector is therefore important for our economy and positioning in the IT industry. Several companies and partners have meant the importance of these measures; We heard them. Quebec companies that negotiate long-term contracts must be able to evolve in a stable and competitive business environment. That's why we decided to act now, "said the minister. 
Established in March 2008, CDAE aims to consolidate IT development across Québec and to stimulate IT integration activities in the business process of Quebec companies, which contributes to increase their level of productivity. It was introduced in the wake of the tax measures put in place by the Government, in the early 2000s, to promote the development of information technologies in the Quebec economy. This tax credit supports IT specialized companies that make services to third parties. In particular, tax assistance targets high value-added activities, such as software development integrated in computer systems. 
"I am convinced that the decision I announce today will have a positive and lasting effect on the IT sector in Quebec and our economy," concluded the minister. 
Information Lebulletin2013-7, broadcast today, describes in detail the changes made to the tax credit. It can be consulted on the website of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, atwww.finances.gouv.qc.ca. 
