Quebec- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, today unveils the details of the mandate that has been entrusted to the Chair of Research on Elderly Elder Persons. 3rd partner forum on abuse towards seniors held on October 11th. 
"To better address the phenomenon of abuse and to ensure the health and well-being of our elders in the most optimal way, it is important to support our actions on facts and take into account the various measures in place as well as existing mechanisms, in Quebec and elsewhere in the world. Institutional abuse is poorly documented for the moment, hence the relevance and the need for the mandate that has been entrusted to the Chair of Research on Elder Abuse, "said Minister Hébert. 
The mandate of the Chair of Research on Merraduation towards seniors is divided into three segments. It consists, on the one hand, to: 
The research chair will also be able to draw up, in partnership with the secretariat to the seniors, an inventory of Quebec authorities currently being mobilized in abuse towards the elders in the hosting environment, and the way in which their respective mechanisms are used. . 
Finally, the mandate of the Chair also aims to document, from an international review of scientific writings on the subject, the magnitude, nature and circumstances of the various forms of abuse towards the elders in the hosting environment , as well as the proposed actions strategies. 
"We want the research chair to abuse towards seniors can equip ourselves in order to fight in the hosting environment that is the most effective possible. Abuse is a persistent taboo, and people who are victims often hesitate to talk about it. That is why it is all the more important to deploy means operating and effective to counter it, "said Minister Hébert. 
Remember that the Elderly Elder Research Chair entrusted to the Université de Sherbrooke is one of the four structuring actions of the government action plan to counter the abuse of seniors. It has so far been not less than 14 studies, 9 research projects, 30 publications, 10 scientific activities as well as various training activities, in person and online. The work it will achieve in the context of this new mandate will have to be completed by the end of March 2014. 
The preliminary results of the Chair's work will be communicated next January to the Committee of Non-Governmental Non-Governmental Partners in the field of seniors, and will be used to fuel its discussions. This committee, which includes less than 40 Quebec organizations, is the realization of a desire by Minister Hébert expressed in December 2012, and plays the dual role of a consultant and information relayer in the major issues concerning the Elders. 
