Toronto the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, took stock of the meeting of the finance ministers of the provinces and territories held today in Toronto. "This meeting was intended to discuss priority topics for future discussions with the federal government, including unilateral changes to federal programs, the retirement income system and the fiscal imbalance. I took the opportunity to recall the positions of Quebec on these different questions, "said the minister. 
The main mandates on which finance ministers work are: 
With respect to the production of a detailed inventory of federal unilateral changes to programs with provincial impact, the Minister argued that the ceilings imposed on the Equalization Program and the Canadian Transfer of Health, the end of the credit. Workers' Funds Tax, the establishment of the Canadian Employment Grant and the decline and diversion of part of the Canada-Quebec Labor Market Agreement for the Canada-Quebec Agreement have major impacts. For Quebec. 
"Several decisions of the federal government have important consequences for our public finances, particularly with respect to the Equalization Program and Canada Health Transfer. The abolition of the Tax Funds Tax Credit is harmful to taxpayers' savings and threatens access to venture capital for businesses. Finally, I remember that we are asking to withdraw from the Canadian employment grant program with full financial compensation and that the labor market agreement is renewed in the current way, "said the minister. 
With regard to the improvement of the retirement income system, Mr. Marceau reiterated that Quebec is in favor of a responsible, gradual and fully capitalized bonus of the Quebec and CPP Pension Plan. Ministers agreed to strike a balance between long-term benefits for future retirees and the short- and medium-term impacts on workers, businesses and the economy. "Quebec will continue its collaboration with other governments to evaluate possible avenues. A possible bonus of the Quebec Pension Plan will have to take into account the evolution of the economic situation and the results of the upcoming actuarial assessments of the plan, "said the minister. 
With regard to the impact of the increase in the admissibility age of 65 to 67 at the GIS and the PSV, the minister has indicated his counterparts that his Government continues to obtain a fair compensation. of the federal government. "It is obvious that this change will have a significant impact not only for many Quebeckers, but also on our public finances, which will undergo additional pressure from the federal savings carried out," he said. 
"As for the updating of the state of the fiscal imbalance, it is time to conduct an analysis of the situation, in the context where the federal government will manage significant budget surpluses in the coming years, mainly because of the unilateral changes it brings in its programs. We must avoid coming back at the time when the federal government balances its finances on the back of the provinces. It is also the commitment of Prime Minister Harper, "concluded Mr. Marceau. 
