Quebec- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, said the Worldwide Sidaqui Worldwide will be held on December 1st and whose theme, inspired by the World Health Organization, is, for A new year, "zero objective: zero transmission, zero prejudice, zero deaths". It benefits from this opportunity to recall the importance of preventing HIV transmission and continuing prejudice to people living with AIDS. 
"In Quebec, thousands of people are currently living with HIV, and it's about a hundred of them who die every year. Although the mortality rate related to this infection has diminished significantly thanks to the medical advances and the many efforts so far, it is essential to continue our work of prevention, detection and awareness, "said the doctor. Hébert. 
Indeed, World AIDS Day is a privileged moment to raise awareness of the reality of people with this infection. Conscientization is the best way to combat unfounded fears, prejudices, worries and ignorance that, too often, generate situations of discrimination as well as stigma. Prevention campaigns also continue to be carried out, particularly with young people. 
"It is also crucial to continue research to find new, faster and effective screening methods, and to join the most vulnerable people through the valuable community-based collaboration and all health workers. and social services. An earlier screening allows, with the help of the appropriate medical treatments and a rigorous medical follow-up, considerably prolongs the life expectancy of people with remembrance and to seek the support needed to face this ordeal, "explained the Doctor Hébert. 
World AIDS Day is celebrated on December 1st of each year since 1988, and many countries are committed to pursuing the fight against HIV in the context of awareness-raising activities to recall the existence of this scourge global health. 
Remember that the use of the condom during sexual relations and the use of sterile injection or drug inhalation material as well as for tattoo or drilling remain the most effective ways to guard against AIDS. 
