Quebec-as it was announced on Wednesday, July 10 by Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, the Minister of Public Safety, Stéphane Bergeron, specifies the modalities surrounding the opening of the aid office and information, as well as those of the emission of lump sum aid checks. 
The Aid and Information Office will be open as early as Monday, July 15 at the Granite Professional Training Center. It will provide services, advice and expertise to different clienteles affected by events. Staff of thirteen departments and partner organizations will be present at the training center, located at 3409 Laval Street in Lac-Mégantic (annexed to the Polyvalente Montignac). The office will be open as of Monday from 8 am until 8 pm The victims may present themselves in order to obtain support as well as the assistance in their approaches from the departments and agencies present. For example, the population may obtain information on health, safety and financial assistance. 
"This one-stop shop will allow citizens, businesses and municipalities affected by the tragedy to get all the help and information they need, in one place. By bringing together all the speakers involved in supporting the victims, it is a concern for less for those who have been affected by this drama and lighten the burden of this event, "said the minister. 
On the other hand, with respect to lump sum of first appeal, which consists of issuing a check of $ 1,000 to evacuated families, checking checks will be from Monday, July 15, from 8 am to The Versatile Montignac de Lac-Mégantic. The modalities will be announced during a press briefing of the Estrie Regional Civil Security Organization today during the afternoon. 
"I want to emphasize the exceptional work of all stakeholders and stakeholders from departments and agencies, as well as the many organizations that have joined their efforts to help the disaster community," added Minister Bergeron. 
The details of the specific financial assistance program are available at www.securitepublique.gouv.qc.ca. 
