Saint-André-d'Argereuil- On the occasion of a regional tour in the Laurentians, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Mr. Maka Kotto, announced $ 100,000 financial assistance for the renewal of the Permanent exhibition of the Regional Museum of Argenteuil. This exhibition entitled Argenteuil, my life as rivers will highlight the historical evolution of Argenteuil through its territorial development along the banks of the Ottawa River. Minister Maka Kotto made this announcement with the member for Argenteuil, Mr. Roland Richer. 
"The holding of this exhibition will give a new breath at the Regional Museum of Argenteuil and to consolidate its anchorage in the cultural environment of the region. This exhibition is of both historical, cultural and tourist interest. His didactic character is an additional attraction to increase the attendance of the museum by school audiences, young families and cultural tourists, "said Minister Kotto. 
The hon. Member for Argenteuil, Mr. Roland Richer, is pleased with the impact of this new exhibition on its territory. "Developing cultural tourism is to continue developing the region's brand image to attract tourists and provide them with good reasons to extend their stay. I want to pay tribute to the Historical Society of the County of Argenteuil for its crucial role in the founding of this museum and the new board of directors of the Regional Museum of Argenteuil which has given a new impetus to this essential institution For the region, "added the hon. Richer. 
This exhibition will cover a period of about five hundred years and will illustrate how waterways have shaped the development of the Argenteuil region, the first explorations on the territory of New France until the use of rivers like Transit routes by wood runners, development of navigation routes to settlement settlement. 
The costs associated with exposure renewal are estimated at $ 160,300. The $ 100,000 financial assistance granted by the Ministry of Culture and Communications has been awarded in the context of the call for projects for the support of ongoing exhibitions, linked to Fund 4 of the Quebec Cultural Heritage Fund. 
The Regional Museum of Argenteuil is the only museum of regional history in the Laurentians. Its mission is to make known and appreciate the history of the Argenteuil region and the Laurentian Valley of the Outaouais River. It ensures the management, conservation and dissemination of a collection of more than 10,000 witness artifacts in the history of Argenteuil. 
As part of its tour in the Laurentians region, Minister Kotto also went to the Museum of Contemporary Art of Laurentides, in Saint-Jérôme, for a courtesy visit with the member for Labelle and President of the Government Caucus , Mr. Sylvain Pagé. Minister Kotto will join the members of the Parliamentary Wing of the Parti Québécois and MPs for the Next Caucus, January 31 and February 1st, at Esterel, in the Vallée de Saint-Sauveur. 
