Quebec- The Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, is pleased with the interest granted in recent weeks to Quebec's wetlands and desires certain recent reported information the situation, government interventions and the draft legislation that are currently subject to consultation. 
"It is up to my express request that the Department held a public presentation of the study reports of the Quebec Biodiversity Science Center (CSBQ) on the situation of wetlands in Quebec. A hundred stakeholders from all sources have read and discussed, in all transparency and with the authors themselves, the results of these studies. The worrying situation of wetlands in southern Quebec is now better known to all, and the Department is working on the development of a new law on the conservation and sustainable management of wetland and water circles, "said the Blanchet minister who On this occasion, had presented the main orientations of the bill. 
According to the minister, "studies highlight that, under the previous government, wetlands have not been the subject of caution and attention to which they have an urgent need. The findings of the authorization certificates issued by the department concern the period from 2006 to 2010 ". An article published in the magazine The news in 2011 reported that the Minister of the Environment in Position in 2006, Thomas Mulcair, had said that Prime Minister Jean Charest had opposed that he filed a project. To protect wetlands, Prime Minister pretending "that he could not do that to Mayor Gilles Vaillancourt". "The development of the current bill, which aims for all Quebec wetlands, therefore seems to have been delayed several years in favor of the particular interests of a friend of the Liberal regime which today must answer for His actions in court, "said Minister Blanchet. 
He continued by pointing out that it is also "very clear that the performance of the current regulations is inadequate. The Government therefore prepares a legislative intervention that should emerge during 2014. This bill will aim to better protect wetlands and will impose harshered, equitable and consistent requirements for proponents that can not avoid intervene in these circles. It should make it possible to adapt these requirements to the realities of the different regions and to simplify applications for authorization. Ultimately, the goal is to remove nothing to wetlands, or in size or quality. 
Minister Yves-François Blanchet submits to the consultation of the measures such as the establishment of a fund reserved for the restoration, or even the creation of wetlands. To do this, it will ensure the conditional establishment of compensation adapted to the level of disruption of the affected wetlands or their ecological value. This approach therefore aims to be consistent and fair for promoters. However, the Blanchet minister states that, in order to be effective, the legislative approach must not only be preceded by consultations, but also followed by harmonization with the fieldwork carried out by partners such as watershed organizations (OBV). The necessary support for the expertise of the first-line actors that municipalities must also be taken into consideration. 
"We work hard with experts in this area to introduce an innovative, consensual and determining bill for the future of wetlands in Quebec. We give ourselves first of all to a factual state of play and established by science; This is the approach we are always privileged. For several months, we have been consulting and, until now, our principles are very well received. I remind you that we have already intervened with firmness in many cases, especially for the protection of flood zones that several MRCs were slow to enforce. We also act concretely in the case of the vast industrial park of Bécancour where one can already observe a promising opening in terms of compensation. I think that's what the public treatment of this file should also reflect, "said the Blanchet minister. 
The minister finally recalls that under the Environmental Quality Act (EQA), an authorization must be issued, beforehand, for work to be carried out in wetland and water media. The Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP) has a right of work on the work planned there and has the opportunity to significantly change the projects by the proponents themselves. 
In order to transparency with regard to the public, the comprehensive reports of the team of researchers of the Center for the Science of Biodiversity of Quebec (CSBQ), in particular from Laval University and the Institute of Plant biology research, can be consulted on the Department's website at www.mddefp.gouv.qc.ca/eau/rives/milieuxhumides. 
