Malbaie - Minister Delegate to Tourism and Minister Responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, participated in Congress highlighted Camping Québec's 50th Anniversary, the Association of Campgrounds of Quebec. In front of more than 250 people gathered for the occasion, Mr. Bérubé wanted to recall the important role of this hosting sector that allows its users to practice a variety of activities around Quebec. 
"I wish to pay tribute to Camping Québec for the work done. Your accommodation sector is increasingly popular and is experiencing marked year in year, including a 2.8% increase in 2012. In addition, I would like to congratulate campground managers who invest for The enhancement of their product thus contributing to developing attractive, distinctive and quality facilities that enhance the tourist offer of Quebec, "said Minister Bérubé. 
"Camping is a tourist product that has evolved a lot in recent years and continues to improve. With more than 800 campgrounds spread across the province, the offer is more diversified than ever! Camping Québec is the largest association of campgrounds in North America, making it an important player in the industry. I was delighted to receive the Minister at our event. We were able to discuss the files that close to our members and I see very beautiful collaborations in the coming years, "president of Camping Québec, Ms. Natasha Bouchard. 
Minister Bérubé also confirmed $ 100,000 funded assistance over the next three years at Camping Québec. This contribution will enable the association to improve and improve the support, products and services that have done and will continue to advance the camping industry in the coming years. The aid paid comes from the financial assistance program to sectoral tourism associations. 
Founded in 1962, Camping Québec, the Quebec Campground Association, is a private non-profit association that represents Quebec camping operators. With more than 600 members from private and public sectors, it represents more than 90% of the camping offer in Quebec. Camping Québec's mission is to promote camping offer in Quebec, establish and foster best business practices in the industry and to defend the interests of its members. 
