Québec- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, today presented the National Assembly at the National Assembly on autonomy insurance. "In accordance with our commitments, we are moving forward by throwing the foundation for a significant and desired transformation of our health network. This bill expresses our desire to give a real priority to improving home care and providing fundamental freedom to people living and in search of autonomy, "said Dr. Hébert. 
The parliamentary committee held from October 23 to 20 November, clarified the project submitted last spring in the Paragler'Autonomy for all. Other consultations will be carried out in the Parliamentary Committee in the context of the study of the bill. 
"We see a broad accession to central principles of our approach, which are now enrolled in the bill: taking into account the choice of people as to their living environment, the provision of services where people reside and the protection of financing these services, "continued the minister. 
The bill provides for the establishment of an independent insurance plan. This particular scheme will have a closed budget envelope, the Fund Autonomy, for which separate accountability is planned. It will consist of the amounts allocated to the long-term care and services and an additional investment announced by the government of more than $ 500 million until 2017-2018. In 2013-2014, more than 110 million were injected into the improvement of home care and services around Quebec. 
"Autonomy insurance is a responsible company choice, while the aging of the Quebec population is increasing. The adoption of this bill will promote an increased use of home support, in accordance with the desire of persons in loss or in search of autonomy to remain as long as possible at home or in a familiar environment. This is quite possible with adequate support, while being less expensive. Long-Term Care Center (CHSLD) accommodation will continue to play a key role in the network to welcome heavy loss of autonomy, "said Minister Réjean Hébert. 
During the parliamentary committee, several groups submitted recommendations for supporting caregivers. "The caregivers have expressed us the importance of being better supported and the need to benefit from respite services. We have heard these concerns and have included the respite in eligible services in the context of autonomy insurance. Caregivers are valuable partners and we want to provide improved support, "continued Minister Hébert. 
The implementation of autonomy insurance is scheduled for April 1, 2015. In accordance with a wish expressed by the groups faced in parliamentary committee, it will be done simultaneously for seniors in loss of autonomy, for persons with disabilities. physical and for those with intellectual disabilities or invasive development disorder. 
"We have encountered more than 60 groups at the parliamentary committee, and we have heard their comments and suggestions. With autonomy insurance, we want to implement funding for activity in long-term care and services. This significant change requires us to start the implementation in April 2015. We continue to put in place all the elements for its effective deployment, in particular by continuing to inject additional amounts for home care over the years. come, "concluded the Minister Hébert. 
