Quebec- The Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean François Lisée, will visit the People's Republic of China, from 14 to 18 October, accompanied by some 75 representatives of companies, institutions and organizations Quebec. 
This ministerial mission, which will support the approaches of the Quebec delegation in the Chinese market, will allow the Quebec government to strengthen its links with the Chinese authorities. The mission includes judgments in Jinan, the capital of Shandong, Beijing, Headquarters of the Central Government and Shanghai, China's economic and cultural metropolis. 
"The importance of emerging markets like China for the economic growth of Quebec is no longer to be demonstrated. China is at the top of Quebec's international priorities and many Quebec companies - small, medium and large - can today testify to the evolution of our relations from the opening of our offices a fortnight ago year in Beijing and Shanghai. We note today with satisfaction that these efforts were not vain and we maintain the course, "said the minister. 
Among the public activities planned for the Minister's program, include the inauguration of a Quebec showcase on green construction, the participation of a dozen Quebec brands at the prestigious Week of the Shanghai Fashion and the presence of a delegation of Stage Arts at Shanghai International Performing Arts Fair (SPAF), a living room with more than 100 Chinese and international broadcasters. 
"For a small market like ours, the export of the expertise, products, services, talents and know-how to Asia, particularly China, is one of the keys to ensure a future prosperous. The Quebec government is proud of the work done so far and the outlook is promising, "the minister has reborn. 
In 2012, trade in goods between Quebec and China were $ 11.3 billion, which represents a 3.3% increase compared to 2011. In 2012, China ranked 1st rank of Quebec's trading partners in Asia, in front of Japan, and 2nd rank in the world, behind the United States. 
