Gatineau - On behalf of the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology (MESRST), Mr. Pierre Duchesne, the Minister of Public Safety and Minister responsible for the Outaouais Region, M . Stéphane Bergeron, today participated in the shovel of the official ground launching the expansion work of the Cégep Cégep de l'Outaouais. 
Minister Bergeron took advantage of his presence to confirm $ 4.4 million a financial assistance that will promote the implementation of the Biomedical Analyzal Study Technology program in the CEGEP of the Outaouais. Amounts of $ 1.8 million and $ 2.6 million are allocated respectively for equipment acquisition and redevelopment at Campus Félix-Leclerc as well as at Campus Gabrielle-Roy. 
"CEGEPs occupy an important role in the regions and play a vital role for their vitality, both economically and socially. This project represents for the Outaouais the realization of its aspirations in the field of education and demonstrates the importance of our Government grants to the formation of a qualified succession in state-of-the-art fields, "said Minister Bergeron. 
Recall that on December 15, 2010, the Quebec government allowed the CEGEP of the Outaouais to offer the biomedical analyzal analysis program on a permanent basis. 
On June 19, 2012, the Quebec government announced an investment of $ 22.4 million for the expansion and redevelopment of Campus Félix-Leclerc as well as the redevelopment of Cégep Gabrielle-Roy campus spaces. 
Since then, premises and equipment needs have been re-evaluated. Redevelopment requires the change of vocation of some premises to adapt them to an environment that meets the requirements of biomedical analysis laboratories. Therefore, a laboratory of organic chemistry, microbiology, hematology and histology as well as preparation rooms will be developed. 
Thus, the amount of $ 4.4 million announced today is in addition to the investment announced in 2012. 
"These investments for the acquisition of equipment and the redevelopment of premises allow Outaouais students to have access to quality infrastructure as a result of the implementation of the biomedical analysis program. The authorization of this program and the expansion of the Campus Félix-Leclerc materialize for the benefit of students in the region while contributing to socio-economic development. A news that, I'm sure, will delight the whole community, "said Minister Duchesne. 
In the 2010-2011 budget speech, the Quebec government announced investments of $ 75 million in vocational and technical training to meet the needs of skilled labor in Quebec. This project is included in the Five-Year Capital Plan 2010-2015 approved by the Treasury Board in its decision of 7 July 2011. 
