Quebec- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert, announces the deposit of the law of law amending the Héma-Québec law and on the hemovigilance committee, which aims to entrust to hea- Quebec The establishment of a public bank of breast milk. 
"This milk bank project enjoys massive support, both from neonatalogists and pediatricians and from the College of Physicians and many other clusters and associations of the field of perinatality in Quebec. This global consensus is attributable to the fact that human milk is universally recognized as the only power mode that fills all nutritional and immune needs of babies less than six months, "said Minister Hébert. 
Hema-Québec would thus use its experience and expertise in the collection, preparation and distribution of products of human origin, including the application of measures to ensure the quality and safety of these products, to set up and Managing a public bank of breast milk for Quebec. To do this, however, it is essential to amend the law on Héma-Québec. 
"The current provisions of the law limit the allocation of new responsibilities to Héma-Québec outside those related to blood, blood derivatives, bone marrow and human tissue. We therefore want to modify the law in order to be able to entrust to Héma-Québec the management and operationalization of a breast milk bank for hospitalized premature babies, thus making advantage of its expertise, premises and all of its organization. Benefit of premature newborns of Quebec, "said Minister Hébert. 
"The filing of this bill is an excellent news and results from an application submitted by Héma-Québec in March 2011. If the bill tabled today is endorsed, Héma-Québec will be able, by a few months, to provide hospitals from pasteurized breast milk, secure and a recognized nutritional value. It is a model of breast milk bank adapted to the Quebec context, since it would be integrated into the activities of Héma-Québec, "said Dr. Jean de Serres, President and Chief Executive Officer of Héma-Québec . 
Note that the Public Breast Milk Public Bank project provides for the recruitment of approximately 260 donors, as well as the treatment and qualification of a sufficient amount of breast milk to support premature 32 weeks and less unable to be breastfed by their mother. 
Among the profits related to the use of breast milk, note the reduction of infections, allergies, blood pressure and improved bone development of newborns. The scientific literature also reveals that premature children fed with milk of a breast milk bank have on average 3.3 times less risk of developing necroting enterocolites than those fed with commercial preparations. The necrotic enterocolitis is a neonatal disease that affects the intestines and which can lead, in some cases, to intestinal perforation or even death in premature babies of 32 weeks and less. This disease is associated with mortality rates from 5 to 6% in neonatalogy babies. 
In addition to the various health benefits and a decrease in the mortality rate among premature newborns, the establishment of a breast milk bank should lead to annual savings for the health and social services network Due to the anticipated decrease in certain conditions in premature babies and the economy on the purchase of commercial milk for these children. 
Note that the perinatal policy 2008-2018 suggests examining the establishment of a breast milk bank. This idea is in particular in the logical continuation of national policies on the support and promotion of breastfeeding. 
Also listen to the New VAT report: http: //pq.org/video/le-parti-que-de-late-la-baque-de-lait-maternal/. 
