Rimouski- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, accompanied by the Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region and Minister of Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, and the hon. Member for Rimouski, Mr. Irvin Pelletier, today authorized the Rimouski-Neignette Health and Social Services Center to develop a strategic presentation file on a major expansion project of the Rimouski Regional Hospital. "This major initiative will mainly affect the operating room, intensive and coronary care, as well as psychiatry services will have important impacts for Rimouski. This will be a major project that will have significant benefits on the quality of care for all East-Quebec, "said Dr. Hébert. 
The Minister has confirmed that a maximum envelope of $ 1.8 million can be made available to the institution to finance the required studies, which will define more detail the clinical, real estate and financial parameters of the project . This amount is part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan 2013-2023. 
"Our government is of great importance to this project, as illustrated by the envelope awarded today. This announcement will lead the project to the subsequent steps. It is without a doubt about an excellent news for our region, "said Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Minister of Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé. 
Dr. Hébert also confirmed that the Rimouski-Neigette Health and Social Services Center sees its specialized medical equipment park enhanced, thanks to a down payment of $ 515,000 from the agency. The health and social services of Bas-Saint-Laurent. The establishment can acquire: 
This investment will also add a third gastroenterology room. The Agency will provide a recurrent budget envelope of more than $ 280,000 for the operation of this new room. 
"The acquisition of these advanced devices will support the work of the medical teams and testifies to the shared desire of the establishment, the agency and the Ministry of Health and Social Services to offer to the people of our region. Health care of the best possible quality, "concluded the hon. Member for Rimouski, Irvin Pelletier. 
