Quebec- On the occasion of the 20th edition of the Fafe of the Vendange Magog-Orford, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, announced that a sum of Two million dollars will be devoted to the renewal of the Local Alcohol Support Program (PASAT) and the pursuit of the "Alcohol of Terroir: Tienne, Quebec! , For the year 2013-2014. 
"I look forward to the renewal of the PASAT and the continuation of the campaign. The support granted to producers of local spirits and the promotion of the specificities of their products contribute to the implementation of our policy of food sovereignty. I am the ally of the entire alcohol sector of the terroir. We have exceptional quality products and we can be proud of, "said Minister François Gendron. 
Emphasizing the importance of the local alcohol sector for the development of the regions of Quebec, particularly with respect to agrotourism, the minister took the opportunity to emphasize that it is through the PASAT That the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food has granted $ 25,000 for the realization of the Magog-Orford Vendangse Day. 
PASAT aims to accompany and financially support companies, business combinations or associations in carrying out projects that aim at improving the quality of processes and products, promoting and positioning local alcohols on the internal market or to perfect knowledge in this sector. 
"Eligible projects may be subject to, for example, the development of a collective system of quality control and management or the organization of major promotional activities. I invite Quebec producers to file their project right now, "the minister concluded. 
Companies wishing to avail the support program may apply by contacting the Ministry of their Region advisor or visit the Internetwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/pasat page. 
The third phase of the "alcohol of the terroir: at the Quebec! Aims to make consumers known to the variety of local soil spirits and encourage them to obtain them from the 225 regional producers. 
To discover the local alcohols, we can consult the alcoholSDerroir.com website. Interactive maps are available to the public to help plan a visit to producers. 
To learn more about the food sovereignty policy, the blog (www.politicsa.gouv.qc.caou websitewww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politique) of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. It is also possible to follow the activities of the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
