Quebec- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is pleased to support the intercollegiate scientific competition, we turn! By the allocation of financial assistance of 48 $ 319. This contest is organized by the Physical Sciences Demonstration Center of Cégep Garneau. 
"I am pleased to provide financial assistance to an event that makes known and radiate the passion of our young people for science. I have the conviction that we will be again this year dazzled by the ingenuity, talent and creativity of the participants. Scientific vocations are often emerging very early in life and participation in a challenge as science we turn! allows young people to explore their interest in science and who knows? to continue their college or university training in an associated field of study, "said Minister Duchesne. 
The science contest, we turn! Aims to promote among young people a better understanding of the different aspects of science and technology. About fifty college educational institutions participate. 
This year's competitors and competitors will have the opportunity to discover, explore and apply basic scientific concepts in a project entitled "Push but Equal Pushes". The challenge is to build a craft that, by launching a projectile as far as possible, will propel in the opposite direction towards a precise destination. The National Contest Final will take place at Cégep Vanier de Montréal on May 3rd. 
The funding offered by the department comes from two programs. A $ 33,319 envelope comes from NovaScience, Support component to partnership initiatives. This program promotes a better understanding of youth science and technology and the general public as well as the development of a succession in these areas. The other part of the funding comes from the Program Promotion of College Teaching: Student Productions. The latter supports the realization of special projects in the context of extracurricular activities related to the study or development of the student. 
"I encourage students to participate in large numbers in this event that allows you to develop their skills and interest in science and technology. Since its creation in 1992, science, we turn! Enabled many young people who study college to demonstrate their ingenuity by performing most stimulating scientific and technological projects. This contest fits perfectly in one of the objectives of the National Lapolitics of Research and Innovation, I launched last fall and which provides for many measures to transmit the passion of science and innovation to young people " , concluded Minister Duchesne. 
The National Research and Innovation Policy is part of the four strategic initiatives of the Employment Priority Policy of the Government of Quebec. It is the result of many consultations with actors from all sectors concerned with research and innovation: companies, educational institutions, state and society. With an unprecedented investment of $ 3.7 billion over five years, it will make it possible to advance Quebec in the knowledge and innovation society. 
For more information on PNRO, visitwww.messt.gouv.qc.ca/pnri. 
