Saint-Nazaire - Minister Delegate to Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignist Governance and MP Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation Territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, announces the contribution of $ 1.6 million from the Government of Quebec for the construction of Phase II of the OASIS of the builders in Saint-Nazaire. 
The construction of this 4-storey building, which will be adjacent to the building carried out during the first phase, required an investment of nearly $ 3.7 million, of which $ 1.6 million was granted by the Government of Quebec, Through the AccessLogis Québec program of the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ). It will allow the addition of 23 housing units to this complex, which will eventually be 35 housing units. 
"I am very proud to announce the $ 1.6 million contribution from the Government of Quebec that allows the completion of Phase II of the residence for seniors the oasis of the builders. Thanks to this project, Seniors of Saint-Nazaire will be able to evolve in a quality environment adapted to their needs, while remaining in an environment that is expensive. This project therefore responds to a real need of the community and that is why our government is very happy to be associated with it, "said Minister Alexandre Cloutier. 
In addition to the SHQ grant, community partners have invested more than $ 687,000 in this project. Of this amount, some $ 568,000 come from the municipality of Saint-Nazaire and more than $ 46,000 have been granted by the Office of Energy Efficiency and Innovation of the Ministry of Natural Resources to ensure that the building meet the standards of the Novoclimat program. Finally, the SHQ guarantees the mortgage contracted by the Saint-Nazaire Support Group, which will complete the financing of the project. 
"Thanks to the generosity of the population, at the SHQ and to all those engaged in this great project, our elders will remain in the community where they lived and to which they are attached," said Madame Yolande pilot, President of the Board of Directors of the St. Nazaire Support Group. 
Let us mention that 12 tenants in the second phase of the oasis of the builders will be able to benefit from the rent supplement program. Thus, these low-income households will pay a rent similar to that of a low rent dwelling, or 25% of their income. Divided over five years, this additional financial assistance of nearly $ 207,000 is 90% assumed by the SHQ and 10% by the municipality. 
Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000. households each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habit.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Habitat Espace, the WEB magazine of the SHQ, which deals with the spin-offs of the interventions of it on the whole of Quebec society. 
