Quebec- Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Head of the Mauricie Region and the Center-du-Québec Region, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, is pleased to announce , on behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Sylvain Gaudreault, that a grant of $ 164,434 is granted to the Trois-Rivières Transportation Corporation for the Replacement three minibuses. 
This grant is paid under the Government Assistance Program for the Collective Transport of Persons for Collective Transportation Development. 
"Our Government encourages and supports the development of collective transport, which optimizes the use of the road network while increasing the fluidity of displacements, the decrease in the level of congestion and the reduction of pollution attributable to the consumption of hydrocarbons. . Today's announcement will allow the Trois-Rivières region to enjoy an effective collective transportation service by registering for sustainable development. "Said Minister Blanchet. 
Today's announcement will allow the Trois-Rivières region to make collective transport more attractive and significantly increase its use. 
"By participating in the financing of collective transport, we invest in the sustainable development and mobility of people, a social, environmental and economic challenge that is at the heart of the mission of our government," said Blanchet. 
Collective transportation is one of the founding stones of the next Québec sustainable mobility policy. In the process of drawing up, this policy will take over from the Quebec collective transport policy. The new policy will place the user at the heart of his concerns and guide the actions that will be undertaken by 2020 to enhance the offer of collective transportation service throughout Quebec. The preparatory documents and some of the submissions deposited as part of the Ministry of Transportation website at the address www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca. 
The parameters of this program can be viewed on the website of the Ministry of Transport at the address www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca. 
