Chambord - It is at the historical village of Val-Jalbert that the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, and the President of Tourism Saguenay? Lac-Saint-Jean, Mr Eric Larouche, with the member for Roberval, M . Denis Trottier, announced the renewal of the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement (EPRT) aimed at promoting the development of tourist offer. By 2015, an amount of $ 1.5 million will be invested to achieve this goal. 
According to the terms of the agreement, Tourisme Québec and Saguenay Tourism? Lac-Saint-Jean will each inject $ 750,000 until 2015. In the long term, the leverage effect of this fund is likely to generate investments assessed $ 15 million. 
"The renewal of this agreement rejoices, since it testifies to our common will to improve the tourist offer of the region. The Saguenay? Lac-Saint-Jean stands out for a wide range of attractions and products such as gourmet tourism, cyclotourism, adventure tourism and winter tourism combined with unique vacation sites. With nearly 1,200 companies related to regional tourist activity, I am convinced that they will be able to innovate more and make the region more competitive on the tourist chessboard of Quebec, "said Minister Bérubé. 
"The tourism industry represents an essential economic development engine for the region. I want to emphasize the remarkable work of entrepreneurs who have developed structuring projects, promoting the maintenance and creation of several jobs. The successes won so far have become an element of great pride for our region. I think, in particular, to the historic village of Val-Jalbert, of course, the project The Moulin des Pioneers, at the wild Zoo of St-Félicien and many others, "added the deputy Trottier. 
According to the President of Tourism Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, Éric Larouche, "The renewal of the Regional Partnership Agreement in Tourism is a very good news for our industry. It will allow us to effectively achieve the objectives of the Quebec tourism industry development plan, will be used to stimulate innovation with our tourism businesses and consolidate our links with Tourisme Québec. I am satisfied with the progress made, the balance sheet of the last agreement proves it. And today's announcement will allow, I hope, to raise even more the quality of the tourist offer in our region ". 
A first call for projects is announced and the tourist speakers interested have until January 17, 2014 to file their request. For more information and to apply, you can reach Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean tourism. 
So far, the 2008-2012 agreement has supported 43 tourist projects for total investments of nearly $ 2.3 million. Partner investment experienced a leverage of more than ten times total investments, more than $ 27.7 million. Signatory Partners of the 2008-2012 Agreement are Tourisme Québec, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, the Ministry of Culture and Communications, the Regional Conference of the elected representative of Saguenay-Lac-Saint -Jean, Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean tourism, Saguenay promotion, the regional municipalities of Fjord-du-Saguenay County and Lac-Saint-Jean East, as well as Lac-Saint-Jean-Est Local Development Centers , from Maria-Chapdelaine and Domaine-du-Roy. 
Remember that the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement aims at focusing tourism investments based on regional priorities and strengthening the synergy of all regional partners. 
