Quebec- As a result of the publication of the new budget rules, the member for Labelle and sentence of the official opposition in family, Sylvain Pagé, is sorry for not finding specific guidelines regarding the prohibition of Express a child from an early childhood center (CPE). 
"The minister has been affirmative when studying the appropriations, then he repeated during the question period that the guidelines for the attendance rate would be published in the budgetary rules, this week. However, it is not the case. There is no precision. We still do not know if a child can be expelled from his CPE. This shift between the minister's speech and that of his department is the result of the financial objectives imposed by his reorganization. The minister must find that his objectives are non-compliant with the reality of today's families, review them and adapt, "said the member for Labelle. 
"In the absence of clear guidelines, we fear that parents and children will be penalized. The minister must quickly clarify what is allowed or not. However, it must be aware that in some family settings and contexts, for example in the case of parents who have atypical employment or for those who are separated, a directive for eviction would cause serious injury, "added Sylvain. 
"CEPs should not be penalized in disadvantaged, which have a more at risk clientele. On the contrary, we need to protect them and offer them more flexibility. The important thing is to guarantee equal opportunities for all children, in all media, throughout Quebec, "continued the spokesperson. 
"The CPE network has proved, it has been a long time since it contributes to the integration and school success of our children. During his opening speech, the Prime Minister had precisely designated education as a priority of his government; Despite this, cups of hundreds of millions of dollars in schools, CEGEPs and universities were performed. At least, for the future of our children, that he saves CPEs! ", Concluded the member for Labelle. 
