Quebec- The Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean-François Lisé, concluded this Saturday, in Burkina Faso, a one-week mission in West Africa during which he was accompanied moreover a hundred business people and institutional environments, civil society and international solidarity. "The balance sheet of this first multi-sectoral mission, the most important to date led by the Quebec government in Africa, is very positive. In total these are 44 commercial or institutional agreements that have been concluded. Some companies have been established here, others have concluded partnerships or contracts that will allow them to take root on the continent. 
"Strong links already unite Quebec and Francophone Africa. We are now ready to move up a gear, we are in the era of results. The diversity of our delegation is evidence, the favorable economic and political environment that prevails in Africa creates many business opportunities and partnerships that meet Quebec's commercial and institutional capacities, "said the minister. 
Nineteen new commercial and institutional agreements have been concluded during this transition to Burkina Faso. A second Expansion Québec office in Africa has also been inaugurated in the capital, Ouagadougou. "Just like that of Dakar, this office will have the mandate to support Quebec companies wishing to do business in Burkina Faso and West Africa, offering them personalized commercial support and fully equipped workspaces," has Added by Lisée. 
The minister listed also spoke with Blaise Compaore. "I approached with the Chairman compared the possibilities of putting a variety of cooperation projects in the coming months. In training, among others for trades related to the mining industry, energy projects, particularly solar, telecommunications, including access to the Internet in more remote areas, the collaboration between Quebec and Burkina Faso is called to grow. It was also discussion with the Chief Electoral Officer for the Director-General's support for the establishment of a permanent administrative structure at the Burkina Faso National Independent Electoral Commission, "said the minister. . 
Annex- Summary of commercial and institutional announcements concluded in passing from the Quebec delegation to Burkina Faso. 
Kariliss Laboratories Inc. (partnership) 
Marketing of care products, micro-finance project. 
Geothentic Inc. (Partnership) 
Implementation of computerized vehicle fleet management services. 
Effigis Geo Solutions (Partnership) 
Memorandum of Understanding on Scientific and Technical Cooperation. 
Group Xit (tripartite partnership) 
Establishment of a pilot project for a telecommunications infrastructure. 
Cégep de Trois-Rivières (2 advertisements of partnerships) 
GENIVAR (IMPLANTATION) 
Opening of an office in Ouagadougou located inside the Expansion Quebec office. 
CMPC Burkina SA (Implantation) 
Creation of a Quebec co-company Burkinabe CMPC Burkina SA Working in the goods and services sector in the mining sector. 
Windiga Energy 
20 MW solar project in Burkina Faso, the first project under the clean development mechanism that allows green projects in developing countries generated certified emission reduction credits equivalent to a ton of CO2. These credits are exchanged and sold to industries in developed countries that have signed the Kyoto Protocol to achieve their emission reduction targets. 
Geodem (Partnership) 
Establishment of a partnership aimed at providing advanced training in the mining assessment sector as well as technology transfer in the small mine sector in West Africa. 
Foundation Paul Gérin-Lajoie (Partnership) 
With the Cefrio Quebec organization, the creation of a partnership with the School St-Viator of Ouagadougou for research and innovation in organizations, using information and communication technologies. 
CRC Sogema (3 ads of contracts) 
Expansion Québec (Implantation) 
Opening of an office at paired with ERAI to help businesses and to facilitate the development of their business in Burkina Faso and West Africa. 
Cégep du Vieux-Montreal (partnership) 
Agreement with the Higher Institute of Image and Sound (ISIS) of Burkina Faso to develop animation cinema training modules and create a new training chain. 
Global Consultex (Partnership) 
Contribution to the organization of the 3rd edition of the International Renewable Energy Exhibition (Siero) from Ouagadougou to be held from March 26 to 30, 2014. 
Plano Group and the Canadian Center for Studies and International Cooperation (this) - (Partnership) 
Project aimed at strengthening and diversifying the capacity and quality of shea butter production and setting up a renewable power generation unit. 
Consortium Uniterra (Canadian Center for Studies and International Cooperation and World Association of Canada) - (Partnership) 
Partnership to strengthen the capacities of members of the Burkinabe Supplier Association of Mining Properties and Services (ASBM). 
