Québec- In the framework of Archeology, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announces the signing of a notice of classification for the Archaeological Site of Convents-de-Richer, in Castle -Richer, by virtue of Laloi on cultural heritage. 
"Today's announcement illustrates the Government of Quebec's willingness to safeguard our cultural heritage and preserve the remains and archaeological sites of our nation. It is a real pleasure for me to issue a notice of classification for the Conceptions-de-Richer website and this announcement falls to the month of archeology in Quebec, " said Minister Kotto. 
The notice of classification intentits aims to protect the terrain of the Chateau-Richer convent. Archaeological interventions revealed the foundations of the first two convents being built on the site. The vestiges of a windmill, a dairy and other dependencies on the 19th century were also found. All these vestiges inform us about the daily life of the occupants of the places from the French regime. 
The Casteau-Richer Conventive site is of a heritage interest for its historical and archaeological values. Indeed, the place testifies to the settlement of the Côte-de-Beaupré and the history of teaching. The Chateau-Richer convent is the only known site in Quebec associated with teaching young girls in rural areas during the French regime. The convent, which is located on the archaeological site, has been a city building by the municipality. 
Additional information about the Archaeological Site of Castle Castle, the current Chateau-Richer convent and all the heritage elements entered in the cultural heritage register are available on the website of the Quebec Cultural Heritage Directory (RPCQ), atwww.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca. This dissemination tool of the Ministry of Culture and Communications makes it possible to discover the richness and diversity of the Quebec cultural heritage by making it accessible to all. Part of the RPCQ content is now on the Open Data Portal of the Government of Quebec at www.donnes.gouv.qc.ca. 
