Québec- The member for Taillon and spokesperson for the Quebec's health and accessibility of care, Diane Lamarre, regrets that the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, refuses to end the ancillary costs, either to illegal overload imposed by physicians to patients to obtain certain care. 
In a letter sent to the Federal Minister of Health, the patient's lawyer, Mr. Jean-Pierre Ménard, asked him to "intervene to stop the practice of invoicing charges immediately in the private clinics of Quebec, [ ...] A problematic experienced by thousands of Quebec patients who seriously affect their health rights, and more particularly to their right of access to certain medical care. " 
"Our observation is that it is contrary to the common sense of having to rely on another government to stop our Omnipotent Minister of Health, which gives himself all powers, including that of charge the patients for Insured services they have already paid, and for which they should not have to take out their credit card. The question we must ask is: who has to pay for these overloads? Certainly not patients, "said Diane Lamarre. 
"The minister refuses to listen to everyone who tries to make him hear right. Yet the groups that have come many are numerous: the Council for the Protection of Patients, the Fadoq Network, the Association of Retirees and Retirees for Education and Other Public Services of Quebec, the Quebec Health Interprofessional Federation , the Quebec Health Federation, the Confederation of National Trade Unions, Quebec Physicians for the Public Plan, the Community Clinic of Pointe-Saint-Charles, the Coalition Solidarity Health, even the Medical Association of Quebec have intervened publicly to require that The Minister ceases to act in Catimini, recalling that by violating Canadian health, he exposed Quebec to several million dollar deductions on the amounts that taxpayers paid and who return to them ", A-T -she adds. 
Remember that the remuneration of doctors totals nearly $ 7 billion, and that 1% of this amount would be enough to pay all ancillary fees. The Parti Québécois reiterates that the only possible solution is the complete and total elimination of all incidental expenses for Quebecers. 
