Montréal - The Quebec Minister of International Relations, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, said this morning "Very concerned" by the statements of the Canadian Minister of International Cooperation, Julian Fantino, about the freezing of aid programs Canadians in Haiti. "Quebeckers and their government have supported the Haitian people the priority of our international aid action. So far, the Canadian government has been an important partner of international aid and it would be tragic that this commitment is jeopardized by ideological mood swings, "said Lisée. 
"Given its important international solidarity involvement, especially in Haiti, Quebec should be consulted before thinking about CIDA programs. Unfortunately, Quebeckers are once again facing a unilateral action by the Harper government that could have serious consequences, "deploor the Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier. 
Quebec has funded for 15 years 139 projects in Haiti, many of which received additional funding from CIDA. In 2011, the MRI conducted an assessment report on the relevance, effectiveness and impact of its shares in Haiti for the period 2004 to 2011. The latter demonstrated that funded projects produced positive results. The vast majority of projects promotes, to varying degrees, the response to the basic needs defined by the population and the local partner, the equity of gender, the training of human resources and the organizational strengthening of partners. 
"The assistance provided by Quebec-funded organizations has proved their effectiveness and sustainability," said Mr. Lisée. We are very proud and we intend to extend this action. These results are largely attributable to the outstanding fieldwork made on the ground by Quebec international cooperation agencies, almost half of which are active in Haiti. However, several projects are co-financed by CIDA. A withdrawal or too long postponement of Canadian aid handicaps the scope of our action. » 
Mr. Lisée wrote to Minister Fantino to express his concern and request a rapid meeting between senior officials to ensure that the new orientations under development by CIDA do not undermine the actions taken by Quebec. 
"I told Minister Fantino that I hope that the current revaluation for Canadian aid in Haiti does not pay by a Canadian disengagement and quickly leads to a recovery of aid." 
Nearly half of Quebec's international cooperation agencies (OIC) conduct activities in Haiti. In the event that CIDA would like to set up a renewed framework for financing new OIC projects in Haiti, this will have an impact on the ability of Quebec organizations to develop new projects. 
The Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, invites media representatives to a press briefing on the subject. 
Date: Friday, January 11th: 11:25 Location: Westin Hotel de Montréal, 270 St-Antoine West, 9th floor, near the living room City-Marie B 
Summary of the conclusions of the 'assessment report on the relevance, effectiveness and impact of actions supported by PQDI in Haiti since 2004' 
As for the efficiency and impact of the actions carried out in Haiti 
The actions supported in Haiti by PQDI are effective. Note for this purpose the high rate of results obtained (83%) at the end of the projects that remain in force today, the vast majority of the constructed infrastructures which are always functional and the long-term partnerships developed. 
The training activities present in almost all funded projects, as well as those related to the organizational strengthening of Haitian partners, particularly contribute to the sustainability of the initiatives carried out. 
