Quebec, on March 4, 2015 - the member for Saint-Jérôme and the official opposition spokesman in the field of Economics, Entrepreneurship, SMEs and exports, Pierre Karl Péladeau, as well as the member for Gaspé and Spokesperson for the development of the regions, Gaétan Lelièvre, deplore that Minister Jacques Daoust has added to his unacceptable statements regarding entrepreneurs in the region: According to him, the "village kings" would not create real wealth. 
A little earlier today, the minister apologized about the use of terms, but not on the merits of his thought. MPs therefore ask the Minister to stop denigrating regions and entrepreneurs. They also invite him to start a tour to meet those who run companies proudly employing people and contributing to the development of their region. 
"For the minister, true wealth would come from foreign investors. Quebec companies that invest and create employment with us do not generate wealth, according to him. The denigration of contractors continues. When a company creates 200 jobs in a locality, it's not wealth creation? The minister should be recovering both feet on Earth. We agree that foreign investment must be at the rendezvous. Unfortunately, given the poor tangible results of the government's economic missions for Quebecers, we can worry about economic development, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"By typing business closures in the region, Minister Daoust illustrates the little consideration of his government for the many job losses that affect families. Those he called "village kings", they are often the owners of 2nd or 3rd generation family businesses, who are actively involved in the survival and development of their environment, and who are not always recognized at their fair value. They are now confronted at the end of 40 years of regional consultation because of the actions of the Liberal government. Instead of trivializing job losses, the government should worry and come to meet entrepreneurs; We invite him to do it, "concluded Gaétan Lelièvre. 
