Trois-Rivières - Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, and the President of Tourism Mauricie, Mr. Benoît Gauthier, today announced the renewal of the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement aimed at promoting the development of the tourist offer. By 2015, an amount of $ 1,275,000 will be invested for the achievement of this goal. 
"I am proud to confirm the renewal of this agreement, a real model of mobilizing regional development actors. The first agreement (2008-2012) contributed to the realization of 30 projects in the Mauricie region through $ 1.5 million funding for total investments of more than $ 24.6 million. The projects carried out under this agreement have renewed the tourist offer, which is very important for our destination and our companies to remain competitive, "said Minister Bérubé. 
"The renewal of this partnership agreement is an excellent news for the Mauricie tourism industry. It responds to a real need for our companies that, through the financial support they receive, can carry out innovative and structuring projects for our tourist offer, thus strengthening the Place de la Mauricie as one of the major tourist destinations of Quebec ". , Tourism President Mauricie, Mr. Benoît Gauthier 
According to the terms of this new agreement, Tourisme Québec and Tourism Mauricie will each issue $ 500,000 until 2015. The other financial partners are La Cré de la Mauricie ($ 140,000), the CLD of Mekinac ($ 15,000) ), the CLD of the Haut Saint-Maurice ($ 22,500), the CLD of the channels ($ 15,000), the CLD of Maskinongé MRC ($ 22,500), the city of Shawinigan ($ 30,000) and innovation and Economic Development Trois-Rivières ($ 30,000). 
"The contribution of the tourism industry to the socio-economic vitality of Mauricie is indisputable and with the announced partnership agreement today is given, as a region, the lever that will allow us to maintain this contribution on an upward slope. I note that this agreement fits perfectly well in the guidelines and priorities of the Mauricie 2010-2015 Five-Year Regional Development Plan, "added the President of the Regional Conference of Elected (Crés) of Mauricie, Prefect of the MRC. Channels, Mayor of Saint-Maurice and President of the CLD of the Channels, Mr. Gérard Bruneau. 
"The tourism industry is an important economic engine for Trois-Rivières and Mauricie, and investments in the development of supply in this sector of activity can only be positive for all our community," said the Mayor of Trois-Rivières and Innovation Representative and Economic Development Trois-Rivières, Mr. Yves Lévesque. 
"This partnership agreement will truly have a leverage. It is a great opportunity to give themselves the means of our ambitions to support the development of our recreational tourism industry, "said the Mayor of Shawinigan, Michel Angers. 
"The renewal of this agreement will allow us to realize a dream that has long been cassizing the Mauricie for a long time, that of making the river Saint-Maurice navigable between the Tuque and Shawinigan. It is a major tourist project for our region, because the Saint-Maurice river is the link that unites the whole Mauricie together. This project is a nice way to give the river to our people and attract tourists to us. Without the help of Tourisme Québec, we could not realize all these creative wealth projects for our region, "brought the Mayor of the Tuque and President of the CLD of the Haut Saint-Maurice, Mr. Normand Beaudoin. 
"This agreement directly helps the expansion or innovation projects of our tourism companies. We salute this beautiful initiative, "continued the prefect of the Maskinongé MRC, Mayor of Saint-Léon the Grand and President of the CLD of Maskinongé, Mr. Robert Lalonde. 
"The territory of Mekinac is certainly one of the Sectors of the Mauricie with a high tourist potential for tourism. We believe that several carrier projects will be developed over the next few years and this agreement will certainly contribute to the realization of many of them. In addition, this agreement makes it possible to mobilize regional actors around common projects allowing the development of a quality and distinctive tourism offer, "concluded the prefect of the MRC of Mekinac and Mayor of Sainte-Thèce, Mr. Alain Valley. 
At the same time, stakeholders revealed six new projects supported as part of this Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement. The projects, which share a sum of $ 469,700 alone account for 4,448,290 $ in tourist investments. Financial assistance is as follows: 
-From the bony: $ 49,700 for an expansion project to receive groups year round  -Maikan Adventure: $ 75,000 for the construction of the host pavilion and the supply of outdoor activities-Protection Committee of Ozias Leduc: $ 20,000 for the modernization of the lighting system  -Atourisme Mauricie: $ 200,000 for the Saint-Maurice River's markup, the confluence of the MEKINAC River to the new Marina of the Tuque  -Ville de la Tuque: $ 75,000 for the development of nautical infrastructure on the Saint-Maurice River and the construction of a marina in the tuque  - Energy of energy: $ 50,000 for the modernization and bonus of the exhibition "All Fire, Any Flame" 
Remember that the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement aims to focus investments in the tourism industry based on regional priorities and strengthen the role of partners in this process. The regional partners sit on the management committee of this agreement to which the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupancy of the Municipal Affairs participates. 
Finally, visiting Mauricie, Minister Bérubé met with several tourist speakers in the region. "I am pleased to have had the opportunity to talk directly with the operators of the region," said Mr. Bérubé. The Mauricie stands out for its dynamism and a remarkable ideas bubbling. " 
