Carleton-sur-Mer- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announces the taking of UnordonanceAfin to ensure the secure and decontamination of the site belonging to The company Power equipment Reliance Ltd. (Reliance). The deadlines provided for in this order aim to ensure that no other deadline will compromise the security of the sector. 
"So far, the ministry has used all the means at its disposal so that the company complies with the law, but without satisfactory result. It's time to move to the next step. Indeed, it is not a question that the safety of citizens is more compromised by the stubbornness of a company not to submit to the environmental standards in force. Today, we are taking very restrictive ways today to force and as needed to perform the operations that will secure the site and to ensure its decontamination, "said the Minister Blanchet. 
On August 13, the company received a notice prior to the order. The law imposes a minimum period of 15 days to give the company the time to submit its observations. This period expired on August 28 at midnight. The Minister therefore uses the powers conferred on him by section 70.1 of the Environmental Quality Act (EQA) to take an order at the place of Reliance. The company has 24 hours to confirm its intention to respect the entire order. In case of lack of response, unsatisfactory response or negative response from Reliance, the MDDEFP will immediately take charge of the necessary operations to secure the site and decontaminate the site. 
Recall that the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP) has confirmed the presence of residual hazardous materials contaminated with polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) on a field belonging to the firm Reliance as a result. Oil and water spill December26, 2013. The MDDEFP ensured rigorous monitoring of the situation with Reliance, through six visits, with three notices of non-compliance, two letters, of a Residence and notice prior to an order. Nevertheless, the company did not provide a satisfactory plan of action with regard to the seriousness of the situation. 
If the company undertakes out of any doubt to respect the entire order, it shall, among other things, file a preliminary action plan at the latest on Tuesday, September 3, to free up the site of all stored CBPs. "The recent gestures of the directors of the company are not reassuring. The law imposes a minimum period, but the good judgment requires a more convincing commitment than I expect," admitted the minister. 
The expected plan of action of the company should minimally provide for measures providing permanent and complete security of the site; the establishment of safe and conforming storage techniques; Followed by a process of moving PCBs to a secure and listed site, a residual hazardous material disposal plan present on the site as well as soil characterization and decontamination. The department would provide daily supervision of activities on the site to ensure that the company complies with the modalities of the order. As soon as a breach is noted, the department may choose to perform the actions in place and at the expense of the company. 
As soon as the Ministry undertakes actions on the site, all timely remedies may be implemented in order to recover the costs incurred, including, where appropriate, the registration of a legal mortgage on existing buildings. 
Given the illegal and illegal nature of the activities of the company Reliance, either the storage of residual hazardous materials contaminated by biphenylechlorinates (PCBs), an investigation has been opened at the MDDEFP with the firm intention to transmit a file to the Director of Prosecutions criminal and criminal, which could decide to undertake criminal proceedings. 
Given the high mediatization of the location of the illegal site, Minister Blanchet asked yesterday to the Police Department of the City of Montreal (SPVM) to ensure without delay a permanent police presence on the scene, and this, as long as the situation will command. Since the unveiling of the existence of this place, security teams hired by the Ministry also provide a presence on the site 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Since Wednesday evening, this surveillance is ensured by SPVM police officers. 
