Quebec- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, accompanied by the member for Saint-Jean and Deputy Whip of the Government, Mr. Dave Turcotte, today announced today It authorized, on a permanent basis, the program of study technology of architecture at Cégep Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu. This new program will meet the demand for architectural technologists in Montérégie. 
"I am pleased that this new program of study is permanently fits into the training offer of Cégep Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu. It must meet regional needs and allow young people to study at home, then find a job in their region. It is also one of the main objectives of the site on the offer of collegial training, whose final report is expected next June, to highlight Minister Duchesne. 
The programmetchology of the architeteresera offered in Cégep Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu from the 2015-2016 school year. Cégep will host a cohort of 25 new students each year. 
The investment rate for a full-time job in this training is excellent, 91.9%. The implementation of this program on a permanent basis of Cégep Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu will increase the regional recruitment potential of graduates and thus fill the labor needs of companies in the region or Surrounding areas. 
"This curriculum will increase the skilled workforce in the field of architecture and thus meet the needs of the region that lives significant population and economic growth. I am pleased that Cégep Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu can offer this training whose graduates are in demand. This is a great news for the Montérégie region! , "Said the Turcotte deputy. 
"The announcement of the minister is not only an excellent news for the Cégep Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, but also for the whole Montérégie. Future with a diploma of the new architectural technology program will meet the many business needs of businesses and organizations seeking quality succession. CEGEP already offers the technical design program, a field related to architectural technology, "said Cégep de Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, Ms. Chantal Denis. 
