Quebec- The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announces the establishment of a working group on the future of the Museum Network in Quebec. The Presidency of this group is entrusted to Claude Corbo, Project Manager with the Academic and Strategic Affairs and former Rector of the University of Quebec. It will be accompanied by two collaborators, Marie Lavigne, corporate director and former President and Chief Executive Officer of the Montreal Place des Arts, and Laurel Lacroix, Commissioner, Museologist and Associate Professor in the Department of History of the Art of the University of Quebec in Montreal. 
Mr. Corbo will be able to count on the support and collaboration of a table of experts formed by directors of museums and exhibition centers from across Quebec as well as municipal elected representatives and representatives of regional organizations. Who will ensure the territorial analysis of the work. 
"The museum community faces great challenges, including its technological upheavals and its growing financial needs; Hence the imperative to include in the reflection all the actors concerned. I also thank all those who will collaborate in this working group and develop short, medium and long-term solutions to help museology. The future of the museum network is a ministerial priority and I have the desire to make it a government priority, "said Minister Kotto. 
"As a citizen and as a university, I attach great importance to the presence and roles of museums in our society. I strongly thank the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, his confidence. I feel very privileged to be able to contribute, with two particularly well qualified colleagues for our mandate, Ms. Lavigne and Mr Lacroix, to the formulation of solutions to ensure the future of the museum network in Quebec, in a perspective of public interest " , added Mr. Corbo. 
The museum environment claims greater support from the Government of Quebec for almost ten years. This working group will focus on the roles of museums, exhibition centers and places of interpretation in Quebec society, the optimization of the organization and functioning of the museum network, the problem of financing as well as the role of public authorities. 
The Working Group will ensure the national and regional actors involved in the future of the museum network and to make recommendations on which the Ministry of Culture and Communications (MCC) can rely to maximize the scope of its interventions. The final report, which will clear a vision of the future that can pave the way for updating museum policy, will be tabled by Minister Kotto in the fall of 2013. 
Representatives of the MCC and the Society of Quebec Museums jointly defined the mandate of the Working Group and will follow the evolution of the work. 
The MCC reaffirms its support for Quebec Museum Institutions that play a fundamental role in the conservation and development of our heritage. Places of production and dissemination of knowledge, tourist attractions, vectors of transmission of Quebec identity, they actively contribute to the vitality of the territories they serve. With more than 13.4 million visitors in 2012, they are an essential element in the cultural landscape. This is why the museum network continues to benefit from important MCC support, which currently devotes nearly $ 72 million per year, both by its state museums and by financial assistance to museum institutions. Québec's whole territory. Recall that the museum sector employs nearly 4,000 people in Quebec. 
Mr. Marcel Blouin  Managing Director and Artistic  Expression- Exhibition Center of Saint-Hyacinthe 
Ms. Nathalie Bondil  Director and Chief Conservative  Museum of Fine Arts in Montreal 
Mr. Alessandro Cassa  Director  Montmusée, network of museums of the Montérégie 
Ms. Christine Cheyrou  Conservative Director  Museum of Ursulines de Québec 
Mr. Michel Côté  General manager  Museums of civilization 
Mr. Patrice Corbeil  Director  Marine Interpretation Company of Haute-Côte-Nord 
Ms. Francine Lelièvre  Executive Director  Pointe-à-Callière, museum of archeology and history of Montreal 
Mr. Alexander Reford  Director  Métis gardens 
A group of municipal elected representatives and representatives of regional organizations will also help to enrich reflection by providing a territorial analysis of the work. 
