Paris, France- At the end of a four-day mission in Paris carried out on the sidelines of the Celebrations of the National Day of Quebec, the Minister Delegate to Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier Rejoice of the fruitful meetings he has done and testify to the great friendship that unites France and Quebec. 
During his mission, Minister Alexander Cloutier met with many French political representatives with whom he traded in particular on the political, economic and cultural relations between France and Quebec. The Minister has, among other things, traded with members of the Committee of Friendship France-Quebec, members of the French National Assembly, French Senators, as well as with representatives of the Municipal Government of Paris. 
As part of the various events organized by the Quebec Delegation of Quebec in Paris on the occasion of the National Day of Quebec, Minister Cloutier has addressed several branded guests, including ambassadors, parliamentarians, members of the French government. as well as many guests of honor to talk about the directions and assessment of the Marois government since his arrival in power. 
The minister then recalled the various measures taken by the government to make the Quebec political system more integr. It also stimulated the great importance it dedicates to the consolidation of public finances, economic development and the improvement of social policies. In this regard, he mentioned the transportation site for the electrification of transport, but also the new food sovereignty of Quebec, as well as the white livre on the autonomy insurance for its government presented in the spring. 
Minister Alexandre Cloutier also presented the fundamental elements of sovereignist governance, which is intended to be the line of conduct of a sovereignist government until Quebeckers decide to give himself a country. He also wanted to emphasize the National Day of Quebec and the importance of the friendship relationship that unites France and Quebec. 
"Our national holiday is a privileged moment to celebrate the pride that we have to belong to the Quebec people, to promote our difference all over the world and also to thank the faithful friends of Quebec," said Minister Cloutier. 
During an interview with the Secretary-General of La Francophonie, Mr. Abdou Diouf, Minister Cloutier and Mr. Diouf exchanged on the Quebec Square in the International Francophonie, the situation of French in Quebec and on the stage international, as well as the promotion of the French language. 
Minister Cloutier attended the largest hunting and fishing show in France, the Game Fair, which took place at the National Chambord and welcoming more than 71,000 visitors annually. Quebec was this year the guest of honor of the show and to mark the opportunity, 24 Quebec stands promoted activities related to hunting and fishing on the territory of Quebec. 
"Quebec is a real paradise for all hunting and fishing enthusiasts and being the guest of honor of such an important event that Legame Fairconstitute an invaluable promotional showcase for Quebec," said the Minister Alexandre Cloutier. 
Minister Cloutier also attended the Gaston Miron Library of Sorbonne New Paris 3 in the company, among others, former Prime Minister of Quebec, Mr. Bernard Landry, and the General Delegate of the Quebec in Paris, Mr. Michel Robitille.inaugurated by the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, as well as by the President of the Sorbonne University New Paris 3, Ms. Marie- Christine Lemardeley, this library will enhance the largest Quebec documentary funding abroad and to highlight the 17,000 books and periodicals in its collection. 
