Québec- As the Rio Tinto Alcan Dubuc plant in Chicoutimi has just lost its largest customer, which represented 80% of its order book, we fear for its survival. The spokesman of the Parti Québécois in the field of economy and exports, Alain Therrien, as well as the member for Jonquière and spokesperson on municipal affairs and decentralization, Sylvain Gaudreault, ask the Minister of the Economy to intervene to ensure the future of the company. 
"Once again, an industrial jewel in the region is threatened. Minister Jacques Daoust and his government must absolutely intervene in the case today. The Novelis plant has been relocated without government intervention, Jonquière's cartonness as well. The government must wake up. The industrial environment in the region is crumbling seriously, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The Dubuc plant is a production unit specializing in a technology developed for the aerospace industry. It manufactures an alloy used by Bombardier, for example, to build the fuselage of its C Series. The alloy for Bombardier will therefore now be manufactured outside Quebec. 
"It's surprising to see the government invest $ 1.3 billion in Bombardier, but do not ensure that the production chain remains here in Quebec and in our regions. Quebeckers will pay? They from their pocket, once again, while the majority of supply chain jobs will find themselves outside? Asked Alain Therrien. 
"It's time for the government to act. We were used for great words at the June regional summit and during the unveiling of the strategy of aluminum. It is time for the boots to follow the babines and that actions are made for this high value factory. Remember that this is the Prime Minister's region; How is there any more closures than openings? , "Said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"The Liberal government is unable to have a vision. The absence of economic policy shows its effects since April 2014: job losses, factories that close throughout the region, loss of our innovative technologies ... Decidedly, the government sleeps at gas. Let it come out of his torpor and seize the Dubuc file in Chicoutimi! "Concluded Alain Therrien. 
