Montréal- The Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, announces the establishment of a Framework Program for Treatment of Addiction Under Judicial Supervision for Adult Offenders who commit certain crimes because of their dependence . 
On this day, the provisions of the Law C-10 relating to the minimum imprisonment on the matter of drugs, the Minister availsum the authority of Article 720 (2) of the Criminal Code, which allows a province to a drug treatment program under judicial supervision. By acting in this way, it gives the possibility to judges not to impose the new minimum sentences of imprisonment when the offender successfully follows the drug treatment program, in accordance with Article 10 (5) of the law regulating some drugs and other substances. 
"In the case of crimes not likely to compromise public safety, this judicial program makes it possible to intervene effectively with drug supplies to help them put an end to their dependence. Through this approach, we want to prevent the cycle of successive crimes and imprisonments through treatment, rehabilitation and reintegration, "said the Minister of Justice. 
The Quebec program is in line with the recommendations of the Court of Québec and similar projects currently administered by specialized courts in six major Canadian cities. It involves an interaction between the program's stakeholders, both the prosecutor, the defense, the Tribunal and the treatment units that Community services, with a view to maximizing the chances of success of therapy and facilitate the social reintegration of the offender. The resources associated with it are certified community or private institutions that gravitate in the health and social services network. 
The framework program can be adapted according to the resources and needs of each region. The program will leave the partners to put in place local arrangements for their respective roles, the process of admitting a defendant to the program and the criteria for the success of its participation. 
The Minister of Justice will submit guidance to the Director of Criminal and Criminal Prosecutions (PCPP), in order to encourage prosecutors to focus on the treatment when the accused meets the conditions of the program. 
"I would like to thank all partners who contributed to the setting up of the judicial drug treatment program. It is by joining our strengths that we will be able to better prevent recidivism and ensure the protection of the long-term public, "concluded Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud. 
