Montreal- The Minister of Health and Social Services, and Minister responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, participated today at the inauguration of the new emergency of the Jewish General Hospital Sir Mortimer B. Davis, an integral part the first phase of construction of the new critical care pavilion, the K. 
"This is the realization of an important step in this great project, whose beneficial benefits will benefit both patients and staff members. The first will benefit from an environment conducive to safe and high quality care, while the second will evolve in spaces both more spacious and better organized, so much more functional, "said Minister Hébert. 
The new urgency has five resuscitation rooms and 53 stretchers, mainly in single rooms to allow better control of nosocomial infections. In addition to taking advantage of decentralized workstations, which facilitate the opening and closing of sections of the emergency according to traffic, the new emergency has distinct traffic corridors for visitors and for careful teams, and this. , from a functional and organizational and preventive perspective. 
"The construction of this new emergency makes it possible to fill a need for space, but also, and above all, modernize the critical care unit of the hospital by incorporating the latest trends in the organization and dispensation of the Care, "said Minister Hébert. 
Announced in November 2010, the first phase of the construction of Pavillon K was carried out at a cost of $ 121,24,200. In addition to the emergency, this adjoining wing on the northwestern side of the hospital will include the intensive care unit, the operating room, the birth center, the neonatology unit, as well as the day hospital. It will be connected to the existing installation by an atrium on the ground floor, as well as by footbridges on floors. The contribution of the Government of Quebec is $ 95,275,000 for the completion of this first phase, the balance of $ 25,971,200 is assumed by the Hospital Foundation. 
