Quebec- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, confirms the granting of non-refundable financial assistance of $ 300,000 to the Laserrax firm. This help will be used to develop industrial cutting laser systems. It will also consolidate three high-level jobs in addition to creating ten new jobs over the next two years. 
"The Laserrax project has all the qualities of a promising project for the company: it will contribute not only to the rise of photonics in Quebec, but also to the creation of high-level jobs for the regions of the Chaudière- Appalaches and the Capitale National. This is another evidence that innovation is at the service of social and economic development from all regions of Quebec, "said Minister Duchesne. 
Thanks to this project, whose implementation ranges over 18 months, this company will be able to exploit a distinctive niche and finalize the product to market. The company has developed an algorithm that optimizes laser settings for cutting applications for fine materials at industrial speeds. The very compact design facilitates the integration of the system into environments where space is limited. 
More specifically, Laserax specializes in the development and marketing of laser cutting systems for the manufacturing industry. The technology used by Laserax has been developed jointly with the Laval University Optics, Photonics and Laser Center in Quebec City. The company has obtained the accreditation "Laser Safety Officer" with the French company LASOPTIC. 
"Collaboration and partnership are important in the national research and innovation policy. This policy is optimizing, among other things, networking and exchanges between different actors for better synergy and greater efficiency, including easier access to innovation for SMEs, "said the minister. 
"Our company considers relations with business partners as being of paramount importance. We want to provide manufacturing companies with a diversified range of high quality laser solutions to enable them to improve their productivity and innovation capacity. Financial support from the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology will help us to use our know-how and to carry out this project, "said Xavier P. Godmaire, President of Laserax. 
$ 300,000 financial assistance from the Department of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology (MESRST) comes from the Innovation Support Program (IAP), Support Component to Technology Companies start-up. The financial assembly of the company's project will be completed by a round of private investment, including $ 100,000 from the Sovar Valorisation Corporation. 
This global financial assembly should allow Laserax to take an important step in its development to prepare the marketing of its system over the next year. 
The Sovar Partnership is dedicated to the development of new technologies from academic research activities from partner research centers. It also meets the needs of companies looking for innovation. 
Sovar works closely with Quebec researchers to overcome the difficult transition to transform an innovation still at the conceptual stage into a concrete and marketable application. It also develops partnerships with key stakeholders in the Quebec and Canadian innovation system, and potential investors. 
National Lapolian of Research and InnovationsCrives in the Four Strategic Initiatives of Economic Priority Employment Priority The Government of Quebec. It is the result of many consultations with actors from all sectors concerned with research and innovation: companies, educational institutions, state and society. With an unprecedented investment of $ 3.7 billion over five years, it will make it possible to advance Quebec in the knowledge and innovation society. 
For more information on the programs and services of the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, visitwww.messt.gouv.qc.ca. 
