Montréal- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, announced the announcement, at the Montreal Congress Palace, from the team that will participate in the final of the right issue of Cité, next June. This series of 30 issues carried out by CIBL in collaboration with the Barreau du Québec was broadcast every Friday from 7 pm to 8 pm One hour per week, the show offered two groups of university students to opposing ideas to come to debate in front of jury and public corporate issues. 
"The oratory debate as proposed by city law is part of the great democratic tradition of our society. This type of exercise allows students to discuss, clarify and refine their positions while respecting and considering those of others. Whatever the subject addressed, the public debate is still necessary. In this sense, the issue right of Cité contributes to awareness of the community with democratic values of discussion and openness, "said Minister Duchesne. 
The first round of debates will have allowed 32 teams to be heard, at more than 65 students. Subsequently, 16 teams acceded to the rounds of finals, 8 to the quarter-final, 4 to the semifinal and two in the final. This will be broadcast live from the Barreau du Québec Congress, on June 30, in front of more than 150 people. 
The city right formula is simple. The show opens on the facilitator who reveals the discussion subject of the day, sets out the related editorial, and then presents the jury, the organizations involved and the stakeholders to the debate. Subsequently, student groups begin their oratory joust. These are twelve minutes to assert their arguments in the form of a contradictory debate, with the moderation of the facilitator. 
At the end of the debate, the public is invited to choose the best debaters (pleadings and receipts). Following the radio exercise, the content of the discussions is posted on the public business log forum of the JURIPOP, facts and causes, as well as on the blog dedicated to the show in the newspaper of Montreal. 
Four public figures followed one another to animate these corporate debates: Mathieu Bock-side, sociologist and columnist, Jocelyne Cazin, journalist, commentator and facilitator, Pierre Maisonneuve, journalist and animator, and Gilles pay, radio animator. 
"The formula we have adopted is both stimulating, positive and open for all and all to find their account. The goal is first to mobilize the student university community, with the participation of legal, political, social and economic circles. Everything takes place in a space of multiplatform and public debate, where multiple differences of opinions, vision and philosophy are encountered by the way of a media that we all know: the radio, "said the founder and director General de Juipop, Mr. Marc-Antoine Cloutier, who carries out in partnership with the Barreau du Québec and CIBL the right issue of Cité. 
