Sherbrooke- The Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Elders and Minister responsible for the Estrie Region, Réjean Hébert, accompanied by the member for Sherbrooke, Serge Cardin, today announced the accreditation of a Group of Family Medicine (GMF) in the Estrie region. This is the Belvedere-Galt family medicine group, which becomes the fourteenth GMF in the Estrian region. 
"The consolidation of the GMF network is one of the priorities of our government to improve the accessibility of front-line services and the continuity of health care and health services. This model of family medicine practice in the interdisciplinary team has proven itself and is very stimulating for doctors, "said Minister Hébert. 
The many advantages of the GMF model reside among others in professional collaboration between nurses and family physicians. People registered with a family doctor of a GMF have access to a full range of front-line services, including medical consultations with and without appointment. Patient care is more comprehensive and adapted to the needs of people whose state of health, as evaluated by their doctor, requires special modalities of access to services, such as people with chronic diseases. 
The Belvedere-Galt Family Medicine Group has thirteen doctors. Its service offering has been developed with the partners of the health network, particularly with the health and social services center- Sherbrooke Géritory University Institute. 
"I want to congratulate and thank the thirteen doctors of the new GMF for their collective commitment to the citizens of Sherbrooke. This announcement demonstrates the sincere desire for health actors to work together to always respond better and more effectively to the needs of the population, "says Serge Cardin. 
"By bringing together their practice, the physicians of the family medicine group promote the continuity of care, the rapid access to medical follow-up, as well as a global care of the health status of users. I salute this collaboration that is a strong contribution to the supply of health care in the region, "concluded the Minister Hébert. 
