Quebec- Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Pierre Duchesne, announces that he grants to the University of Quebec in Montreal (UQAM), for the Institute of Science Mathematics (ISM), financial assistance totaling $ 987,000 for the next three academic years. This grant will allow the ISM to continue its mission and its activities, which are not only on the coordination of research in mathematics, but also on the promotion of mathematical sciences and the development of scientific culture. 
"It is essential for Quebec to innovate in all spheres of higher education. However, mathematics are the common denominator of most sciences. The deepening of our knowledge in this area therefore benefits from a crowd of scientific disciplines and helps stimulate research and innovation. I encourage the Institute to continue its excellent work of research, but also to breathe the taste of science to young people, who are the succession of Quebec of tomorrow. Moreover, the national research and innovation (PNRI) that I launched last fall aims to support the growth of scientific careers, "said Minister Duchesne. 
The Institute of Mathematical Sciences has the eight Quebec universities with a Department of Mathematics and Statistics, the Bishop's Universities, Concordia, Laval, McGill, the Universities of Montreal and Sherbrooke, the University of Quebec in Trois-Rivières and UQAM. The latter was mandated by the members to administer the Institute. 
The Institute aims at cooperation and the sharing of resources between its members since its founding 22 years ago. ISM brings together some 175 professors and researchers and more than 525 graduate students distributed in ten research groups. The Government of Quebec financially supports the ISM since its founding in 1991. Since 2007-2008, the grant amounts to $ 329,000 a year. Member universities contribute for an amount of $ 28,000 annually. 
"The ISM is an eloquent example of what Quebec universities can accomplish when working together. The Great Doctoral School of ISM is a great incubator of mathematical talent and a global pole of attraction. Its activities and publications, such increases and mathematical annals in Quebec, contribute to the influence of Quebec on the international scene. It is this mission that the new subsidy of the department will allow us to continue and the whole mathematical community is delighted. It is a vote of confidence that we will know us worthy of us, "said the director of the ISM and professor at McGill University, Mr. Christian Genest. 
The National Research and Innovation Policy is part of the four strategic initiatives of the Employment Priority Policy of the Government of Quebec. It is the result of many consultations with actors from all sectors concerned with research and innovation: companies, educational institutions, state and society. With an unprecedented investment of $ 3.7 billion over five years, it will make it possible to advance Quebec in the knowledge and innovation society. 
For more information on departmental programs and services, visitwww.messt.gouv.qc.ca. 
