Quebec- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, is proud to announce that the expansion of Mont-Saint-Bruno National Park is now official. The area of this national park increases by more than 50% to increase from 578 to 884 hectares. 
"This considerable increase in the area of the National Park aims at the priority of the preservation areas devoted to the protection of nature. There will be more space to better protect fragile ecosystems or species at risk at Mont-Saint-Bruno National Park, which is the busiest in our network. In a region where pressures on natural environments are growing, particularly because of the densification of the population, this expansion represents a major contribution to the balance between development and protection of the environment, "said the Minister Blanchet. 
The acquisition, by the MDDEFP, private lands and other major properties which belonged to the city of Saint-Bruno-de-Montarville, at the Department of National Defense of Canada and the Ministry of Agriculture. Fisheries and Food of Quebec, was carried out at a cost of $ 1,220,000. In the immediate future, the management and application of the parks will be facilitated since several properties acquired were so far landlocked in the territory of this national park without being part of it. 
Among the different natural components that will now be better protected, mention that the five lakes, which were private tenure when creating the park in 1985, are now included in the perimeter of Mont-Saint-Bruno National Park. In addition to the peat bog of the Atocas and wetlands located in the southwestern section of the park, two new sectors benefit from increased protection measures. It is a maid in Caryer and a red oak tree with sugar maple, each of which is considered an exceptional forest ecosystem in Quebec. 
"The expansion of Mont-Saint-Bruno National Park meets the desire expressed by many citizens of the region for several years. It is a gain for the quality of the living environment of the citizens who reside near the National Park, but also for the whole region. Our Government will continue to work towards the protection of Montéregian hills, which form an important conservation core in the Montreal, Montérégie and Estrie regions, "said Minister Yves-François Blanchet. 
