Saint-Roch-de-L'achigan- The Minister of Finance and the Economy and Deputy of Rousseau, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, is proud to announce on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, regions and occupation of the territory Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, whom the municipality of Saint-Roch-de-L'achigan will benefit from $ 553,850 and that of Saint-Calixte, using 4 257 130 $ With the total help for these two municipalities of Lanaudière at $ 4,810,980 for the realization of large water infrastructure work. This financial support comes from the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM). 
"I am very pleased with the financial support today announced at the municipalities of Saint-Roch-de-L'achigan and Saint-Calixte for the realization of important water work. Our government is aware of the need to renew and develop water infrastructure in communities across Quebec. That is why he works in partnership with the valuable partners that municipalities are, in order to allow access to quality public services for all, according to the principles of sustainable development, "said Minister Nicolas Marceau. 
The project of the municipality of Saint-Roch-de-Lachigan aims at the replacement of drinking water, wastewater and rainwater pipes under certain segments of the Malo and Main Streets. Eventually, 485 meters from the water pipes will be replaced in Saint-Roch-de-L'achigan. The realization of this project requires maximum government assistance of $ 553,850, under the PIQM 1.5 component. 
As for the municipality of Saint-Calixte, it will benefit from financial assistance for two projects. The first project aims to replace drinking water pipes under the 6th rank as well as under the streets Alexander, Beauchamps, Corbeil, Goyer, Jocelyne, Juteau, Hertel, Mainville, and Main. Also, the project provides for the replacement of drinking water and wastewater under the Delorimier, Duval East and West, Lépine, Morin, Pratt and Sicard. In total, water pipes over four kilometers will be renewed in Saint-Calixte. The realization of this project requires maximum government assistance of $ 4,072,130, under the 1.5 PIQM component. 
The second project consists essentially of the replacement of the drinking water treatment system and work expansion of the current building to house new equipment. Work to the drinking water tank are also planned. Under the PIQM component 1.4, the Government of Quebec's contribution to the project is $ 185,000. For its part, the municipality of Saint-Calixte also invests $ 185,000 in its project, bringing the total amount of investments at $ 370,000. 
The support of the Government of Quebec to these projects is part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) 2013-2023 released last April. It should be remembered that this decennial plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the associated costs and to make informed choices. 
