Quebec- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, makes public the report of the Chairman of the Working Group on the Formation of Nurses, Dr. Pierre Durand. In addition to considering the proposal of the Order of Nurses of Quebec about the initial training needed to access the nursing profession, the Group has also studied proposals submitted by other partners, including the interprofessional federation of the Quebec Health (FIQ), the Quebec Association of Health and Social Services (AQESSS) and the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology (MESRST). 
"The group has not reached consensus. Before the impossibility of rallying partners around a common vision, we consider it appropriate to support the approach, as recommended by the Chairman of the Working Group. So, jointly, jointly with the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, starting a prospective sectoral analysis to confirm the needs of the skills network the respective members of the nursing team must acquire. This will identify positions where college training is sufficient and those where university education is required, "said Minister Hébert. 
"Collegial institutions are currently playing a leading role in the training of nursing succession. Their contribution to training is crucial and I believe that we must continue in this direction. The prospective sectoral study will be carried out by my department will provide valuable information that will allow us to make an informed decision on the initial training needed to access the nursing profession. This study will also be dubbed by a profession analysis that will consult the care team professionals and to draw up a full portrait of their work, "said Minister Duchesne. 
"We also retain the fact that the majority of members have expressed the wish to maintain a qualifying collegiate training. We also want to ensure the availability of the DEC-BAC in all regions of Quebec and thus promote the retention of professionals in the different circles, "added Minister Hébert. 
A workforce will be carried out as to the critical mass of nursing professionals necessary for a safe and quality care provision. An analysis of current positions in the network and their staffing will be carried out. Finally, as a result of these analyzes, the Ministry of Health and Social Services will carry out an impact study to validate the implementation capacity and, where appropriate, the inherent implementation strategies. 
"We are lucky in Quebec to be able to count on competent and dedicated nurses who play a key role in the daily benefit of care for the population and strengthening the first line. It is therefore all the more important to support our guidelines on solid and concrete. This is the only way to ensure that we effectively respond to the evolution of our health system and the needs of the Quebec population, "said Minister Hébert. 
Remember that it was in June 2012 that the Order of Nurses of Quebec (OIIQ) asked the Government of Quebec to establish a new entry standard to the nursing profession, the Bachelor's degree in nursing obtained after a Diploma of college education in nursing or in nature sciences. This is as a result of this request that Minister Hébert created the Nursing Succession Working Group, which brings together representatives of the OIIQ, the Quebec Association of Health and Social Services (AUQESSS). , from the Conference of Rectors and Principals of Quebec Universities (CREPUQ), the Quebec Health Federation affiliated to the Quebec Union Station (FSQ-CSQ), the Federation of Health and Affiliated Social Services At the Confederation of National Trade Unions (FSSS-CSN), from the CEGEP Federation, the Quebec Interprofessional Federation of Quebec (FIQ), the Treasury Board Secretariat (TBS), the Office of Occupations (OPQ) , from the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology (MESRST) and the Ministry of Health and Social Services (MSSS). 
More specifically, the working group had to evaluate the advantages and disadvantages as well as the steps necessary to complete the transition. It should, to make, consider several aspects, such as the offer of service, the organization of care and work, the capacity of the teaching houses, the impacts on public finances and the situation of the Hand of work on qualitative and quantitative plans. 
The report of the Chairman of the Working Group on the Nurse Succession may be energized on the website of the Ministry of Health and Social Services. 
