Quebec- The Minister of Finance and Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, reacted today to the federal government's decision to move forward with his bill on the elimination of the relative tax credit to workers' funds. "I do not understand the Government of Canada's attitude on this issue. By refusing any compromise and abutting ear to the arguments for the maintenance of the tax credit, the federal government is under the growth of the Quebec economy and the development of our businesses, particularly SMEs, "A-T- he declares. 
The minister recalled that workers' funds are an important economic development tool for Quebec. They invest 60% of their net assets in venture capital and development in SMEs in Quebec. Thus, these funds promote the creation of many jobs in all regions and attract private and foreign capital. 
Their investments also contribute to making Quebec companies more productive and innovative. "By abolishing the workers' fund tax credit, the federal government will reduce their capitalization and limit their power of intervention in the economy, in addition to depriving Quebec with an important leverage effect to attract partners and Investors, "said the minister. 
In concrete terms, the abolition of the federal tax credit will significantly reduce investment from workers' funds in Quebec businesses, which are $ 600 million a year. These investments account for $ 200 million a year in venture capital and $ 400 million a year in development capital. 
"The federal government ignores other avenues that would achieve its goals of increasing the availability of venture capital across Canada and limiting tax costs," said the minister. Thus, the Fonds of Solidarity FTQ and Fondaction CSN have recently proposed to maintain the tax credit while reducing its cost of $ 300 million over 10 years, for example by capping capital inflows in the funds. In return, workers' funds would commit to investing $ 2 in venture capital for every tax credit dollar. 
With this proposal, Quebec workers' funds would continue to invest in venture capital. Thus, over a period of 10 years, $ 2 billion in venture capital would be invested, particularly as part of the Federal Plan of Venture Plan. These amounts would be added to $ 4 billion that would be invested in development capital. "This proposal would have increased substantially the availability of venture capital in Canada, but the federal government has not taken into account," deplored the minister. 
In addition to contributing to Quebec's economic development, workers' funds are significant savings tools that allow more than 720,000 Quebeckers to create or improve their pension plan. However, savings for retirement is an important issue for governments and all Quebeckers. 
"Despite the withdrawal of the federal government, we will continue to support workers' funds by maintaining the Quebec tax credit. We will not take steps that could lead to higher budget cost for the government. We will maintain our participation in these institutions given their importance in the economic development of Quebec and their appeal to savers. On the other hand, it is not too late; The federal government can still return to its decision, "concluded the minister. 
