Quebec- In order to meet the needs of the victims affected by the railway accident on July 6 in the city of Lac-Mégantic, and in the mill government action plan which was announced yesterday by the Prime Minister of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, the Minister of Public Safety, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, presents the specific financial assistance program for individuals, businesses and municipalities who have been victims of this catastrophe. This $ 25 million is available immediately. 
"Citizens and citizens of Lac-Mégantic are devastated and all Quebec is shocked. We are wholeheartedly with the relatives of the victims. Very few words can soothe the pain of having lost a parent, a sister, a brother, a friend or a loved one. In a tight woven municipality like Lac-Mégantic, this tragedy is all the more disarming, "said Minister Bergeron. 
In the face of the magnitude of this drama, the Quebec government acted promptly by putting in place, in a completely exceptional way, a specific financial assistance program that will support the victims and the efforts of all stakeholders who work to restore the situation. This assistance will represent a less concern for victims of this disaster. 
The specific financial assistance program is distributed as follows: 
As early as Monday, July 15, an information office will be open to support citizens in their efforts to obtain government financial assistance. Staff of nine ministries and partner organizations will be present. The contact details and opening hours will be confirmed shortly. In the meantime, evacuated families will be able to get the $ 1,000 checks at the Versatile Montignac located at 3409, rue de Laval, Lac-Mégantic. 
Minister Bergeron takes the opportunity to reiterate his gratitude to emergency responders who have mobilized rapidly to offer their support to the hard-proven citizens of Lac-Mégantic. "From the first hours of the tragedy, these men and women worked hard to help the disaster community, according to their respective fields of competence. I want to emphasize their remarkable work and dedication, in difficult circumstances, "concluded Minister Bergeron. 
The details of the specific financial assistance programwww.securitepublique.gouv.qc.ca. 
