Quebec- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, today announced the progressive deployment of neonatal screening of falciform anemia in the Montréal and Laval. In implantation since November 4th, this new screening is added to those conducted as part of the Quebec Blood and Urinary Neonatal Screening Program. 
Falciform anemia is the most common variant of severe diseases of hemoglobin. This blood disease is hereditary and particularly affects populations of African and Caribbean origin, but also some populations of the Mediterranean and Asia circumference. Each year, it is estimated at 40 the number of newborns with serious variants of this disease in Quebec. 
"Our decision to add the screening of falciform anemia in a progressive way to the Quebec Sanguin and Urinary Neonatal Screening Program is mainly based on the recommendations of a report by the National Institute of Public Health of Quebec in 2010. has also been taken against our ability to better integrate clinical services for this disease, as well as demonstrated profits, which significantly surpanet the disadvantages, "said Minister Hébert. 
Indeed, neonatal screening allows the preventive administration of antibiotics with infants affected. A quite indicated precaution, since children under three years old with falciform anemia have a higher risk of suffering from deaths that may cause death. In addition to the infections and crises of pain, which are the most frequently health problems encountered by affected people, this chronic disease can also cause various very severe complications, such as strokes or paralysis. A support for pediatric academic centers and better education of parents on the disease can reduce the risk of complications in children. 
"The Montreal and Laval regions have been preferred for this progressive deployment, as there are about 80% of births at risk of developing the disease. This addition to the program will also be an opportunity to gradually review all the information tools to limit parents' concern and more efficiently equip the health professionals concerned, "concluded the Minister Hébert. 
For more information about the falciform anemia or the neonatal screening program, the population is invited to consult the www.msss.gouv.qc.ca/ofisting-neonatal 
