Pointe-Claire- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announces a tightening of the management of MOPs containing PCBs in Quebec. Although the department is already intervening with companies, a new inspection program will enhance the control of premises that have already stored CPCs, to strengthen the management of PCOs currently in Quebec and to better regulate their phasing out. The new program will ensure better monitoring of the presence of PCBs in Quebec territory, supervising their transfer to an authorized site, and to restore a sense of security undermined by recent events. 
"The worrying case of Pointe-Clairura has been a catalyst for changes for Quebec. Although it has been residued with a minimum of environmental consequences, and despite a totally transformed portrait over the last 12 years, it is clear that there are still actions. In the first place, we must validate and, if necessary, complete the portrait of the sites where are still subjects containing PCBs in Quebec, but also identify the dynamics of their treatment and movements, as well as the gaps of the system. As I am committed to the Mayor of Pointe-Claire and Quebeckers, we now realize this exercise, "said Minister Blanchet. 
The Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP) lists where PCB products, received or stored are classified as residual materials. In addition, companies wishing to store the BPCs they generate for more than 12 months must obtain an express authorization for this purpose. Companies that operate PCB transfer or processing centers must hold a particular permit. These licensees, as well as anyone who has in his possession of residual materials containing CPCs or contaminated by CPCs, must send to the Department an annual residual hazardous material management assessment. It seems clear, however, that more stringent measures and an increased inspection frequency would have reduced the opportunities that the events of Pointe-Claire this summer occur. 
The new program targets all places where PCBs have been declared or discovered since the end of the 90s. These places come in 5 categories: 
As part of this program, more than 60 inspections will be carried out on the Quebec territory by April 2014. All targeted places will need to be verified in a 5-year horizon. 
On the basis of a redevelopment of the tasks of the inspectors, this exhaustive program will be done at zero cost by the MDDEFP. In addition, the Department invites citizens to inform him of any doubt that they may have with the presence of CBC-contaminated or contaminated materials in their sector if they believe that such a site is not listed. and inspected. 
"This initiative is part of our steps to prevent environmental incidents. Since the tragedy in Lac-Mégantic and the oil spill to Sept-Îles, our government has begun a great deal on the means to be used to reduce the incidence of such events that have an impact on the environment. The new inspection program for CPCs containing us will give us a step in this area, "commented on the Blanchet minister. 
Additional information is available on the Department's website at www.mddefp.gouv.qc.ca/matieres/bpc. 
