Québec- "Our government has been adopting for the first time last February, a regulation on the certification of private residences in particular to enhance the training of beneficiary agents, to tighten fire safety standards and to impose a threshold. Minimum evening monitoring and night. Our goal is firm: the safety of the elderly, first and foremost, "said the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, who wanted to take stock of the regulation of private residences. 
Following the implementation of this Regulation respecting the conditions for obtaining a certificate of conformity and the operating standards of a private residence for seniors, many small residences of OBLB and health cooperatives for people With less than 50 rooms and seniors' groups have expressed their concerns about the new requirements and the short time imposed by the application schedule. 
Thus, a draft regulation proposing accommodations for these small residences was published in the official Gazette on 27 December for consultations and comments. Other amendments relate to the current entry times. 
"These amendments were an accommodation for us allowing these small self-employed residences to remain certified while continuing to ensure the safety of persons and the quality of services. However, there has been an introduction in the pre-published regulation of a modification that did not correspond to our intention. Thus, it is understood that these accommodations apply to all residences, all clienteles combined. This is an error and I assume it. The government's intention only targeted small residences of 50 Chambers and less for the autonomous elderly and concerned the person who must ensure supervision and level of training, "continued the minister. 
"In addition, it is important to remember that the draft regulation is only at the pre-publication stage, the necessary corrections will be made. Thus, residences for people over 50 rooms remain entirely subject to the initial regulations last March, "said the minister. 
"We need to strike a balance between the necessary enhancement of the quality and security of services and maintaining accessibility to this type of accommodation, particularly in the region. Above all, we want all private seniors residences to continue their commitment to safety and that they can continue to be certified. Last February, we crossed a first important step and we are continuing our work. Moreover, the Intersectoral Committee coordinated by public security is already looking at other aspects of security in private residences for the elderly. The tragedy of Isle-Verte requires us to speed up this reflection. Our government is committed resolutely in its willingness to ensure the safety of our elders, "concluded Minister Réjean Hébert. 
