Quebec- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert, highlights the adoption today, at the National Assembly, of Laloi amending the Civil Code and other legislation in research . Specifically, this law amends certain articles from the Civil Code of Quebec and the Act respecting health services and social services, in particular in order to clarify certain concepts and to relax various modalities relating to consent for research when the risk for the health is minimal or absent. 
"Research is essential to the advancement of knowledge and, consequently, the well-being of the population. However, it has changed significantly in recent years and it was necessary to revise certain provisions in order to adapt them to new realities. The adoption of this law makes it possible to ensure a supervision of both better defined and more conducive to the development of research, without any compromise for the protection of Quebeckers, "said Minister Hébert. 
In terms of protection, the new law replaces the concept of "serious risk" by that of "proportionality", in this sense where the risk run should not be out of proportion with the benefits that can be reasonably hoped for the research. This risk assessment will also have to take into account the state of health and the personal condition of the minor or major unfit. 
In addition, the Civil Code will now impose, like the requirements applicable nationally and internationally, that research involving adults can be evaluated by a research ethics committee (CER). For the protection of undesigned minors or majors, the competent REBs are appointed by the Minister or instituted by him, and their composition and their operating conditions must be published in Lagazette Official of Quebec. 
With a target of clarification, the new law also replaces the term "experimentation" by "research likely to undermine its integrity", since the research covered by this Act are those that can potentially undermine physical or psychological integrity. some participants. Note also that the very scope of the Civil Code is thus unchanged. 
With respect to consent, some relaxation have been made for research projects where health risks are minimal. Thus, the law allows a minor of 14 years and more to consent, alone, to a research project if, in the opinion of a REB, the project has only a minimum risk for its health and that others circumstances justify it. 
The new law also provides that, for a major unfit that is not represented by an agent, a guardian or a curator, the consent can be given by the person authorized to consent to his care if, in the opinion of the REB, The project contains only a minimum risk to the health of the person concerned.  In the same way, for the use, for research purposes, part of the body taken in the context of care provided to a person who has been, since, deceased, the consent may be given by the person who could, Or could have, consent to the care required by the deceased.  The new law also ensures that consent to a research project can be given otherwise than in writing if, always in the opinion of the REB, the circumstances so warrant. 
Finally, the Health Services and Social Services Act will be amended so that not only users of institutions can avail themselves of their complaints mechanism, but also those participating in research. 
"The amendments made by the law amending the Civil Code and other research legislation will make it possible to better reconcile the interests of the research and the rights of the participants. If the supervision was already adequate to a large extent, it is now more, in addition to better correspond to the new realities of research and to register in greater consistency with the standards in force at the national level and internationally ", concluded Minister Hébert. 
