Quebec, October 28, 2014 -The member for Joliette and sentence of the official opposition in higher education, Véronique Hivon, asks the Minister of Higher Education, Yves Bolduc, to recover and refuse to devalue Collegial training. She presses him to reject the possibility of creating a discount graduation for students who would not have successfully completed their mandatory general training. 
"Minister Bolduc has sowed consternation last week, not excluding, on behalf of the" good of the student ", to put aside the uniform test of French. After the sad episode of books, Minister Bolduc recurrence; By its remarks and lack of leadership, it devalues the importance of our common language and does not send the signal necessary to the motivation of all the Cégépians, namely that French is an unavoidable foundation for a stimulating citizen and professional life. , "Said Véronique Hivon. 
In addition to making an honorable thing about this issue addressed in the Demers report, released last week, Minister Bolduc must reject the hypothesis, issued in this same report, wanting a new "Certificate of Collegial Studies" (CEC ) May be attributed to students enrolled in technical programs, but having failed to meet the requirements of the general training required for graduation from college education (DEC). 
" Let's be clear; The Minister of Higher Education is currently assessing the possibility of making the mandatory training in Quebec CEGEPs for technical degrees. However, this common core is the basis of our college system and diversified training that we want to dispense. It's totally unacceptable, "said the spokesperson. 
"Big business schools"?  Last August, Minister Bolduc rejected the youth proposal of his party advocating the abolition of CEGEPs and the return to "big business schools". "It is ironic to see it today open the door to optional general training for technical diplomas. It feels that the minister was finally enough agreed with the young people of his party and that he wants to come back to trades schools, but in the walls of CEGEPs! "Denounced Véronique Hivon. 
"The mission of CEGEPs should not be summed up on the training of workers. The general education program, which is intended to train citizens capable of expressing themselves, to reflect, develop critical thinking, must remain for all Cégépians. Start planning exceptions and diminishing the requirements, it is committing dangerously on the slope of the diplomation at the discount. It is certainly not the way of the future, "concluded the member for Joliette. 
