Quebec- The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, today recalled the expectations of the Government of Quebec with regard to the next federal budget, which will be tabled this Thursday by the Minister of Finance, M. James M. Flaherty. 
"Two days of the federal budget, it is important to recall the major issues that concern Quebec. Unilateral decisions made by the federal government, particularly with regard to federal transfers, let us believe that Ottawa wants to clean up its finances on the back of the provinces, which Stephen Harper had committed not to do. These changes dig an important financial gap between Quebec and the federal government that brings us back ten years back, at the time of the fiscal imbalance, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
The Minister recalled that the National Assembly unanimously adopted a motion last week to ask the federal government to renew the funding of the Canada-Quebec Agreement in the labor market. 
"Under this agreement, Quebec obtains $ 116 million a year, which are administered by Emploi-Québec. The measures thus funded play a vital role in fostering maximum integration of Quebec labor market workers and to meet the labor requirements of Quebec companies. In this context, adequate, predictable and long-term funding is necessary in order to continue the implementation of active employment measures that contribute to maintaining a basin of essential skilled workers for Quebec as part of the global economic competition. Last December, during the Federal-Provincial-Territorial Meeting of Finance Ministers, I also formally asked Minister Flaherty to renew funding for this agreement in his next budget, "he said. 
In addition, the minister has indicated that in order to ensure optimal intervention of public employment services adapted to the reality of its labor market, Quebec also requests that the federal funds on active employment measures be transferred to it. Who are addressed to young people, older workers and disabled people in Quebec. 
Minister Marceau recalled that the federal government announced its intention to develop a new infrastructure plan for 2014. 
"We expect the modalities surrounding the payment of federal funds in the field of infrastructure respect the powers of Quebec and are likely to ensure effective and efficient management of infrastructure projects carried out in Quebec. As shown on many occasions in recent months, Quebec requests that the federal funds return to it be paid in the form of a "block" transfer. This is the most respectful approach to our skills and priorities, which would allow us to fully assume the management and monitoring of infrastructure projects on our territory, "the minister explained. 
Remember that Quebec has met with multiple difficulties in the implementation of federal infrastructure programs. The Building Canada Plan, announced in 2007, required the signing of a framework agreement, and the negotiation of many contribution agreements, "project per project". Signatures of agreements and the launch of projects have been heavily delayed by this complex process. 
Minister Marceau also required Quebec's demands of federal transfers, particularly with regard to equalization, federal health funding, as well as social programs. 
The ceilings imposed on the Equalization Program resulted in losses in the range of $ 7.6 billion for Quebec between 2009-2010 and 2013-2014. 
Also, the changes announced in 2011 to the Canadian Transfer of Health will be a shortfall for Quebec of $ 8.6 billion between 2014-2015 and 2024-2025. "The share of federal funding for provincial health expenditures, which is currently around 21%, must gradually return to 25%. It should be remembered that it has already been 50%, which illustrates that Quebec is already doing its part in this sector, so important for the people of Quebec, "said Marceau. 
It also indicated that the level of the Canadian social transfer will have to be rectified to return, at a minimum, to that of 1994-1995, in addition to taking into account inflation, and should be distributed more equitably so equitably. Take into account the number of social assistance beneficiaries, which represents approximately $ 1.3 billion per year for Quebec. 
"The decisions of the federal government have major impacts on the public finances of Quebec and, by the very fact, on vulnerable persons. In addition to the federal transfers and the labor market agreement, think about the reform of employment insurance, which may result in the increase in the number of unemployed who do not have access to insurance -Employment, and possibly the number of beneficiaries of social assistance. We expect the federal government to keep its promise not to clean up its public finances on the back of the provinces, "concluded Minister Marceau. 
