Quebec - Minister Delegate to Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, regions and occupation Sylvain Gaudreault, a grant of $ 59,522 is granted to the Regional County Municipality of Témiscouata to exploit collective services in its territory. 
This grant is paid under the Government Assistance Program for Regional Collective Transportation for the development of collective transportation. 
"Our Government encourages and supports the development of collective transport, which optimizes the use of the road network while increasing the fluidity of displacements, the decrease in the level of congestion and the reduction of pollution attributable to the consumption of hydrocarbons. . Today's announcement will allow the Bas-Saint-Laurent region to register directly in the implementation of sustainable development because of the benefits of the use of collective transport and its accessibility, " Declared Minister Bérubé. 
The financial assistance granted by the Ministry of Transport will allow the MRC of Témiscouata to ensure the continuity of the collective transportation service in its territory for the year 2013. 
"By participating in the financing of collective transport, we invest in sustainable development and the mobility of people, an at the same time social, environmental and economic challenge that is at the heart of our government's mission," added Mr. Bérubé. 
Collective transportation is one of the founding stones of the next Québec sustainable mobility policy. In the process of drawing up, this policy will take over from the Quebec collective transport policy. The new policy, which will be adopted by the end of the fall of 2013, will place the user at the heart of his concerns and guide the actions that will be undertaken by 2020 to enhance the offer of public transport service throughout the Quebec territory. The preparatory documents and some of the submissions deposited as part of the Ministry of Transportation website at the address www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca. 
The parameters of this program can be viewed on the website of the Ministry of Transport at the address www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca. 
