Quebec- The Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, will carry out 20 to 26 June a mission that will lead him to Germany, Belgium and France. He will meet in Munich, Dresden, Brussels and Paris several key interlocutors in Quebec in Europe. 
Mr. Lisée first will lead to the German territory, with the Parliamentary Assistant to the Prime Minister, responsible for the electrification of transport, Mr. Daniel Breton, an economic mission in the field of electromobility. He will be at the head of a delegation of a dozen business leaders and Quebec organizations working in this area where Quebec seeks to stand out. 
The Minister and the Quebec delegation will visit, in Munich and Dresden, the most innovative auto manufacturers facilities in the electric vehicle sector and will have exchanges with key stakeholders in the middle. They will also participate in working workshops aimed at exploring the prospects for collaboration with the research community, businesses and other potential partners from the Länder of Bavaria and Saxony.  In parallel, Mr. Lisée will take part in political interviews in Bavaria and Saxony, two leading partners in Quebec in Germany. It should be noted that Quebec has been chosen as an international partner of these Länder as part of the regional electromobility vitrine program of the German federal government. 
In Brussels, the program meetings will exchange bilateral issues as well as European issues.  Finally, in Paris, the interviews on the agenda, many of which with members of the French government, will focus on topics such as economic development, professional mobility, youth, culture and the Francophonie. Minister Delegate to Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignist Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, will also be present in the French capital to participate in the events highlighting the National Day as well as to meet many economic and political partners in Quebec . 
