Québec- "There is no indication for the moment that the mammography devices used in Quebec offer less good performance. There is therefore no need to lead women to centers using another mammography technology, or to take over earlier mammograms. This is what the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, following the publication of an Ontario study on mammographic technologies in the Radiology review.
This study compares three types of devices for making mammograms, either the devices with film (conventional), the devices with film where the image is read by a sensor that scans it (CR), and the devices fully digital (DR ) According to this study, based on the results of mammograms carried out on 688,418 women between 2008 and 2009, CR technology would detect 21% less breast cancers than DR or conventional technology. 
"Since 75% of the mammogram devices used in Quebec as part of the Quebec breast cancer screening program are CR type, these results deserve to be considered, but they must also be put in context," said the doctor. Hébert. 
The Minister emphasized that the vast majority of CR devices in Quebec come from a different supplier from the devices studied in Ontario, and that their performance has proven to be comparable to conventional devices in another study. high quality. In addition, following a comparative analysis of the two digital technologies (CR and CD), the National Institute of Public Health of Quebec (INSPQ) has published a report in 2012 clearly indicating that "the benefits of DR technology does not For the moment, are not important enough to justify the increase in the costs associated with the acquisition and operation of this technology in relation to CR technology ". Finally, the evaluation results of the PQDCS do not show a decrease in cancer detection rates with the arrival of digital technology. The minister then wanted to remember that the Quebec breast cancer screening program benefited from excellent quality assurance mechanisms based on both technical and organizational and professional standards. 
"However, we take this new information very seriously and the department will do all the necessary verifications, in collaboration with experts from the National Institute of Public Health of Quebec and the National Institute of Excellence in Health and Social Services, in order to To determine the actual impacts of a technology transition on the performance indicators of the Quebec breast cancer screening program. Anyway, it is of course recommended for women to continue their participation in the program, and no mammography review recovery is necessary, "concluded the Minister Hébert. 
Remember that mammography is the only recognized screening review as can reduce breast cancer mortality. All women who have not already done so are invited to learn about the PQDCS by visiting the www.pqdcs.qc.ca. 
