Gatineau - Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, took advantage of his passage in Outaouais to announce a bonus of $ 6.4 million in investments. Rejuvenation of the furniture park in 48 CEGEPS. 
This amount will serve in particular to replace equipment related to technical training since several CEGEPs offer programs that require the use of expensive equipment and devices that evolve rapidly. It will also renew equipment dedicated to science laboratories. 
"I am pleased to announce today this important investment in the rejuvenation of the CEGEP Furniture Park. The student population and college network staff need facility infrastructure and equipment. By accessing modern devices and tools, students will be more inclined to pursue studies in science while developing an interest in research, "said Minister Duchesne. 
Let us mention that the maob (furniture, equipment, tooling and library), developed by the Ministry in collaboration with the college network, makes it possible to establish the needs of the collegial network furniture and to distribute between the CEGEPs the envelope budget authorized annually by the Treasury Board for the renewal of this park. 
Minister Pierre Duchesne took advantage of his passage in Outaouais to announce a bonus of $ 6.4 million in investments for the rejuvenation of the Furniture Park in 48 CEGEPs. // (c) Joel Bouchard 
This investment is part of the Five-Year Capital Plan 2011-2016. The furniture park envelope is $ 53.9 million for the 2011-2012 school year and $ 54.9 million for 2012-2013. An amount of $ 3.2 million has been added for each of these years. In total, it is therefore a bonus of $ 6.4 million in additional funding for the rejuvenation of the CEGEP Furniture Park. 
The Cégep de l'Outaouais takes its game pin into this investment. For 2011-2012, the investment of the Government of Quebec will be enhanced worth $ 100,590 and $ 100,339 for 2012-2013. In total, they are $ 200,924 that will be added to the Envelope of Renewal and Development of the Cégep Furniture Park of the Outaouais. 
"Thanks to the bonus that I announce today, the student workforce and the CEGEP staff of the Outaouais will be able to benefit from a more attractive and more stimulating work environment. They will also be able to learn and practice with modern equipment corresponding to what is used in the field, "said Minister Duchesne. 
Funding bonus for infrastructure rejuvenation and equipment also represents additional support for CEGEPs, as they can have material, appliances and tools at the cutting edge of technology. This bonus is a good news at a time when Quebec has the new National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI) for the years 2014-2019. 
For more information on departmental programs and services, visitwww.messt.gouv.qc.ca. 
