Saint-Lambert- Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announces $ 200,400 financial assistance to the city of Saint-Lambert, in order to support the restoration work of the Marsil House, heritage building classified under the law on cultural heritage. This announcement was made in the presence of the mayor of Saint-Lambert, Philippe Brunet. 
"This French-inspired house reflects the genius of the first arrivals to adapt their architectural style to the particular conditions of our country. So that this house, more than twice centenary, still remains today and reveals a pan of the history of Saint-Lambert, "said Minister Maka Kotto who is convinced that this restoration will soon offer to offer at home Marsil a new regional cultural vocation. 
Built at the turn of the nineteenth, the Maison Marsil, which has housed the museum of the costume and the textile of Quebec, is of a heritage interest for its architectural value integrating the characteristic elements of the rural houses of French inspiration and the elements associated with the house Quebec neoclassical inspiration, including the rooftop with two-slopes, the covered gallery on the front and sprocket skylights. 
The $ 200,400 grant from the Ministry of Culture and Communications comes from the Quebec Cultural Heritage Fund and is 40% of the total cost of the project. This help will restore the metal roof, masonry walls, galleries as well as doors and windows of the main building. For its part, the city of Saint-Lambert pays more than $ 300,000. 
Additional information regarding [Maison Marsil0 (http://www.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca/rpcq/detail.do?methode=consult&id=92905&type=Bien) is available in the Heritage Directory website Cultural Quebec (RPCQ), atwww.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca. This dissemination tool of the Ministry of Culture and Communications makes it possible to discover the richness and diversity of the Quebec cultural heritage by making it accessible to all. Part of the RPCQ content is now on the Open Data Portal of the Government of Quebec, atwww.donnes.gouv.qc.ca. 
