Matane - Minister Delegate to Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, today proceeded to the launch of the Tourisme SME Fund. With a $ 5 million capitalization of which $ 1.7 million comes from the Quebec government and $ 3.3 million, the fund aims to stimulate the investment of tourism SMEs and to promote the emergence of innovative projects. 
Sensitive to the financial challenges facing small and medium-sized tourism enterprises in Quebec, including difficult access to financing due to factors related to the nature of the tourism activity, the Government has put in place measures to maintain conditions. and financing modalities adapted to their needs. 
The SME Tourism Fund, established as a limited partnership, is a complementary financing tool for existing levers. He also favors an approach to support promoters in the realization of their project. 
"Today, we offer the opportunity for small and medium-sized businesses in starting or expanding to finance projects in the form of loan or loan warranty up to a height of $ 250,000. The establishment of such a fund will, certainly, generate investments that will finance the original and structuring projects that can contribute to the renewal of the tourism offer and which will be beneficial for all regions of Quebec, "said Minister Bérubé. 
"The creation of the PME Tourism Fund is naturally part of the financial mission in order to continue our contribution to the economic development of each of the regions of Quebec, in collaboration with Tourisme Québec, a partner who knows the various realities regional" , added the Director General of Filsaction, Mr. Milde Villegas. 
This new investment fund will finance projects that will help improve Quebec's tourism offer by attracting new clienteles and lengthening the activity period of targeted businesses. Specifically, the financial interventions of this Fund will be able to support projects related to the Diagnostics Products by Tourisme Québec in Tourisme Nature, Aboriginal Tourism, Planting Hunting and Fishing, Cultural Tourism and AgriTourism and Those Aiming for the Development of Attractions around Cruise stops. A priority will also be granted to the projects surrounding the national parks of Tremblant, Saguenay and Gaspésie. 
"This initiative, in partnership with the private sector, is part of our strategy for implementing the tourism industry development plan. It will help improve the level of business competitiveness, stimulate the development of entrepreneurship, building on innovation in addition to providing investment projects that are essential for the renewal of supply and increased tourism revenues. From Quebec, "concluded Minister Bérubé. 
For the complete conditions relating to the SME Tourism Fund and to obtain the guidelines for the presentation of a project, see one or other of the following pages: Quebec Pimeoutourism Tourism Fund. 
