Quebec- The Minister of Public Safety, Stéphane Bergeron, announces that all Quebec detention facilities will become entirely non-smoking in the coming months. 
The implementation of the complete ban on tobacco use will be gradually conducted in all Quebec detention facilities, and will begin in June 2013 in seven-island and pierced establishments. In the spring of 2014, all detention facilities under the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Safety will be non-smoking. 
In order to facilitate the transition, awareness workshops, nursing support and a smoking stop support program will be offered. 
It is at the initiative of prison staff that such a measure is put in place. Remember that a partial ban on smoking, allowing inmates to smoke outside the walls of the detention facilities, has been decreed by the previous government and proved difficult to manage by correctional staff, since incarcerated persons remain In possession of their cigarettes, even when they are inside the establishment. As a result, the presence of second-hand smoke in several detention facilities has been observed, despite the ban on smoking inside buildings. 
Concerned about the health of non-smoking persons and employees, the Quebec Correctional Services Peace Officer Union advocated for the return of the total prohibition implementation of tobacco use in all institutions detention, both inside and outside. 
A pilot project has been implemented at the Chicoutimi detention facility last June. It aimed to assess the effectiveness of the total ban on smoking to settle the problem of secondary smoke, as well as to determine the winning conditions of such an implantation approach. "As a result of a positive analysis of the pilot project results, I asked the Department to gradually go forward in all Quebec detention institutions," said Minister Bergeron. 
This decision was hailed by the Minister of Health, Mr. Réjean Hébert:  "The complete ban on smoking in detention facilities will protect the health of incarcerated persons as well as that of the staff who work there, while supporting those who wish to put an end to the use of tobacco". 
