Québec- The Minister of Justice and Minister responsible for the application of professional laws, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, presented today to the National Assembly Law No. 62- An Act to amend the Code of Professions to allow suspension or an immediate provisional limitation of a professional's activities. 
As the title indicates, Bill 62 proposes, inter alia, to enable a disciplinary council of a professional order to suspend immediately or to temporarily limit the activities of one of its members accused of a criminal charge. Grave punishable by imprisonment of five years or more. 
"When a serious criminal charge is carried out against one of its members, a professional order should be able to ensure that the public is adequately protected during the term of the trustee's investigation or the judicial process, of As much as several months, or even years, may elapse before a decision is made in the context of a criminal case. It is true of the public confidence in the professional system that follows the demands of several professional orders including the Quebec Bar and the Order of Engineers of Quebec, "said Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud. 
In concrete terms, on a simple request of the trustee of an order, and if the Disciplinary Council considers that the protection of the public requires it, the new measure may be imposed on a member of the order which is the subject of a lawsuit For an offense punishable by five years of imprisonment or more, if this offense is in connection with the practice of the profession or if it represents an infringement in the honor or dignity of the profession. Currently, it is only once the trustee's investigation completed or once the decision of the Tribunal rendered, with the long delays inherent in the investigation or the criminal trial, that an order can intervene to write down one of its members, suspend or limit his right to practice his profession. 
"If Bill 62 is adopted, it is clear that we will ensure a better effectiveness of the disciplinary mechanisms applied in Quebec within the 45 professional orders" concluded Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud. 
Finally, it should be noted that the provisions of Bill 62 are in addition to the measures to modernize the disciplinary justice system contained in the law amending the Code of Professions on Disciplinary Justice (Bill No. 17), adopted at the National Assembly in June 2013. 
