Quebec- The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, welcomes the report tabled today by the Working Group on the Future of the Museum Network, chaired by the former rector of the University of Quebec. Montreal, Claude Corbo. 
"I would like to sincerely thank Mr. Corbo for the rigor of his work. Taking support on its remarkable career path, it was the only one to assume such a mandate. I also wish to emphasize the considerable contribution of its two experienced collaborators, Marie Lavigne and Laurier Lacroix, as well as all the actors who contributed to the reflection, including the members of the table of experts, "said the Minister Kotto. 
It was last May that the minister set up the Working Group on the Future of the Quebec Museum Network. He had the mandate to consult the national and regional actors concerned by the future of the museum network and to make recommendations on which the Ministry of Culture and Communications could rely to maximize the scope of its future interventions. 
With more than 13.4 million visitors in 2012, the approximately 450 Quebec museum institutions play a fundamental role in the sustainable development of the communities, the structuring and identity of the regions and their own cultural life. Since the working group has now submitted the result of its consultations, its reflections and recommendations, the Minister will with interest analyze this document of the most important for the viability of a network of institutions whose Quebecers are very proud. 
"The future of museum institutions is a priority for my department, and I intend to respond quickly to the recommendations of the Working Group. I also entrust a specific mandate to the Deputy Minister to Culture and Communications, Rachel Laperrière, or analyze the report and its recommendations in order to file an action plan that I will present to the Council of Ministers In the near future, "said Minister Kotto. 
Based on the 127 memoirs deposited by museum institutions and organizations from other sectors and on the 8 days of consultation held in 6 cities in Quebec, during which hearings took place, the Working Group wrote with Address and fingering A report whose anchors are undoubtedly representative of the needs of the environment. At a glance, it is possible to see at a glance all the rigor with which the members of the working group have applied, and the 61 recommendations demonstrate an expanded analysis of the situation. Many of the proposals of the Working Group will redraw the Quebec museum community. 
The report of the working group is available on the Ministry of Culture and Communications website: http: //www.mcc.gouv.qc.ca 
