Quebec- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, today announced the creation of a National Committee on Emergency Prehospital Services. The mandate of this Committee will be to analyze the overall functioning of the prehospital system in Quebec in the context of the aging of the population and the recurring applications of advertising advertising services across Quebec. 
"More than twelve years after the report of the National Committee on the Review of Emergency Prehospital Services, chaired by Mr. André Dicaire, it appears essential to draw up a new state of the pre-hospital system set up in the early 2000s and 'Refresh, if necessary, the legislative framework. That's why today I meet the establishment of a national committee on emergency prehospital services. This will provide advice, including technological advances, in order to optimize the provision of these services to citizens and to adapt it to the reality of the aging of the population of Quebec, "added Minister Hébert. 
This announcement arises from the report of the expert team responsible for analyzing the situation of emergency prehospital services in Outaouais, which identified some problems in the functioning of the prehospital system in Quebec. Indeed, in the margins of the recommendations specific to the Outaouais region, the expert group informed the Minister of Observations and national recommendations. 
The analysis of this information led the Minister Hébert to conclude in the relevance of extending the work done in Outaouais to all Quebec, in order to have a global portrait of prehospital services throughout the territory. 
The organization of ambulance services requires a strong, reliable and efficient structure. Thus, the working group will have to be interested in all the mechanisms that underlie the prehospital system Quebec. 
The National Committee will be mandated to analyze: 
The Minister also asked the Department and the National Directorate of Emergencies, Traumatology and Emergency Prehospital Services to play more actively, from now on. To this end, it will have to develop and implement operational policies and protocols in adequacy with the ministerial guidelines. 
The Committee will be chaired by Mr. Marc Ouellet, who occupied the duties of Deputy Auditor General of Quebec until very recently. The other members of the Committee are Dr. Jean Lapointe, who chaired the Expert Group in Outaouais and who agreed to participate in the work as a special advisor, Mr. Nicola d'Ulisse, President and CEO of the Corporation of the Corporation. Emergency-Health, and Dr. Wayne Smith, Regional Medical Director of Prehospital Services at the Estrie Health and Social Services Agency. 
The Committee will conduct fairly wide consultations with different actors and partners, including unions and various municipal actors. The Committee will have to make recommendations to the Minister by the spring of 2014. 
