Quebec- The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is pleased to have taken part in the tenth presentation of the Capitale-Nationale Gastronomic Test Bench. 
This festive activity brings together local producers and restaurant owners every year. For the occasion, six brigades composed of a chef and school cooking have prepared a gourmet meal appointed using products from the region. This dinner was preceded by an exhibition where agricultural producers and food processors made the products on the menu. 
"Here is an excellent pretext to showcase the products of the region and the know-how of all the actors of the bioalimentary industry. It's really a great pleasure for me to be present at this evening to taste the fruit of their work. It seems essential to promote the development of the restoration market for local products, especially when we know that this sector is of primary importance in the capital-national, with a gross domestic product of $ 440 million and its 16,300 jobs, "said the minister. 
Over the years, more than 115 companies have seen their products used in the preparation of the proposed dishes during this meeting, which has helped to highlight the regional bioalimentary potential and the variety of products offered. This is why the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food has granted this year a financial assistance of $ 6,000 for the 10th Gastronomic Test Bench of the Capitale National; Thus, the department has invested more than $ 50,000 in this prestige meeting since its inception. 
The activity is organized by the Federation of the Agricultural Producers Union of the North Shore of Quebec, the Chapter of Quebec of the Society of Chefs, Cooks and Pastry Chef of Quebec and the Fierbourg Vocational Training Center, which specializes in particular. in the fields of food and tourism. 
"I am happy to see all the links of the bioalimentary channel work together to promote the products here on the Quebec market. It is also a major objective that the policy of food sovereignty that the government will testify this spring. The gastronomic evening today is an initiative that goes in this direction, since it allows artisans to make their products known to restaurateurs, so that they reserve them a place of choice in their menus, "concluded M . Gendron. 
People who wish to obtain more information on the Food Sovereignty Policy Project are invited to consult the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa ) It is also possible to follow the activities of the ministry on Twitter (https://twitter.com/mapaquebec). 
