Paris, France - Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, has concluded today in France a European mission started on June 20th. During his visit to Paris, the minister spoke with four members of the French government, in addition to participating in ads who will help strengthen the Franco-Quebec relationship in the sectors of culture and youth. 
In the company of the President of the Sorbonne University New Paris 3, Ms. Marie-Christine Lemardeley, the minister listed inaugurated the Library Gaston Miron, recovered receiptly in the prestigious university institution of the Latin Quarter. The Minister Delegate to Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Governance, Alexandre Cloutier, as former Premier Bernard Landry were present at this inauguration. 
Upon this partnership, Quebec ensures greater accessibility to Quebec works while remaining the owner of the 17,000 books and periodicals that form the largest Quebec documentary funding abroad. This project is part of a broader context of cooperation since the establishment has been welcoming the chair of study on contemporary Quebec and, since 2012, the Center for Quebec Studies. 
"Thanks to its association with the Research Chair and a sustained program of cultural meetings, symposia and seminars, the Gaston Miron Library becomes a true place of dissemination of the culture and the knowledge of Quebec in the heart of the university Paris," has Indicated the minister. 
Mr Lisée participated in the announcement of financial support, by the Minister of Sports, Youth, Popular Education and Community Life, Ms. Valérie Fournyron, who will allow eight young French to perform a Internship in Quebec under the auspices of the Franco-Quebec Political Action Committee (CAP-FQ), next September. 
"Thanks to this organization, young Quebec and French activists from all political horizons can carry out internships in firms or in political parties, on the other territory, in the name of the Franco-Quebec relationship. This is an original means of creating bridges between the youth of Quebec and France while stimulating their political commitment, the essential dimension of democratic exercise, "said the minister listed. 
Young Quebeckers currently in internship in Paris were present at this ad. Note that the Government of Quebec supports CAP-FQ through the Standing Committee on Franco-Quebec Cooperation. 
Economic relations with France were also on the agenda. The minister spoke with the Minister of Economy and Finance, Mr. Pierre Moscovici, as well as with the Minister of Foreign Trade, Ms. Nicole Bricq. The exchanges focused on the Canada-European Union Economic Agreement project. The arrival possible in Quebec of a commercial mission in the transport sector of the transport by Minister Moscovici has also been mentioned. 
The minister met with the French-speaking minister of the French abroad, Ms. Hélène Conway-Mouret. They both co-chaired the 5th meeting of the Bilateral Monitoring Committee of the Agreement between Quebec and France in terms of mutual recognition of professional qualifications. Ministers took advantage of this meeting to invite veterinarians and psychologists to conclude mutual recognition arrangements. 
On June 24, before his arrival in Paris, the minister spoke in Brussels with the Minister of Education, Youth, Equal Opportunities and Brussels Affairs of the Flemish Government, Mr. Pascal Smet. He also traded European issues with leaders of the Center for European Policy Studies and the European Policy Center. 
"The many meetings on the program, coupled with the important economic component in Germany in the presence of Quebec enterprises in the electromobility sector, testify to the uniqueness and depth of our relations with our European partners," concluded the minister listed. 
