Montreal- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is pleased to announce maximum non-refundable financial assistance of $ 2,560,000 over two years in the research consortium and innovation in medical technologies of Quebec (Medteq). In 2012, the consortium is responsible for accelerating the development of the innovative medical technology industry by facilitating collaboration between companies and public research institutions. 
"More than 600 businesses and nearly 15,000 employees work directly in the medical technology industry in Quebec. It is a booming area. The development of a sector of technologies in life sciences is moreover a government priority. MEDTEQ will crystall sustainable and quality research partnerships with industry, hospital and public research forces. Its actions and activities will help introduce an open innovation culture in the life sciences sector, in addition to enabling business companies to increase their competitiveness in their respective markets or in new markets, " said Minister Duchesne. 
The grant agreement covers financial exercises 2012-2013 and 2013-2014 and aims at the financing of collaborative research projects involving at least two member companies and a public research organization. The aid is granted as part of the valuation and transfer support program, component 4- support for sectoral industrial research groups. The purpose of this program is to bring together businesses, universities, colleges, collegiate technology transfer centers and public research centers around collaborative projects. 
"We are very pleased with the ministry's financial support that gives a significant impetus to a strategic business sector in Quebec. This aid thus highlights the high caliber of the industrial, academic and clinical members of the consortium, which will make there a pole of inevitable excellence for the development of innovative technologies and solutions in the field of health, "said Ms. Diane Side, Executive Director of the MEDTEQ Consortium. 
The amounts invested will generate a minimum of $ 4.25 million in research projects carried out in public institutions. In addition to these, several large international companies present in Quebec are already members of MEDTEQ, not to mention several Quebec SMEs. The General Management of the Consortium is supported by a board of directors of fifteen members. A governance committee composed of five officers ensures the implementation of the decisions of the Board of Directors, thus ensuring the transparency and fairness of decisions. About one-third of the Total MedTEQ budget is provided by member companies. Other sources of funding come from federal and provincial granting agencies, such as the programs of the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada, Canadian Institutes of Health Research, as well as Quebec Research Funds - "Nature and technologies "and" health ". 
Through its policies and actions, the Department supports the development of higher education, research, science and technology, including the coordination and consultation of the various actors working in these areas of competence. Mesrst also encourages the increased level of education of Quebeckers and facilitates access to the highest forms of knowledge, among others by programs related to financial assistance to studies. Also, he supports and values excellence and innovation from a perspective of scientific development and sustainable development. 
It is in Rimouski, with the contribution of the institutions and research to the development of the whole Quebec, on January 31 and on February 1st, which will take place the last thematic meeting. Like the first three meetings, different partners are solicited as part of a call for contributions launched by Minister Pierre Duchesne. The thematic notebook for this meeting is available online amessrst.gouv.qc.ca. 
The last stage of the summit, meanwhile, will take place on February 25th and 26th, at the Art Center The Arsenal, Montreal. The modalities surrounding the summit will be made public shortly. 
