Quebec- The Minister of Justice and Minister responsible for the fight against homophobia, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, today launched a first awareness campaign to combat homophobia. 
"Quebec is illustrated on the international scene in respect of the rights and freedoms of persons, regardless of their orientation or sexual identity. However, much remains to be done so that the legal equality acquired is accompanied by social equality, "said Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud. 
Despite the opening of Quebec society, prejudices and homophobic feelings remain. For example, it is not uncommon to see their sexual orientation to avoid reprobating in their environment, with the consequences that are suspected about their quality of life. 
The two television advertisements in French and the radio message in English, broadcast from March 3 to 31, aim to get people to question their real openness with respect to sexual diversity. In addition to messages, a website, monethomophobia.gouv.qc.ca, invites visitors to react to scenarios to evaluate and learn more about the different faces of homophobia and on the available resources. 
"Surprising without shocking, bringing each of us to question his degree of personal openness: that's how we want to get people to question themselves. It is the basis of a real and lasting change for a more open and richer Quebec of its diversity, a Quebec for all, "said Minister responsible for the fight against homophobia. 
The campaign is part of a long tradition of shareholdings and awareness campaigns targeting reprehensible and harmful behaviors or attitudes. It is one of the flagship measures of the 2011-2016 governmental homophobia action plan. The plan provides for a second phase to this awareness campaign in 2014-2015. Thus, it will be possible to approach other subjects, including homoparency. 
Among the other measures already put forward by the Quebec Ministry of Justice, include the creation of a university research chair on homophobia, the increase in financial support for promoting and defending organizations. Rights of persons of sexual minorities, and the establishment of an office against homophobia. 
"Fighting all forms of homophobia is paramount. This is the right of anyone to flourish and participate fully at all dimensions of life in society, regardless of its orientation or sexual identity. Let us today take the collective challenge to make Quebec a nation proud to fight against homophobia in all its forms, "concluded the Minister justice. 
Awareness campaign to combat homophobia  In short 
The campaign is part of a long tradition of shareholdings and awareness campaigns targeting reprehensible and harmful behaviors or attitudes. It is one of the flagship measures of the 2011-2016 governmental homophobia action plan. The plan provides for a second phase to this awareness campaign in 2014-2015. Thus, it will be possible to approach other subjects, including homoparency. 
Bring Quebeckers and Quebeckers to realize that homophobic, and sometimes insidious attitudes and behaviors remain and generate heavy consequences for people who are victims. It is this necessary awareness that is the basis of a real and sustainable change in homophobic behaviors or attitudes. 
The awareness campaign to combat homophobia is based on a positive approach, based on scenes of everyday life. Through this message, Quebeckers are led to reflect on their actual degree of openness with regard to sexual diversity. 
This first phase of the media outreach campaign to combat homophobia includes the completion of two French-speaking television advertising messages (30 seconds) and their diffusion on traditional networks, on some targeted specialized channels and community channels. These messages will enter the waves for a period of four weeks, from 3 to 31 March 2013. 
The advertising message is accompanied by the reference to a new website: controlhomophobia.gouv.qc.ca. This site contains information on the realities of people from sexual minorities in order to deconstruct myths as well as the prejudices of which they are victims. Based on the same principle as TV advertising concepts, an interactive portion, in the form of a questionnaire, has also been developed to continue the self-assessment of participants on their real openness to sexual diversity. Finally, the site presents the main resources available to help victims of homophobia and their loved ones and to demystify homosexuality and transsexuality. 
For more information, please see: Justice.gouv.qc.caultethomophobia.gouv.qc.ca 
