Montréal - Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Jean-François Lisé, announces the award of $ 200,000 Government Financial Assistance to carry out the activities of Market outside Quebec of the 2013 Cycling Grand Prix of Montreal, which will be held today on Mount Royal. This contribution comes from the fund of initiative and influence of the metropolis of the secretariat in the metropolitan area. 
"We are very proud to host this spectacular sports competition in Montreal because it is one of the most prestigious of the global cyclist calendar. The event attracts, at the heart of our metropolis, the best Canadian and foreign athletes of this discipline and participates at the same time the reputation of the Montreal sporting scene, "said the minister listed. 
It should be noted that the Montreal and Quebec City Cycling Prizes, WorldTour Circuit tests are presented this year thanks to a $ 344,000 financial contribution from the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport, paid under the Program. support for international or pan-Canadian sports events. 
"The Big Cycling Prizes of Montreal and Quebec City are the only proofs of the WorldTour circuit to be presented on the American continent. I invite cycling enthusiasts, as well as the general population, to regroup along the circuits borrowed by the athletes to encourage them. One thing is certain, these young cyclists are a real source of inspiration for all those who cultivate the taste of moving and to surpass, said the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Marie Malavoy. 
This fund aims to support the completion of initiatives that contribute to the economic, cultural and social development of the Montreal metropolitan area and its influence across Canada and internationally, with a sustainable development. 
The Secretariat, which reports to the Ministry of the Executive Council, advises the Government of Quebec on any question or measure with a significant impact on the Montreal metropolitan area and its development. He assured the Secretariat of the Departmental Committee of the Metropolitan Area, chaired by Minister Jean-François Lisée, as Minister responsible for the Montreal Region. The Secretariat develops the consultation with its various strategic partners in order to promote the consistency and convergence of all interventions, as well as the growth and dynamism of the metropolitan area. 
By the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, the Quebec government contributes that the regions of Quebec to have pan-Canadian and international events and that they enjoy modern and safe sporting and recreational facilities. 
