Quebec- The Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, led an economic and tourist mission from 23 to 26 June 2013. During this mission, the minister met with more than 40 participants representing the media, economic development organizations , tour operators as well as influential actors of the New York tourist environment. 
André Boisclair, General Delegate of Quebec in New York, Kenneth Adams, Chief Executive Officer of the ESD and Commissioner for the Economic Development of the State of New York and Pascal Bérubé, Minister Delegate to Tourism. (Source: CNW / Cabinet Group of the Minister Delegate to Tourism) 
Mr. Bérubé also participated in the reception organized by the Quebec delegation on the occasion of the National Day and delivered a speech in front of more than 150 stakeholders. 
"My presence here allowed me to see the strategic importance of the relationship between Quebec and the state of New York. The Original CampaignBecs'Scribed in this desire that we unfold to continue working on the US market to attract tourist clients to us and thus develop the economy of Quebec and its regions, "said Mr. Bérubé. 
In the context of this mission, many of the stakeholders faced their willingness to enroll Quebec in their plan for salons, business congresses, familiarization tours, investments and possible bilateral agreements. 
The Delegate Minister had an interview with Kenneth Adams, President and CEO of the Empire State Development and Commissioner for the State of New York State Development, as well as with representatives of Tourism New York State. These discussions confirmed the economic potential and privileged links that unite Quebec and New York State. 
Exchanges with denycruting officials, the City of New York Cruise Development Agency, as well as with the publisher of the Specialized JournalRuise Industry Newsont allowed to explore tracks for the further development of international cruises in the Northeastern Corridor of the United States and St. Lawrence. 
"Our presence in the United States is a strong symbol of our commitment to develop our international target markets. The government is committed to positioning the tourism industry as a lever for development, and it is necessary to multiply our presence as many other international destinations do. This mission also comes to confirm the positive impact of promotional and marketing actions using our new brand image and the importance of making it known to consumers and specialized tourism networks, "concluded the delegated minister. 
