Québec- The member for Taillon and sentence of the official objection to health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, participates in the second national appointment on the future of the public health and social services system. Organized by the INM, the Aqesss and the CNA, this day focuses on the search for concrete solutions to improve our health system and follows that of June, which had more interested in its problems. 
"All network players are gathered today in Quebec City. Only one is absent: the Minister of Health. It is missing a real appointment with those that it should consider as its partners, preferring to conduct alone, reverse and against all, a reform of the structures which, of its own admission, will in none improve accessibility to care. The willingness of the network players is not shaken and I welcome their unwavering commitment, despite the lack of consideration that the minister is at their approach. Parliamentary work has also shown that the minister has a very hospital vision and that he does not know the entire network, which must meet both the health and social services needs by the curative, but also by Prevention, "said Diane Lamarre. 
To achieve changes, trust, listen, and then take action by introducing a real culture of acts and systems, in order to ensure tangible results for each Quebecer. The minister passes next to all these steps. 
"It was important for me to participate in this day of exchange and discussions, and to see the engagement of the actors and partners of the network as well as their opening to do things otherwise. The absence of the Minister Barrette illustrates, once again, his lack of listening, his claim to know everything and remains disappointing for all those who met today. The Parti Québécois, on its side, intends to continue its work to remind the Liberal government that beyond the structures, the health system is composed of humans, who work on a daily basis from other humans. What is needed are priorities focused on the first line and home support, it is building on interdisciplinarity and a powerful information system. Really, the minister, by his absence, made another bad choice, "concluded Diane Lamarre. 
