Shawinigan- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, took advantage of his visit to Shawinigan National Electrochemistry and Environmental Technology Center to announce the launch At the beginning of January of a call for proposals for the creation of three new collegiate technology transfer centers (CCTT) as expected in the National Research and Innovation (PNRI). 
The Minister also confirmed the funding of the current 46 collegiate technology transfer centers (CTCTs) whose operating budgets will reach $ 16.4 million in 2016-17, an increase of 11% compared to the year 2012- 2013. This is the first time a government increases the funding budget for each CCTT. 
At the same time, Mr. Duchesne released the new performance evaluation report of the CCTT device. 
"It is thanks to the excellent performance and impact generated by the CCTTs that I made the choice to announce within the National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI), the bonus of their financing and the creation of three new centers. The CCTTs are an important wheel of the culture of innovation. They allow Quebec to distinguish themselves and contribute to railing Quebec genius around the world. Each dollar invested by the Quebec government in a CCTT generates an average of $ 3.80 for new capital, "said Minister Duchene. 
The CCTT mandate is to practice, in a specific area, applied research and technical assistance activities, as well as information and training. There are currently 46 CCTT in Quebec, 6 in innovative social practices and 40 in technology. 
As stated in NPPA, CTC activities have an important leverage effect in the regions. This is why the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology will expand its action to less served areas. To do this, a call for proposals aimed at recognizing three new CCTTs will be launched in January 2014. 
"As Director General of the CNETE and Vice President of the Trans-Tech Network, I evaluate each day the benefits of the CCTTs on their regions. Whether for the implementation of the cycle of innovation in SMEs, their competitiveness, attraction and retention of the highly skilled workforce and training, the contribution of the CCTTs is an extremely valuable asset for Regional development. I therefore welcome the Government of Quebec initiative for the launch of a call for tenders for the creation of new CCTTs, "said the Director General of the NANCY Déziel. 
(c) Joel Bouchard 
The National Research and Innovation (PNRI) is to consolidate the CCTT budget. The latter will be indexed by 11% for the first three years. Thus, basic funding will increase from $ 300,000 to $ 334,000 per center. To respond to the bonus of the operating funding of the CCTT, the expected budget is of the order of $ 15.2 million in 2014-2015, of $ 15.6 million in 2015-16 and $ 16.4 million in 2016 -2017. These amounts are taken from the PNRI budget. 
"Collegial technology transfer centers are an important link in the Quebec research and innovation chain. I am pleased that Minister Duchene recognizes their importance by giving them financial support that will allow them to continue their activities and develop new niches, "said the member for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel. 
Minister Duchene has also made public the assessment report of the Collegiate Centers of Technology Transfer Centers for the period from July 1, 2006 to June 30, 2011. It indicates that for 38 CCTTs, 3,368 Quebec companies have benefited from services. 'A CCTT in 2011. The analysis found that, in general, the results for all CCTTs in the study have once again exceeded or comply with the expectations of relevance. Efficiency and impacts. 
The evaluation deals with the results of 38 centers currently in activity and having obtained their recognition before 2009. The report highlights, among other things, that the economic benefits associated with public expenditure are valued at $ 472 million for the period. In fact, the average CCTT self-financing rate is 65%. 
"This report confirms the relevance of the CCTT network and their economic contribution to Quebec's development. This unique intervention model demonstrates that CTCs play a vital role in promoting innovation. The Government of Quebec will continue to support the CCTTs over the next few years, "said Minister Duchesne. 
To view the evaluation report, visit the Ministry's website: mesrst.gouv.qc.ca. 
The National Research and Innovation Policy is part of the four strategic initiatives of the Employment Priority Policy of the Government of Quebec. It is the result of many consultations with actors from all sectors concerned with research and innovation: companies, educational institutions, state and society. With an unprecedented investment of $ 3.7 billion over five years, it will make it possible to advance Quebec in the knowledge and innovation society. 
For more information: mesrst.gouv.qc.ca/pnri. 
