SALABERRY-DE-VALLEYFIELD- The Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, today proceeded to the inauguration of the Salaberry-De-Valleyfield courthouse enlarged and renovated. 
The ceremony took place in the presence of the Chief Justice of the Superior Court, the Honorable François Rolland, of the Chief Justice of the Court of Quebec, the Honorable Elizabeth Corte, judicial stakeholders and representatives of the real estate company Quebec, project manager. 
"The population now has a building with more spacious and state-of-the-art rooms. New developments also provide safer circulation and offer premises that are better adapted to the needs of victims, judicial stakeholders and staff. They were conducted within the schedule scheduled at the beginning of the work and the authorized budget of $ 59.2 million, "said the minister. 
Built in 1901 and renovated in 1975, the Salaberry-de-Valleyfield justice palace no longer met the growing needs of its occupants. Started in 2008, the renovation and enlargement project allowed the addition of 3 courtrooms, carrying their number to 10. 
In addition to the redevelopment of the places necessary for the administration of justice, the courthouse enlarged and renovated consists of two new mediation rooms, one of which can also serve as an additional courtroom. New developments not only meet the needs of victims, but also to facilitate telementation of children. Finally, they offer several meeting spaces for the legal community. 
The area of the courthouse has doubled from 6,000 to 12,000 square meters. The renovation work of the existing part were carried out in order to preserve the patrimonial aspect of the original building. Finally, the project was achieved to meet high standards for sustainable development and energy efficiency. 
"The Palace of Justice of Salaberry-de-Valleyfield is now one of the most modern in Quebec and it becomes the second largest in Montérégie, after that of Longueuil. It is a source of inspiration for future modernization work on our judicial facilities, at the heart of the Government of Quebec's actions for justice justice, justice for all, "concluded the Minister of Justice. 
