Matane - Minister Delegate to Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region and MP Pascal Bérubé, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, regions and the Occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the City of Matane will benefit from maximum government financial assistance of $ 595,130 for the replacement of several water pipes in the city. This assistance comes from the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM) program. 
More specifically, the project aims to replace drinking water, wastewater and stormwater behavior under the streets of Boucher, Ursulines and Saint-Zenon. The project also includes sewer separation under these streets. At the end of this work, water pipes over more than half a kilometer will be renewed in Matane. 
"I am very pleased with financial support today in the city of Matane. Our government recognizes the need to renew and replace drinking water, wastewater and storm sewer in communities across Quebec. That's why, in partnership with municipalities, we want to make sure that citizens benefit from sustainable and quality public services for current and future generations, "said Minister Pascal Bérubé. 
The realization of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 595,130, under the PIQM 1.5 component. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this new component of the PIQM program allows not only to ensure the sustainability of infrastructure, but also to enhance the quality of life of the population and to create many jobs overall. Regions of Quebec. 
The support of the Quebec government to the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) released last April. It should be remembered that this decennial plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
