Québec- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to confirm that the responsibilities of collective transport were added under Mr. André Meloche, under- Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Transport. Mr. Gaudreault had previously announced the announcement on 3 October, during a speech made on the occasion of the 10th annual symposium of the Quebec Urban Transport Association. Mr. Meloche now held the position of Assistant Deputy Minister for Collective Transportation, Policy and Security. 
"Collective transport governance is an unavoidable issue that will achieve the goals of the new Quebec sustainable mobility policy. This will be made public in November and will come into effect from the beginning of 2014. By the appointment of Mr Meloche, the governmental action in collective transport will be more visible and integrated within the Ministry of Transport. I intend to go even further in this area when setting up a transportation agency and the redefinition of departmental mandates, "said Gaudreault. 
The collective transport is one of the sitting stones of Quebec's sustainable mobility policy, which will take over from the Quebec collective transport policy. The new policy will place the user at the heart of his concerns and guide the actions that will be undertaken by 2020, with a view to enhancing the public transport service offering throughout Québec. 
"Our government wants to register like that of collective transport. Beyond the policy that will soon be unveiled, major actions are already under construction. Among the main transport, note the electrification of transport, preferential transit measures for the Montreal area and additional investments for transport services adapted to people with disabilities, "said the minister. 
Mr. Meloche holds a Bachelor's degree in Economics from the Royal Military College of Saint-Jean, Quebec, and the Royal Canadian Military College in Kingston, Ontario, as well as a degree in accounting sciences of the University. Laval. He undertook his career in 1971 in the Canadian Armed Forces. Subsequently, he worked from 1974 to 1980 at the Government of Canada's External Affairs Secretariat. Since 1980, Mr Meloche has been engaged in various positions in the Quebec Ministry of Transport, thus gaining extensive experience relating to the various modes of transport. 
