Quebec- The Minister of Public Safety, Stéphane Bergeron, announces the establishment of a special spring 2012 event review commission, whose work will make a global portrait of the events surrounding the multiple spring events latest. 
"The demonstrations, disruption actions, crowd control operations, judicial remedies, as well as all other events that have taken place during this agitated period, have resulted in various sequelae, some of which are always felt. The entire population of Quebec, but particularly some associations, municipalities, businesses, as well as students have suffered the impacts of these events. We have the duty to learn from these events, and I am confident that the work of the Special Review Commission will inform the government to allow it to prevent such a social crisis in the future, "said the Minister Bergeron. 
This special examination commission will be composed of three members appointed by Government Decree. This is Me Serge Ménard, who will act as President, from Mr. Bernard Grenier and Ms Claudette Carbonneau. These people were selected for their expertise, extensive experience, credibility and objectivity. 
For the purpose of carrying out its mandate, the Special Examination Commission will analyze all the elements it deems essential. It will meet all the stakeholders it considers necessary for the realization of its mandate, and these meetings will take place in private to allow people who wish to bring their testimony to do so in serenity, to be able to speak freely and without fear of reprisals. Any person, association, undertaking, municipality, or other may submit facts to the Commission in writing as of June 1st. A website dedicated to the Special Examination Commission will then be made available. It will find relevant information on the Commission, its constitution, its members, its functioning, as well as on the ways of sending it opinions and testimonies. The address of this site will be known in the coming weeks. The operating procedures for the work of the Commission will soon be made public by the members. 
At the end of its work, the deadline of which is planned on 20 December 2013, the Commission shall submit to the Minister of Public Safety a report, among other things, State of the testimonies and opinions received containing an analysis of events, as well as the recommendations which In particular, will aim in particular to enlighten the government in ways of detecting the warning signs of potential social disorders and the best ways to respond to it to maintain social peace. This report will be made public within 45 days of filing. 
The Special Review Board is mandated to draw up a global portrait of spring 2012 events taking into consideration the role played by all the key players involved. 
ANNEX 
Special Spring Event Review Commission 2012 
Mandate 
For the purpose of carrying out its mandate, the Special Commission may examine: 
Biography of the members 
Me Serge Ménard, Ad. E., President of the Special Commission 
Me Ménard practiced private practice as a criminal lawyer from 1968 to 1994, lecturer at the Faculty of Law of the University of Montreal from 1969 to 1983, where he teaches proof in criminal matters and professor of law. Training of the Bar from 1971 to 1982. 
He was minister, including public security from September 26, 1994 to January 29, 1996 and from December 15, 1998 to January 30, 2002. 
Among his important achievements within public security, he says he has created the Carcajou squad who led the fight against criminal bikers. He also assured the police preparation of security at the Spring 2001 Summit, where Quebec was the host of all the Heads of State of the Americas. 
He also led a significant reform that led to the adoption of the Police Act in 2001, after the dissemination of the report of the investigation board to investigate the Sûreté du Québec (Report Poitras). 
ME Bernard Grenier 
Grenier was a judge in the Criminal and Criminal Chamber of the 1980 Court of Quebec at the end of 2002. 
During his career, lénier worked in criminal law at the Bar Judicial Aid Bureau of Montreal, at the Ministry of Solicitor General in Ottawa, the Canada Law Reform Commission and the Montreal Legal Center. He was president of the Quebec Criminology Society from 1984 to 1990 and worked at various levels in the field of judges' training. 
In January 2006, he was appointed Investigator Commissioner by the Chief Electoral Officer of Quebec regarding the option of Option Canada. 
He is today a lawyer in Schurman Longo & Attic. 
Ms. Claudette Carbonneau 
A militant in the union of workers at Notre-Dame de Montréal Hospital, it acts as Vice-President of the Montreal Region at the CSN Federation of Health and Social Services from 1980 to 1982. 
In 1985, she became Secretary General of the Central Council of Metropolitan Montreal (CSN), a position she held until 1991. From September 1991 to June 2002, she holds the position of First Vice-President of the CSN. It will become the first woman's President of the Confederation of National Trade Unions from 2002 to 2011. 
Ms. Carbonneau collaborates regularly with the Quebec media. 
