Montreal- The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, receives with interest the report tabled today by the Quebec cinema issues, co-chaired by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Communications, Rachel Laperrière , and the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Cultural Business Development Corporation (SODEC), François Macerola. 
"I want to thank the co-chairs who have led this mandate with passion. I also wish to emphasize the contribution of the 17 members of the working group, which, through a diversified knowledge of the environment, had the desire to help advance our national cinematography. The participation of all these actors, to whom nearly twenty organizations and groupings called to share their expertise, will certainly have helped to enrich the recommendations made today, "said Minister Kotto. 
Remember that the mandate of the working group on Quebec cinema stakes, trained last February at the request of the Minister, aimed to conduct an analysis of the challenges of the distribution of cinema in Quebec, in the context of the current digital revolution and Taking into account the different platforms, as well as to analyze the conditions that lead to the decision to finance the production of films so that they distinguish and affect the public. Finally, the mandate was to propose, where appropriate, new guidelines for the role of the State and its bodies concerned and to carry out a revision of existing support measures. 
"More than ten years ago that the Quebec government has not been concerned about the future of our film industry. Indeed, the filing of the last Quebec cinema and visual production policy goes back to March 2003, under a pet government. Yet Quebec cinema is a lighthouse of Quebec cultural expression here and abroad. It is for this reason that this report, inspired by the impact of the digital revolution on the production, distribution and dissemination of cinema and by the accelerated transformation of the market and cultural practices, is a valuable tool for the future for the future. From this industry that generates an economic activity of more than $ 1 billion by providing employment at nearly 15,000 people, "said Maka Kotto. 
"The future of our Quebec cinematography is a priority, and I intend to follow up on the recommendations of the Working Group. The report emphasizes the need to thoroughly review the support and support of SODEC in the field of cinema. It is in this context that, without delay, I entrust today, to the Deputy Minister of Culture and Communications, Rachel Laperrière, in concert with the SODEC and as proposed throughout the report, the mandate Review aid programs for film industry to consider new issues, including those affecting the digital universe. Also, in the light of the recommendations contained in the report, I intend to adopt an action plan that I will present to the Council of Ministers in the near future, "concluded the minister. 
The working group report is available on the SODEC website atwww.sodec.gouv.qc.ca. 
