Saint-Hyacinthe- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, accompanied by the member for Saint-Hyacinthe, Mr. Emilien Pelletier, today announced a financial contribution $ 10.4 million at Saint-Hyacinthe CEGEP to help respond to the increase in student workforce. 
"CEGEPs play a strategic role in the development of Quebec and regions. They form young people who will be able to work in areas of the future and that is why it is important to invest in these educational institutions. I am therefore proud to give this financial assistance, which will allow even more students to continue their graduate studies at the CEGEP of Saint-Hyacinthe, "said Minister Duchesne. 
This creation of student places follows a significant increase in the workforce at the CEGEP of Saint-Hyacinthe, where the graduation rate is, two years after the expected duration of studies, 64.9%, or two percentage points. above that of the whole Quebec. 
Minister Pierre Duchesne, accompanied by the hon. Member for Saint-Hyacinthe, Mr. Emilien Pelletier, today announced a financial contribution of $ 10.4 million to the CEGEP of Saint-Hyacinthe to help them meet the increase in Student workforce. // (c) Joel Bouchard 
To support the growth of student workforce, a total of 1,100 students-students will be created at CEGEP, which will bring about 4,000 the number of students. The grant will also enable expansion and redevelopment work, in addition to acquiring equipment, much of which is intended for laboratories. This investment fits well with the national research and innovation policy that provides for the updating of teaching infrastructure, particularly with regard to laboratories. 
"I am very pleased with this investment that is an asset to promote the success of students and students to encourage them to persevere and remain in the region. Moreover, the Cégep de Saint-Hyacinthe is an important actor in the development of Montérégie and Quebec, "said the member Pelletier. 
"With the growth of the student workforce experienced by the CEGEP of Saint-Hyacinthe in the last six years, the announcement of this permanent increase in the school quote and the granting of an investment budget appear as a must. . While promoting greater accessibility for graduate studies in the region, this investment will enhance the services offered to the student population and will bring a greater quality of life to our entire collegial community, "said Roger Sylvestre, General Manager of the CEGEP. 
The creation of the student seats took into account the offer of new programs, that of insurance and financial services consultants and the visual arts. This latter training, which gives an important place to new media, allows the student to have access to excellent educational tools in a variety of traditional plastics mediums (drawing, painting, sculpture, photography) as well as tools Current creation using new technologies (digital image processing, 2D and 3D and animation software). 
