Mont-TREMB LANT- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, today announced the lifting of the experimental status that had been given to the College Center From Mont-Tremblant to open. By the very fact, the financing of the establishment was confirmed until 2016. 
"Today's announcement comes, once again, confirm my government's desire to facilitate access to higher education by promoting graduation with first generation students. In each of the regions of Quebec, college institutions represent important poles of economic, social and cultural development while boosting communities from all sizes, "declaring Minister Duchesne. 
Recall that the Mont-Tremblant College Center (CEC), under the authority of the CEGEP of Saint-Jérôme, officially opened its doors in 2008. With an experimental status of five years, the CEC s Is installed in a building near the Vocational Training Center of the Laurentian School Board. 
"I have always been a duty to get involved in the Mont-Tremblant College Center Monitoring Committee to ensure sustainability. And today, this announcement confirms that we were right to believe in this wonderful project! Young people from here will be able to pursue graduate studies in their region and I am very happy, "said the member for Labelle, Mr. Sylvain Pagé. 
Given the rise in the Mont-Tremblant College Center attendance, the Government of Quebec has also agreed to grant it a one-off grant of nearly $ 145,000 for the installation of additional modular spaces and an amount. nearly $ 30,000 a year for their rent. This grant is added to that of more than $ 160,000 a year already granted to the establishment for the rental of modular spaces already occupied by the Center. 
Since its creation, CEGEP has a positive review of the Tremblant CEC experimentation. The project continues to support many environmental partners, both economic and school and social. 
"After five years of existence, the College Center of Mont-Tremblant has 18 employees and has 109 graduates as well as more than 600 people who have benefited from continuing education services. The student population only increased since his startup. Presumably, our higher education home is experiencing growth that is not denied, "enthusiastically state the Chairman of the Board, Mr. Jacques Gariépy. 
The abandonment of the "experimental" character will promote the durability of the CEC, which will facilitate the recruitment of students and its development. The center could be frequented by about 185 students in the fall of 2013. 
"Young people and their parents are more numerous to respond to the call of their region and to demonstrate, with respect to our college, a brand of confidence that touches me sincerely. It is now up to us to demonstrate to students they were right to register at the Mont-Tremblant College Center and to make it an establishment of which they are proud to have been the pioneers, " stressed the director of the Mont-Tremblant College Center, Ms. Diane Aitken. 
