Quebec- The Minister of Justice of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, Announces the appointment of Mrs. Nathalie Chalifour, Mr. Jeffrey Edwards, Mrs. Myriam Lachance, Mr. Gaston Paul Langevin, Mrs. Magali Lewis and Madame Dominique Vézina as Judges of the Court of Quebec. 
The Minister also announces the appointment of Madam Justice Louise Comeau as Associate Coordinating Judge, by Madam Justice Sylvie Durand as a judge responsible for the development of the judges of the Court of Quebec as well as by Judge Yvan Nolet as a member of the Tribunal. human rights. 
Ms. Nathalie Chalifour is holding a bachelor's degree in law from the University of Montreal. Since admission to the bar in 1991, she practiced her profession in private firm. His practice was specialized in entertainment law, in intellectual property and civil and commercial litigation law. Since May 2013, she practiced her profession in the Chalifour Lawyers Inc. study. It will serve mainly in the Civil Chamber in Montreal. 
Mr. Jeffrey Edwards holds a bachelor's degree in civil law and a Common Law baccalaureate from McGill University as well as a doctorate in Laval University. He was admitted to the Bar in 1987 and practiced his profession mainly in civil and commercial litigation in private cabinet. He is also a certified arbitrator and mediator. Since 1998, he has been head of the litigation sector within the firm Tutino Edwards Joseph. He will serve primarily at the Civil Chamber in Montreal. 
Mrs. Myriam Lachance is holding a bachelor's degree from the University of Sherbrooke. She was admitted to the Bar in 1994 and began her career as a substitute for the Attorney General. Starting in 1996, it acted in defense in private practice in the criminal, criminal and youth sectors and also worked in disciplinary, ethical law and in the field of internal police investigations. At the time of his appointment, she was a lawyer in Lachance Tardif, lawyers. Since 2008, she has also been agent for the Canada Criminal Prosecution Department. It will serve mainly in the Criminal and Criminal Chamber in Montreal. 
Mr. Gaston Paul Langevin owns a law degree from the University of Ottawa. He was admitted to the Bar in 1986 and began his career as a substitute for the Attorney General. From 1990 to 2001, he practiced in private practice. In 2001, he joined the prosecutor's substitute team in Gatineau and afterwards in Mont-Laurier. Since 2010, he was team leader at the Special Project Division at the Organized Crime Fighter Office. He will serve mainly in the criminal and criminal chamber in Gatineau. 
Ms. Magali Lewis holds a bachelor's degree and a master's degree from the Université de Montréal as well as a US law degree from the University of Santa Clara, California. She was admitted to the Bar in 1988. She began her career at the University of Montreal Research Center. Subsequently, she exercised private firm. Since 2003, it has practiced its profession within the Jurière & Associates Study in Civil Law, mainly in family and estate law, civil and medical liability and building law. She was also a family mediator accredited since 2011. She will serve mainly in the Civil Chamber in Montreal. 
Ms. Dominique Vézina is holding a bachelor's degree in civil law and a Common Law baccalaureate from McGill University. Since admission to the bar in 1988, she practiced her profession in private firm. She was specialized in civil liability, professional responsibility, insurance and construction law. Since 2003, she has practiced by Cabinet Donati Maisonneuve. It will serve mainly in the Civil Chamber in Montreal. 
At the request of the Chief Justice of the Court of Quebec, the Government of Quebec approved the appointment of Judge Louise Comeau as Associate Coordinating Judge, as provided for by the Judicial Tribunal Act, for a term of two years. as of January 16, 2014. 
The Government has also approved the designation of Sylvie Durand J. as a judge responsible for the development of the Judges of the Quebec Court for a term of two years from February 22, 2014. 
The designation of Yvan Nolet J. follows the request of the President of the Human Rights Tribunal, as provided for in the Charter of Rights and Freedoms. The President of the Tribunal and the Chief Justice of the Quebec Court recommended that Yvan Nolet J. be appointed to this office for a term of two years from January 29, 2014. 
