Saguenay- The member for Bourget and Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the member for Chicoutimi, Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean Region, Stéphane Bédard, announce the award of a grant of $ 3,378,500 for the redevelopment project, in Saint-Luc Church, Dance School Florence-FourCaudot. The municipal councilor and president of the borough of Chicoutimi, Jacques Fortin, the representative of Fabrique Sainte-Anne, Jean-Yves Boivin, and the President of the Board of Directors of the Dance School, Johanne Tremblay, participated in this press conference. 
"The realization of the Florence-FourCaudot school development project in the Saint-Luc Church will become a source of pride for the entire Saguenan population. The maintenance of the unique heritage of the Saint-Luc Church, which will welcome the school under its roof in addition to maintaining its primary purpose vocation of worship, has a sustainable development value that should be emphasized, "said the Minister Kotto. 
The project consists in developing premises for school on the Saint-Luc Church. Five studios will be available as well as a waiting room and offices for administration. The cult function will, however, be maintained in the chorus section. 
Recall that this dance school, which hosts nearly 550 students each year, is supported by the operations by the Ministry of Culture and Communications. 
"Today's ad is good news for the Saguenay dance community. I thank the School of Dance Florence-Fourcaudot, the people of the middle, the factory and the elected officials who, by this project, affirm that the cultural development and the protection of religious heritage are values that live them " , added Minister Bédard. 
The cost of the work estimated at nearly $ 4 million is distributed as follows: $ 3,378,500 come from the department and $ 397,500 from the city of Saguenay. The school is committed to providing the rest of the funding, 199,000 $. 
The Department's contribution is paid under Dutch Québec Infrastructure 2013-2023, released in April. Recall that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 2 billion investments for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebeckers, to measure the associated costs and to make informed choices. 
Taking advantage of his visit to Saguenay, Minister Maka Kotto accepted the invitation of the Superior of the Augustinian of the Mercy of Jesus Chicoutimi, Sister Jeanne-d'Arc Guillemette, to visit the Chapel of the Oratory-Saint-Joseph Chicoutimi. Remember that the chapel and several of its movable property was classified on October 18, 2012, under the Cultural Heritage Act. This property is now protected by the provisions of the Act and registered in the Quebec Cultural Heritage Register 
"My wish is that the ranking of the chapel of the Oratory-Saint-Joseph also protects all the memory of the work of self-help and the compassion of the Community of Augustine and allow to seize their sincere contribution to the development of the region Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean and Quebec Society, "said Minister Kotto. 
Additional information regarding the Chapel of the Oratory-Saint-Joseph of Chicoutimiasi that all the heritage elements entered in the cultural heritage register is available on the website of the Cultural Heritage of Quebec (RPCQ), atwww.patrimoine-cultural .gouv.qc.ca. This dissemination tool of the Ministry of Culture and Communications makes it possible to discover the richness and diversity of the Quebec cultural heritage by making it accessible to all. Part of the RPCQ content is now on the Open Data Portal of the Government of Quebec, atwww.donnes.gouv.qc.ca. 
