Quebec- Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, enthusiastically hosts the confirmation of the holding in Quebec, next September, the second presentation of benefits, the "International appointment on health ingredients". This worldwide event will host many actors from the vast nutrition and functional food sector. 
"This appointment is an excellent opportunity for our bioalimentary companies to learn about new technologies and existing ingredients, to build research partnerships and enrich their business network in the food industry. Health value. I would like to congratulate the Institute on Nutrition and Functional Foods at Laval University which is at the origin of this meeting and the orchestra with Brio, "said the minister. 
Building is for all members of the industries and institutions that manufacture or use health ingredients. In addition to the many conferences, participants will be able to visit a commercial exhibition putting a multitude of new products and services in the foreground as well as innovative technologies. Personalized business meetings with the partners present will also be offered. 
"To offer Quebeckers more foods whose nutritional value is improved or who have health value is one of the objectives of our food sovereignty and I know that our partners in the bioalimentary sector share this concern. In this context, it is important to be on the lookout for the latest trends and innovations in this area and I hope our companies will participate in large numbers to benefit, "François Gendron concluded. 
With investments of $ 2.3 billion and an annual food demand of nearly $ 34 billion generating 475,000 jobs, the biofood industry is an engine of the Quebec economy. 
For further information on food sovereignty policy, we invite you to regularly consult the blog devoted to it (www.politiquesa.gouv.qc.ca) or to visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa). It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
