Pont-Rouge - Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, is pleased to announce the award of $ 140,000 financial assistance to the Corporation of Historic Pont-Rouge, for renovation and Exterior development of the Déry house, which is part of the perri whore patrimonial site. The Mayor of Pont-Rouge, Ghislain Langlais, and the President of the Board of Directors of the Corporation of Pont-Rouge's Historic Places, Gaétane Moras, also participate in this event. 
"The heritage property deserve special attention, and the Government of Quebec recognizes the importance of seeing their safeguard. The perri fishing heritage site illustrates eloquently the marriage of nature and culture and plays a major role in promoting the cultural heritage that makes the renowned of the Portneuvoise region. Thanks to the financial assistance announced today, the government contributes to the conservation and development of this place of history and culture, "said Minister Kotto. 
"The Déry house is part of the cultural landscape of the city of Pont-Rouge since 1804 and represents an exceptional place inhabited with memories. I am pleased that the Government of Quebec participates in this repairs work since they will ensure the sustainability of this heritage property, "mentioned the responsible minister of the regions of the Capitale-Nationale and the Chaudière-Appalaches, Minister Labor, employment and social solidarity and minister responsible for the status of women, Agnès Maltese. 
The Déry fishing heritage site has been classified since 1984 and is thus protected by the Cultural Heritage Act. In addition to the Direy house, there is a bridge, a section of an old way, gorges and a portion of the Jacques-Cartier River with four salmon pits. The site is today a historical and natural interpretation center. The Corporation of the Historic Places of Pont-Red, which highlights this heritage site, makes visitors discover the rich history of the place which has accumulated the functions of toll post, relays and outfitting in particular. 
The project, estimated at $ 177,200, targets the restoration of a portion of the external envelope of the home derifier and securing the site. The $ 140,000 contribution from the Department is part of the 2013-2023 Infrastructure Plan, released in April. Recall that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 2 billion investments for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebeckers, to measure the associated costs and to make informed choices. 
Remember that last June the Ministry of Culture and Communications announced $ 15,000 financial assistance to the city of Pont-Rouge for the rehabilitation of the stone wall which borders the exit of the Déry bridge. Built in 1939, this bridge is a characteristic element of the perri whore heritage site. The intervention helped to consolidate the structure, ensure the integrity of the site and to secure the places for visitors. 
Additional information concerning the Dérifian fishing heritage site as well as all heritage elements entered in the cultural heritage register are available on the website of the Cultural Heritage of Quebec (RPCQ), atwww.patrimoine-cultural.gouv.qc. it. This dissemination tool of the Ministry of Culture and Communications makes it possible to discover the richness and diversity of the Quebec cultural heritage by making it accessible to all. Part of the RPCQ content is now on the Open Data Portal of the Government of Quebec, atwww.donnes.gouv.qc.ca. 
