Quebec- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, today announced the official Lagazette of Quebec by the Draft Regulation respecting municipal books. wastewater for public consultation. "This regulation will allow us to continue to improve the health of our streams. These valuable sources of drinking water also house ecosystems that need to be protected. The new municipal wastewater sanitation phase will eventually give Quebeckers to Quebecers from the river and our streams, such as swimming and fishing, "said Minister Blanchet. 
The draft regulation submitted to the consultation is part of the objectives of the National Water Policy and follows the recent recommendations of the Commissioner for Sustainable Development. It will complete the municipal wastewater consolidation program and achieve large upgrading work on existing wastewater treatment facilities throughout Québec. 
The draft regulation makes it possible to introduce new standards of performance applicable in all Quebec municipalities, and which will at least be equivalent to those set out in the pan-Canadian strategy on the management of municipal wastewater effluents. Thus, existing wastewater treatment plants that do not comply with these standards will have to comply with the regulations by 2020, 2030 or 2040, depending on the level of risk they represent for the environment. The adopted strategy also provides requirements for the control of gross wastewater overflows and requires the production of plans for reducing these overflows. Although the objectives pursued by this strategy, Quebec has not officially adhered to it because it has not yet obtained the guarantees requested from the federal government to its adequate federal jurisdiction and contribution to the investments that will be required. 
Through this gesture, Quebec demonstrates its willingness to fully exercise its skills in this area and to be subtracted from the application of the Federal Government Effluent Regulations on 29 June 2012. For this purpose. , an intergovernmental agreement must be concluded so that Quebec regulations are the only one to be applied in Quebec. 
The draft regulation establishes new standards of rejection and prohibits untreated wastewater overflows. Current sewage treatment facilities will be gradually improved and new will be built in order to meet these new standards. 
The draft regulation further provides that the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks will issue municipal sanitation certificates that will clarify the specific requirements to be respected according to the vulnerability of the receiving environment, in addition to those included in the regulation. These attestations, renewable for the five years, will make it possible to adjust these requirements, if necessary, according to the evolution of the situation and the knowledge. 
Let us mention that the draft regulation also specifies the professional qualifications that municipal sewage operators should now have. 
In addition, under the new ministerial position on the application of municipal sewer networks overflow standards, it is important to note that from 1 April 2014, no sewage network extension project likely to be Increase the frequency of unit sewer overflows, domestic or pseudodometics will not be allowed. This procedure will also apply to any flow increase in the sewer system resulting from the redevelopment of a sector or implantation, expansion or increased production of an industry. This rule will not, however, apply to projects whose average flow rate is less than 10 m3 / day, if the existing sewer system meets its overflow requirements. 
It will cost about $ 3 billion to bring all municipal wastewater consolidation works with planned performance standards. In addition, the costs to reduce untreated wastewater overflows to a level allowing the full recovery of uses could reach up to $ 6 billion. It is expected that the federal government will assume a significant portion of the long-term required funding for these investments.  "The greater efficiency of the facilities, more stringent standards, rigorous monitoring, such are our objectives to ensure the health of the population and improve the quality of our streams. I invite all the organizations concerned by the draft regulation to participate in the consultation, "concluded the Minister Blanchet. 
The public consultation will take place from May 15 to July 13, 2013. The draft regulation, the modalities relating to the public consultation, as well as the ministerial position on the application of the overflow standards of the municipal sewer networks are available on the Department's website Auhttp: //www.mddefp.gouv.qc.ca/eau/eaux-usees/loits-municipal/reglement2013.htm. 
