Quebec- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to confirm the granting of $ 5 million for the continuation of the infrastructure intervention plan Local roads (PiriL) and the Municipal Road Safety Intervention Plan (PISMRMM). Mr. Gaudreault had previously announced the announcement on September 28 at the end of the 72nd annual foundation of the Quebec Federation of Municipalities (FQM), to the satisfaction of the municipal representatives present. This amount is added to the $ 5 million announced on 1 August, which carries the total envelope for these two programs at $ 10 million for the 2013-2014 fiscal year. 
"I am delighted that more MRCs and eligible organizations can benefit from these programs. By increasing the budget allocated, we recognize the importance of promoting the mobility and safety of travel over the entire Quebec territory, "said Gaudreault. 
PIIRL and PISMRML are effective decision planning and decision support tools to enable municipalities to optimize investments for the municipal road network by intervening at the right time and in the right place. 
The Piiron is addressed to the 84 rural and semi-rural MRCs of Quebec with local roads of levels 1 and 2, as well as 4 cities and agglomerations exercising certain RCM skills, as well as the municipality outside the MRC of James Bay and all its component communities (including the city of Chibougamau). The proposed approach provides for the medium determination of about 25% of local roads for socio-economic development and the vitality of the territory. The condition of these roads, the type of interventions required and the available budgets will subsequently condition the content of the intervention plan. In short, the constituent municipalities of an MRC will be able to determine the portions of the local road network of Level 1 or 2 to be treated as a priority and consequently plan the interventions required for rehabilitation. 
For its part, the PISMRM is aimed at the MRCs, agglomerations and municipalities exercising MRC skills. It allows, on the one hand, to make a diagnosis targeting the main issues and, on the other hand, to develop an action plan describing the most successful solutions to solve them. A PISMRM is aimed at determining the optimal interventions to improve road safety and reduce the number of accidents and victims on the municipal road network. 
MRCs and eligible bodies wishing to register for these programs may purchase all the documentation atwww.mtq.gouv.qc.ca, in the Partners section, under the municipal tabs, aid programs, municipal road network. 
