Quebec- Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs and Sovereignist Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, today concluded a two-day mission in London. On the occasion of this first ministerial mission abroad, he represented the Government of Quebec at a Gala highlighting 50 years of economic relations between Quebec and the United Kingdom, in addition to meeting representatives of political and academic environments from the British capital. 
"The United Kingdom is the first economic partner of Quebec in Europe. At the moment when the Quebec delegation in London celebrates its 50th anniversary, we needed to send a clear signal to Quebec and British companies that today contribute to nurturing this rich relationship, for the mutual benefit of our two companies, "said Minister Cloutier. 
Minister Cloutier participated on October 3, as a co-guest of honor with the British Minister of State for Trade and Investment, Lord Green, at an economic gala during which several awards have been given. Excellence of British and Quebec companies. A tribute price was also awarded to Cirque du Soleil. Organized by the Quebec Delegation of Quebec in London, in collaboration with the Canada-United Kingdom Chamber of Commerce, this gala was the highlight of the program of activities initiated at the beginning of the year to mark the 50th anniversary of the permanent representation. of Quebec. 
This event brought together some 160 guests from the Quebec business community and the United Kingdom, of which fifty Quebecers. In particular, Minister Clouier was able to meet at this evening several business leaders, including Rio Tinto, ArcelorMittal, CAE, Bombardier and Cirque du Soleil. 
On the Quebec side, in addition to representatives of Quebec companies based in the United Kingdom, mention the presence of a delegation of about fifteen Quebeckers participating in London at an economic mission under the auspices of the Chamber of Commerce of Montreal Metropolitan. Minister Cloutier was also able to talk to the participants in this mission during an activity held on the margins of the Gala. 
In addition, Minister Cloutier spoke with Rio Tinto leaders at the company's headquarters to discuss investment projects in Quebec. 
Mr. Cloutier also took advantage of his visit to London to discuss with public policy specialists and constitutional law. Meetings took place, among other things, with leaders from the Institute for Public Policy Research and the Institute for Government, influential research groups in the United Kingdom. It was also an opportunity to discuss with specialists from Scotland and Catalonia. 
Recall that the United Kingdom is among the first international partners of Quebec. The Quebec government established its permanent representation in 1962, only one year after Paris. 
The list of Winners Augala Québec-United Kingdom: 50 years of economic relations can be consulted atwww.mri.gouv.qc.ca / quebecuk. 
