Sherbrooke- The Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Elders and Minister responsible for the Estrie Region, Dr. Réjean Hébert, and the member for Sherbrooke, Mr. Serge Cardin, have inaugurated the new premises today From the Estrie (CRDE) rehabilitation center, as a result of expansion work for the grouping of all its services to one and the same address. 
Indeed, the building located at the 1930 King Street West, in Sherbrooke, which houses the head office, the house of users and the activities of the CRDE dependency program, has been the subject of important work. Enlargement over the past year. The main objective of these were to allow the repatriation of the clientele and activities of Saint-Georges House, where its mental health program was implemented. 
"By bringing together its activities under the same roof, the Estrie Dependence Rehabilitation Center opened the door to a better integration of its services, and what to the direct profit of its customers struggling with a double problem of dependency and mental health. This work not only allows better use of space, but also a more efficient use of diversified expertise of its clinical stakeholders, "said Minister Hébert. 
The work consisted of an enlargement 1,715 m2 on two floors, as well as some redevelopment of existing spaces. In addition to providing a more practical and safer environmental environment, both external and accommodation, new premises promote the pooling of certain human and material resources. 
For his part, Mr. Cardin said that "the Estrie Dependence Rehabilitation Center plays an important role in the region. By supporting his expansion project, our government reiterated against him his confidence and his gratitude, while reaffirming his willingness to support him in the fulfillment of his mission to the population. » 
Recall that this real estate project, carried out at a cost of $ 4,625,138, was funded for $ 2,610,000 by the Health and Social Services Agency of Estrie and $ 2,015,138 per establishment . 
