Chicoutimi- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, accompanied by the Minister responsible for Government Administration, President of the Treasury Board and Minister responsible for the Saguenay Region -Lac-Saint-Jean, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, announces the award of a $ 6.5 million grant for the acquisition of the Grand Chicoutimi seminar by the University of Quebec in Chicoutimi (UQAC). 
"The acquisition of this building will provide physiotherapy training in partnership with McGill University. The new ways of learning and creating community-based practice communities and collaboration networks are powerful engines for social and economic development. The benefits will be positive for all and for the advancement of knowledge, "said Minister Duchesne. 
The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne. // (c) Joel Bouchard 
The acquisition of the Grand Seminar by the UQAC includes the purchase of the building, the renovation of the spaces and the purchase of basic equipment and specialized equipment that will be used to offer the bachelor's degree and master's degree programs in physiotherapy. 
"The University of Quebec in Chicoutimi is a good example of the excellence of higher education in the region. Our government will always be present to consolidate and maintain programming that knows how to meet the needs of academia in the regions. We keep our young people here for their studies, and we rely on the fact that they will stay here after their studies, "said Minister Bédard. 
Physiotherapy programs have been offered at UQAC since last year and seek to meet growing labor needs in this area. In order to accelerate the process of setting up programs and their recognition from the professional order of Quebec physiotherapy, the UQAC has chosen to offer, in extension, McGill University programs. Note that since 2010, only the degree of master's degree in physiotherapy gives access to the practice of the profession. 
Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, and the Minister responsible for Government Administration, President of the Treasury Board and Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lake Area -Saint-jean, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, discuss with UQAC students. // (c) Joel Bouchard 
"Higher education institutions play a strategic role in teaching, research and innovation as well as community services. Our government ensures the means of action to participate fully in these networks of creation, use and dissemination of knowledge and skills. It is essential to set up our knowledge institutions because they contribute to the development of our cities and our regions, "concluded Minister Duchesne. 
At the end of the Higher Education Summit, held in February 2013, three of the five work sites that were put in place concern universities: 
