Durham-Sud- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Minister responsible for the Regions of the Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie and MP Johnson, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is proud to participate in the inauguration of the Durham-South Grocery Station - Cooperative of solidarity. It takes this opportunity to announce the financial assistance of $ 69,500 granted by the Government of Quebec to this project. This assistance comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship (PIEC) infrastructure program. 
Accurately, the project targeted the modernization of the grocery store to make the places more attractive to the customer base, the redevelopment of the cash desk and product displays, the replacement of certain refrigerators as well as the installation of surveillance cameras to ensure safety. The project also included the addition of a gas station requiring the establishment of fuel tanks and pumps as well as the acquisition of the adjacent land for the development of a parking lot. 
"The consolidation to which large companies are engaged in order to remain competitive has often deplorable effects for smaller communities. The momentum that animates our villages, now as well connected to the world and Montreal, Paris or Sidney, could have broken any net as a critical mass to protect the services. But Durham-South follows the example of the best. It relies on its own dynamism and gives itself the means and services necessary to maintain its development and, above all, of its quality of life. I am very pleased to respect this commitment taken last year to the community and to concretely support such a beautiful idea, "said Minister Yves-François Blanchet. 
It should be noted that this project has created a new full-time job, some part-time jobs and the consolidation of the eight existing jobs. This initiative required a total investment estimated at $ 322,000. The Government of Quebec, within the framework of the PIEC, contributed $ 69,500. Other partners also participated in this project, including the MRC of Drummond, Sonic Company and Caisse Desjardins du Val Saint-François. 
For its part, the Chairman of the Durham-South-South-Cooperative Grocery Board of Solidarity, Mr. Roger Viens, was very pleased with the support of the Government of Quebec for the realization of this project which allows today The cooperative to offer more services to its customers and to better meet the needs of the Durham-South community. 
The Durham-South-Cooperative Solidarity grocery store is recognized as a social economy company in the retail sector by the social economy cluster of the region. It was born in January 2000 thanks to the mobilization of the population, which allowed the restart of a quality, viable and competitive grocery store in the field of food and other related fields. With more than 230 members, the cooperative has become a place of meetings and exchanges and is an important socio-economic contribution for Durham-South, in addition to strengthening the feeling of citizens' belonging to their community. 
Remember that the PIEC has a budget envelope of $ 10 million. It aims to support social economy companies in the implementation of projects of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition of commercial or industrial infrastructure. The objectives of the CEP are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories as well as to promote the preservation and valorization of the environment. 
