Quebec- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announced on behalf of the Minister Delegate Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Ms. Véronique Hivon, the financing of two home palliative support projects in the Center-du-Québec initiated by the Health and Social Services Center (CSSS) Drummond and its partner , René-Verrier services, as well as by the CSSS Bécancour-Nicolet-Yamaska. 
"We want people at the end of life to live their last moments in a serene way, with the least possible suffering, and this, in the place of their choice, with their loved ones. That's why we are committed to supporting the initiatives that will allow them to have access to personalized home services adapted to their needs, "said Minister Hivon. 
The CSSS Drummond and René-Verrier services share a project aimed at improving the offer of service to people with palliative care at home and their loved ones, under the angles of reput-guard, support and support. The granting of a recurring annual budget of $ 200,000 will include training and tooling volunteer resources so that they intervene effectively and safely, in addition to promoting respect for the choice of persons at the end of life who want to stay at home as long as possible. 
In the territory of the CSSS Bécancour-Nicolet-Yamaska, a financial assistance of $ 50,000 per year will come to support the improvement of home-based respite activities, while allowing to develop and consolidate partnerships with different organizations, thus promoting the implementation of new services. This project will benefit both people at the end of life and the members of their entourage. 
In total, these three organizations will share a financial assistance of $ 250,000 to carry out their projects. Finally, remember that the public funding of the two palliative care homes has been enhanced by 13% and ten palliative care beds were added last fall in the Center-du-Québec region. 
"Three of my relatives have died of cancer in recent years, including my father and his spouse, and two of them in the René-Verrier unit. I know what a difference with unconditional love and compassion can do at the moment of leaving. I am delighted with the depths of the heart to see my government recognize this role of end-of-life accompaniment. People are more and more offering alternatives that are important for the patient, yes, but also for his family and loved ones. It has always been crucial to me that the state is a partner in this affecting commitment, "said the Minister Blanchet. 
