Toronto the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, participated in the provincial-territorial and federal-provincial-territorial health ministers who stood on October 3 and 4, at Toronto. 
Several topics were discussed yesterday during the provincial-territorial meeting, including the work of the Health Innovation Working Group (GGTIMS). The minister assured that Quebec will continue to participate in the sharing of information and best practices, and that it remained prepared to collaborate on any new initiative for its health guidelines and priorities. "Issues affecting the care and services offered to seniors, for example, have echoed with my counterparts. This file is one of our top priorities in Quebec, as evidenced by the state of ongoing work on the Autonomy Insurance Project, whose consultations will begin on October 23, "said Minister Hébert. In addition, at the request of his counterparts, Minister Hébert has made an update on Bill 52 on end-of-life care, on behalf of his colleague Véronique Hivon, Minister Delegate to Social Services and the Protection of the youth and minister responsible for the file die in dignity. 
The importance of prevention for the future of health systems also has the number of subjects treated during the meeting. Minister Hébert further recalled that Quebec will soon make public a national prevention policy project. "When it comes to health, people first think and above all to the treatment and healing of diseases. But we must not forget that it is also possible to act upstream to prevent several health disorders. Our National Prevention Policy project, developed in collaboration with several ministries, will advocate healthy lifestyle, as a balanced diet, an active way of life and the abandonment of smoking, "added Dr. Hébert. 
Today, the minister also participated in the federal-provincial-territorial meeting of the Ministers of Health, where he met for the first time the new Federal Minister of Health, Ms. Rona Ambrose. It was an opportunity for him to inform him of certain concerns of Quebec, including the application of the new marijuana access program for medical purposes as well as the financial impacts of Quebec the amendments to the Interim Federal Health Program, a federal jurisdiction. Finally, Minister Hébert wanted to reaffirm Québec's determination to exercise only its responsibilities with respect to the management, organization, planning and evaluation of the Quebec health system. 
