Quebec- The Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, will take part on 7 and 8 November, in Paris, at the 29th session of the Ministerial Conference of La Francophonie. Several interviews with key interlocutors in Quebec in Francophonie and the Government of the French Republic are also on the program. 
"Quebec plays an active and essential role in this ministerial consultation body. This will be an opportunity to share our vision on the main axes of French-speaking action, particularly through the follow-up of the decisions taken by the Heads of State and Government in Kinshasa, but also in the perspective of the Dakar Summit. Senegal, which will take place in a year, "said the minister listed. 
At this 29th session, the minister will argue the need for the States and governments of the Francophonie to continue their commitment to strengthening democratic institutions and governance as well as gender equality. The minister will also highlight the importance of the Francophone economic strategy, which will be tabled next year in Dakar, in order to promote the prosperity of the Francophone space, particularly Africa. 
In the context where Quebec wishes to give a new impetus to its relations with Africa, meetings are planned with several several counterparts from African countries. Remember that a mission led by the Minister listed in West Africa last September allowed to conclude numerous economic and institutional agreements with African partners. 
Finally, the minister will benefit from his visit to Paris to talk to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the French Republic, Mr Laurent Fabius, and the Minister responsible for Development, Mr. Pascal Canfin, to whom he will present the new Economic policy of Quebec and with whom he will talk about social economy. Two components of this policy, the Foreign Trade Development Plan and the Transport Electrification Strategy could be important levers to strengthen the economic ties between Quebec and France. 
