Montreal- The Minister of Culture and Communications, Mr. Maka Kotto announces the classification of four property under the Cultural Property Act. Thus, in Montreal, the Bank of the Imperial Bank of Commerce and the Archaeological Site of Market-Sainte-Anne-and-Parliament-du-Canada-UNI, in Quebec City, New Barracks, and in Saguenay The Chapel of the Saint-Joseph Oratory and its movable property are now classified and enrolled in the Cultural Heritage Register of Quebec. 
"Quebec is holding a very rich and very diverse heritage. Above all, it is proud to recognize it and protect it. The four properties for whom I have signed a ranking notice over the last few days are of exceptional value, which is largely demonstrated, "said Kotto. 
Located under a portion of the Youville Square, between the McGill and Saint-Pierre Streets, the Market-Sainte-Anne-and-Parliament Market-Du-Canada-United Market contains the remains of the buildings that hosted the Market Sainte-Anne and the former Parliament of Canada-UNI, as well as the WILLIAM collector sewer. These structures were initially constructed in the 1830s, following the demolition of Montreal's fortifications, to improve the health facilities in this sector and to supply the growing population of the suburbs. 
The building of the first Market Sainte-Anne, neoclassical style, built in stone of 1832 to 1834, was inspired by Quincy Market (1824-1826), in Boston. In 1844, he will become the headquarters of the Parliament of Canada to the riots of 1849, while the toies (principal opposition party) burned Parliament to protest the law of compensation for losses suffered during the insurrections of 1837 and 1838. During this fire, the Parliament and the content of its library (25,000 pounds) were completely destroyed. In 1851, the vestiges of the building were razed until the level of the cellars, and the foundations of a new Market Sainte-Anne were built on those of the former Parliament. 
"The City of Montreal had requested this ranking to protect a site that contains the foundations of the first and third Markets Sainte-Anne as well as former Parliament. These are extraordinary witnesses in the history of our city, "said the Head of Culture, Heritage, Design and the Status of Women to the Executive Committee of the City of Montreal, Ms. Helen Fotopulos. 
The monumental architecture of the Bank of the Imperial Bank of Commerce, located on Saint-Jacques Street, testifies to both the presence and prosperity of the institution. Erected from 1907 to 1909, the building includes offices spread over six floors and five thrills. The interior is characterized by the quality of the sculpture of architectural elements and the richness of materials such as the stone of caen, mahogany, different marbles, granite, plaster and bronze. The building is equipped with a large portico with six Corinthian columns and an ornamental iron balcony. 
New barracks were built from 1749 to 1752 to accommodate the French troops sent in reinforcement in the city of Quebec, following the taking of Louisbourg by the British, in 1745. After taking Quebec, in 1759, barracks are inhabited by the British military for over a hundred years. When the garrison leaves the city of Quebec, in 1871, new barracks are redeveloped to house the first Canadian ammunition factory. His workers participate in the War Effort of Canada during the two world conflicts of the 20th century. In 1964, the cartridge ceases definitively its operations. In 1965, the Augustinians of the Hotel-Dieu gave the acquisition of the barracks, which later became the property of the University Hospital of Quebec. 
The ranking of the barracks covers the outer envelope of the seven buildings, the interior of sections 1, 2, 3, 4 and 7 as well as the subsoil of sections 5 and 6. This ranking is a first step towards the rescue of the building. 
The Chapel of the Saint-Joseph Oratory was built according to the plans of the architect Léonce Desgagné, from 1941 to 1943, at the heart of a conventual and hospital set belonging to the Augustine. Its patrimonial value is based on its architectural interest. It includes a reinforced concrete frame, and its interior has a polygonal profile. Triangular concrete pillars are high against polychrome brick walls. 
The interior decor, resulting from the collaboration of the architect Léonce Desgagné and artists, is a striking illustration of the renewal of the sacred art that occurs in Quebec from 1930 to 1950. The vast majority of the elements of the furniture, including the benches. , the high altar and the lateral altars, was designed by Leonce Desgagne. 
