Quebec- "The inability of the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Pierre Corbeil, to draw a detailed portrait of religious ritual slaughter in Quebec is unacceptable. The information transmitted by the Minister are unsatisfactory and do not allow us to know the magnitude of the phenomenon. " 
That said the hon. Member for Kamouraska-Témiscouata and sentence of the official opposition in agriculture and food, André Simard, at the end of an interpellation to the National Assembly on the 'Agriculture. 
Last week, the member had publicly claimed from Minister Corbeil a complete portrait on a scheme permitted by law, either religious ritual slaughter. "I repeat: we do not question this aspect of the law. What is abnormal on the other hand is that the minister and his department do not have any information on a provision of their law, "said André Simard, who intends to return to the expense during the study of the appropriations that will take place. next month. Minister Corbeil can not scroll; It has the obligation to draw up a complete picture of the situation of religious ritual slaughter, "he added. 
Notons any corbe barbeil a ététime de Précory charge in the abattine visit pain and making emaction when we passed in the Inept. 
Quebec standards provide for measures to insensitize animals and minimize their suffering when slaughtering. "This must be the general rule and religious ritual slaughter must be the exception," said the member. 
In order to address everyone's concerns, the Parti Québécois believes that it is necessary for the government to put in place a labeling system for the consumer to be informed of the provenance of the meat he buys. 
"Quebeckers want to know what they eat. The Liberal government therefore has the obligation today to respond to their will and in this case, everything must be done so that labeling rules are introduced quickly. Minister Corbeil has what it takes to act; He even received the order of his Prime Minister. He can not fall back on the federal government to cross his arms, "concluded André Simard. 
