Quebec- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, has inaugurated the new premises of the Sherbrooke University Hospital Research Center (Cr-Chus), a research center Located in the Sherbrooke Biomedical Park. 
"The expansion work carried out at the Research Center has provided our researchers with an environment better suited to their needs. These new premises will offer them a more conducive framework for their state-of-the-art research, the great benefit of our health network and the entire population of Quebec, "said Minister Hébert. 
The project has doubled the area reserved for research and to equip the CR-CHUS of new laboratory devices, including through the construction of a three-storey building, with a total area of 6,889 square meters, which. communicates with existing buildings. A vault has also been erected to host a new cyclotron, which will allow researchers to continue their work and produce important radioactive isotopes in nuclear medicine and for the diagnosis of certain diseases. In the end these works will benefit from the few 220 researchers of the six lines of search for Cr-chus, either cancer, diabetes, obesity and cardiovascular complications, medical imaging, inflammation and pain, as well as mother. 
The enlargement and redevelopment work of the Cr-Chus, which began in July 2012, will ultimately be carried out at the total cost of $ 31.7 million. The expansion now completed, the redevelopment work of the first vacant wing for the timing will soon begin to end at the end of the summer of 2014, in order to allow other researchers to carry out their research. health. The Government of Quebec has funded $ 25.2 million and the CHUS Foundation has provided $ 6 million. The CHUS Research Center for its part assumed the balance of $ 500,000. 
"It is important that this internationally renowned research center, which is one of the five largest research centers in Quebec, remains at the forefront of technologies. This will benefit from the whole Quebec by allowing us to be at the forefront in a crowd of sectors. This objective corresponds to those expressed in the national research and innovation policy I unveiled in last fall. I am pleased that our government is supporting these researchers, as their contribution is in the advancement of health sciences in Quebec, "says Pierre Duchesne, Minister of Higher Education, Research , science and technology. 
