Lake Meech- following the Federal-Provincial-Territorial Meeting of Finance Ministers, which took place today at Lake Meech, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, took stock of The main topics that were on the agenda of the meeting. 
The federal government has not announced any amendments to the Equalization Program for 2013-2014 and only technical changes starting in 2014-15. "These technical changes will be minor and will have only a low impact on our public finances, which does not question Quebec's efforts to regain fiscal balance," said Minister Marceau. 
On the other hand, the minister reminded the federal government that "Quebec's efforts to balance its finances are made more difficult by unilateral decisions taken by the federal government last year, in particular as to the End of taking into account the value of the Canadian Health Transfer Tax Points (TCS) ". This only change will lose $ 172 million in Quebec in 2014-2015. Combined with TCS growth limited to Canadian nominal GDP, this loss will reach $ 321 million in 2017-2018. These losses will total $ 8.6 billion in 2024-2025. 
Minister Marceau has made it clear that the federal share of provincial health financing is currently 21%, a percentage well below the initial share of 50% established when setting up health systems. Canada. Quebec's position in this regard is to see the share of federal health funding gradually increase to 25% within ten years. 
With the impacts of federal disengagement in health adds the fact that the federal government did not consider the withdrawal of the ceilings to the Equalization Program, the return to the 2007 formula. 
"The renewal of the 2014 federal transfers could have been an opportunity for the federal government to return to certain decisions to avoid the return to the fiscal imbalance created by the unilateral changes to federal transfers in recent years, particularly with regard to Ceilings for equalization and decline in growth in the federal health contribution, "held to clarify the minister. 
Exchanges took place with regard to the adequate training of the workforce. Minister Marceau has stimulated that the Canada-Quebec Labor Market Agreement (EMT) expires in March 2014. This agreement has a significant impact on the financing of employability measures for non-eligible clients. 'Employment Insurance. The EMT is of strategic importance in integration into the labor market as well as support for business competitiveness. The federal government must therefore renew the funding granted to the EMT in such a way as to ensure the stability and sustainability of these measures. 
As for the new federal infrastructure plan announced in 2011, the minister recalled that Quebec has encountered multiple difficulties in the implementation of federal infrastructure programs and therefore, its government wants its share Federal funds for the new infrastructure plan planned as of 2014 is paid in the form of a "en bloc" transfer, in accordance with its priorities and skills. 
Finance ministers also continued their discussion about the retirement income system, particularly with regard to a possible bonus of public schemes and the new voluntary retirement savings plans. 
With respect to a gradual bonus of the Canada Pension Plan and the Quebec Pension Plan, Mr. Marceau stressed that "Quebec is in favor of improvements to public pension plans. In this regard, we will continue to work with other provinces and the federal government in order to find sustainable and realistic solutions, taking into account the current economic context, characterized by a fragile recovery in growth. To this end, work will be undertaken to define the extent of possible improvements as well as the schedule for their implementation. 
By then, Mr. Marceau told his counterparts that the Quebec government will table a bill in the spring of 2013 to implement the new voluntary retirement savings plans. "The implementation of voluntary retirement savings plans will facilitate savings and will allow all workers to have access to a collective pension plan," added the minister. 
Ministers finally discussed the difficult international economic situation, marked by a slow recovery from our American neighbors. The latest prospects for Quebec's economic growth are prudent, with a real GDP growth rate of 0.9% in 2012 and 1.5% in 2013. 
Minister Marceau emphasized his counterparts that despite this fragile economic situation, Quebec maintains the CAP as to the return to fiscal balance. In this regard, the minister indicated that his government has limited program spending growth to 1.8% for 2013-14 and 2.4% for 2014-2015. "All the measures announced in the last November budget will enable us to reach our budget targets within the deadlines and to maintain them later," concluded the minister. 
