Quebec- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, as well as the Minister of Family and Minister responsible for the Laval Region, Nicole Léger, today announced the addition of Additional professional resources for six family medicine groups (GMF) in the Laval region. These GMF will share a total of 23 full-time equivalents (FTEs) to complete their professional workforce. This represents for the region an annual investment of $ 1,717,089. 
"The addition of professionals such as nutritionists, social workers or kinesiologists to physicians is a way to support GMF medical practice, as it allows better patient follow-up, especially those with chronic diseases", explained Minister Réjean Hébert. 
"I am pleased that GMFs in the region can benefit from the addition of health professionals. In addition to contributing to further supporting physicians, this GMF service supply enhancement will improve the accessibility and continuity of medical care and services to the Laval population, "said the Minister responsible for The region, Mrs. Nicole Léger. 
"The consolidation of the GMF network is one of the priority actions of our government in order to have a strong and accessible line. We are committed to achieving a series of measures in this direction, and the allocation of new resources for the most successful GMFs, has added Minister Hébert. 
Note that this addition of professionals is determined based on the performance of GMF, according to various criteria, including the respect and renewal of their contractual agreement, the achievement of their clientele enrollment objectives, as well as their offer of service. unfavorable hours (evenings and weekends) relative to the number of patients enrolled. 
At the national level, additional 181.5 FTEs will be distributed between 60 GMF, for an average of 3 FTEs each. This addition represents an annual investment of $ 13.6 million. 
For a complete list of GMF who benefited from numbers in Quebec, visitwww.msss.gouv.qc.ca/presse 
