Quebec- On the occasion of the celebrations surrounding the 50th anniversary of the parent report held tonight at the Library of the National Archives of Quebec, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, announced the creation of two new brands of honors that will be added to the awards of the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, from 2014. 
The two new prices will reward the quality of education as well as the inventiveness of knowledge transmission methods: the Paul-Gérin-Lajoie Award will reward one or a college-level teacher while the Guy-Rocher Award will reward one or a teacher. University level. 
"The outstanding contribution of Messrs. Paul Gérin-Lajoie and Guy Rocher to the development of the Quebec higher education system deserves not only the recognition of the government, but also the gratitude of all Quebec. On the 50th anniversary of the parent report, it is with great pride that I introduce these new prizes that emphasize our teachers' commitment and teachers, "said Minister Duchesne. 
These new prices will emphasize the quality of university and college education and to promote the teaching successes of faculty of universities and college teachers. The modalities for nominating for these two prizes will be unveiled during the year. 
"The Minister's prices enhance the quality and educational excellence in our colleges and universities. The creation of these prices proved very natural, especially on the occasion of the celebrations surrounding the parent report, a major fragment of our history and the fulfillment of Quebec, "said Minister Pierre Duchesne. 
Gentlemen Paul Gérin-Lajoie and Guy Rocher are examples of public engagement whose contribution to the development of Quebec society, and more particularly to that of our teaching system, has been exceptional. First holder of the Quebec Ministry of Education, Mr. Paul Gérin-Lajoie has distinguished himself as one of the profound mutations made by the Quebec education system. Member of the Parent Commission, Mr. Guy Rocher participated in particular for the creation of CEGEPs. 
The Minister's Awards Ceremony is an annual event that wants to highlight the exceptional quality of educational material produced in French and for college students and the first university cycle. The minister's prices are primarily aimed at encouraging members of college and academic networks to produce their own educational materials in French and publish their research results in French. They also aim to make known the quality of written material and hardware and reward the authors of the best creations. The 2013-2014 edition ceremony will be held on May 23, 2014. 
