Seven-Islands- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, accompanied by the member for Duplessis and Chair of the Culture and Education Commission, Ms. Lorraine Richard, President and Chief Executive Officer of Alumaerie Alouette, Mr. André Martel, the Mayor of Sept-Îles, Mr. Serge Lévesque, the Director General of Cégep of Sept-Îles, Mr. Donald Bhere, and the Rector From the University of Quebec to Chicoutimi (UQAC), Mr. Martin Gauthier, made this morning at the first shovel of land, which launches the construction of the new university pavilion Alouette. 
This new university pavilion will be integrated into the higher education complex of the Cégep of Sept-Îles. The yard will be marked in the days following the ceremony of today and the official inauguration of the flag is foreseen in the fall of 2014. 
Estimated at $ 10 million, the investment in this construction is fully assumed by Alumina Alouette. The university pavilion project arises at the origin of an agreement entered into in October 2011 between the Government of Quebec and Alumina Alouette for obtaining a 500 MW energy block required to carry out the third phase of its expansion project known as Phase 3. 
The President and Chief Executive Officer Albeette, Mr. André Martel, stresses that this project is the result of close consultation between the various stakeholders concerned. 
As for the offer of university services, it will be provided by the UQAC, an institution present in Sept-Îles for more than 40 years. 
"I am pleased with the realization of this project, developed around the regional poles and environmental expectations. He will benefit students from the region while contributing to the socio-economic development of Sept-Îles. This new university pavilion will promote accessibility to graduate studies, especially for first generation students. This is the exemplary demonstration of a successful collaboration between local stakeholders, private enterprise people and representatives of higher education institutions, "said Minister Duchesne who greets the Aluminarie Alouette commitment to his middle. 
The minister also pointed out that $ 1 million was reserved for the Department's 2013-2023 University Investment Plan to support the acquisition of equipment that will enhance the project. 
"This is an excellent news for the Côte-Nord region. In addition to meeting the needs of skilled labor, this university flag will allow the population to remain in the region to study. In addition, these quality infrastructures will attract students from outside who might want to settle in the region. The entire regional community welcomes the significant contribution of this partnership in the development of the university training offer, to highlight the member Richard. 
The establishment of this university pavilion of 2,700 m2 is an important legacy in the community. The willingness of the company as well as that of the UQAC and CEGEP of Sept-Îles was to give themselves the means to respond to the current and future demand for the offer of university training in the region. The implementation of a university service pavilion will allow the region to grow further. 
"The Alouette University Pavilion will have a structuring effect for the North Shore in addition to ensuring better accessibility to studies for people from here. We are very proud to invest in education in this way, which once again confirms our commitment to succession and the development of its skills, "said Mrtel. 
The UQAC, present in Sept-Îles since 1971, pilots a university center for the east of the North Côte since 1975. In 2002, this center was established in the premises of Cégep of Sept-Îles in the part of an agreement established with this establishment. 
More than a tenant and landlord, the UQAC and Cégep of Sept-Îles have been revealed to be real partners, both in the field of training and in research. Their complicity puts forward a model for the development of higher education in the region based on synergy between university and college education orders. 
For Mr. Martin Gauthier, Rector of UQAC, today's announcement consolidates the presence of higher education in the east of the North Shore. It also confirms the presence of university education in Sept-Îles and will improve the supply of course while possibly implementing new research projects according to the needs of the environment. Always according to the rector, the region can only rejoice in this partnership between higher education homes, Alumina Alouette and the Government of Quebec. 
"This project proposes an innovative model of higher education development in the region and the resources on which it relies will very certainly make a significant contribution to government guidelines for northern Quebec. The CEGEP of Sept-Îles is proud to see the culmination of the sustained efforts it has enshrined, with its partners, to promote quality university services ", to redee the Director General of CEGEP of seven- Islands, Mr. Donald Bhere. 
To see the prospect panels of the future pavilion: http: //www.messt.gouv.qc.ca/actualites/ displaying-des-news/article/5212/ 
Lighthouse Building for Regional University Education and Knowledge Carrefour, the Alouette University Pavilion will perfectly harmonize the seven-Îles college (CEGEP) complex. The construction, which will range from one year, should allow an inauguration in the fall of 2014. It will allow the University of Quebec in Chicoutimi to position university education and research for the coming years, after more than 40 years of presence at Sept-Îles. 
The various architectural components will integrate wood and aluminum, two north-coastal materials of importance. In addition, construction techniques and, ultimately use, will incorporate sustainable development elements in accordance with Albeette alumiller's commitment. 
The pavilion in detail: 
Albeette Investment Alouette $ 10m 
Area of about 2,700 m2 spread over three levels (basement, ground floor and floor) 
Capacity of nearly 400 students (currently a full-time equivalent of just over 125 university students at CEGEP premises in Sept-Îles) 
Multiple classrooms, one of which can accommodate up to 72 students 
Dedicated laboratories, multipurpose spaces, videoconferencing rooms, offices and a multifunctional atrium in which we should find some works by local artists 
A gateway allowing users to easily circulate towards other buildings of the educational complex 
A modern architecture carried out by BGLA 
