Saint-Côme- The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announced a financial assistance of $ 1,693,700 for the upgrading of the Father-Lindsay Music Camp facilities in Saint-Côme. The Minister made this announcement with the Minister Delegate to the Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Minister responsible for the Lanaudière Region and MPs of Joliette, Véronique Hivon, and the Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and occupation of the territory (municipal business component) and deputy of Berthier, André Villeneuve. 
"The culture occupies a preponderant place in human development. It allows to combine pleasure, emotion, reflection, identity affirmation and learning. It is in this perspective that the mandate of the Father-Lindsay Music Camp, a real institution that plunges young people into the holistic learning of a fabulous and accessible musical universe, "said Minister Kotto. 
"Today's announcement will ensure the sustainability of the musical camp and continue the mission that it has been making admirably for more than forty years. Father Lindsay would definitely be proud to see this happy denouement for the institution he founded by love and passion for music. I am also pleased to note that the Lanaudière region is revealed, over time, as a real cultural pole in Quebec, "said Minister Hivon. 
"If Lanaudière is already famous for its famous festival, Saint-Côme can be proud to infuse young people the taste of music and allow them to learn in an enchanting setting. The musical camp relies on a high quality faculty and a passionate team. I want to emphasize the involvement of the members of the board of directors in the realization of this project, "added the member Villeneuve. 
The standards work will be made at the four chalets for students, at the residence of professors and the old chapel which is currently a place of repetition and meeting. These six buildings date from thirty to fifty years will be the subject of major renovations to meet certain standards of the National Building Code and make safe and functional locations. 
The financial assistance of the Ministry of Culture and Communications comes from the Capital Assistance Program and represents 90% of the total cost of the work evaluated at $ 1,881,900. The rest of the funding will be assumed by the Father-Lindsay Music Camp. The department's contribution is part of the 2013-2023 Infrastructure Plan, released in April. Recall that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 2 billion investments for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebeckers, to measure the associated costs and to make informed choices. 
