Quebec- The Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks confirms the presence of residual hazardous materials contaminated with polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) on a field belonging to the firm the power equipment Reliance Ltd. (Reliance) in Pointe-Claire. Departmental experts follow this case strictly since March 26, 2013, when a spill from 800 to 1,200 liters of oil and oily water with a significant concentration of BPC occurred on the company's website. . Remember that Reliance does not hold the authorizations provided for by the Hazardous Materials Regulations to store such materials in its facilities. Having had been the spill of March 26, the existence of such clandestine and illegal practices would have remained unknown. 
Departmental representatives conducted several location inspections in recent months. These audits, as well as the opinion obtained from the Public Health Department, confirmed the presence of hazardous materials likely to result in the health of the human being or damage to the environment. The department has communicated with the company many times since April 2013 to require the elimination of hazardous materials present on the site and securing places. Different non-compliance notices have been transmitted to Reliance which, in return, has submitted action plans that have been considered insufficient considering the seriousness of the situation. The Ministry reiterated its requests in a formal notice sent in July 2013. 
As of 13 August, a prior notice to a prescription was served with Reliance. This opinion provides that the offender secures the places, the elimination of the materials characterized, of the most contaminated at least contaminated, that it finalizes the characterization and inventory of the materials present on the site and proceeds. At the disposal of the soils contaminated by the spill of March 26, 2013. Reliance must provide its comments no later than 28 August. The prior opinion may be consulted on the Dumddefpet website details all departmental interventions with the faulty business. 
At the request of the Minister Yves-François Blanchet, an intervention was made this morning to the city of Pointe-Claire so that it ensures an increased police presence in the places of illegal storage. In addition, the department mandated a security firm to ensure the surveillance of the premises. 
In recent months, the department has demanded many times that places are secured by the company. Some fixes have been made but, to date, they remain insufficient for the department. Before the high mediatization of the existence of the place where hazardous materials are illegally stored, immediate security measures have imposed. 
The department ensures that all measures are being taken to quickly correct the situation and to ensure the health and safety of the population. Depending on the evolution of the file, other actions could be announced soon. 
