Quebec- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is pleased to announce the payment of a $ 75,000 contribution to further support this year Dupavillon des Sciences. The activity, both fun and scientific, is held under Expo Quebec, which will take place from 16 to 25 August, on the site of Expo Cité, in Quebec City. 
"The Government of Quebec is proud to partner with this initiative to promote science and technology in a family, festive and fun setting. This is a unique opportunity to stimulate the interest of young people and the general population for these areas. The development of a strong scientific and technological culture is an issue of importance for the development of Quebec as a knowledge society. A few weeks of the unveiling of the National Research and Innovation Policy, I thus assert the importance of investing in projects to create the taste of science within the succession, "said the Minister Duchesne. 
The Science Pavilion is an initiative in partnership in which the Organization Box at ScienceNefree of the Third Party of Funding for Content Development and Coordination of the Event. For its part, Expo cities a help as an official organizer. 
Under the theme when science makes its circus, the science pavilion, which is its 13thon, will propose this year a crowd of fun and educational activities related to the Circus Arts. From the centrifugal force of the diabolo to the anatomy of the contortionists, through the effects of adrenaline on the Fildeferists and the mathematics of Hula Hoop, the public will have the opportunity to discover that science hide behind each circus discipline . 
Among the activities offered, participants will have the opportunity to walk on a wire, follow the course of strong men or explore the chemistry of the fireplace. A thirty-minute science show will also be presented three times a day by circus artists in partnership with the Cirque School of Quebec and the Troupeflip manufactures. 
"The theme of this year's science pavilion is a good example of Quebec's creativity and entrepreneurship, since they are organizations and businesses from here that have fully developed the concept. I therefore invite all Quebeckers to admire the know-how of our circus artists and discover the science through their prowess, "concluded Minister Duchesne. 
The Ministry's financial assistance is granted through the NovaScience Partnership Initiative component, which aims to promote greater understanding and appropriation of population science and technology by supporting organizations and projects. Working in these business niches. 
The program also aims to strengthen the culture of innovation and entrepreneurship, as well as to promote careers in science and technology to ensure the development and availability of a qualified succession in these areas. 
