Québec- As the removal season is full, the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and the official opposition on the home, Carole Poirier, takes stock of the actions of the Liberal government in this area. 
"Since the arrival of the liberals in power, the management of the housing record is a real disaster. The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Pierre Moreau, took a sequence of bad decisions, and it is families, single or vulnerable people and people living in the region who pay the price, "said the member. 
Recall that the Liberals have put the ax in several home renovation programs and home renovation access, the emergency renovation program, the Rénovation Québec program - and that they have significantly reduced the adaptation program home for people with disabilities. The government then attacked social housing; It lasted the number of units to build by 50% (from 3000, we went to 1500) as well as the budget of the AccessLogis Québec program. The amount granted per unit is now equivalent to that of 2009. 
"Since the construction of social and community dwellings creates employment, supports social diversity and allows urban revitalization, it favors the economic development of all regions of Quebec; For every dollar paid in grant, an AECOM study estimates that $ 2.3 are injected into the Québec economy. In addition, this type of housing meets an important demand from seniors, single people, families and people with special needs or in homelessness, "continued the spokesperson. 
When is a national housing policy? 
Carole Poirier recalled that the government of the Parti Québécois planned to equip Quebec with a national dwelling policy to increase the consistency of state interventions, to promote coordination of actions and to allow the sustainable development of the 'home. The Liberals unfortunately have not taken over the torch. Time passes, and the partners of the housing network remain waiting. 
"The inconsistency and disastrous management of the Liberal government, however, demonstrates the need to implement a comprehensive and coordinated housing strategy. Although Minister Moreau is not interested in the subject - he said himself, during the study of budget appropriations, that he had not met any group of partners in the field - I ask him to quickly present quickly A national dwelling policy and to propose harmonious and studied interventions, rather than imposing insane cuts that have not only been the subject of any analysis, but which, in addition, attack full whip the Young families as well as single, aged or vulnerable people, "concluded the spokesperson. 
