Gatineau- after a detailed analysis of the Report of the Emergency Prehospital Services Working Group in Outaouais, the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, today announced that he followed his recommendations. It was accompanied for the occasion of the Minister of Public Safety and Minister responsible for the Outaouais Region, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, as well as the President of the Working Group on Emergency Prehospital Services in Outaouais, Dr. Jean Lapointe . 
The analysis of the prehospital services situation in the region has identified the strengths and weaknesses of the organization of services in the territory. Ambulance coverage is adequate but would require some adjustments. The reports of the Outaouais paramedics (CPO) and the Outaouais Health Communication Center (CCSO) with their main partners, including the Gatineau Health and Social Services Center (CSSSSG), now have a interesting dynamics, focused on the quality of care and the need of patients. The professionalism and commitment of all actors in the field has been emphasized. 
However, several points of improvement have been identified on which all partners will have to work in the coming months for better service provision. Among these few finds include: 
"In the light of the report that was submitted to me, I announce that the 168 hours per week of additional ambulance service granted to the region last December will be maintained for the next six months, the time as optimization measures and efficiency is put in place. The working group will conduct a second assessment to determine if all of these hours must be maintained and the best way to distribute them, "said Minister Hébert. Indeed, the Cooperative of the paramedics of the Outaouais will be asked, by 1 September 2013, the target of the intrahospital period (time spent by the paramedic technicians in the institutions) determined by the National Directorate of Emergencies . 
"I also announce the granting of a replacement ambulae vehicle to the paramedics of the Outaouais (CPO). This extra vehicle, known in the medium of emergency prehospital services under the name "MULET", will allow the OCC to cover shifts' changes, "continued the minister. 
Among other measures to ensure a better distribution of resources in the territory, the OCC will be requested to review the ambulance resource deployment plan as well as their distribution. This new plan will have to be approved by the department. 
"I also announce that the particular organizational model of the region, based on the cohabitation of the Outaouais Health Communication Center (CCSO) and the Outaouais paramedics cooperative (CPO) will be maintained, but that several readjustments will be made to achieve efficiency gains, "said Minister Hébert. 
Indeed, some fixes will be made to clarify and optimize the governance of both organizations, financial management and non-interference in the principles of allocating ambulance resources. The Minister shall appoint an observer to the CCSO's Board of Directors until March 31, 2014, as well as a companion to the Outaouais Health and Social Services Agency to ensure the follow-up of the whole Recommendations from the Working Group to the authorities concerned. 
"Excellent bonds of trust and collaboration exist between the partners of emergency prehospital services and public safety, including the City of Gatineau, the 9-1-1 service of the MRC des Hills-de-L'Ataouais and the safety of Quebec. Solutions outlined today will help ensure quality services that will better meet the needs of people in the region, "said Minister Stéphane Bergeron. 
Remember that the working group, the creation of which was confirmed by the Minister last December, was mandated to analyze the overall situation of emergency prehospital services in the territory and to make recommendations to respond adequately to the needs. of the population, given the challenges facing the Outaouais region. 
In addition to its president, Dr. Jean Lapointe, CCMF (MU) CSPQ, a medical advisory of the National Institute of Excellence in Health and Social Services, the team of experts was composed of Mr. François Ferland, responsible for Health and Telecommunications Communications Communication Centers at the Ministry of Health and Social Services, as well as Martin Forgues, Reenniority Expert and Advisor to the Access Directorate to the Ministry of Health and Social services. 
To view the report of the working group: www.msss.gouv.qc.ca/presse 
