Quebec- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Yves-François Blanchet, has been able to appease the concerns about hydraulic fracturing technology including one aspect is treated as part of the draft regulation on Water removal and protection (RPP) which is currently subject to consultation. Indeed, an article published on a few national media websites affirmed this morning that the government "went from the front" with hydraulic fracturing. 
"The RPE deals with all aspects of hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation from the specific perspective of protecting our drinking water resources. It is not intended for the general supervision of the use of the technique of hydraulic fracturing. What was read is an important shift in the sense of regulation, said the minister after the question period at the National Assembly. In the event of a hydraulic fracturing project, there is no evidence of licensing by the Ministry of Natural Resources or certificates of authorization by my department, and even less circumvention of environmental assessment mechanisms. » 
The minister emphasized that the draft regulation does not alter the rules in force but reinforces and enhances them. Thus, now, in addition to requiring a certificate of authorization, any shale oil fracturing and drilling operation should be preceded by a hydrogeological study within a two-kilometer radius of the potential site. According to the conclusions of this study, the protection zone could be extended. As for the minimum protection zone of 400 meters deep, the minister specified that it is under the water table and that it will therefore, in general, reach a minimum of 600 meters. For comprehension purposes, note that 91.45% of wells for water supply in Quebec have a depth of less than 100 meters. 
The minister has also stressed that the experts from his department had extensively studied the scientific literature on the subject before determining this area of protection. These included the particularities of Quebec territory, the regulatory framework for other provinces and neighboring states and scientific literature on the impacts of oil and natural gas. 
"With respect to the particular situation on the island of Anticosti, I have announced several times that it will be the subject of a specific environmental assessment. We will know the content at the appropriate time. But I want to remember that there is currently no study drilling permits for the island of Anticosti, "said Minister Blanchet. 
"In addition, the government of the Parti Québécois has filed a bill decreeing a moratorium on the exploration and exploitation of shale gas in the Vallée du Saint-Laurent, recalled the minister. However, opposition parties are currently obstructing the adoption of this bill, "the minister observed. 
"Our government works concretely, responsible and rigorous in the exploitation of resources and environmental protection. I absolutely respect the opinion of the groups or citizens who do not want Quebec to explore or operate its resources in hydrocarbons. This is not the position of the Government of Quebec. However, we intend to show firmness and rigor in the application of exemplary environmental standards to supervise such activities in Quebec, "the minister concluded. 
Finally, note the draft regulation was the subject of a public announcement on May 15 and a press release was circulated on the same day on this subject. In addition, a website has been put online as well as a video explaining the draft regulation. We can visit the website at www.protetonsleau.gouv.qc.ca. 
