Quebec - Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, announces the adoption of a decree allowing the sale of the quays of Notre-Dame-du-Lac and Saint-Just-du-Lac, the federal government properties, to The Intermunicipal Régie of Port Infrastructures of Témiscouata Lake. This intervention is a major step towards the call for tenders for the repair of these equipment and to return the Collérian ferry in 2014. 
The minister also recalled the $ 79,000 financial assistance granted to the Témiscouata Lake Cross Corporation. This financial support has been allocated to the project as it will help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The aid also made it possible to carry out the shipping work of the vessel with the intention of recovery. 
"The Bas-Saint-Laurent is characterized by a remarkable regional consultation force. I want to emphasize the combination of the efforts of the community and stakeholders in the region and I look forward to the adoption of this decree that will allow the repair of the docks and the commissioning of the Collégone ferry. Restarting this service is important, especially for access to Lac-Témiscouata National Park, "said Minister Tourism Minister Pascal Bérubé. 
"This financial support is completely at the committee's willingness to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including in maritime transport. The costs of setting up the vessel Curégone will promote intermodality between different means of transport and improve the fluidity of displacement for the population of the region, "said Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and The occupation of the territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"We are pleased to be able to tender public tenders that will allow us to carry out the repairs of the docks between mid-January and mid-March. We look forward to the collaboration that has been granted to us to all levels of intervention, "commented on the President of the Intermunicipal Région of Port Infrastructures of Lake Témiscouata, Mr. Gilles Garon. 
As for the commissioning work of the vessel, they consisted of the complete overhaul of the engines, the approval of the safety equipment, to the realization of the stability test and the potential upgrade work. 
"The Maritime Service has been interrupted since 2010, because of the need to upgrade the ferry. This ad is a very good news for the region and will allow the creation of three new jobs. Curégone is ready to operate and all employees graduated in order to be able to operate for the year 2014, "said the President of the Témiscouata Lake Crossing Corporation, Mr. Jean-Jacques Bonenfant . 
The $ 79,000 financial assistance to the Témiscouata Lake Cross Corporation is divided into this: $ 23,500 comes from the Bas-Saint-Laurent Tourism Regional Partnership Agreement whose signatories are Tourisme Québec , Tourism Bas-Saint-Laurent, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory as well as the Regional Conference of the elected representative of Bas-Saint-Laurent. An amount of $ 22,500 stems from the Parege Program, aid program for the reduction or avoidance of greenhouse gas emissions through the establishment of intermodal projects in maritime and rail transport, from the Ministry of Transport. Also, amounts from ministerial discretionary budgets total $ 33,000. 
