Quebec- As a result of the public consultation, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, today presented the heritage duct conservation plan of Silleryaussi that a series of measures to ensure the conservation of this protected territory under LALOI on cultural heritage. 
"The plan has been drafted to meet the aspirations and concerns of citizens challenged by the protection of this historic jewel in the heart of the national capital. This document reflects the vision that will guide us to ensure the conservation of the heritage site of Sillery. I am convinced that our collective fulfillment must focus more and more on sustainable development that takes into account the protection and development of cultural heritage, "said Minister Kotto. 
The public consultation on the draft conservation plan was conducted by the Cultural Heritage Council of Quebec and was held from February 20 to April 3, 2013. Some 270 briefs were brought to the attention of the Council, of which about 70 have been the subject of a public presentation during the hearing sessions.  The concerns addressed by citizens have found echo in the conservation plan. In light of the many comments received, the document has been revised to offer a more accurate, better adapted and more complete plan. The result is an enriched plan that will better mark future respectful interventions in the history of this heritage site. 
Maka Kotto, Minister of Culture and Communications (c) Marc-André de Blois-MCC 
Tooutefois, certaines EXPRIÉSE WAS ETPRIES by the dicenters intervenants dépassiient for la leares for law sur their patrimoine culturel. Le Ministry Kotto A Donc Mis Devant a Certain Nons of Actions WHO DUEJOUNENT AU Plan Devition. 
A consultation table under the joint responsibility of the Ministry of Culture and Communications and the City of Quebec will be created. It will bring together the main interested players in the future of the Sillery heritage site and will include mandate to propose a plan to protect and enhance the site. 
As the law does not allow the identification of non-constructible sectors, areas claiming great vigilance have been defined. This is particularly the case of the large areas sector as well as most green spaces, including the cliff. The study of applications for authorization in these areas will be addressed with special attention and with as words preserving the heritage and minimal intervention. In the same vein, interventions in the sectors of the workers' nuclei of the heritage site of Sillery will be strictly controlled in order to preserve the exceptional historical stamp. 
As a result, the Quebec Cultural Heritage Council will provide an opinion on Woodfield and Sub-Les-Bois projects based on these guidelines and the conservation plan. 
The project to create a linear path is in the process of achieving the joint work of the City of Quebec City and the National Capital Commission, to whom the Department offers its support and expertise. 
As for the desired increase in publicly accessible spaces, the minister responsible for the National Capital, Agnès Maltese, will begin a feasibility study that will provide the best possible scenarios for the targeted territory and to suggest an organization and a mode of management for this purpose. 
Discussions will be undertaken with the City of Quebec to enrich the cultural development agreement to include actions aimed at protecting and enhanced the heritage site in Sillery. The ministry is ready to substantially increase the sums it invests. 
The Department will review the possibility and relevance of revising the limits of the Sillery heritage site. The possible redistricting may be subject to public consultation, as is provided for in the law. 
The Ministry will propose a draft legislative amendment to enable the provisions in the Cultural Heritage Act to increase the scope of conservation plans, including the creation of non-constructible areas, and modulating control measures to inside a declared site. 
"I am convinced that the gestures announced today, combined with those presented in the conservation plan, will meet the preservation objectives of the heritage site of Sillery, while ensuring that it remains a living environment and adapted to the realities. of today's Quebec. This vision calls the strong forces of our nation to share a salutary vigilance, a vision in which we are all tributaries of the cultural heritage that unites us, "conclude the minister. 
The Sillery Heritage Site Conservation Plan and related information are available on the Department's website, atwww.mcc.gouv.qc.ca/plansillery. 
