Montréal- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is proud to announce the government's contribution to the CEGEP of Sainte-Foy project in the last framework of the last DUFONDS COLLEGE-INNOVATION COLLEGE COMPETITION (FCII). The Government of Quebec grants financial assistance from 198,400 to this project, whose total investments amount to $ 496,800. 
"Support the excellence of research and innovation is essential for our government. The research infrastructures, made available to colleges and groups of researchers who work there, make it possible to acquire a know-how, including applied research and technological development. Colleges contribute, with their partners, to make Quebec a one of the most successful knowledge society, for the benefit of the population, "said Minister Duchesne. 
This project aims at the acquisition of research equipment for forest remote sensing for teaching and forestry research (CERFO) of the CEGEP of Sainte-Foy. Cerfo will build equipment storage and dissemination of data and field images, high-performance software, and, finally, technical equipment equipment to carry out information capture such as meteorological data and height of the canopy. 
These new equipment will allow the team of researchers to strengthen its partnerships with forestry companies. These will be able to obtain from the cerfo, in addition to technical assistance, applied research services that will increase efficiency in planning and achieving sylvicultural harvesting and treatments. 
"The specialized equipment that will be acquired by the Cégep de Sainte-Foy cerfo will allow students to have access to quality infrastructure while promoting higher education in the Capitale-Nationale region. These investments contribute to the socio-economic development of Sainte-Foy by strengthening partnership with forestry companies. A news that, I'm sure, will delight the whole community, "said Minister Maltese. 
The financial contribution of 198 $ 400 is part of the overall investment of $ 4,434,179 announced on April 16 by Minister Duchene for equipment acquisition of equipment in colleges and collegial technology transfer centers. The projects were selected as part of the 2012 FCI FII Competition for the Canadian Foundation for Innovation. 
This fund allows college institutions to develop partnerships with the private sector, and therefore support innovation in companies. The fund gives colleges the opportunity to benefit from the infrastructure needed for the realization of avant-garde research. 
The selected projects are co-financed equally by the Government of Quebec and the Canadian Foundation for Innovation. Added to this is a 20% financial contribution from institutions or private partners. 
"The sums that are announced today for the acquisition of a forest remote sensing laboratory by our collegial technology transfer center, the Cerfo, will be invested not only for the benefit of forestry research, but will have a direct impact on Teaching, including future generations of forest technologists will benefit, "said Carole Lavoie, Executive Director of Sainte-Foy CEGEP. 
The Department is currently developing next National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI). This policy will be the result of many consultations with actors from all sectors concerned by research and innovation: companies, educational institutions, state and society. PNRI will meet the common goal of advancing Quebec on the World Knowledge Exchequer. This policy is a reflection of an open society and concerned about its future. The deposit is scheduled for June. 
