Quebec- Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Pierre Duchesne, Announces $ 3M Investment to enable graduate students and students to perform internships research in the field of practice. These credits will allow the Quebec Research Fund (FRQ) - Nature and Technologies to offer 600 additional internships, as part of the Québec-FRQ-MITACS Acceleration Program, implemented in partnership with the organization mandated by the federal government, The Mathematics of Information Technology and Complex System (MITACS). 
"In a world where science and innovation are everywhere present, the scientific career is more and more to build out outside the traditional framework of universities. The field experience gradually becomes an important part of the training. In-depth knowledge of the industrial and institutional circles has therefore become essential. That's why my ministry works with Quebec's research funds to fully integrate field practice in higher education training, "said Minister Duchesne. 
The national research and innovation (PNRI), unveiled on October 16, is one of four major strategic initiatives around which the Employment Priority Policy of the Government of Quebec is structured. In terms of research and innovation, PNRI represents an unprecedented investment of $ 3.7 billion with a budget base that will extend over five years. 
"The new national research and innovation policy focuses on strengthening scientific culture. This government policy presents new ways of stimulating Quebec science and technology succession and gives a large place to synergy between research, industry and innovative companies. The training of upcoming generations of researchers and innovators is a high priority for our government, "said Minister Duchesne. 
The Quebec-Nature and Technologies and Mitacs Research Fund offer short-term paid internships in practice settings and students enrolled in graduate and postdoctoral trainees. 
The Québec-FRQ-MITACS Acceleration program connects companies and organizations with universities. Trainees can thus transpose their theoretical knowledge in real situations and companies benefit from high quality research expertise. 
"Practice research courses are very beneficial to graduate students and postdoctoral trainees. They truly respond to a need for highly qualified labor. Given the great success of this initiative in the fields of natural sciences and engineering, the Funds expand it to all areas of research and offer it to all deserving postdoctoral students who wish to conduct an internship in the field of practice. Explains Mr. Rémi Quirion, Chief Scientist of Quebec. 
In concrete terms, these internships are open to all disciplines and a student can benefit from more than one internship. Eligibility extends to foreign students and permanent residents. 
Many of the major economic sectors where Quebec stands out internationally are looking for staff with high level training. According to Employment-Québec, the aerospace, hydropower, information, communication and biopharmaceutical sectors will experience significant employment growth by 2021. 
The $ 3 million investment of the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology will enable in 2013-2014 the granting of 600 additional research courses in the field of practice. For each Quebec-FRQ-MITACS acceleration internship, Quebec invests $ 5,000, MITACS contributes for an amount ranging from $ 5,000 to $ 7,500, and the partner puts $ 7,500. 
Research funds are important players in the Quebec Research and Innovation System. They are mandated to ensure the strategic and coherent development of research, financially support the research and training of researchers, to promote the mobilization of knowledge and to establish the partnerships necessary for the realization of their mission. Together, they contribute to creating a real knowledge society, recognized for the excellence of its researchers and the quality of its research achievements. 
The PNRI confirms the government's support to the three Quebec Research Funds, the Nature and Technology Fund, the Health Fund and the Society and Culture Fund. Thus, the policy renews budgets devoted to scholarships, thematic scholarships, training scholarships and career scholarships administered by the Funds. The budget base of the funds will be increased by 25% by 2014-15. Over five years, it's more than $ 1, which will be dedicated to them, an increase of $ 142 million for the reference period, compared to 2012-2013. 
The collaboration remains the central theme of PNRI. It reiterates the importance of joining the strong forces of research and innovation with the aim of meeting the challenges of society that are at our demographic, environmental and identity doors. 
