Quebec- Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Head of the Mauricie Region and the Center-du-Québec Region, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, is pleased to announce On behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that a $ 100,000 grant is granted to Arthabaska MRC for collective transportation. 
This grant is paid under the Government Assistance Program for Regional Collective Transportation for the development of collective transportation. 
"Our Government encourages and supports the development of collective transport, which optimizes the use of the road network while increasing the fluidity of displacements, the decrease in the level of congestion and the reduction of pollution attributable to the consumption of hydrocarbons. . Today's announcement will allow the Center-du-Québec region to increase the use of collective transport compared to other modes of transportation, both in urban and rural areas. We need to highlight the avant-garde involvement of the City of Victoriaville at the level of sustainable development. In doing so, it contributes to the accession of Quebec to its ambitious goal of reducing greenhouse gases, "said Minister Blanchet. 
The financial assistance granted by the Ministry of Transport will enable Arthabaska MRC to ensure the continuity of the collective transportation service in its territory for the year 2013. 
"By participating in the financing of collective transport, we invest in the sustainable development and mobility of people, a social, environmental and economic challenge that is at the heart of the mission of our government," said Blanchet. 
Collective transportation is one of the founding stones of the next Québec sustainable mobility policy. In the process of drawing up, this policy will take over from the Quebec collective transport policy. The new policy, which will be adopted by the end of the fall of 2013, will place the user at the heart of his concerns and guide the actions that will be undertaken by 2020 to enhance the offer of public transport service throughout the Quebec territory. The preparatory documents and some of the submissions deposited as part of the Ministry of Transportation website at the address www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca. 
The parameters of this program can be viewed on the website of the Ministry of Transport at the address www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca. 
