Quebec- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert, released today the working group on the health cooperatives. The working group was created by the Minister last November with the mandate to examine the model of health cooperatives as it exists in Quebec, and to make recommendations so that they contribute to the accessibility of the services of First line. He was chaired by Mr. Pierre Roy, former Deputy Minister of Health and Social Services and former President and CEO of the Quebec Health Insurance Régie. 
Nearly forty health cooperatives are active and offer front-line medical services in Quebec. These cooperatives bring together about 180 doctors and are located in a dozen regions, particularly in Mauricie-Center-du-Québec, Montérégie and Outaouais. 
The report highlights the need for health cooperatives of the full partners of the regional health network and makes several recommendations aimed at better supervising this particular model. The working group, however, highlights the problems that the model of cooperatives can put in the course of universality and accessibility to care. Thus, the authors of the report indicate that: "The business model of health cooperatives is affected by an unknown possible to respect for universal accessibility. As this problem does not affect the only model of the health cooperative, but may also appear in other business models, it appears relevant to clarify the current legal framework ". To this end, the Working Group recommends that the legal framework and fees that may be required from the user to be clearly specified. 
"This report raises several important issues on the cooperative model. We will carefully examine the recommendations of the working group. This analysis will allow us to reflect on the best ways to supervise and mark this model of care, in particular by making legislative amendments. We intend to implement the necessary measures to ensure that health cooperatives can contribute to the development of a first line accessible, "said the Minister of Health and Social Services, Réjean Hébert. 
Check out the health cooperative working group. 
