Notes for a speech by the leader of the Parti Québécois,  Jean-François Lisée 
Economic nationalism 
National Conference of Presidents and Presidents  Quebec, on Sunday, January 15, 2017 
To view this speech, click here! 
The pronounced version is authentic. 
"I know there are some who will say: 
Let the foreigners come here and invest their money, and everything will be fine. 
Now, this is no longer enough. 
Foreigners only come here when it tells them, and I understand that. 
For us, however - yes, for us, Quebec's origins -, is that enough? 
Can we be content with what it can bring us back? 
Will we always be victims of this state of mind that condemns us to touch only the crumbs falling from the table to which those who come from elsewhere? 
My dear friends, I have the deep convinced that the people of Quebec made its choice. 
I am convinced that he wants to become the master of his economy. » 
Have you noticed that it's not my usual style? 
That is true. 
I just quoted, word a word, a speech delivered on September 30, 1962 by Prime Minister Jean Lesage. 
I have just applauded by a National Party Council Liberal Prime Minister. 
It's a good turn that I play you because this speech is the founding text of Quebec economic nationalism. 
There was a forward, and there was one after. 
And nothing was the same. 
The Parti Québécois has contributed a lot to modernize economic nationalism in each of its power in power. 
It's our turn to do it. 
And it presses. 
Because around us, on this continent, there are not only choir children. 
And it will have to show muscle, defend our jobs, our market shares, foot on foot in the coming years. 
Headquarters  Economic nationalism, in 2017, it is first recognizing the considerable importance of keeping our own headquarters at home. 
This is not true that companies are stateless. 
Local owners hire more locally and invest more in their community. 
To act resolutely to keep them, as do several other states around the world, including the United Kingdom and the United States, it is a necessity. 
There is a harmful naivety to the Couillard face the realities of the business world. 
A refusal to be firm and active, in the common interest of Quebecers. 
The opposite of the spirit of Jean Lesage. 
Elected in 2018, a government of the Parti Quebecois will quickly act so that the retention of strategic headquarters be one of the explicit missions of the Fund of Deposit and Investissement Québec. 
We do not want to relive from Rona. 
Never. 
The Quebec state is generous in its business support to bring out the champions. 
We will continue to do so, but more efficiently and more targeted. 
In particular by giving up the Gazelles program all its means, that is, targeting companies to stronger growth potential and accompanying them to a national success, then international. 
And the international headquarters of our future gazelles, do you know what? We'll keep them home! 
Conditional aid  With us, it will be finished feeding with tax credits in search of companies that go abroad with, in their pockets, patents designed with our money. 
Our support will be conditional. 
It's at home, or you reimburse. 
And if we came to the Quebec government government, the idea of investing, saying, a billion dollars in Bombardier, do you think for a moment we would forget to require guarantees against relocations?  When I talk to you about harmful naivety. 
Turning your back to oil, we will bring out in Quebec a transport cluster of transport that can and must become a reference on the planet. 
We have all the tools, all the resources, all the inventiveness. 
Lacks only political will. 
She is getting ready, she arrives, with us. 
Increase Quebec property  When companies will close, our first reflex will be to sit with employees and managers laid off to tell them: What if we saw the factory in cooperative? 
And if, in your factory, you were masters at home? 
The property of Quebec's farmland is also an issue of economic nationalism. 
We are from the generation that must ensure that our lands remain in the hands of Quebec farmers, not between those of foreign or anonymous investment funds. 
We are committed to it. 
Economic nationalism is also short circuits, even more competitive electricity rates for greenhouses, places in our grocery stores for local products, a lightened regulatory framework for small producers. 
The Government of SMEs  Economic nationalism is also promoting entrepreneurship in all its forms. 
And, to start, stop harming. 
Our small and medium-sized enterprises crumble under a discouraging and counterproductive municipal and federal paperwork. 
Ensuring the quality of the products, the rights of employees, protect the environment, yes, without compromise. 
But, in the digital age, how to explain that Quebec and municipalities have not computerized or simplified their relationship with companies? 
In 2018, we will be like the Government of SMEs again. 
And one of our first gestures will break the culture of the racketeer at Revenu Québec, several times denounced by the Protecteur du citoyen. 
No, our entrepreneurs should not be presumed guilty. 
I, son of entrepreneur, I hear her grumbling, everywhere in Quebec, facing the dubious tactics of Revenu Québec. We will put an end to it. 
Tax havens  Economic nationalism is refusing that Quebec millionaires are hiding their savings in tax havens. 
It is to stop applying Québec taxation the scandalous tax loopholes invented by Paul Martin and Stephen Harper. 
Protected privileges, again last fall, by Justin Trudeau, against the unanimous vow of the National Assembly. 
A government of the Parti Québécois will make taxable accounts to the Bermuda of our citizens who have sought to avoid tax. 
Today, fiscal fraudsters who admit their crime do not pay fine. 
I give them a notice. 
When the Parti Québécois will be in power, hurry up to get out of the shadows, because the more you will expect, the more the fines will be salty. 
We need the money you need to pay home care, support to our children, healthy schools, CHSLD where we do not rational care. 
Your behavior is shameful. 
With you, we will be intractable. 
Our fair share  Economic nationalism today is claiming, as long as we are part of Canada, justice. 
The fair share. 
The calculations are net. 
If we received the Canadian average of productive federal investments in Quebec - not more than average, just our share -, our economy would benefit from an additional annual injection up to four billion a year, creating 35,000 good direct jobs. 
Immediately, we would receive less equalization. 
At once. With pleasure. 
You know the song of Dédé Fortin: pass me the puck, pis we will count, goals.  Ottawa often passes, the puck: billions of tax credits for oil sands in the West and Newfoundland oil, billions of public investment for nuclear power in Ontario and for its automotive industry. 
For Quebec? Equalization. 
As a bonus, insults because we receive equalization. 
A vicious circle of systemic impoverishment and denigration. 
Do you think for a moment that if Bombardier's head office was in Toronto or Edmonton, he would still wait for his federal aid check? 
He would have received it for a long time. 
Ottawa gives a loan guarantee to Newfoundland for its hydroelectric project. 
Okay; Let us take the puck and do the same thing for the current debt of Hydro? Quebec, and we will save $ 9 billion. 
Otherwise, it's an injustice! 
The biggest investment in Canada's history is started. 
One hundred billion dollars for warships. 
Our share of the invoice to us, the Quebec taxpayers, it is $ 20 billion. 
But justice has not passed by. 
Ottawa does not pass us the puck. 
Ottawa takes the 20 billion and makes us 600 million to Lévis. 
It is the greatest economic injustice towards Quebec in history of Canada. 
I tell you: we will talk again in 150 years! 
Listen: Nearly 20 billion Québec taxes will be used to create excellent jobs in Vancouver and Halifax. 
Then the federals will accuse us not to create as many jobs as they are going to send us equalization by accusing us of being the social assistance of Canada. 
Not. 
Not. 
Do you find that the Parti Québécois has succeeded a few years ago by doing a little dark concept of fiscal imbalance a major political issue? 
You have not seen anything yet. 
In 2018, our government will make the injustice of the warship program a central issue of the defense of our rights against Ottawa. 
Speaking of Ottawa, it goes without saying that economic nationalism, such as ecological nationalism, it is refusing to be imposed a pipeline that would cross 860 of our streams to help warm the planet. 
An international nationalism  Nationalism is not staying at home. 
It is present in the world, in its own way, defending its interests. 
And I'm going to talk to you a little free trade. 
Beyond slogans. 
The first Quebec political man who has declared that free trade with the United States would be beneficial for the Quebec economy was called René Lévesque. 
He was quickly followed by Jacques Parizeau and Bernard Landry. 
The Liberal leader, Robert Bourassa, was more cold. 
He found it was a miscalculated risk. 
He thought that Quebec entrepreneurs would not be strong enough to withstand US competition. 
Trade union organizations feared that an agreement with the United States forces us to reduce our social net. 
A legitimate fear at the time. 
But in the 1988 Federal Election, of which it was the main issue, it was the Quebec voters who gave Brian Mulroney the majority necessary to move forward, against the vow of Ontario and the majority of the provinces. 
Just ten years later, Quebec companies had, more than all others in Canada, taken market shares south of the border, created jobs in all regions. And our social net has not melted. 
It has expanded with all the measures adopted by the Government of the Parti Québécois from 1994 to 2003. 
Jacques Parizeeau was in the angels. 
The agreement had "decanitedianized" the Quebec economy. 
Before, 60% of our North American exports went to English Canada. After, 60% went to the United States. 
A complete reversal. 
A much less dependent Quebec. 
Was the agreement perfect? No. 
A poisoned chapter gave companies the right to continue states. 
A bad idea. 
In addition, timber was excluded, which made us very vulnerable for the future. 
But, overall, the agreement has resulted in the expansion of hundreds of Quebec companies. 
As Minister of Foreign Trade, I found that when a SME starts exporting, it invests in its work tool, improves its products, better its employees. 
It is a powerful lever to increase productivity. 
And that's essential. 
At this time, our global productivity increases by 0.7% per year. 
To finance our social net sustainably, it would be necessary to double this pace. 
That's why our main proposal offers innovative measures to significantly increase the number of our exporting companies, and, as a result, our productivity, our solidarity, our national wealth. 
Does that mean that all international economic agreements are in our interest? Absolutely not. 
Financial disengagement agreements have been toxic to many nations around the world, and we have been lucky not to have participated. 
For Europe, there is due, there is against. 
First, it is necessary to know it, the current agreement exists only by the will of two states: Quebec and France. 
He would never have emerged without our common political will, and transmitted in both cases. 
Moreover, a sovereign Quebec would have very well been able to negotiate a free trade agreement with Europe, more interesting than the one before us. 
Do you doubt it?  Here is the list of countries whose economy and the population are equivalent or lower than those of Quebec, and who have signed agreements with Europe: Norway, Egypt, Peru, Israel, Morocco. 
Apart from the fact that their economy is less strong than that of Quebec, these countries had something else in common: they did not need to ask permission to Ottawa. 
This is true, an independent Quebec could not sign with the Pacific countries. 
An unstoppable geographical argument. 
Do you know what? This is a good thing. 
The transpacific agreement is a bad deal. 
I'm glad he was dead and buried. 
Among others, to sign it, Canada still wanted to sacrifice our agricultural industry. 
So, good storage room. 
But let's go back to Europe. 
What interest? There are 500 million consumers, more than in the United States. 
And, if we sign, our SMEs will be able to sell their products about 10% cheaper than the products of our American competitors. 
A decisive competitive advantage. 
Maple syrup to Quebec aircraft. 
How many jobs will we create with that? You will not find any satisfactory estimate. 
As we had no before free trade with the United States. 
The answer is directly linked to the dynamism of our companies. 
And I trust them. 
I saw them at work in the United States, Africa and China. 
That's nice to look at. But Canada had to get involved. 
At the 11th hour, during the negotiation, Ottawa decided that to promote the beef of the West, he would sacrifice Quebec's dairy and cheese businesses. 
He was going to jeopardize this extraordinary realization of the last years: the emergence of excellent fine cheeses from all regions of Quebec.  We understand each other: an independent Quebec would never have sacrificed its own industry to help the beef of the West, the beef of another country. 
Economic nationalism is to know how to use the balance of power in a negotiation. 
And, as soon as we have been informed of this bad blow of Ottawa, Pauline Marois, Nicolas Marceau to Finance, François GEndron to agriculture and me to the foreign trade put the fist of Quebec on the table. 
This agreement, he can not apply without Québec adopts the implementing decree. 
So, no, we said, we will not sign this decree only when Ottawa will formally commit to adequately compensating for the harm he causes us. 
Otherwise, it's no. 
This is what Parizeau would have done. 
That's what Péladeau would have done. 
And that's what I will do. 
But the great economic naive people who govern us, supported by François Legault, moreover, do not want Quebec to have strength. 
They put us in a weak position. 
And in December, we received the invoice of weakness. 
The harm caused by Ottawa, over the age of 5, rises precisely at $ 1.5 billion for our industry. 
Ottawa offers to mop less than a quarter of this amount. 
That's the cost of weakness. 
There is also in the agreement this detestable investor-state appeal clause. 
Walloons were right to want to remove it. We, to the Parti Québécois, had agreed with them and I personally intervened with the French Prime Minister. 
As a government, we do not want to see it again, in the future. 
What shocks me the most, the Couillard government is his refusal to hold a parliamentary committee on the agreement. 
His refusal to let Parliament study him, to hear the experts, to confront the points of view. 
It's a shame.  When we say that we want to negotiate all our treaties, it is because we want to negotiate them in the greatest possible transparency and let parliamentarians do their work without constraint before making a decision. 
There are dogmatic free trade. 
Some who think it's never good, some who think it's always good. 
The Quebec nation, which exports out of its borders half of all it produces, must choose the agreements on a case by case, accepting those that are good and reject those that are not. 
Buy Quebecers Act  But among the beats lovers, there are those who believe that these agreements prohibit us, everywhere and always, to promote local purchase, the Quebec content. 
I invite them to visit a country called the United States. 
They sign free trade agreements (not just good) and, in addition, they have the American Act. 
They are both at the same time. To quote one of the great characters of our cinematographic culture: "them others, they have it, the case, the Amaicans". 
The government of the Parti Québécois will introduce, from its election in 2018, a Quebec purchase policy, of Quebec content, wherever possible. 
Economic nationalism, it also applies to culture. 
Francophone content and Quebec content must predominate in electronic showcases that are today online cultural stores. 
Do you think it's impossible to fold these giants? 
That's what they told Gérald Godin, who forced the powerful American majors to broadcast the same day, in Quebec, the French and English versions of the new films. 
Impossible? 
That's what they told Louise Beaudoin, who forced the Microsoft and Apple to broadcast the same day the Francophone and Anglophone versions of new software. 
Why? Because they put the fist of Quebec on the table. 
The last two elements, to finish this overview of economic nationalism. 
Concertation  Consultation. 
Québécoise value. 
Concertation as a trigger of a common action to increase economic nationalism at higher speed. 
We owe to René Lévesque and many to the president of the FTQ of then, Louis Laberge, the practice of the great peaks and major collective projects. 
One owes to a Liberal Minister Gérald Tremblay, to have implemented in Quebec the concept of industrial clusters, a model of concertation of great value. 
I had the privilege of working at the large summits of 1996, which led Quebec's economic and social recovery. 
It's true also locally. 
Here in Quebec City, in the 1990s, our capital had arrived at the end of its economic model. 
Political and economic actors met. 
They could count on the unifying leadership of a government of the Parti Québécois. 
Everyone had at heart the development of Quebec. 
Everyone knew his enormous potential, the talent of his people. 
The assets were there. 
Together, they found the way. 
As a result, Quebec went from "old capital" to "capital of innovation". 
A creative and prosperous city, recognized around the world for its vitality, culture, beauty, dynamism, for its quality of life and full employment. 
The example of Quebec is all the more inspiring as the assets that have made its success are present in all our regions: 
Talent and creativity; 
We have a lot. 
Opening up to our economic partners around the world; 
That too, we have it. 
Audacity; 
With us, the consultation will be back. 
Our financial levers.  Finally - and it allows me to buckle with Jean Lesage and his counselor then, Jacques Parizeau - there are our great economic tools, that we can use more and better. 
The Fund and Investment must find in its law as early as 2018 the desired balance between the performance and economic development of Quebec. 
We will go further to this effect, giving it an explicit mandate of regional and sectoral economic development. 
And, if she does great projects, she will do them with a Quebec content policy. 
Double mandate for Nicolas Marceau  There will soon be $ 10 billion in the Generation Fund. How to use part of this fund to accelerate Quebec's sustainable economic growth while reducing the relative weight of our debt? 
I now give a double mandate to Nicolas Marceau. First, consult and propose the best ways to make a more productive portion of $ 2 billion that we set each year in the Generation Fund to make it an additional engine of Quebec economic nationalism. 
This will be our way of lighting up to the next generations both a lighter debt and a stronger economy. 
Second, develop with us the most robust Quebec purchase policy for our next government. 
My friends, Quebec economic nationalism has a house, it's the Quebecois Party.  He has a team, the members of the Parti Québécois. 
It will, as early as 2018, have a pilot, the government of the Parti Québécois. 
Thank you! 
