Quebec, March 14, 2017- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesman for the Quebecois Health, Accessibility to Home Care and Home Support, Diane Lamarre, and the Door? Word In Education, Research and School Perseverance, Alexandre Cloutier, denounced the fact that the Liberals did not fulfill their commitments, while the Ministry of Finance revealed the truth: the reinvestment promised is not the appointment. 
"Liberal austerity is far from over. In fact, we instead at the arrival of the austerity 2.0: before, the government announced cuts and did them. Now, it's a lot more sneaky: we announce investments, we leave time to pass, and finally, we realize that the sums that were announced have never been invested, "has immediately clarified Jean? François Lisée. 
"We already knew that the Liberal government had deceived Quebeckers by promising that the zero deficit was not going to cause sections in services. In Education, Healthy ... The Protector of the Citizen said, everyone said: The cuts were devastating. Last year, when filing the budget, the government was talking about the imminent arrival of reinvestment. Nine months later, we can only see that he again deceived Quebeckers: the Liberals had promised to reinvest in services up to 4%, and we are 1.7%. At this rate, at the end of the year, it will miss 1.5 billion at the promised reinvestment. The height is that the Prime Minister seems to be proud not to have fulfilled his promises. For him, it is the fault of others, it is the fault of the networks of health and education, "also denounced the official Leader of the Official Opposition. 
"In the health system, $ 293 million that had been promised were not reinvested. Yet the minister committed to seniors and patients to provide money for front-line care, home care, mental health. Just for the latter aspect, $ 70 million were announced, but nothing was delivered. If the Minister Barrette refuses to provide services to patients and reinvest, is it because he plans to put a diachylon before the next election? Instead, we propose to establish real accessibility improvement policies, home care and mental health care, "added Diane Lamarre. 
"In Education, $ 627 million that the network was sorely needed have not been spent! Indeed, on a 4.6% investment promise, the Liberals have reset only 0.3% in the education system. It's a real catastrophe! Put in the place of parents, including students in difficulty. The school falls into ruin, the services are insufficient, and the promised money is finally not invested. It's unacceptable, "continued Alexander Cloutier. 
Faces of liberal inaction "Liberal non-reinvestment has faces: those of families who do not have access to speech therapists, psychopedagogues; those of the autistics who wait on too long waiting lists; those of seniors who see their home care be rationed; Those people with mental health problems that do not have access to care. It's not inefficiency, it's bad will. When it was time to cut, the Liberals were extraordinarily effective. Now that it is about reinvesting, they show total incompetence. The Liberal Government of Philippe Couillard has a serious problem of credibility and, a few days from the new Quebec budget, one can already wonder if we can rely on the new promises, "concluded the official opposition. 
