The Pocatière - the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, today presented his commitments for the development of the regions. With a petty government, three main actions will support the regions of Quebec: a $ 500 million development fund, a decentralization and strengthening of the national rural policy. "At the Québécois Party, we are convinced that the future of Quebec goes through the development of the regions, which is why we propose measures that will enable them to face the new challenges of the future," said Pauline Marois. 
In conjunction with local development centers and under the leadership of the Quebec Economic Development Bank, a Quebec government government will invest $ 500 million in regional funds to promote the diversification of local and regional economies. These regional funds will also create employment throughout Quebec. "We will see public venture capital funds by abolishing controversial regional economic response funds (proud)," she explained. 
The Parti Québécois intends to decentralize one of its priorities. We will adopt a framework law on decentralization modeled on that deposited by the member for Berthier, André Villeneuve, last November. "The occupation of the territory is a fundamental issue for the Parti Québécois. It is essential that decision centers and services are accessible to all Quebeckers, regardless of where they live. To enrich us collectively, we must rely on prosperous regions where Quebeckers can count on quality jobs and accessible services, "Assured Pauline Marois. 
A government of the Parti Québécois also plans to strengthen the national policy of rurality by boring the rural pact from 2015. Adopted in 2001 by the Government of the Parti Québécois, the national rural policy pursues the objective of providing the rural world and regions more development tools by focusing on their peculiarities. More than 8000 projects have been able to see the day thanks to this policy welcomed by the OECD. 
"By strengthening the national rural policy, decentralizing powers to the regions and by establishing a fund of 500 million, the regions of Quebec will have the means to develop and contribute to collective enrichment. The Liberals have neglected the regions for nine years and the Caquists offer nothing new. With the Parti Québécois, citizens will be able to count on a government listening to their needs and their realities. It's up to us to choose! ", Concluded Pauline Marois. 
