Montreal - Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Pierre Duchesne, as well as the member for Laval-des-Rapides and Parliamentary Assistant at the First Minister for Youth Records, Leo Bureau-Blouin, today unveiled the participatory approach that will lead to the Summit on Higher Education, which will take place in Montreal in mid-February. 
"As soon as our election, we chose the path of the exit of crisis and we have complied with our commitments by annulling the rise in tuition fees and repealing the law 12. Social peace returned, it is necessary to collect the dialogue and rebuild Bridges between generations. We must reconnect with this spirit of consultation that has always advanced Quebec. I hope we have a constructive debate on the future and the role of higher education in Quebec. I wish a more fruitful debate for all, "said the Prime Minister. 
In anticipation of the summit, four themes will be deepened with the aim of providing a common understanding of the findings and challenges for higher education institutions, teachers, staff and students, namely: 
"What distinguishes the top on the higher education of other gender meetings is its open and transparent approach. No way of thinking or a position is pre-established. Today we undertake a real teamwork that will lead to consensus around findings and concrete tracks of action, but also issues and issues to deepen in the aftermath of the summit. Thus, the summit is not a finality, but a new beginning, "mentioned Minister Pierre Duchesne. 
In the coming months, it is Quebec, which will be invited to prepare the Summit as part of an open and unifying approach, focused on the active participation of the actors of the Higher Education, of The population and, in the first place, young people. This approach will take different forms: 
From the end of November, four work meetings, focused on each of the top themes, will be organized in different academic cities of Quebec. 
In order to allow the expression of all opinions as well as the sharing of knowledge, a website and a Facebook page have been online since 12 October 2012. These discussion spaces allow Internet users to expose their points of view and their expectations, in addition to depositing reflections they wish to make available to the general public. All preparatory documents at the top will also be published there. Already more than 500 comments have been expressed on the top page of the summit, which has some 2500 followers. 
Some 500 young people from the four corners of Quebec, and from various backgrounds, will be called, the time of a weekend, to imagine the Quebec University of tomorrow as part of a similar activity at the school of The new World Institute (INM) is organized every year. 
Because the citizen point of view is rich and must be taken into account, in addition to the formal places of exchange and deliberation, four meetings that will take the form of citizen animations will be organized by the INM. 
"Today, I am proud to see that the time of the clashes between young people and the government is over. We now enter an era of dialogue and openness. I invite all students and students to be part of the solution. Together, let's think about the University of Tomorrow. Together, work to bequeathed the future generations of better and more accessible institutions, "said Leo Bureau-Blouin deputy. 
An information document on the participatory approach of the summit was made public at the press conference. It can be viewed atwww.messt.gouv.qc.ca. 
Finally, Minister Pierre Duchesne announced the holding of the first thematic meeting in Quebec City on 29 and 30 November. It will focus on the quality of higher education. A thematic notebook in anticipation of this meeting has also been made public and can also be consulted atwww.messst.gouv.qc.ca. 
