Quebec- The Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, filed their fourth and last proposal of the day at the opportunity of the Summit on Higher Education. This proposal is based on a strategy for accessibility and perseverance for studies. In particular, it provides for the indexation of tuition fees according to the growth rate of the disposable income of families, or about 3%, and the inclusion of expenses related within the scope of this indexation. 
"This proposal appears to us as the most accurate and equitable choice for society. The weight of funding that relies on students would remain stable and several measures will be put in place to reduce the already minimal impacts of indexing. Thus, more brutal rising, more surprise. That time is over, "said the premier. 
The main source of the conflict that punctuated spring 2012, tuition fees accounted for an expected theme from all participants. In this respect, remember that the current government has already laid a very important gesture for the financial accessibility of graduate studies by annulling the increase in tuition fees of $ 1778 over seven years decreed by the previous government. 
The approach advocated by the Government of Pauline Marois will make it possible to sustainably stabilize the contribution of students to finance their university studies while avoiding the Quebec taxpayers an ever greater share of the latter. 
The inclusion of the related costs assumed by students in the scope of tuition indexation demonstrates the government's willingness to protect students by stabilizing their contribution. This would allow universities to absorb the system costs associated with the services funded by mandatory institutional costs. 
The indexing of tuition fees by 3% per year, starting in 2013-2014, would be accompanied by an increase in financial support for students, which includes financial assistance for studies and taxation, in order to increase support they have during the year and during their studies. These initiatives will contribute directly to limiting student indebtedness. 
By reviewing the non-refundable tax credit associated with tuition fees and exam expenses to identify sufficient financial maneuver, the government proposes: 
The proposed work site will explore the possibility of introducing other measures to improve financial assistance for studies, which will take into account the priorities of students expressed through their associations. The work will take place in order to introduce new measures from 2013-2014. 
"The last spring conflict has had serious consequences. The time has come to turn the page, suitable for a fairness, sustainability and stability approach. An approach that testifies to our desire to allow all those who have the capacity and desire to pursue graduate studies to be able to do so, whatever the income of their family, "add Minister Pierre Duchesne. 
For more information on the approach and the progress of the summit, go towww.messt.gouv.qc.ca/sommet. 
