We have the environment with heart. All the time. We have sustainable development with heart. All the time. The environment and sustainable development are at the very heart of our commitment. 
The balance sheet of the Parti Québécois on the environment and the fight against climate change testifies to the seriousness that we give to these issues. 
In 2002, the Government of the Parti Québécois was the first to provide Quebec from a national water policy. 
We have established an ambitious target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 25%, compared to the 1990 level, by 2020, and launched a carbon stock market by signing an agreement with California. It is with this in mind that we have announced a climate change advisory committee. 
We also file a transport electrification policy to reduce Quebec's dependence on hydrocarbons and, in particular, oil. This policy, remember it, has been supported by environmental groups and the business community, such as the Metropolitan Montreal Chamber of Commerce. 
In addition, we have put into a national strategy on sustainable mobility to promote public transit. 
In only 18 months, we released Quebec from nuclear and asbestos, while supporting the regions in their transition to a sustainable economy. We have proposed a moratorium on shale gas, unfortunately blocked by the two recognized opposition parties, but we will return to the expense. In addition, mandates have been entrusted to BAPE on shale gas and uranium, in order to consult the population on these issues of importance. Finally U.S  have put an end to the program of hydro minicentrals, in order to prevent rivers from being harded. 
The Parti Québécois has not lonely in the financial means to enhance the environment and sustainable development: 
The Québécois Party is ambitious when it comes to environment and sustainable development, because these issues concern both present and the future of Quebec. 
That's why we are committed to: 
The Québécois Party adheres to the principles of the Kyoto Protocol and combines economy and ecology, economic development and sustainable development. 
Because we are determined to build a more prosperous, stronger, more independent and green Quebec. 
