Montreal- The Quebec Prime Minister and Head of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, presented this morning the commitments of the Parti Quebecois on the work. 
"The first right of Quebec workers is to be able to practice their profession in French. There is only one way to prevent a decline in French: to give themselves a government that includes and assumes the historical responsibility to protect and promote the French language in Quebec, "said the Prime Minister. 
"Since the mid-1970s, major changes in labor laws, to improve the individual and collective rights of workers, ensure a true recognition of the right of association or to put in place new institutions of labor, have all been initiated and voted under the governments of the Parti Québécois. We want to continue to improve the individual and collective rights of workers over the next four years, "continued Pauline Marois. 
A citizen party government offers specific commitments to update certain laws or regulations to better respond to the new realities of work. The laws on safety and health of work will be enhanced. 
"Our priority will be to improve health-safety legislation. The foundations of the Labor Health and Safety Act are always relevant. But after more than 30 years of application, a vast proportion of workers are still not covered by prevention mechanisms. The list of recognized diseases has not changed, the regulations did not follow the pace either. We will pay particular attention to construction workers, who represent 5% of the Quebec workforce, but who are 25% of deaths caused by a work accident or a professional injury. We must take care of it, "added the Prime Minister. 
In addition, a government of the Parti Québécois will pay particular attention to workers whose conditions are precarious and sometimes very vulnerable. 
"We need to better protect domestic workers. It is necessary to improve the fate of these workers, who have been left to themselves too long, "continued Pauline Marois. 
To do this, the Parti Québécois will ensure eligibility for the Quebec health and safety regime in this category of employees, will adapt the rights and obligations of employers to the particularities of this type of work and will ensure access to appeal. a dismissal. 
A government of the Parti Québécois will also put in place measures to supervise temporary staff placement agencies. In 2010, there were 973 temporary staff investment agencies in Quebec, an increase of 101.9% compared to the year 2000. 
"The measures we propose will better supervise work in black and combat the exploitation of vulnerable people. We will support a better application of labor laws for thousands of workers, "added Pauline Marois. 
The government has done rigorous work to ensure the sustainability of defined benefit pension plans. The work of Minister Agnès Maltais was recognized by the vast majority of stakeholders. Thus, we will continue to implement the government action plan for equitable and sustainable pension plans. 
On a four-year horizon, a government of the Parti Québécois will commit consultations with trade union partners and employers as to the opportunity to modernize the Labor Code. 
"There is no question for us to open the labor code to reduce the individual and collective rights of the workers or the roles and prerogatives of the recognized trade unions. In the meantime, a government of the Quebecois party will take into account any formal consensus of the parties concerning certain articles of this code, "said Pauline Marois. 
"Quebec is based on a single model, in which workers and employers dialogue to ensure good deal in workplaces. This model exists thanks to the Parti Québécois. We will continue our work by putting in place concrete measures to support all workers, "concluded the leader of the Quebecois party. 
We have a plan and the team to succeed. Today, it's time to give us the means to go further. 
