Montreal- The Quebec Prime Minister and Head of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, today unveiled his commitments to increase the contribution of the social economy in the development of Quebec. 
Once reelected, the government of the Parti Québécois is committed to presenting and implementing the Social Economy Action Plan, provided by Laloi on the social economy unanimously by the National Assembly on October 10. This action plan will be divided into four areas of intervention: the development of the social economy, innovation, territories as well as governance and recognition. 
"My commitment to the social economy has never weakened. He accompanied me throughout my political career. I would say that he marked it. As the premier, it is obvious to me that the development of the social economy is part of my priorities, "said Pauline Marois. 
It must be remembered that there are more than 7000 social economy companies in Quebec, which employ more than 150,000 workers. Their activities account for more than 8% of GDP and they lead to socio-economic benefits for all regions of Quebec. 
"The social economy is a strong peculiarity of our economy, recognized on the international scene. It is not enough to simply create wealth and then redistribute it. The act of wealth creation must itself generate social justice and sharing spin-offs, "added the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
Among the measures it will implement in the short term, the government will create a table of partners to make the expertise of the different actors in this sector. He will appoint officials within the public apparatus who will take into account social economy companies in their programs and measures. The Government of the Parti Québécois will also promote the expansion and development of collective enterprises by renewing the site trust, and will strengthen the role of the social economy in the development of territories, thanks to the national level of rurality. 
In addition, the Quebec Economic Development Bank will have the mission to contribute to economic development by stimulating investment growth and job creation in all regions of Quebec. A component of its mission will be particularly intended for the sectors of cooperation and the social economy. 
"It is a question of recognizing that economic development and social development do not oppose. On the contrary, they are complementary, "concluded the Prime Minister. 
We have a plan and the team to succeed. Today, it's time to give us the means to go further. 
Watch press clause. 
