SALABERRY-DE-VALLEYFIELD, September 4, 2019 --Ie Wednesday, the President of the Parti Québécois, Gabrielle Lemieux, alongside the President of the National Committee of Young People, Frédérique St-Jean, and the Parliamentary Chief and MP -Matépédia, Pascal Bérubé, unveiled the main proposal that will be submitted to the vote at the Extraordinary National Congress of 9 and 10 November in Trois-Rivières. 
Constituting the culmination of several months of work, research and consultations of the Quebec population, this document brings a new definition of the fundamental values, the party's approach and project project, as well as a questionable bold and innovative of its operation. This is a new start for our political training. 
Our most important goal is the country's project. The new Parti Québécois is resolutely refocused on independence which is the key to the success of Quebec and Quebeckers. All nationalists and independentists who adhere to the values and approach of the new Parti Québécois are welcome. 
The new Parti Québécois will address the independence project by releasing the labels. He will seek to build consensus to advance the Quebec nation and independence. It will build on promoting the benefits of independence and the unexplored potential of Quebec as a response to the concrete needs of citizens, of which it will be listening. 
The new Parti Québécois will strengthen its democracy to foster decision-making that reflect the willingness of its members, supporters and population, both at the local and national level. Young people, women and civil society will have a bigger place. In addition, to ensure respect for this democracy, the Québécois party will make more cohesion. 
"This is a great pride for us to present you what is the result of a broad consultation of the population and several hundred hours of work by our activists and members. Our main proposal demonstrates the lucidity and audacity whose Parti Québécois demonstrates in its modernization process. The new Parti Québécois will have no more than 20 or 30 priorities, it will have one: advance independence. All the rest will be subordinate. It is a more modern, more flexible, and more efficient training that will bring this goal to achieve independence. "Said Gabrielle Lemieux. 
"This main proposal is a considerable step forward for young people in the Parti Québécois. Such an involvement of youth in a political party is a first in Quebec and I am proud to see that the proposals that have been made to this effect by the National Youth Committee are found today in the new statutes of the party. In addition, a largest place for young people is, for a political party, a perpetual renewal guarantee. Young people have been involved and consulted in the process of one end to the other and the results are visible today. Added Frédérique St-Jean. 
"It is thanks to the extraordinary work of the National Executive Council, in close collaboration with the Caucus of members of the Parti Québécois, which we present today this ambitious main proposition. The parliamentary wing would proudly bring it to the extraordinary national congress in Trois-Rivières. The Quebecois Party is a new look, and it's more democratic, more open, more united political training than you will discover in November. A Québécois party fully and completely turned towards the creation of a country. Concluded Pascal Bérubé. 
CONTACT: Lucas Medernach 
Particular Party Communications Manager 
514 663-6519 
