Québec- MPs of the Parti Québécois will join their voices, today, to that of community organizations that will cease their activities for 225 minutes to demand the Liberal government the enhancement of their funding. The member for Rosemont and sentence of the official opposition in social services, protection of youth, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, denounces the Government's refusal to improve this funding and asks The Minister delegated to Rehabilitation, the Protection of Youth and Public Health, Lucie Charlebois, to listen to the citizens and staff of the organizations that show today, and to make concrete gestures quickly. 
"Since the arrival of the Liberal government, a cut does not wait for the other. This era of austerity worries us all. In his opening speech, on May 21, the government told us that "services for the most vulnerable people of our society and the security of the population [would be given special attention." It is clear that these services receive attention and, above all, particular cups, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
The hon. Member adds that the words of the Minister of Finance, who believes that community organizations could provide public health and social services, have worried, with reason, the community community; Even as his prime minister had to crumple since China. 
At the Parti Québécois, we believe that the wealth of a society is also measured by the way it takes care of the poorest, and this involves supporting community organizations. Our government has also planned, within the framework of the solidarity pillar, an increase in funding of $ 162 million for the community, a program for the acquisition and renovation of buildings of $ 10 million for these groups, as well as that staff support measures of the 4000 community organizations concerned. 
"The Government's refusal to enhance the funding of community organizations jeopardizes several actions that are asked daily to the most vulnerable people in our society; this is unacceptable. Supporting these people, as well as those who help them, should be a priority for the government. In no case should the most vulnerable should make the liberal austerity costs, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
