Bas-Saint-Laurent-gathered in three-pistoles, the candidates of the Bas-Saint-Laurent Parti Party presented their regional electoral platform. A Quebec Party government will promote regional development, job creation, business support, health, local services, education, culture and pursue the achievement of its forest and wind development commitments. . 
Candidates Pascal Bérubé in Matapédia-Matane-Mitis, Harold Lebel in Rimouski-Neigette, Michel Lagacé in Rivière-du-Loup - Témiscouata - The Basques and André Simard in Côte-du-Sud intend to continue the positioning of the region The development of job creative projects. Candidates will continue to support Highway Highway 185-85 (including Phase 3), the extension of Highway 20 and ensuring the maintenance and improvement of road, maritime and airport transport infrastructures in the region. They also wish to continue to support agriculture, acertic sector and the agri-food sector, including the policy of food sovereignty, throughout the territory of Bas-Saint-Laurent. A government of the Parti Québécois will ensure the maintenance of the positions in the region and will highlight the tourist potential of the St. Lawrence River. 
In order to support Bas-Saint-Laurent businesses, candidates will continue to support innovation, research and exports. They also intend to help businesses in the region overcome market remoteness, particularly in terms of transportation costs. The development and protection of our regional florets remain a priority for the Quebec's team of Bas-Saint-Laurent. 
Candidates André Simard (South Coast), Michel Lagacé (Rivière-du-Loup - Témiscouata - The Basques), Harold Lebel (Rimouski-Neigette) and Pascal Bérubé (Matapédia-Matane-Mitis) 
Partician candidates also undertake to ensure greater accessibility to health services, social services and to promote the maintenance of local services. For example, street work services, day care spaces, social housing, cell phone and the realization of several drinking water projects. They want to ensure access to higher education in the region and increase the role of the University of Quebec in Rimouski as a partner of regional development and research. In addition, candidates intend to give new impetus in culture. 
In the forest area, the Parti Québécois sent clear signals, asked concrete actions and made firm commitments for industry and our workers in the last 18 months. After the adoption of the Bois Charter, the national rendezvous of the Quebec Forest, the announcement of silvicultural work and the announcement of investments for forest biomass, candidates will pursue the implementation of sites and other commitments announced. At the national rendezvous of the forest. 
In terms of wind development, the Quebec government has confirmed its commitment and support for the wind industry with the allocation of 800 MW. Our Party supports the Lower Laurentian Community Wind Park project. In addition, a regional consortium for the Community Wind Park has been trained to ensure that projects are collaborative and all RCMs in the region benefit from the benefits of this future wind farm at the BSL. The Committee of 10 Partners consists of representatives of the eight MRCs of the BSL elected representative conference and the Aboriginal Nation of Malécites. 
"Our government has done a lot in just 18 months. With more time and a majority government, we can go even further. Our region has a strong and quality team and we have the strong intention of pursuing our health, education and culture actions and encourage job creation, business support and support the forest industry and wind development that is essential to the development of our region's economy. The Parti Québécois is determined and will continue to act with integrity and transparency to achieve these commitments and to make the region more prosperous and stronger, "concluded Pascal Bérubé, Harold Lebel, Michel Lagacé and André Simard.Consult the 2014 platform. -1018 for Bas-Saint-Laurent (PDF): http: //go.pq.org/ym. 
