Drummondville- The Quebec Prime Minister and Head of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the candidate in Drummond-Bois Francs, Daniel Lebel, and the candidate in Chambly and Minister of Justice, Bertrand St Arnaud, announced that a government of the Parti Québécois will continue to put in place new measures to combat corruption and strengthen integrity. 
As soon as it comes to power, the Government of the Parti Québécois has adopted the public contract integrity bills and on the new national political party financing scheme, allowing for its functions a municipal elected municipal accused of the criminal . These laws, as well as other measures, have allowed the government to save $ 240 million in roadworks. 
A government of the Parti Québécois will table a specific bill that will facilitate the disclosure of wrongdoing in public bodies while ensuring the protection of "warning launchers". 
"If such provisions had been established under the Liberal reign of Jean Charest, State employees could have denounced, without fear of reprisal, the choices made by the firm of a Liberal Minister, particularly with regard to the Attribution of subsidized day care places, the political control of the sports infrastructure program or the system of appointment of judges according to political affiliation, "said Daniel Lebel. 
"While the Liberal government did nothing for nine years, leaving the situation deteriorating, our government has made the big household. Laws and practices have been put in place to stop corruption and collusion. When Philippe Couillard is asked if it is comfortable with Jean Charest's legacy, he avoid answering. How can one trust him to put in place the future recommendations of the Charbonneau commission? , "Added Bertrand St Arnaud. 
"There is only with a government of the Parti Québécois that the population can be ensured that the fight against corruption and collusion will continue, and that integrity will be at the center of the concerns of the government," concluded Pauline Marois. . 
We have a plan and the team to succeed. Today, it's time to give us the means to go further. 
Watch press clause. 
