Quebec, on November 28, 2016 - the spokesman for the Quebecois Justice Party, Véronique Hivon, asks for actions of urgency by the Minister of Justice, Stephanie Valley, in the face of the unprecedented crisis that affects our justice system, which has the effect of visiting accused's releases due to unreasonable deadlines. 
Véronique Hivon recalls that the government has not announced any additional investment, despite Jordan, which puts strict limits as to the deadlines that can be accepted in the system. Worse, he made cuts of $ 5 million in the expenses of the Director of Criminal and Criminal Prosecutions, in addition to cutting 29 full-time positions. "Stéphanie Valley must act urgently. If the situation we know persists, hundreds and hundreds of accused will get away with impunity. However, solutions exist. The minister must use it to preventout our entire justice system from falling disgrace to the eyes of the population, "she said. 
"To be corrected, such a crisis requires exceptional measures. It is necessary to stop the hemorrhage. First of all, we need a transparent portrait of the situation: how many procedures have been requested? How many trials are at risk of being canceled? What evaluation is made by the Crown? In addition, the Minister must fill vacancies in the Criminal and Criminal Chamber of the Court of Quebec, in addition to reminding, as supernumeraries, retired judges who are willing to lend a hand. Finally, Stéphanie Valley should also increase the number of prosecutors, clerks and administrative employees to support judges, while considering providing additional rooms, off palate if necessary, "continued the member. 
Finally, Véronique Hivon considers that the proposal to use the derogatory clause, which has been circulating for a few days, must not be excluded from the minister. "No option should be excluded, so much the crisis is great. It is a proposal that the minister should study, if only to show that she is indeed in solutions mode, "she concluded. 
