Quebec, on February 15, 2017- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesman for the Parti Québécois in terms of professional laws, Mireille John, and the spokesperson for immigration and cultural communities , Carole Poirier, invited Prime Minister Philippe Couillard to improve Bill 98, including robust measures for integrating employment and the fight against racism and discrimination. 
"It's been 15 years old that the Liberals are in power ... and Philippe Couillard has put three years to understand the urgency of legislating to offer québécois of various origins a better access to occupations. We are very happy that he finally speaks. But his bill is very, very limited in his object: it simply concerns the professions code. Since he wants to discuss it, we are volunteering, but we have to go further: we propose today to the Prime Minister to make his bill an omnibus on integration into employment and the fight against racism and Discrimination, "said Jean? François Lisée. 
"Issues related to professional orders and recognition of achievements are very important, and actions have been required for a long time. We must hear these organizations because, collectively, it is necessary to do better to recognize the skills of Quebecers from various origins that make the choice of Quebec. Note that the bill contains various measures on which we are ready to work with the minister, such as the creation of a post of admission to the professions and the establishment of a pole of Coordination for actors. But we have to go further, "added Mireille Jean. 
"Last week, we proposed 20 important measures for integration into employment and the fight against discrimination. Time is for action. Friday, I personally sent a letter to the Minister of Immigration, Diversity and Inclusion, Kathleen Weil, to reach out to the government. We did not have an answer. But it's a matter of political will. We need to expand the scope of Bill 98, and we offer all our cooperation in the government to do this, "said Carole Poirier. 
Among other proposals, the Parti Québécois suggests to include, in the Labor Standards Act, a provision that would prohibit employers from requiring a Canadian working experience to obtain a job in Quebec, such as the fact. Ontario since 2013. In addition, it will require a stricter application of the regulations and fines concerning employers who discriminate against hiring, or the owners caught in the act of discrimination on housing. "It lacks only the prime minister's goodwill," concluded Jean? François Lisée. 
