Quebec-The Head of the Official Opposition, Jean François Lisée, the spokespersons of the Parti Québécois in the field of immigration and cultural communities, Carole Poirier, and secularism, Agnès Maltese, as well as the President of the Caucus of the Deputies, Maka Kotto, launched the petition integration and secularism: from the action, yes; A trial, no! 
They were accompanied by MM. Ferid Chikhi, Socioprofessional Integration Consultant, and Gabriel Bazin, Lawyer, Vice President of the Black League of Quebec, and Ms. Alexandra Regalado, Businesswoman, Vice-President of the American Latin Association of Quebec. 
"Quebeckers are an open people tolerant. It can be demonstrated. There is racism, here as elsewhere, and we must act. But the Commission on Racism and Systemic Discrimination that is emerging is unacceptable. Someone has to get up and say, "That's enough!" It's enough to guilt Quebeckers who are committed to secularism, who want to have a suship debate on immigration, who want to defend equality between men and women. Instead of culminating Quebeckers, the Liberal government should invest its energy to put in place real employment integration measures for newcomers and real tags for religious accommodations. We call Quebeckers from all origins to sign our petition, in order to launch a clear signal to Philippe Couillard, "said Jean François Lisée. 
"The Liberal government refuses to apply the consensus that has been formed around questions about religious signs and secularism. By refusing to advance Quebec, it helps to fuel the division. All this by pure electoral interest, "added Agnès Maltais. 
IN SHORT 
The Parti Québécois launches the petition integration and secularism: action, yes; A trial, no! - In terms of integration and secure, it takes action, not a trial accusing Quebeckers of systemic racism.- The petition claims: (1) the immediate abandonment of the consultation project on racism and systemic discrimination; 2) adoption by June of an omnibus bill and a schedule of actions on employment integration and the fight against racism and intimidation, inspired by From the measures proposed in February by the official opposition; (3) the adoption, by June, a bill of consensual measures on religious accommodations and signs. 
"The Liberal government is illustrating by its inaction, its compressions and its lack of will. It is insensitive to the high unemployment rate among adopted Quebeckers. He refuses to act concretely against employment discrimination and in housing. It has reduced francization budgets, yet essential to the success of integration. We have proposed 20 concrete measures to the Liberal government and the Minister of Immigration, Kathleen Weil. The answer: only the wave and the imprecise. Why does she refuse to act? "Concluded Carole Poirier. 
Sign the petition now: http: //go.pq.org/tb9 
Consulate our 20 proposals: http: //pq.org/integration/ 
