Quebec- Following the announcement of its departure from the International Organization of Francophonie (OIF), the member for Chicoutimi and Official Opposition Leader, Stéphane Bédard, as well as the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and Door -PAROLE in international relations, Carole Poirier, want to emphasize the considerable contribution of Clement Duhaime to the influence of the international Francophonie. 
"For nine years, Clement Duhaime outstated the OIF administrator function. We would like to salute its important contribution to the development and modernization of the organization. His constant love and dedication for the French language, combined with his rigor and his talents as a manager, knew how to give a new breath to the Francophonie and made it possible to radiate the Quebec know-how around the world, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
"Mr. Duhaime may leave his head up; The work he has accomplished is remarkable. He managed to consolidate the political, economic and social action of the Francophonie. OIF, under its administration, has gained credibility and efficiency. We can be very proud of this great Quebecer! , "Said Carole Poirier. 
Clement Duhaime leaves the role of director of the OIF after a successful diplomatic career. He was notably appointed General Delegate of Quebec in Paris by the Government of the Parti Québécois in 2000. He held this position until 2005, as well as that of personal representative of the Prime Minister of Quebec with the instances of the Francophonie. His career was highlighted on many occasions; Among other things, he has been a commander of the Order of the Pleiade and Officer of the National Order of Quebec. 
The head of the official opposition has also benefited from this opportunity to emphasize the arrival of the new director of the OIF, Mr. Adama Ouane, who enters into office today. "I am convinced that Mr. Ouane will meet this challenge with Brio. On behalf of the Parti Québécois, I wish him a lot of success in his new duties and I want to assure him our full and entire collaboration, "he concluded. 
