Quebec, November 4, 2014 - The member for Rimouski and official opposition spokesman for seniors, Harold Lebel, and the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for social services, Jean-François Lisée, wish to take advantage of The National Week of Caregivers to recognize these exceptional people and salute all the work they do on a daily basis. 
"We have more than 300,000 caregiver and close caregivers in Quebec. It is mainly women, who regularly provide care and support for a relative or a relative, sometimes to the detriment of their professional life. We must recognize close caregivers as partners, not as resources, as they are currently considered. The care provided to vulnerable people are important, but more respite and surveillance services must also be offered to close caregivers, so that they can free themselves, recover and resume their breath, "said Harold Lebel. 
The member for Rosemont recalls, for his part, the lack of accompaniment, yet so crucial, with whom the caregivers must compose. The Parti Québécois had the opportunity, in September, to address the subject at a meeting of the Committee on Relations with the Citizens, during which several groupings and agencies came to testify to the glaring needs of caregivers. 
"It goes without saying that we are very concerned about the consequences of liberal austerity on the close caregivers and the services offered to them, and we want the government to take advantage of this national week to improve the support. , added Jean-François Lisée. 
The member also wishes to highlight all the efforts of the Community groups who support our caregivers, as well as the spirit of solidarity that animates them. In particular, we think of the consolidation of the caregivers of Quebec, who does a very important job by working to improve the quality of life of close caregivers across Quebec, as well as in Baluchon Alzheimer, who, with his 25 baluchonous, Offer respite to close caregivers of people with Alzheimer's disease. 
"Despite the climate of uncertainty and the cuts of which the community has been the victim since the last budget, the groups continue to be present and to carry out an essential work with those among the most vulnerable of our society; This is all of their honor, "Harold Lebel concluded. 
