Quebec- The member for Rosemont and spokespersons of the Parti Québécois on social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, and the member for Saint-Jean and spokesman The fight against poverty and solidarity, Dave Turcotte, support the movement "We close! The community, outdoors against austerity "and ask the government to recognize work and enhance the funding of organizations. 
"The Community community can count on the support of the Parti Québécois and on my presence on the ground with the various stakeholders concerned today. By giving a meager indexing 0.9% to community health and social services for the current year, the government requires them to cut their staff and services offered. These are the most vulnerable people who, again, are the costs of liberal austerity. This is unacceptable! Denounced Jean-François Lisée. 
"There are more and more young people, families and elders who need help, and organizations have fewer and fewer resources to accompany them. By refusing to enhance their funding, the government compels them to rationing their services and deprives thousands of vulnerable people of support which is essential to them. The government must sit with organizations and recognize once and for all valuable work they are doing on a daily basis and the social net they represent. I will also file a motion in this respect today at the National Assembly, "added Dave Turcotte. 
The motion presented today by the Parti Québécois reads as follows: 
"That the National Assembly takes note of the mobilization bringing together the campaigns I want my community, I support the community and the rights, it defends! Who is 2 and 3 November 2015 under the theme? We close! Community, outside against austerity; 
That it denounces the impacts of the austerity imposed by the government, with which the community organizations and the people they support on a daily basis; 
It asks the Government to enhance the financing of organizations in coherence with the motion adopted in May 2013, in favor of which all the members of the Liberal Party voted; 
That it enjoys the Minister delegated to Rehabilitation, the Protection of Youth and Public Health to follow up on requests for meetings of the Community environment as soon as possible. » 
