Québec- The member for Taillon and spokesperson for the health and accessibility of care, Diane Lamarre, today tabled Bill 491, An Act to terminate ancillary costs by the modification of various legislative provisions. 
"For the Parti Québécois, it is clear that patients do not have to pay or release their credit card for access to insured services. In this sense, Bill 491 put an end to any form of surfacturation and ensures all the likely access to health care access. It also reaffirms the public and universal nature of our health system, and places patients at the focus of the legislator's concerns. Currently, they are visibly not, since we have a minister of doctors more than a patient minister, "said the member. 
"The Minister of Health himself admits that these fees are actually a trick used by some doctors to pay their firm fees and increase their profit margin. We say: Enough, it's enough! Let's stop tolerating an illegal practice that takes patients hosting. The minister stretched, after dozens of hours of debate in committee, wanting to legalize the illegal, even going so far as to allow doctors to charge more patient services. We therefore try an ultimate time to reason. If the minister does not hear, perhaps his leader will be more receptive and will call our bill, "added Diane Lamarre. 
In summary, Bill 491: 
"The doctors' compensation envelope is nearly $ 7 billion for this year only. We believe that the 1% needed to cover ancillary fees, estimated at $ 50 million, must be provided on this envelope, and not billed to patients, who already pay taxes and taxes. A simple redevelopment of the monetary mass planned for the compensation of the doctors would cover these costs and to prohibit their billing. We consider them true financial barriers that prevent some patients from having access to essential care. We take the initiative to propose an avenue that ensures justice and fairness to all Quebeckers, the only avenue that is acceptable, "concluded the member. 
