Montreal- After a tour of Quebec that took place during the first 15 days of the election campaign, Bernard Drainville took stock of the expectations of the population with regard to the adoption of the Charter of Laity and Equality between women and men. 
"A majority of Quebeckers support the Charter, and asks us to move forward to make it adopt. We are the only party that is committed to doing so, while the Liberal Party, Quebec Solidaire and the Future Québec Coalition oppose it. Worst, Philippe Couillard is committed to tearing it. He will do everything to block his adoption. The only way to vote the Charter is to elect a majority government from the Parti Québécois on April 7th! "Said Quebec's candidate in Marie? Victorin and Minister responsible for democratic institutions and citizen participation, Bernard Drainville, at a press briefed this morning. 
Mr. Drainville was then accompanied by Evelyne Abitbol, candidate in Acadie, Djemila Benhabib, candidate in a thousand islands, from Yasmina Chouakri, candidate in Anjou-Louis? Riel, and Leila Mahiut, candidate in Bourassa? Saved. In a joint statement, they have made it possible to recall the fundamental importance of adopting the Charter for Quebec society. 
"The Charter affirms our values such as equality between women and men, and the religious neutrality of our institutions. It tags accommodation requests and prohibits the port of religious signs for state employees. In short, the Charter defines Quebec in which we want to live, it ensures the future of our society; It is necessary to ensure our cohesion and social peace, "added Bernard Drainville. 
"For the Parti Québécois, the commitment is clear: we will make the charter adopt. What about other parties? Will they agree to give their consent for the Parliamentary Committee to the Charter to resume its work where we left them? Asked the candidate in Marie? Victorin. 
"It must be remembered that the Liberals and Philippe Couillard are genetically unable to defend Quebec values. The current position of the PLQ is below Jean Charest proposed, as if possible. After the saga on Chador, Philippe Couillard shows us once again by the absurd his inability to defend Quebec values. We ask him to explain why he still refuses to prohibit the wearing of Niqab and the burqa for those who give or receive a state service. Why does it refuse to prohibit the wearing of ostentatious religious signs for state employees? For Quebecers, protecting and affirming our values, these are real business, "concluded Bernard Drainville. 
We have a plan and the team to succeed. Today, it's time to give us the means to go further. 
Watch press clause. 
