Quebec- The member for Verchères and official opposition spokesperson for ethics and integrity, Stéphane Bergeron, today filed a motion at the National Assembly asking the Government to extend the work of the Commission survey on the granting and management of public contracts in the construction industry (Charbonneau Commission).  Yesterday, the former investigator of the Diligence operation, Sylvain Tremblay, said that "all that there was inside the file on the Liberal Party was completely retracted." 
"The affirmations of this former Safety Investigator of Quebec are worrying. The Commission was mandated to investigate on the link between the financing of political parties and the granting of public contracts. According to Mr. Tremblay, she would not have been far enough. The system that we have begun to understand the wheels has not been unveiled completely in broad daylight, and it is important to do it, "said Stéphane Bergeron. 
The member is surprised that the Commission did not convened Marc Bibeau to meet the various allegations that circulated about it. "The Commission went so far as to convene a receptionist of Union Montreal to see if, yes or no, Bernard Trépanier had asked him to count the tickets. But she did not think it necessary for the Liberal Grand Argentier, Marc Bibeau, came to testify. Mr Bibeau was going on for a member of Jean Charest's office, would have asked for the List of Contracts at Hydro-Québec and promised contracts to entrepreneurs in exchange for financing. It is the least of the things it comes to be explained under oath before the Commission, "continued Stéphane Bergeron. 
The motion filed reads as follows: 
"That the National Assembly takes note of the declarations made by the former Safety Investigator of Quebec, Mr. Sylvain Tremblay, that she considers the opinion expressed by a significant number of citizens to the effect that the Charbonneau commission I failed to audition several key witnesses and that it requires the Liberal government the extension of the Commission's mandate to complement its analysis of the links between the granting of public contracts within the Government of Quebec and the financing of political parties. 
That this motion becomes an order of the Assembly. » 
The member deplores that the Liberal government and the CAQ rejected the motion. "After having resisted for more than two and a half years before implementing a commission of inquiry, the culture of secrecy continues to the PLQ. All the light must be made; It appears to be clear that key people have not been heard by the Commission. The integrity and ethics in the granting of public contracts are unavoidable for Quebec, "concluded Stéphane Bergeron. 
