The Assumption after Electrolux's leaders have confirmed the date of the closure of the Assumption plant, the Québécois party candidate in the Assumption, Pierre Paquette, the candidate in Repentigny, Scott McKay, and the Candidate in Rousseau and Minister of Finance and Economy, Nicolas Marceau, reiterated the commitment of the Prime Minister and the Parti Québécois not to drop the milling 1,100 workers. 
"I want to provide 1300 Electrolux workers and their families that the Parti Québécois will continue to make every effort to help them quickly. As soon as the company indicates its intentions with respect to the plant, we will be able to put in place a strategy in order to exploit the potential of its industrial conversion. We are asking Swedish society to make known its decision as quickly as possible so that we can act, "said Pierre Paquette. 
"From May 2013, we have released money to find economic recovery projects for the Assumption. Our strategy unfolds in three axes. The first touch the industrial conversion of the plant, as my colleague Pierre Paquette has mentioned, with active malfunction. The second axis establishes a model for the economic vision of the MRC. Finally, we will enhance the industrial attraction of the region by determining niches of the future, "said Scott McKay. 
In fact, Employment-Québec has already put in place a series of measures such as training projects for workers and an ad hoc table for subcontractors, an investment that represents more than $ 1.4 million. In addition, Jobs-Québec has set up a reclassification aid committee that will continue to support workers in the coming months. 
"A government of the Parti Québécois will be at the rendezvous to support the industrial projects that will be able to contribute to the revival of the Assumption and the Lanaudière region. We will continue to work with the MRC and the local development center so that these projects are progressing rapidly. The coming weeks may be more difficult, but the workers and their families will always be able to count on the help of our government, "concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
