Using the opening spirit manifested by the government in certain files, the member for Matane-Matapédia and parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois, Pascal Bérubé, and the hon. Member for Rimouski and spokesperson for the second opposition group for the Elders as well as in employment, Harold Lebel, proposed three measures to combat labor shortage and workers aged 65 and over. 
In part Québécois party proposes three measures to combat labor shortage: 
· Allow workers aged 65 and over quitting contributing to the annuity regime. 
· Allow the postponement of the retirement pension up to 75 years. 
· Ensure that seniors are represented on the labor market partners. 
We hand over the government so that these proposals are studied in a non-partisan way for the next budget. 
Many regions of Quebec are currently facing two major challenges: labor shortage and aging population. "The situation is at least contradictory: on the one hand, the number of unyelated positions continues to grow and, on the other hand, more and more workers aged 65 and over are pushed back because our system does not encourage them to remain in employment, "said the entry of the parliamentary leader, before adding that if Quebec had the same employment rate as Ontario for the aged 60-69, we would count 66,000 more active workers on the market. 
After looking and analyzing all the proposals made on this in the last election campaign, the elected representatives of the Quebecois have identified three measures that can significantly and quickly improve the situation. 
"We propose that from the next budget, the workers aged 65 and over can choose to cease to contribute to the Quebec Pension Plan. Concretely, so they could see their net salary increase by 5%! That's how it is clear to older workers who wish to continue to benefit from their experience and know-how, "said the hon. Member for Rimouski. 
"In a spirit of openness and collaboration, we also encourage the government to resume a proposal from the Liberal Party: to allow the postponement of the retirement pension up to 75 years - it would be more generous. We believe that this measure would represent an excellent incentive to stay at work, "Pascal Bérubé chained. 
"Finally, we propose to give seniors a place to the labor market partners. Thus, we could, for example, bring the seniors who wish to work part-time with employers with a labor shortage. The reality of seniors wishing to remain active in the labor market would also be much better portrayed, "Harold Lebel concluded. 
