Saint-Hyacinthe, August 9, 2018 -The Member of Jonquière and spokesman of the Parti Québécois on the environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, the member for Berthier and Spokesperson in Agriculture, André Villeneuve, and the candidate of the Parti Québécois in Saint-Hyacinthe, Daniel Breton, propose that Quebec has a "declaration of recognition of natural heritage and green infrastructure", in order to promote the protection of natural environments and to emphasize the importance of the work of those who value them. 
IN SHORT : 
After his election, a government of the Parti Québécois would create Quebec from a "declaration of recognition of natural heritage and green infrastructure", in order to emphasize the importance: 
A consultation of the main partners (agricultural world, environmental groups, municipalities, etc.) would follow this statement to propose the best action plan to implement the principles set out. 
"Quebeckers are very attached to their natural environments and are proud of it. They know how much woodlands, wetlands, streams or urban parks are important, especially in a context of climate change, and are aware of their beneficial effects on the reduction of air conditioning costs, rising land value. or the prevention of floods, "illustrated Sylvain Gaudreault. 
That is why, after consulting the partners, the Parti Québécois undertakes to give Quebeckers the opportunity to better protect this important heritage. "Several people mentioned me to be ready to get involved actively to ensure the preservation of natural environments. In the same way, they are waiting for their elected concrete and positive actions. The Parti Québécois therefore offers a gathering vision of protecting our natural heritage, "continued the spokesperson. 
"It is more time than the state of Quebec recognize the contribution of the agricultural world; His actors act as guardians of natural heritage. If, as a society, we demand from them that they protect wetlands, woodlots rich in biodiversity or that they put in place riparian bands - what they do, moreover, in all environmental awareness - , Well, let's make sure they have the means to do it! Of course, this spends recognition, but also by better support, which will taste even more. In short, let's go as far as possible in the pursuit of excellence! That's what we are committed to doing as a government, "says André Villeneuve. 
"A government of the Parti Québécois would innovate by adopting a" declaration of recognition of natural heritage and green infrastructures "that the partners of these natural environments will cope. Thus would be recognized the importance of natural environments essential to the preservation of biological diversity, as well as the health and well-being of citizens and the environment. Thus, farmers, forestry, landowners, environmental groups, municipalities and citizens will be better equipped to protect, together, biodiversity and ecosystems ", on its part, does Daniel Breton 
