Quebec- As part of the municipal summit organized by the Union of Quebec Municipalities (UMQ), the Quebec Prime Minister and Head of the Partician, Pauline Marois, presented the balance sheet of his government for the municipal community and The commitments of the Parti Québécois for stronger and more prosperous municipalities. 
"When we arrived in the government, our political institutions and our municipalities were facing a serious crisis of confidence. To make our cities stronger, so it was necessary to answer this concern and start by doing the housework. That's why we placed integrity at the heart of our action and decisions, "said Pauline Marois. 
"In the aftermath of April 7, we are determined to take over the discussions to conclude a new Quebec Municipalities Agreement before the summer. More than a new fiscal pact, we have the will, by this agreement, to develop a new relationship between the Government of Quebec and the municipalities, "continued Pauline Marois. 
The Parti Québécois recognizes, like the UMQ, that municipal laws need a rejuvenation cure. The new agreement can therefore provide a timetable and priorities for the revision of these. 
The Québec-Municipalities Agreement will also have to give better financial autonomy to municipalities, making accessible new sources of income or new tax tools. It will also need to rely on a vision where the spatial planning, transportation and financing of municipalities are linked, from a sustainable development and mobility perspective. 
The Parti Québécois has always been convinced that the places of decision must be closer to citizens. We have always had the desire to give the municipal world the powers and means necessary to serve the population. 
"A balanced agreement will have to take into account the diversity of the municipal world. It will be adapted to small and large cities, rural municipalities like large urban centers, "said Quebec's leader. 
Since its publication, the Government of the Parti Québécois has led to the Love Report until the submission of Bill 79. 
"We are committed to filing a new bill and hold a parliamentary committee as soon as possible. We will live in listening to the proposals of all parties at this parliamentary committee, "added Pauline Marois. 
"Cities offer local services that directly influence the quality of life of our fellow citizens. They must therefore have the means to act. For me and for all my team, it goes through a new partnership within the Quebec Municipalities Agreement. We are determined to achieve this and we have the best team to do it, "concluded the Prime Minister. 
