Quebec- The member for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, as well as the hon. Member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesperson for international relations and Francophonie, Carole Poirier, join their voices to that of the 274 million Francophones of the five continents who celebrate, today, the language they share and the French-speaking diversity, on the occasion of the International Day of La Francophonie, held this year under the theme "I have my heart Planet ". 
"Quebeckers and Quebeckers form the only Francophone nation in the land of America. Obviously, this specificity is the cornerstone of our identity. This precious inheritance, by which we distinguish ourselves as a people, we wish and we must bequeath to future generations. That's why it's so important for members of the Parti Québécois, to emphasize our membership of the Francophonie and to recall how proud we are, "said the leader of the official opposition. 
"If Québec's attachment to the Francophonie undeniably rests on a cultural and emotional connection, it is also for our nation of an international tribune that represents an extraordinary lever to assert our interests, particularly in favor of democracy and Human rights - those of women, among others - as well as in terms of sustainable development, "continued Carole Poirier. 
Stéphane Bédard pointed out that Francophone countries currently account for 16% of world GDP. In addition, according to projections - which highlight the high population growth rates of all Francophone states, mainly on the African continent -, in only 35 years, the number of Francophone speakers will have almost tripled. "My colleagues and I will continue to advocate and act for a strengthening of the Francophone economic space, because we wish that the network we have built over the years within the Francophonie even more benefits entrepreneurs and Quebec experts, so that it contributes not only to our economic progress, but also to that of other Francophone countries, "he added. 
"The French language is today the fifth most spoken in the world. Following the adoption of the Integrated French Language Promotion Policy at the Kinshasa Summit in October 2012, it is a shared responsibility that we have with the other Member States of the Francophonie to make it flourish and Remove on the international scene, "concluded the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve. 
International Day of La Francophonie 
On March 20 was chosen to recall the creation in 1970 in Niger of the ancestor of the International Organization of La Francophonie or the Cultural and Technical Cooperation Agency. This event marked the beginning of the fruitful cooperation between the Francophone states of the world. 
Shows, film festivals, conferences, debates, literary meetings, gastronomic meetings, exhibitions and artistic events of all kinds are held everywhere around the world to celebrate the beauty of the French language. To learn more about events organized as part of the International Francophonie Day, visit www.20mars.francophonie.org. 
