Quebec - Chief of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, as well as the President of the National Executive Board of the Party, Raymond Archambault, and MPs Bernard Drainville (Marie-Victorin), Denis Trottier (Roberval) and Pascal Bérubé (Matane), presented Today the animation notebook of the next National Council to be held on 27, 28 and 29 January 2012. Under the theme "Change the policy", the Parti Québécois submits a dozen proposals to change the way of doing politics. 
"It is first of all to restore confidence in its institutions that we submit these proposals to the debate," said Pauline Marois, by making the observation that Quebeckers have become criticized against their representatives and their government. To change this perception, we have bold proposals to increase the participation of the population in democratic life and strengthen the role of our institutions. " 
"This unique exercise to which Quebec's members are invited is a first. Never has a political party have been so far in his desire to propose real changes. This will be an opportunity to discuss real solutions to change the policy. We also invite the entire Quebec population to think about these proposals because it is together that we will be able to change our ways to do and regain confidence, "she added. 
The proposals are grouped under three themes: governing transparently, the reform of the political regime and the electoral participation. They can be summed up as follows: 
- the establishment of an open and interactive government;  -The portrait of public finances six months before fixed date elections;  -The regular holding of public meetings by the deputies;  -The annual evaluation of the election commitments of the party in power;  -The encompassing government appointments;  -The referendums of popular initiative;  -A popular consultation on referendums;  Decentralization to strengthen the regions;  A chamber of regions;  -The creation of a commission on parliamentary and electoral institutions;  -The STUDY OF A UNINOMINAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM;  -The vote of students;  -The weight of the legal age to vote at 16 years old. 
"Bringing Quebec closer to decision centers in important sectors for their daily lives must be an element at the heart of new ways of doing things. The Quebec state is still highly centralized while every region of Quebec has its own reality. The direct involvement of citizens in a more efficient and responsible democratic organization, at the regional level, would allow regions to act more effectively in order to put in place the major state policies and to respond concretely to the needs and aspirations of the Citizens who live there, "explained Pauline Marois. 
"The members of the Parti Québécois have already adopted several integrity and trust proposals at the April 2011 National Congress," Raymond Archambault recalled. Measures binding on the financing of political parties are enrolled in the program whose limitation to 100 dollars as an annual donation to a political party and the establishment of fixed date elections. The Parti Québécois program also provides for strengthening national history education and citizenship education, two essential elements for promoting Quebecers' participation in collective life. " 
"Citizens feel that they are not well listened to and this leads to a loss of confidence in our institutions. The participation rate in general elections is down. This context promotes abuse of power in the democratic process and mine the credibility and reputation of elected officials that are resistant to collusion and corruption. In order to achieve the sovereignty of Quebec, we must restore confidence to Quebecers in their democratic institutions. The Parti Québécois is the only party that has the courage to present such muscular proposals to combat cynicism, "concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
The animation notebook is now submitted to the members of the National Council of the Parti Québécois who will have until January 19, 2012 to analyze and make their recommendations. The proposals will be debated at a National Council to be held in Montreal on 27th, 28th and 29th, 2012. 
