The Chief and Vice-Chauffe of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée and Véronique Hivon, as well as the candidates Dave Turcotte (Saint-Jean) and Nicolas Dionne (Iberville), presented the Quebecois Plan aimed at giving better services People living with intellectual disabilities (DI), a spectrum disorder (TSA) or a disability, and their loved ones. 
IN SHORT 
The Parti Québécois commits to: 
Jean-François Lisé first reminded the fight that the Quebecois party has alongside the parent group to the end, which militates that all children with disabilities obtain equity in terms of services, that their families be natural or reception. "Together, we strongly denounced Philippe Couillard's compassion deficit. The austerity that his government has imposed has had serious consequences for thousands of children and families. Today, I am very proud to present a credible and complete plan that will put in place a continuum of services and care up to the needs of people living with a disability, a DI or a TSA, their families, and Those and those who help them on a daily basis, "first declared the chef. 
First, the Parti Québécois is committed to reducing waiting times to obtain a diagnosis. "According to the testimony of several parents, the wait can go up to 12 or even 24 months in some areas where we lack resources and expertise. This is unacceptable! This is hardly better for the services themselves who, often, are inaccessible. To improve access to services and ensure early detection of a TSA, we will invest $ 30 million in the first year of our mandate and increase this $ 10 million each year. Eventually, therefore, additional $ 60 million will be devoted to resources and services related to TSA. And there will be so much money for the DI, "said Dave Turcotte. 
Then we will put in place a policy for caregivers. "We will guarantee them 8 hours of respite a week. We will thus recognize the value of their commitment, their work and the sacrifices to which they consent. We will also finance much better community organizations that support these caregivers and people living with a DI, a TSA or a disability themselves. The Parti Québécois undertakes to enhance the financing of the autonomous Community action agencies of all sectors of $ 200 million, recurring and cumulative, during the mandate. These groups will then be able to better accompany people, especially in terms of employment, housing, personal finances, etc. , "Added Vice-Cheffe, Véronique Hivon. 
"We will also cease to make a difference between the families who take care of a child living with a disability, depending on whether they are natural or reception. In the long term, we will invest $ 24 million to move towards equity of services in all regions. And each of these families will be able to count on professional services - respite, troubleshooting, guarding, information or psychological support. The parents we have encountered also claim more flexibility in the programs for them; With us, they will have it, "pursued Nicolas Dionne. 
The Parti Québécois also plans to improve home support. "We will invest $ 100 million a year, up to $ 500 million, in order to initiate a real turn of health and social services for people living with a disability, a DI or a TSA. Vulnerable people, who need care or support, must be able to get home. CHSLD will no longer be the only option; We privilege autonomy, and we will give people the means to apply this principle by simplifying and enhanceing the job-service check program, in particular. In the same way, we will ensure that the Régie du Housing monitors the rise in private residence rents, "said Véronique Hivon. 
"We need to take care of our world. This is one of the major challenges of this election campaign. The Quebec party has the right team, the good plan and, above all, a will of iron. With us, it will be finished, the compassion deficit ", concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
