Quebec- The member for Jonquière and official opposition spokesman in sustainable development and the environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, and the member for Marie-Victorin and spokesperson for energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, ask the Liberal government to stop the jobs of TransCanada with Gros-Cacouna immediately. 
The Parti Québécois regrets that the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment and Fighting Climate Change, David Heurtel, show so little coherence and caution in his assessment. "The energy project is disastrous for the environment. Allow geotechnical drilling in critical habitat for beluga survival, without accessing the best possible scientific information, it is already disturbing. Allow exploratory drilling in a Nature Reserve of the St. Lawrence with a unique biodiversity in the world for the possible passage of an oil pipeline, it becomes unlikely! Sylvain Gaudreault said. 
Last May, the Minister of the Environment has boasted, with his colleague Minister of Natural Resources, to present a "global, coherent, rigorous and integrated" vision in the government action plan on hydrocarbons. "The project is not paying for Quebeckers. We do not want our territory to become a simple highway to take out oil from the oil sands. What is the interest of Quebeckers in there? Especially see the environmental and security risks associated with the pipeline project, in exchange for economic benefits that are far from being convincing, "Bernard Drainville brought. 
Worse, the Minister of the Environment made three major admissions on this issue: 
The documentation of environmental impacts is currently insufficient to give a green light to any stage of the TransCanada project. Serious questions remain unanswered. 
A BAPE is needed if we want to work with rigor and out of inconsistent decisions and closed vas. 
In conclusion, the members of Jonquière and Marie-Victorin require: 
By resigning itself not to prevent the continuation of TransCanada's work in Gros-Cacouna, the Couillard government is demonstrating that Quebeckers are not masters of their territory, an unacceptable observation for the Quebecois party. On the contrary, it is up to us that the right to decide how to develop our economy, with respect for the environment. The government has a duty to enforce this right. 
