The Chief and Vice-Chauffe of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée and Véronique Hivon, as well as the candidates Sylvain Gaudreault (Jonquière), Jean-Martin Aussant (Pointe-aux-Trembles), Jonathan Cariro-Benoit (Gatineau), Yves DestroismAisons (Papineau), Blake Ippersiel (Chapleau), Marysa Nadeau (Hull) and Marie-Claire Nivolon (Pontiac), have launched a clear message to the federal government: a government of the Quebecois party will require the fair share of Quebec to put an end to a decade of economic injustice. 
IN SHORT 
"This morning we came to give notice to the federal government: we will no longer tolerate injustice. Quebec, from chandeliers, does not receive its fair share of federal spending. Annually, all accounts made, we are deficient by some $ 2.6 billion, the equivalent of about 14,000 jobs, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
Structuring investments, environment ... flagrant injustices 
"If we compare what the federal government has invested in the rock with what it has invested in Quebec, one can only be unpleasantly surprised. At the worst forest crisis in our history, the federal government was paying $ 13 billion in automotive investments in Ontario, compared to only a few hundred million millions for the forest in Quebec. To this was added $ 1 billion from the innovation fund for the automotive sector, totally distributed in Ontario, while Quebec contributed to this fund up to nearly $ 200 million. In addition, the Atlantic Provinces received $ 75 million to combat spruce budworm. Quebec? Zero dollar. And spruce, and torders, we certainly have as much as in Nova Scotia, "Véronique Hivon chained. 
Jean-Martin Aussant went with illustrations just as concrete. "In the naval shipyard file, Quebec undergoes the worst diversion of funds in its history. In 100 billion, in all fairness, our share is $ 20 billion. Where are our $ 20 billion, Mr. Trudeau? And what about $ 9.2 billion in loan guarantees that Ottawa has granted the Muskrat Falls project in Newfoundland, which directly competes with Hydro-Québec? Is not it an injustice patent? "He denounced. 
Sylvain Gaudreault then mentioned several environmental disputes that persist. "The federal government charges in Quebec $ 1 billion for the nationalization of Kinder Morgan's Pipeline in Western Canada. In addition, he authorized airport projects in Neuville and Mascouche, against the willingness of local authorities, concerned with protecting the environment. Quebec - including our innovative transportation companies - must also get its fair share of the innovation fund for the automotive sector. Similarly with respect to federal funds for the installation of rapid charging electrical terminals. And who tells us that the energy project is, which threatens 860 of our streams, will not possibly be restarted? , "He raised. 
"Under Philippe Couillard, Quebec has been in a position of great weakness against Ottawa. François Legault does not make the weight more in front of Trudeauists. Quebec's balance of power in Canada is never as strong as when the Parti Québécois is in power, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. For more information, click here. 
For our explanatory sheet, click here. 
