Bécancour - it is by visiting the cheesery the ancestor of Bécancour that the Prime Minister of Quebec and Head of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, is committed to tabling the federal government so that dairy and cheese producers from here be offset. For the impacts of a possible free trade agreement with the European Union. 
On this occasion, she was accompanied by the candidate of the Quebecois party in Rousseau and Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, candidate in Nicolet? Bécancour, Jean? René Dubois, and the candidate in Montarville, Simon Prévost. 
"Today we take a formal commitment to Quebec's dairy and cheese producers: we will ensure that the federal government meets its commitments. We are the only team that speaks of agriculture in this campaign. Liberal Chief Philippe Couillard has made no commitment to this major sector of our economy, "said Pauline Marois. 
"Quebec has obtained that a possible agreement protects our supply management system. However, the principle agreement with the European Union poses problems for the cheese industry. Thus, because we insisted, the federal government is committed to offsetting dairy and cheese producers that could be affected by increased imports. These measures should specifically agree on a quite long period of time for the increase in the import quota, and will need to maintain the income of dairy and cheese producers, "continued the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
In addition, the entry into force of this agreement will represent benefits for Quebec, including the elimination of tariffs on many products of interest, such as maple syrup. For meat producers, this agreement will allow access to the European market. Quebec, which is the world's largest exporter of pork, will therefore benefit from this access, while three slaughterhouses in Quebec are already certified by the European Union. 
With sapolitics of food sovereignty, the government of the Parti Québécois has endowed Quebec with a true agricultural policy, worthy of the 21st century. This recognizes the value and originality of Quebec products and highlights the know-how of Quebec artisans. Our policy will help agricultural producers continue to modernize to deal with the challenges of globalization. 
We have a plan and the team to succeed. Today, it's time to give us the means to go further. 
