Quebec, February 28, 2021 -The MP for Duplessis and spokesperson for Seniors, Lorraine Richard, as well as his colleague from the Madeleine Islands and Spokesperson for Health and Social Services, Joël Arseneau, consider that the government is disturbed by acquired that all seniors do not reside in CHSLD or RPP are able to move to receive the VVID-19 vaccine. According to them, it would be much simpler and logical to organize home vaccination for the most vulnerable. 
IN SHORT 
"This week in press conference, the Minister of Health, Christian Dubé, said that" the principle [for seniors wishing to be vaccinated] is to move "; Now, many of them have no capacity, no way to do it. Logically, it would rather be the vaccine to get to them, "said Lorraine Richard. 
The member argues that the community organizations, from which the government has required support, will not necessarily be able to meet the demand. "People who work within these organizations are certainly generous and dedicated but, often they are themselves elderly and volunteer. However, at no time did the minister mention that he intended to provide support, financial or otherwise. Do they ignore the immense logistical, technical and human challenges of moving an elder with a loss of autonomy to a vaccination center? She continued. 
"It's amazing that the government, which has been working for months to plan the vaccination operation, for example, has been the issue of distance, given the vast territory of Quebec. Or that despite the obviousness, he failed to consider that sometimes, the mere fact of moving a person puts his health or his safety at risk. For us, it is clear: some people must be vaccinated at home, whether they are old, with disabilities or with reduced mobility, "brought Joëne Arseneau. 
To those who would question such an approach, particularly because of the constraints related to the conservation of the Pfizer vaccine - although they have recently been lightened - the hon. Member responds that no obstacle is insurmountable. "In Switzerland, for example, home vaccination operations are organized for vulnerable people who can not move. Refrigerated boxes are used, time is rigorously controlled, and all actors collaborate effectively. The key is a meticulous planning upstream, and the use of good people, for example paramedics, "he added. 
"Since the beginning of the crisis, the government repeats that seniors must be protected as a priority, and no one has this evidence in question. However, it is not up to them to comply with expectations; It is up to the government to adapt to their reality. He must therefore review his strategy, "concluded Lorraine Richard. 
- 30 - 
SOURCE : 
Laura Chouinard-Thuly 
Press Officer 
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois 
514 880-9594 
Laura.c After i's -t care liquid @as is NAT. Second. Wipe 
