Quebec- The member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, attended yesterday the third States General States. homelessness in Quebec; Speaking, he reiterated the urgency of correcting the shooting to effectively fight against the phenomenon. 
"In February 2014, the Parior of the Parti Québécois had launched a policy to combat homelessness, and the initiative had been welcomed on all sides. Of course, it would have been desirable for everyone that the Government of Philippe Couillard resume the torch and continues in the direction traced but, surprisingly, it decided to change strategy. In fact, last December, the government launched an action plan to combat homelessness, but there is not associated with the necessary financial means. In addition, he poses inconsistent gestures with the orientations given. The result, today, is that the environment must deal with austerity measures that inevitably have an impact on the fight against homelessness, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
"In March, the Liberal government has not offered any resistance when the federal government imposed its vision on the fight against homelessness, which is limited to the" housing first? Thus, because of a Lack of political courage, the Quebec approach, which had proven itself, has been set aside. In addition, all the compressions imposed by the government of Philippe Couillard - in education, health, social assistance, housing, and I pass - are totally counterproductive, of course. In Montreal, by the summer, about fifty organizations will have lost their funding to combat homelessness; in Quebec City, it is Near about twenty on the steep rope. It must be remembered that ultimately, they are thousands at risk of roaming that lose the valuable support they could benefit before, "added the spokesman . 
In these circumstances, the efforts of Community groups and stakeholders who work out of vulnerable street people are particularly remarkable. "Every day, these women and men make miracles with limited resources; They deserve not only our gratitude, but also our support. I also thank the Network Solidarity Roaming Quebec, which organized these third States General; The exercise, mobilizing and inspiring, is more necessary than ever to effectively fight against homelessness, "concluded the member for Rosemont. 
