Quebec- The Parti Québécois vigorously denounces the attitude of the Liberal government, which refused this morning to discuss a motion asking the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment and the fight against climate change to hold a roaming BAPE The entire Energy oil pipeline project is TransCanada, including cocouna oil port. 
The official opposition spokesperson for energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, and the spokesperson for sustainable development and environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, say they are worried about the lack of listening and transparency shown by the Liberal government. 
"The Minister of the Environment does not seem to know about the environmental impacts of the TransCanada project, while elected officials, citizens, environmental groups, municipal unions and farmers claim in a single voice more transparency: in short. They want a minimum of respect and listening. The only legitimate organization in the eyes of people to perform independent and rigorous information and consultation work is BAPE, "said Bernard Drainville. 
"Would the Minister of the Environment be afraid to consult Quebeckers? The protection of agricultural lands, the consequences for beluga, the fight against climate change and the impacts of potential oil spills on communities are unavoidable issues. It is normal and just that Quebec applies its regulations and subject transCanada to its environmental assessment procedure, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"What we want is to document all the effects that this project will have on our local communities, as well as the economy of the tourism and fisheries sectors," said the members of the Official opposition from the regions of Bas-Saint-Laurent and the North Shore, Pascal Bérubé, Harold Lebel, Marjolan Dufour and Lorraine Richard. Note that the Marine Mammal Interpretation Center and the Saguenay-Saint-Laurent Marine Park of Tadoussac also have a negative opinion on the development project of a Cacouna oil port, due to the apprehended adverse effects on the Marine ecosystems. 
The Québécois party hopes that the Liberal government will announce the rapid outfit of a BAPE on the entire TransCanada pipeline project. Remember that the company wants to export the oil production of Western Canada to international markets and plans to build for this purpose a pipeline of nearly 1000 km on the territory of Quebec, in addition to setting up a petroleum port at Cacouna. 
