Montreal - It is with great sadness that the Parti Québécois and the members of his parliamentary wing have learned of the death of Mr. Pierre-Luc Paquette, former Director General of the Parti Québécois. This one turned out yesterday morning, in Montreal. He was 46 years old. 
"To be a general manager of a party like the Parti Québécois requires a great degree of commitment. We must be listening to the members, open spaces for discussion, offer training, work tirelessly to prepare the party and its activists with election deadlines, everywhere across Quebec. The years spent by Pierre-Luc at the head of the party will have been fertile and he always guided by the example. On behalf of the Québécois Party, I offer my deepest condolences to his son, his mother, his family and all the relatives of this tireless worker, "said Quebec's president, Raymond Archambault. 
The Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, recalled for his part the long journey of Mr Paquette's activist. "Pierre-Luc has militated many years to the Parti Québécois before taking the reins. From the Non-Charlottetown campaign in 1992 to the coordination of the National Committee of the Young People (CNJPQ), through the 1995 referendum and by the 1998 election campaign, it has always been in the first lodges, ready to Organize places and moments of exchange, to convince new people. If there was a militant gathering, no matter where in Quebec, you were sure to cross it. He loved the action and he welcomed the new challenges a smile on his lips, "he said. 
Beyond its militant activities, Pierre-Luc was also a friend who leaves in mourning all those who have had the pleasure of crossing his way. 
"Pierre-Luc, it's the sincere guy who has always welcomed me with generosity, who made discover dozens of restaurants from the plateau to the Saguenay guy that I am. I can hardly imagine it will no longer be there to unwind me a bixi or to take me to discover a new table. Thank you for all, Pierre-Luc, "concluded the member for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault. 
