"Today, I work with friends. » 
Thus, at the end of its two-month internship at the Parti Québécois, Lucas Medernach, a 21-year-old French one registered with the mastery in communications at UQAM, describes its passage among us. An experience he calls incredible both humanly and professionally. 
Having started his internship in early May, just 2 days after the resignation of Pierre-Karl Péladeau, Lucas arrived at a quite special time for the party. There was still a lot of emotion in the air, but his new colleagues immediately implemented him. During his passage, he touched all aspects of communication: Facebook and Twitter community management, writing of banknotes for blog, press events, fundraising campaign - and even a little sound engineering! 
Lucas was very surprised to see the spirit of mutual aid that reigned at the permanence and to see how much the hierarchy was absent from the reports to the team, that everyone was working together to achieve goals common. 
He was not at his first incursion into the political world. In France, he had already worked with the Prime Minister, with a trainee collective, in preparation for COP21 communications, the 2015 Climate Paris Conference. 
But what he discovered to the Parti Québécois is far from everything he could live early in France. He tells that he arrived at the first day of his internship at 1200 Papineau virtually complete-tie. Let's say he would love a little! He was then explained that what mattered to the party was that the work is well done. For him, it was already a difference! 
What also struck it is the place given to activists in the Quebecois party. These are not used to bring funding and arms, but they actually influence the party's guideline. Critics and requests are really taken into account. 
"The party, it's militants. » 
Lucas, who comes from the French Basque Country and thus found a certain resonance to the Quebec party to the idea of independence that animates his people, finds very beautiful the idea of putting a Quebec country from the front on the international scene, to make it a banner of the Francophonie in North America. 
But he appreciated his experience at the Parti Québécois and the passion with which people work there - a culture of political commitment for which there is absolutely no equivalent in France - that it seriously thinks of investing as activist in the party on his return from France in September. 
Lucas Medernach can now say, as every one of those he has crossed on his way during the last two months, that he has his own story having led him to support the Quebecois party, and that it is now part of our big family. 
Welcome Lucas, and good luck! 
You also want to do your internship while participating in the advancement of Quebec? Check out our internship and job offers. -> http://pq.org/emploi/ 
