Quebec - The National Assembly will have to vote on a motion filed by the Parti Québécois to recall the importance it gives the principle of accessibility to higher education. 
"The increase in tuition fees decreed by the Liberal government is abusive and unacceptable. It will be a major brake to thousands of students who wish to obtain a degree that will lead them to the labor market. It is all Quebec that will be weakened by this increase, "said the member for Taillon and the official opposition spokesman for higher education, loans and scholarships, research, technology and innovation. Marie Malavoy. 
The member denounces the lack of courage from the Liberal government that prefers to shove the financial problems of universities in the Student Court. "In recent months, we have all witnessed extravagant spending and bonuses of several university leaders. Although Minister Beauchamp denounced these practices, she does nothing to punish them and wants to charge students for these bad decisions, "she added. 
For its part, the member for Terrebonne and the official opposition spokesman for youth and student affairs, Mathieu Traversy, believes that the draconian rise in tuition fees is unfair for the current generation. "The minister continues to repeat that students will pay their fair share while they charge the decisions taken over the past 43 years. I do not call on a fair share, but rather an unfair part, it's a $ 1625 over five years that will have negative consequences for many young people. We can not let that, the government must back, "required Mathieu Traversy. 
The Parti Québécois considers that the financial challenges of universities are not only the responsibility of the students, but from the whole society. "We have an obligation as a society to provide better accessibility to graduate studies and it is not by imposing an increase in tuition fees of $ 325 per year for five years that we will achieve it. The government must come back to its decision, "said Mary Mary Malavoy. 
The members of the National Assembly will therefore have to decide on Wednesday, November 9, on the following motion, at the end of a debate that will take place between 15h and 17h: 
