Quebec, March 8, 2017- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the spokesman for the Parti Québécois in the field of women's status, Mireille Jean, highlight the International Women's Day, who stands this year In Quebec under the theme "Equality without limits". 
"Today, we celebrate women, their struggles, their aspirations, their achievements. We remember the importance of their presence in all the spheres of society, as well as the need to reach parity, putting it efforts. We reaffirm our desire to see women, all women in the world, flourish in a respectful, security and egalitarian environment, "said Jean François Lisée immediately. 
"In recent times, unfortunately, the news reminded us how much women's achievements remain fragile - think only about Aboriginal women. Sustained efforts and vigilance are therefore essential and, in any case, "denounce" is the key word. Indeed, everyone has the duty to denounce abuse or injustice; Silence is equivalent to bringing back the cause of equality between men and women, "added Mirelle Jean. 
"In order for Québec to continue to move forward, the elected officials of all the political formations must set the example, continued the spokesperson. At the Parti Québécois, we will strive, among other things, to reach an area of parity in our applications. And our government will be joint. In addition, since last year, we have had two significant amendments for women: one of them aims to ensure a safe perimeter around abortion clinics, and the other granted to municipal elected officials Parental 18 weeks. » 
Meanwhile, the government seems resigned to wait for things to move themselves. "The Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Lise Thériault, had promised, almost a year ago to legislate on gender parity. We are still waiting. Then yesterday, the Prime Minister refused to meet the members of the collective March 8. I look good, I can not find any valid argument that can support this decision. And what about the necessary back of sex education courses? The Parti Québécois will closely monitor the situation; Women can count on us, "said Mireille Jean. 
"The International Women's Day, in addition to providing an individual and collective reflection on the notion of equality, also leads us to remember all those who preceded us and, by their fighting, their courage and will, have able to advance Quebec society. Thank them and give them homage, "concluded Jean François Lisée. 
