Quebec- The hon. Member for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, transmits his warm congratulations to the 18 Quebec personalities recipients of the Order of the Pleiade. In particular, he stresses the tributes thus returned to Ms. Pauline Marois, Prime Minister of Quebec, to the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and the official opposition for the international relations and Francophonie, Carole Poirier, at the Former Member for Chambly, former Minister of Justice and Ex-Attorney General, Bertrand St-Arnaud, as well as the former MP for Dubuc and formerly delegated minister, Jacques Côté. 
"The 18 people honored today come from very different backgrounds. Each, in its own way, represents the values of the Francophonie. These women and men have shown francophone and Quebec culture around the world. On behalf of the Quebec Party team, I call them congratulations, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
The leader of the official opposition emphasized the commitment of Mrs Marois and Poirier and MM. St-Arnaud and side - Besides, the first received the highest distinction of the order, the grade of Grand Cross, while its three former colleagues are decorated with the rank of Chevalier. "Throughout his political career, Pauline Marois has made a duty to promote the French language and Quebec culture; She was very proud of it, placed them at the heart of her action and has always honored them. The international influence of French has always been a priority for it. Same thing for my colleague Carole Poirier; As part of its duties as Vice-President of the Quebec Section of the Parliamentary Assembly of La Francophonie, in particular, it represents worthily of Quebeckers on international forums and contributes to the valorization of Francophone parliaments. Its many positions for respect for rights, especially those of women, also deserve to be emphasized, for their accuracy and relevance. As for Bertrand St-Arnaud and Jacques Côté, I want to emphasize their career and political background, exemplary in terms of cooperation, solidarity and democracy. These values, they share them with the other recipients of the Order of the Pleiade, and it is with an exceptional dedication that they have always defended them, in the name of their acute sense of justice, "A-T -he adds. 
The Pleiade, Order of the Francophonie and the Dialogue of Cultures, was created in 1976 and aims to honor personalities who are distinguished in their defense of the ideals of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Francophonie, the democracy, the rule of law , respect for human rights, the international influence of the French language and cultural diversity. 
