Quebec, April 17, 2020 - The member for Gaspé and spokesman for the Culture, Megan Perry Melançon, asks the Minister of Culture, Nathalie Roy, to clearly indicate what it intends to do to support Culture, this important sector of the Quebec economy, and ensure its recovery. "Many options can be considered, and you have to do quick! She insisted. 
IN SHORT 
The cultural industry was one of the first affected by the CVIV-19 crisis. Like other sectors of activity and the population, it has participated actively and voluntarily to collective efforts to reduce the spread of the virus, but it remains unquestricted for the future. "The many representatives of the Quebec cultural community with which I have been talking lately want to move forward, revive their activities, save what they can of the summer season 2020. But they have no match plan. Cultural organizations, including festivals, do not even know if their subsidies will be renewed, if their losses will be offset. In addition, if a prolonged closure of the showrooms is envisaged, emergency help for broadcasters will have to be deployed, especially the smallest. The government must formally commit to ensuring their financial health, despite the loss of their spring season and at least a good part of their summer season, "said Megan Perry Melançon. 
"At the Parti Québécois, we want to be constructive, and we have a track of solution to propose. For example, several speakers talked about launching a national cultural local purchasing campaign, in the same spirit as "the blue basket", which would allow Quebeckers to keep abreast of the cultural offer that remains, and from enjoy. It's an idea that you have to promote! Certainly, the government must demonstrate leadership for the moment, cultural activities can resume quickly, "continued the member for Gaspé. 
The culture environment represents about 4% of the Quebec economy and directly employs some 200,000 people. A true economic engine, its activities have major benefits on several other sectors, including tourism, restoration, trade in general, transport companies and equipment ... Still, the government has so far sent no signal into his direction. "It's more than time that the Minister of Culture is for community workers, to reassure them," concluded Megan Perry Melançon. 
