Montreal- The member for Jonquière and Leader of the Official Opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, the member for Joliette and spokesperson for the Quebecois party and for issues related to the fight against homophobia, Véronique Hivon, as well as The hon. Member for Rimouski and spokesperson for seniors and fighting against bullying, Harold Lebel, are proud to announce that the Parti Québécois adheres to the Charter of Benefit Against Elderly Lesbian, Gaies, Bisexual and Transidentary, initiated by the Emergence Foundation. 
They signed the Charter with Claude Leblond, President of the Emergence Foundation, Jean Lalonde, President of the Seniors and Retirement Association of the Community, Christian Tanguay, Director General of the LGBTQ + Community Center of Montreal, and Michel St -Cyr, general manager of housing crossing. 
"We must continue our commitment to moving towards a more just and egalitarian society. And the major gains made in recent decades must benefit the entire LGBT community, including seniors, who are still too numerous to carry the marks left by years of discrimination, suffering from solitude and isolation. By joining the Charter of Benefit Against Elderly LGBT, the Quebec party reiterates its commitment to help seniors of sexual minorities reduce their vulnerability, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"Pride, solidarity, compassion and inclusion remain empty words if they are not accompanied by concrete measures and gestures. Together, we have made significant progress, especially for trans children. But we must continue efforts. Last year, for example, we denounced the government cut of $ 1 million that resulted in the annulment of the second awareness campaign to combat homophobia, despite the very conclusive results of the first campaign of the genre. In 2013. Stakeholder awareness is a crucial element for care and services to be properly provided everywhere, early childhood to the care of seniors, through every stage of life. The second campaign must be discount on the rails, "added Véronique Hivon. 
"It is essential to support seniors LGBT, to offer them a healthy and welcoming living environment, just as we need to make residence staff aware of the particular reality of LGBT seniors. Also have a special thought for seniors suffering from isolation, especially if they live out of urban centers, "says Harold Lebel for his part. 
"Our nation has managed to build an open and inclusive society. A society that has heart and who takes care of his world. It is a success that we can be proud. This precious heritage also belongs to the seniors of the LGBT community, who must benefit in the same way as all Quebeckers and Quebeckers, "concluded the official opposition. 
