Quebec -The Parti Québécois wants to force the Liberal government to commit and introduce a bill in the National Assembly before mid-June to increase the role of pharmacists in the Quebec health system. 
"Pharmacists are health professionals, but currently underutilized. Distributed in 1700 points of service, they are 5200 to offer a local service anywhere in the territory. It is time to provoke the debate and that it takes place in face discovered. By filing a bill, we will be able to overcome the resistance and demonstrate that in Quebec, we have the desire to make our health system more efficient, "said the member for Taschereau and spokesman for the opposition. official in health, Agnès Maltese. 
She recalls that in Alberta, British Columbia, New Brunswick and Ontario, pharmacists can prolong, renew and sometimes under certain conditions, prescribing drugs. "We do not need to reinvent the wheel: are we inspiring what is happening elsewhere to adapt it to our reality," Mrs Maltais said. 
Recalling that one in four Quebecers does not have a family doctor, the member for Taschereau emphasizes the need to innovate to disengorge the first line. "It is useless to split in four to find solutions. They exist but you have to have the courage to apply them, "added Agnès Maltais. 
For its part, the member for Mirabel and the official opposition spokeswoman in the field of professional laws, Denise Beaudoin believes that with the filing of a bill, the professional orders will have the duty to explain. "Currently, the discussions seem, it seems, but behind closed doors. We must trust citizens and open the doors of this debate. Do not lose sight of the essentials: we need, as legislators, to promote the sharing of skills between health professionals to relieve our public health network, "said Denise Beaudoin. 
A Motion A Doncté Donpt at the National Assemblée AFIN OF FORTENT STRUUTES LIABUTURES TO SE PRORNONCER SOLUTION SOLUTION. Cette Motion If A AERI LIT: 
"That the National Assembly of Quebec requires the Liberal government the presentation by 10 June 2011 of a bill that will allow pharmacists to exercise new responsibilities to improve the quality and effectiveness of care. to the population, including: prolonging certain orders that are no longer renewable according to specific criteria; adapt a prescription when the situation requires it; contribute to the resolution of certain simple health problems, including benign infections; request certain laboratory tests to monitor the safety of treatment use; Administer some medications. 
"With this motion, we will be able to debate serenely to the National Assembly of an effective solution to improve the Quebec health system. Finally, we will be able to check whether the government's willingness to increase the role of pharmacists is real or simply virtual, "Agnès Maltais concluded. 
