Quebec, October 18, 2016 -The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the coordinating spokesman of the Quebec Regions team, Sylvain Gaudreault, denounce the damage caused by the Liberal government in the regions of Quebec , which are the result of its toxic austerity policies, its dogmatism and its short vision. 
"The disappearance of the many development and support tools, including local development centers, which increased from 120 to only 48, is inadmissible. Beyond $ 40 million that are no longer available to support our entrepreneurs, it is the expertise and valuable advice of 3000 volunteer mentors, most often established entrepreneurs, who have been striped at once. However, what is most important for a young person who starts in business, it is the support of a person who has already passed by and who has succeeded, "said Jean François Lisée. 
"The Prime Minister has put the ax in several programs that stimulated the regional development by saying that there would be no consequences. We now know that this is wrong. Even worse, the Prime Minister has no idea of the actual effect of his harmful decisions about the regions; It can not even say how many companies were supported last year by the structures that replace CLDs; At the time, more than 2,000 were supported by CLDs each year in their creation, consolidation and expansion. No figures, either, about all those who have not had access to the support of volunteer mentor entrepreneurs that the Liberal Party has dismissed. The Prime Minister has misled the regions, and he continues to say that there is no problem, "continued the leader of the official opposition. 
The Parti Québécois believes that a strong Quebec goes through the vitality of its regions. He has always done and today makes the choice to defend the regions. "The Prime Minister has chosen not to appoint minister responsible for the regions. Two elected representatives of Montreal monitor by far what needs to be taken seriously. Nobody understands this choice. Difficult not to believe that Philippe Couillard has abandoned this question yet essential. Mr. Lisée has appointed me Coordinator of the Regions team, and I have the mandate to reach out to entrepreneurs and decision-makers from across Quebec. We will be the allies of all the regions of Quebec, "said Sylvain Gaudreault on his side. 
