The Leader and Vice-Chauffe of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée and Véronique Hivon, "accompanied" by Paul St-Pierre Plamondon, candidate of the Parti Québécois in Prévost, presented the Party Party plan to improve work-life conciliation personal; This involves teleworking. 
IN SHORT 
"Since the beginning of the campaign, we multiply the proposals to give more time to families. Today, we focus on technological tools to facilitate the reconciliation between professional life and personal life. In 2018, these are sufficiently efficient so that you can trust without the performance. Our goal is that there is 200,000 more teleworkers in Quebec by 2025, "announced Jean-François Lisée. 
According to the CIRANO study, the savings carried out by a worker making two days of teleworking per week are estimated between $ 600 and $ 3500 annually. For the company, savings can reach $ 10,000. 
"To get there, we must obviously accompany SMEs, employers. That's why we will put in place, for the first year, a tax credit that will help them to implement teleworking when employee tasks permit. To show the example, the state will promote teleworking; We believe that in some Crown corporations and in the public service, several people could telecommute at least one day per week, "chained Paul St-Pierre Plamondon. 
"We will allow Quebeckers to have more time for them and for their loved ones. In addition, by limiting travel, road congestion and GHG emissions are reduced. Depending on the number of teleworking days carried out, this measure will remove from 14,000 to 35,000 road cars every day, which corresponds to between 16,000 and 40,000 tons of GHGs a year. Recall that in Greater Montreal, a worker can spend the equivalent of a week in his car, every year, only for backwards between his home and his office! The time has come to rethink our ways to do. The Parti Québécois offers a bouquet of concrete measures that actually go in this direction, "Véronique Hivon concluded. 
For our explanatory sheet, click here. 
