At the age of 8, I was watching TV with my father. We witnessed the victory of Lionel Jospin in France to the legislative officers of 1997. It is from there that my passion comes to me for politics. The atmosphere of hope that emerged definitely marked me. I recognized myself, while, like all 8-year-old children, I had better to do, for example play football or watch cartoons. My father pushed me to interest me to the public and, since then, I want to devote it to full time. 
Hope for society, see young people who can build a future through politics as a factor of change, that's what hung me in this victory. Since then, I have been looking for political leaders who work to affect people's demands, discuss the issues of the city, aspire to concrete policies to solve these problems. 
African policy is violent. In Senegal, from which I come from, politics is not interested in the interests of citizens. It works by insults and we never think about the poorest layers of the population. There is no long-term vision. 
This is the kind of political climate that grows to cynicism. One wonders: how to stay motivated and interested in the public? Socially speaking, I was privileged. I had good education, in a loving family. But people who are busy surviving do not have time to take an interest in the decisions of politicians who are taking on their backs. 
After the bac, in Senegal, I bathed in the uncertainty about the academic sector to choose. One day, I was told about public relations and communications, and I enjoyed it. To acquire superior expertise, I decided to apply to Laval University in Quebec City. When I had to say goodbye to my family and my friends, it was very difficult. I did not know if I was going to see them again. My grandmother gave me several tips before leaving, and she reminded me how much I had to those I left behind and who were so sacrificed for me. It gave me a very strong source of motivation. Thinking of all these people, I knew I could not fail in my new adventure and I was going to give everything, despite the pitfalls! 
Arriving in Quebec, I took the bus from Montreal to the capital and, already, I fell in love with this landscape that I saw for the first time. I really realized the whole luck I had to land in this beautiful country. 
At my first university course, I arrived late. When I enter the class, everyone looks at me, because I am the only black. I had to present myself in front of everyone, while I had difficulty breathing so much I was nervous. Fortunately, all my comrades were friendly and I was welcomed. Throughout my academic career, I felt at home in Quebec City. We feel that this city is more than the capital of a province. We feel it's a national capital! 
During my move to Montreal, I met a lady of a certain age. While she did not know me, she decided to refuse prejudices and let me a chance. She offered me to host me the time my city situation stabilizes. For two weeks, I lived at home and she took care of me like a mother with her son. We are always in touch and I will never forget what she did for me. It was through her that I knew the Quebecois party. She told me about independence in a truly renewed and positive way. 
On the occasion of the commemorations for the victims of the attack of the Quebec mosque, I saw Jean-François Lisée contact the crowd. I was very touched by the wave of support that the whole of Quebec society sent to the Muslim community, which I am part of. This tragic event also pushed people to be solidarity and reaffirm their love for Quebec open that we know. 
When I had the opportunity, subsequently, to do an internship in political communication at the Parti Québécois permanence, I was able to demolish the preconceived ideas between some immigrants to the Party. I discovered an open party, welcoming, where everyone dedicated to the success of a larger project than Nature: Make Quebec a country. 
Above all, I believe in the Parti Québécois program. A strong, progressive, environmental program, open on diversity and in which the defense of the French language is a priority. It's a program that really seeks to improve people's lives! Some time after I read it, I was offered to become a member and take my party card. I did not hesitate, and that's how I was able to start my militant commitment. I already feel Quebec, even if I still have a lot to learn and that I do not have my nationality. I like the way the policy is practiced here because I see the members of the Quebecois Party to do it close to citizens, without pedestal, and remaining authentic. 
I have a message for young people of my generation: I know many do not believe in politics as a tool to change things. I tell them: Emphasize yourself! We are the succession, we have a duty to take our destiny and mobilize to do so. If you do not see how much the policy has an impact on your everyday life is that you close your eyes. 
For example, let's take the question of the environment. If young people in Quebec want to slow down climate change, it takes more than changes in habits. It takes political changes, and it can not be completely possible without having made the independence of Quebec, since we still leave Ottawa too much of our powers. Canada is still part of global polluters, such as the United States and China. Young people want something else for Quebec? Yes, then they have to take in hand and become aware of the political offer of the different parties. They will see that their political house is in the Parti Québécois. 
I am talking about sovereignty, I am of Senegalese origin and the "Y" generation. This is my testimony for a Quebecois party full of ambitions! 
