Quebec, on May 3, 2020 - inspired by the questions that citizens are addressed to them from all over Quebec, as well as points that their colleagues from the caucus, the member for Matane-Matapédia and parliamentary leader of the Parti Quebec, Pascal Bérubé, so That the member of the Madeleine Islands and Healthy Spokesperson, Joël Arseneau, want to make some suggestions to the government for the future. 
IN SHORT 
Pascal Bérubé is categorical: the current crisis being exceptional, it requires exceptional measures. "My colleagues and I can testify: the population is very worried and has many questions. As a result, the information they are intended to be more complete, more transparent and easier accessible than ever, "he mentioned game entry. 
It therefore expresses the wish until the beginning of the month, the government makes its projections public, as it did on April 7th. "The exercise was very much appreciated by the public. These are certainly only forecasts, but it nevertheless makes it possible to get a clearer idea of the situation, to know where we are. It's important to keep people on the spot, if we want their membership, "said the parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois. 
In the same vein, the member for the Islands-de-la-Madeleine relates the comments of researchers, who reported a short miscarriage of data about the pandemic. "These experts claim access to raw data, for example to the demographic profile of infected and hospitalized persons, the virus reproductive rate indicator, or the number of deaths since the beginning of the year, all causes confounded. They say that this information would allow them to better understand the pandemic and its evolution, among other things outside CHSLD, and to further advise the government in the development of public policies. If we want to succeed in deconformation, it is fundamental, "he insisted. With this in mind, Joël Arseneau also believes that the government must clearly indicate how many screening tests are carried out in each administrative region. "It's the most significant, the most eloquent, and we find it anywhere," he lamented. 
