Quebec, on 19 August 2019 - the theme of Equalization gives rise to many debates and as many interpretations, the member for Matane-Matapédia and parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois, Pascal Bérubé, wishes to put the clocks back. 'Time: Quebec is far from being "dependent" from Canada, as many - in particular Alberta Prime Minister Jason Kenney - like to make him believe. 
IN SHORT 
"It's important to denounce Jason Kenney's attitude and comments. It only tries to get political capital; In his scenario, Quebeckers are the spoiled children of the Federation and the Albertans, who we abuse along with. Now, saying this is to omit, voluntarily or not, important pages of history, "said Pascal Bérubé. 
Indeed, Prime Minister Kenney, which allows himself to correct his québécois counterpart with arrogance, is careful not to mention that originally, equalization has been created to avoid a situation like that experienced by Alberta in The 1930s - she was in default of payment. Since then, this province has been enriched, but especially thanks to oil-related investments, funded, among others by Quebeckers' money. 
"Quebec does not benefit from Canada or the Equalization Program, pursued Pascal Bérubé. On the contrary, he contributes his fair share, without yet obtaining counterpart. Where are the millions that Ottawa should pay us to finance health care? Investments for our forestry industry? Where are the substantial maritime contracts for Davie? Nowhere. Let us also remember that the federal government has financially supported Western oil, hydropower in Newfoundland, the automotive industry in Ontario, and then I go, while the development of Hydro-Québec has been funded. 100% by Quebeckers. On the net, so Quebec is clearly losing. » 
"The nationalists and independentists know that Quebec would benefit better if it became independent. Thus, we will control 100% of our taxes, instead of sending a game to Ottawa. No one could - falsely! - We accuse us to receive the Charity of the Federal. Moreover, this has been demonstrated repeatedly: without the duplication of federalism, Quebec would largely have the means to be sovereign. In short, independence has only virtues; I invite Mr. Kenney to consider this avenue, too, if he is not satisfied with the Federation! , "Added the parliamentary manager. 
