Quebec, on May 11, 2020 - for the sake of transparency and precision, and for the benefit of the entire population of Quebec, the member for Matane-Matapédia and parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois, Pascal Bérubé, as well as the hon. Member for Islands-de-la-Magdalene and health spokesperson, Joël Arseneau, want a clear line to be drawn between politics and public health, particularly to preserve the independence of the policy. 
IN SHORT 
Since the beginning of the crisis, the Prime Minister mentions that his government is based on public health experts to determine the scales and calendar of deconformation. However, in recent days, the joint press points of political power and public health have led a lot of confusion. "It is increasingly difficult to determine the extent to which the government relays public health recommendations, and if it agrees with the decommissioning strategy adopted, while the situation continues to deteriorate in Montreal. . For Quebeckers to be able to get a clear idea, both entities should no longer share the same tribune. For us, this distancing would have the advantage of preserving the necessary independence of public health. It's always the policy that decides. Public health is a guideline, "said the parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois. 
His colleague from the Madeleine Islands also considers that the population would be a winner if public health - whose principal mandate is to determine, based on science, the safest way to follow - distinctly indicated its recommendations . "In times of deconformation, everything must be implemented to ensure the health and safety of workers and citizens in general; It then becomes fundamental to know the share of the decisions that falls under the opinion of the experts, and the one that is rather the government. Citizens should be able to know if the public health recommendations are followed by the letter, or if there is still work to meet the objectives. Currently, only the Prime Minister witnesses public health reserves. But the latter is indebted to all Quebeckers, not only to the government. Obviously, this exercise is only possible if the press briefs are kept distinctly, "said Joël Arseneau. 
"The stakes related to the pandemic are great and of concern. Quebeckers are worried. It is more than anything that the government is in harmony with the experts, and that public health can say what it wants, when it wants, "concluded Pascal Bérubé. 
