The spokesman of the Parti Québécois in the field of agriculture and food, André Villeneuve, the candidate in the riding of Saint-Hyacinthe, Daniel Breton, and the candidate in the riding of Johnson, Jacques Tétreault, undertake to That a government of the Parti Québécois puts in place a process of pre-authorization of projects at agricultural financial financial. Such a process will allow succession producers to avoid many of the current pitfalls for the acquisition of a land to realize their dreams. 
Nevralgic for succession, access to land is often difficult because of market conditions. Even by abstracting their high value, lands are often difficult to buy because of significant deadlines to be accepted for funding. 
Innovative agricultural commitment 
"Often, the coveted land is sold to a deep pocket speculator that can pay immediately rather than the potential succession that must see its funding approved, several weeks, or even several months later, before signing the final sale. Under a government of the Parti Québécois, agricultural financial financial will put in place a process of pre-authorization of projects without the land already attached. The project being pre-approved, the succession farmer can find a land that suits him and file a purchase offer. Financial will then have a maximum of 7 days to give final approval to funding. This is one of the innovative elements that the Parti Québécois platform in agriculture will be unveiled little by little by the next election campaign, "said André Villeneuve. 
"Thus, the dreams of the succession farmers can no longer be blocked by administrative harassment. A young farmer will be able to set up his project, to preapprove it, and then put in search of a proper land without having to worry about the authorization of his project. With the systematic pre-authorization, the agricultural succession will have better opportunities to prosper and add its dynamism to the Quebec economy, "added Daniel Breton. 
Remember that the leader of the Quebecois party, Jeanfrançois listed, had already committed to modernize the investment fund for the agricultural succession, FIRA, and make it FIRA +. "By transforming FIRA, the succession can benefit from a FIRA +, more accessible, more generous and bolder. The prosperity of agriculture can be measured by the current state of its succession, and with the Parti Québécois, the agricultural succession will have all the tools to prosper, "concluded Jacques Tétreault. 
