Quebec, on March 22, 2017- On the occasion of World Water Day, the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois on the environment and the fight against climate change, Sylvain Gaudreault, unveiled the new proposals of the Official opposition with respect to water, common heritage of Quebeckers. 
For a year, the Parti Québécois intervened several times and made many water proposals, particularly to ensure the protection of the Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence River, but also as to the presence of pesticides in our rivers, wastewater spills and water governance. Today, he presents three proposals for this year's theme, wastewater, as well as pesticides and public awareness: 
Producing a reliable portrait of the evolution of the situation of wastewater spills, keeping at the disposal of departments, watershed organizations, researchers and the general public information on monitoring the performance of municipal books sanitation of waters; 
Reducing the use of the most dangerous pesticides, through legislative and regulatory amendments, as well as by the addition of economic incentives with efforts to inform and raise awareness of agricultural producers; 
"I am proud to belong to a party that has the defense of water in its DNA, including contributing to the launch of the water consolidation program in 1978 and the national water policy in 2002 "Wanted to mention the member for Jonquière. 
This one also emphasized the lively concern of the Parti Québécois compared to the budget cuts imposed by the Trump administration in the Great Lakes Restoration Program. "For decades, on both sides of the border, great things have been accomplished to protect the Great Lakes ecosystem, with Ricochet that of the St. Lawrence River. The disengagement of the US government will inevitably have serious consequences, "he lamented. 
Finally, the Parti Québécois regrets that for its part, the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment and the Fight against Climate Change, David Heurtel, demonstrate sole inertia in water-related records. Here are some examples: 
• no sustainable solution to reduce municipal wastewater spills from the episode of the City of Montreal Flushgate;  • removing multiple engineering positions and wastewater sanitation assigned to municipal books;  • significant decrease in the number of annual inspections in the water field;  • No law on the conservation of wetland and water media;  • loss of control of the sale and use of pesticides, and no law concerning them;  • Blessing of the Government of Quebec to the dangerous previous created by the Great Lakes Water Transfer Project by the City of Waukesha, Wisconsin;  • No expanded consultation for the 2017-2032 Quebec Water Strategy. 
