Québec- The spokesperson for the Quebecois Health, Care and Home Care Party, Diane Lamarre, as well as the President of the Interprofessional Health Federation (FIQ), Régine Laurent, and Vice- Nursing Speaker at the FIQ Union of Abitibi-Témiscamingue, Nancy Moore, have denounced the adverse effects of health cuts for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region. 
"I tabled this morning a petition that testifies to the vast citizen mobilization that took place in recent months in Abitibi-Témiscamingue. Remember that the Liberal government has announced, without consultation, the closure of eight mental health beds in the region, and that it is thanks to the citizen mobilization that this measure has been put on the ice. Not to mention that the 70 million promised when filing the mental health action plan is always expected; Yet, needs translate each day through serious and urgent situations. In mental health, the proximity of care is decisive for success or failure, security or dangerousness, "supported Diane Lamarre. 
For the FIQ as for the Parti Québécois, it is urgent that the liberal cuts cease in the health network. "The Liberal government is destroying the health network. Contrary to what Minister Gaétan Barrette says, his government's compressions affect the services and care for patients, and undermine the safety of care professionals. What we see at Saarland, we see it everywhere in Quebec. What the Protector of the Citizen observes in his latest report, we suffer it daily, "said Réguine Laurent. 
"Barrette reform is a catastrophe for a region like Abitibi-Témiscamingue. Establishment mergers away from the services of the population. It is clear that with more than 9000 signatories, people feel concerned and want to be heard when it comes to transforming the network. The Minister is used to put in place consultation mechanisms, such as the population forums provided for by law 10. He must hear the people of our region, "says Nancy Moore. 
"Several questions remain unanswered about maintaining mental health services in Abitibi-Témiscamingue, and citizens are worried - with reason. I greet their vigilance and mobilization, and I ask the Minister of Health to cease the cuts, to reinvest in health and give the necessary guarantees to ensure that all care and services in the region be maintained ", concluded Diane Lamarre. 
