Quebec- The member for Lac-Saint-Jean and spokesman for the Parti Quebec in education, research and school perseverance, Alexandre Cloutier, denounces the fact that the Liberal government has completely abandoned the regional organizations whose mission is to fight against school dropout. 
Indeed, of the 20 regional consultation bodies on school perseverance and educational success, almost half have practically ceased their activities, while others are in survival mode. "How can the Prime Minister Philippe Couillard accept that organizations that coordinate the action against school dropout disappear, while all agree that this must be a priority for Quebec? Asked Alexander Cloutier. 
The mission of the regional bodies of consultation are to bring together the social actors of a region around the same table to develop a strategy to tackle the dropout, especially in the environments where the success rate is lower. Their funding was up recently by the Youth Secretariat, elected regional conferences, regional youth forums, school boards, CEGEPs and universities, organizations that were either abolished or affected by government cuts. . 
"The Liberal government is deconstructing the efforts of the regions that have taken place in order to increase the success of our young people. It must immediately announce that it will unlock the funding necessary to ensure the survival of the 20 regional consultation bodies, "continued the member for Lac-Saint-Jean. 
Decline of 20 years in education 
This regrettable situation adds to the difficulties caused by the cuts that directly affect the services to students in public schools in Quebec. In this period of school, hundreds of specialist positions are abolished throughout Quebec. Specialized classes for special needs are also closed by dozens. 
"This government has no long-term vision. For him, education is only a column of numbers. As evidence, remember that the Liberal Party intends to increase the number of students per class, not to take into account the special needs of students in difficulty in the calculation of master-student ratios, and to abolish more than 2000 teaching-orthopedagogue and resource teacher positions. It would be a 20-year decline for Quebec in education! "Admitted Alexandre Cloutier. 
