Laval - Québec Prime Minister and Leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, has today unveiled its commitments to facilitate access to services and health care throughout Quebec. "All our commitments are aiming for a mere objective: that the patient is the only one and sole priority of the health system," said the Prime Minister. 
For the occasion, it was surrounded by a strong team of candidates who brings together the expertise of several groups of health professionals: 
Dr. Gilles Aubé, candidate in Hull and family doctor. 
Pauline Marois with the Quebec Party Health Team. 
"Since September 2012, our government has worked hard to implement a clear and effective plan for the patient to become the number 1 priority of the health system. We have put important gestures for home care, we have increased the number of family medicine groups (GMF), reduces wait to emergency and surgery. In 18 months, the health party's assessment is already impressive, while for more than 10 years, the health and social services network has lacked vision and leadership, "added Pauline Marois. 
"We are committed to setting up a strong, accessible and efficient public health system. In the next mandate, we intend to continue our work, she added. To achieve this, we will implement patient-oriented funding to improve access, quality, equity and efficiency of services. » 
"Access to a family doctor and his team of health professionals is the priority of Quebecers. We will facilitate access to a family doctor, will continue to reduce expectations and engorgings in emergencies, and improve the follow-up of people with chronic illness. Since our arrival, 323,000 more Quebecers have access to a family doctor. To go further, we need to promote teamwork between all health professionals so that the doctor can heal more patients, "said Dr. Réjean Hébert. 
Once re-elected, the Parti Québécois government is committed to completing the development of the GMF network to give all Quebeckers access to a family doctor and his team of health professionals. Thus, 44 GMF will be added to reach a total of 300 throughout Quebec. 
In addition, 150 health professionals such as nutritionists, social workers or kinesiologists will be added and will work with doctors. This is a concrete way to support GMF medical practice and to ensure better patient follow-up, especially those with chronic illness. 
"It is abnormal than in 2014, patients are still asked to fax medical prescriptions. We must take a turn and refocus on the reality of Quebec patients. That's why we will modernize all the concept of appointment. In collaboration with health professionals and institutions, we will introduce a system to provide a more efficient and user-friendly method for consultation. This measure will have a positive effect on Quebec patients and will undoubtedly facilitate people's lives, "said Réjean Hébert. 
A citizen party government will introduce an appointment system for front-line services and specialized care in public institutions. This innovative measure will significantly reduce waiting time for patients who want to get an appointment with health professionals, and improve access to surgery and medical imaging. 
Always with the goal of simplifying people's lives, a Quebec party government will develop the health portal, a reliable and full-comprehensive reference portal that will present a verified and updated information regularly, and which will correspond to the Quebec reality. Currently, there are several websites offering various information on health problems. However, it is difficult to ensure the reliability of the information. 
In order to facilitate the lives of parents, the Health Insurance Act will be amended to allow parents to obtain an additional health insurance card for their child, so that each parent can have one with him in all time. This administrative change will meet the needs of parents, including those of single-parent families. 
The Parti Québécois makes the choice of the public network by proposing to increase the offer in public institutions to improve access to ultrasound. In the long term, our goal is to ensure access for the public to ultrasound services within 3 months, for non-urgent examinations, and thus eliminate unreasonable wait. An investment of $ 8 million will be necessary to significantly improve access to this diagnostic examination and meet the medically recognized deadlines. 
For medical imaging, we will also put an action plan in place to improve access to public services. 
A government of the Parti Québécois undertakes to act primarily with children with autism and their families. We want to reduce the timeout for obtaining diagnosis as well as for access to early intervention services. It is shown that the more these services are offered early in the child's path, the more they can have a positive and meaningful impact on its development. 
We are determined that the early diagnosis and intervention can be obtained quickly for autistic children from 0 to 5 years, by eliminating the waiting list over a period of a mandate and simplifying the organization of services. 
Finally, a government of the Parti Québécois will also intervene to supervise abusive incidental costs and will create Quebec a new mental health action plan. We will also work for interregional equity in the health supply to closer the care of the place of residence of patients and to ensure equity for health care financing. 
"We have solutions to improve access to health care and we have the best team to introduce them. We make patients our priority. I propose a government that will facilitate people's lives, and take care of his world, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
We have a plan and the team to succeed. Today, it's time to give us the means to go further. 
Pauline Marois with the Quebec Party Health Team. 
Watch press clause. 
