Quebec, June 10, 2020 - The member for Gaspé and spokesman for the Culture, Méganne Perry Melançon, as well as the hon. Member for Rimouski and President of the Caucus, Harold Lebel, have joined this morning at the Fifty musicians, songs and other craftsmen song boxes gathered in front of the National Assembly in a festive atmosphere. Together, they asked the government a financial compensation for these artists currently being eligible for any support program. 
IN SHORT 
The confinement measures have marked the end of the activities for many independent musicians and songs, mostly hired on contract by restaurateurs and bar tenants. "These artists have lost their income in mid-March, and they do not know yet when - or even if - their business will be able to resume. The many health guidelines imposed on restaurants - as well as bars, certainly, soon - could indeed make difficult or even inopportune for a time, artistic services in institutions, "said Gaspé deputy entry. 
However, the sums promised by the Minister of Culture, at the beginning of the month, do not address this category of artists. "The $ 400 million announced will mainly go to creators, producers, broadcasters, as well as festivals and events; Nothing is planned for the performers. We remember, however, that at the announcement, the Prime Minister had left the door open to a possible enhancement of aid measures to the cultural sector. The time has come! "He said for his part Harold Lebel. 
A spokesman for the artists gathered abounds in the same direction. "We keep hope but, for us, the lack to win, from here the reopening of the bars and the complete recovery of our activities, is decisive. Without direct and immediate help, many of us will probably have to make the mourning of their musical career, "said Danny Armstrong. 
MPs and the songs therefore ask the Government to include these workers in the programs already announced, or to provide for them specific help. "Independent musicians animate the communities and make the joy of thousands of spectators, everywhere in Quebec. We can not deny that they are part of the Quebec industry of culture and entertainment! We must absolutely find a way to support them, so that we can regain their talent and energy on the other side of the crisis, "concluded Megan Perry Melançon. 
