Quebec- The hon. Member for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, and the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesperson for the status of women, Carole Poirier, are pleased to highlight the 75th anniversary of obtaining the Voting and eligibility for Quebec women. Penalty on April 25, 1940, Bill No. 18, supported by Prime Minister Adélard Godbout, represents both the culmination of a long-term struggle that a large collective victory for Quebeckers and Quebeckers. 
"Nowadays, it can not be otherwise, but we must remember the combat that women have led to obtaining their right to vote, from the 1920s. I think of Idola Saint-Jean to Marie Gérin-Lajoie, Ms. Walter Lyman, Thérèse Casgrain, among others; These pioneers have shown a lot of audacity, and a great determination, to advance Quebec, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
It must, however, have to wait until 1961 for a first woman, Marie-Claire Kirkland-Casgrain, make his entrance to the National Assembly. Several others have since marked the political history of Quebec. "Let's think about Lise Payette, who has never ceased to campaign for the feminist cause, for justice, for equity. His inspiring example prompted other women to engage in politics, including the first to be elected to the highest function of the Quebec state, Pauline Marois. Let's also mention Louise Harel, the first woman to occupy the presidency of the National Assembly; Each in its own way, these women contributed to our progress as a people, "continued the official opposition. 
Carole Poirier also emphasized the importance of not lowering the guard because the ideal of full equality is, in fact, not yet reached. "Gender equality is not just a matter of parity; We must also learn to listen to us mutually more, and better take advantage of differences between women and men, both in politics and in other spheres of activity. As Pauline Marois recently reminded us, "society can not deprive himself of as much talent, of gray matter, sensitivity to different realities. [...] Equality does not mean that we are the same, we is different. We should have the same rights ". To achieve this ideal, bet on education; It is through her that will happen to mentality changes, the end of discrimination and true equality of opportunity, "she supported. 
