Québec- joining their voices to the coalition of the regional tables of community organizations (CTROC) at a press briefing at the National Assembly, the member for Rosemont and sentence of the official opposition in terms of services social for the protection of youth, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the hon. Member for Rimouski and spokesperson for seniors as well as in the fight against poverty, solidarity and Social Economy, Harold Lebel, are concerned about the impacts of structural brewing in the health network as a result of adoption, under gagging, Bill 10. 
"On several occasions in the parliamentary committee, we expressed the Minister Gaétan from our concerns about the preservation of budgets granted to community health and social services. We denounced all the uncertainty that creates this brewing of structures and service cuts that the community community will have to overcome in the coming months. Unprecedented centralization, adopted under gagging with Bill 10, will have important consequences for local expertise. Can we afford to drop all this expertise, as well as the necessary consultation between the health and social services network and the community community? , "Said Jean-François Lisée. 
"We have worked very hard for the Minister Barrette to recognize the importance of community organizations working with vulnerable people and seniors, including those in poverty. The harmful effects will be major for these organisms; Often, they are the last resort of people in difficulty, among other things when it comes to housing or social assistance. Faced with the minister's indifference, we insisted and defended them for the duration of the work surrounding Bill 10, adopted under gag, "added Harold Lebel. 
"Let us also remember that with the remarks made by Minister Carlos Leitão, last October, suggesting that community groups could take over certain services currently offered by the Ministry of Health and Social Services, the situation appears to us. 'So much more worrying, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
Adverse effects on the ground 
"The repercussions of austerity are visible throughout Quebec. The concrete examples of community-threatened community organizations, including the new rules of the homelessness control partnership strategy (SPLI) and unconvincing responses to Minister Lucie Charlebois, are numerous and disturbing. We have recently learned that street workers are at risk, since the municipalities, struggling with the 300 million Tax Covenants, no longer have the means to pay them, "said Jean-Francois Listed. 
"Just like Ctroc and the Coalition does not affect my regions!, We denounce the dismantling of regional consultation bodies. Behind the structures that are abolished, there are people, resources, tools. These are huge losses for local development and regions. It is totally unacceptable to plunge the network into such a mess, while priorities are different. These are the patients and accessibility to care that should be a priority, as well as the support in the community, which accompanies every day thousands of citizens with difficulties of all kinds, "concluded the member for Rosemont. 
