Quebec, April 14, 2021 -The Member of Gaspé and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois for SMEs as well as in the area of economy and recovery, Megan Perry Melançon, asks the Government to honor its commitment and to abolish the The lowest bidder clause in the process of allocation of state procurement contracts, among others in the strategic field of medical equipment. 
IN SHORT 
- The Government is committed to promoting the local supply of medical equipment, but awaited or hesitated to act.- The member for Gaspé intends to introduce a bill that will give, among other things, priority to medical products Facts in Quebec whenever possible.- Promote the local purchase of medical equipment, it is a plus for our SMEs and to secure supplies. 
For several months, on all forums, on every occasion, the member for Gaspé has arrested the CAQ government. "It must take the necessary means to increase the proportion of medical products manufactured in Quebec in public purchases; He had been engaged in itself, "she recalled, thus echoing the cry of the heart of Mr. Benoît Larose, Vice President for Quebec of Medtech, the Canadian Association of the Technology Industry medical. 
Time times, Megan Perry Melançon emphasized the importance of securing value chain for personal protective equipment and medical equipment. Among other initiatives, it has succeeded, through a government-supported motion, to ensure the assurance that local procurement is now favored, at the expense of the lowest bidder rule. "Yet it does not materialize. The Government is obsessed with the centralization of purchases and is unable to give any guidance to its chimerical creation, the Center for Government Acquisitions. As a result, facing this lack of vision and leadership, the disappointment of Quebec entrepreneurs only increased, "she deplored. 
Determined to achieve its objective, the member for Gaspé will soon introduce a bill on the local government purchasing, including the adoption of a national Quebec purchase policy. This bill will also target the state to be learned, in all circumstances, the best part of the international agreements which, remember, have been imposed by Canada. "In particular, it will be question of considering the innovative, ethical and environmental nature of the products, the latter aspect necessarily involves the reduction of the distance they travel," she said. 
For the Parti Québécois, a strong medical industry is not only an undeniable economic asset, it is also a question of national security. 
- 30 - 
SOURCE : 
Laura Chouinard-Thuly 
Press Officer 
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois 
514 880-9594 
Laura.c After i's -t care liquid @as is NAT. Second. Wipe 
