Rimouski- The member for Marie-Victorin and the official opposition on energy, natural resources and Nordic development, Bernard Drainville, the hon. Member for Rimouski, Harold Lebel, and the member for Matane-Matapédia, Pascal Bérubé, worry about the future of the wind industry in Quebec, particularly in the Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie, and ask the Government to respect the deadline of September 3, 2014 with respect to the granting of 'a block of 450 MW. 
"These projects represent major economic benefits for these regions, including many jobs created or maintained. Unfortunately, the Liberal government refuses to say whether they will come true. The same government and the minister responsible for the regions of Bas-Saint-Laurent and the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine, Jean d'Amour, remain just as quiet in front of the denigration campaign that is currently conducted against energy wind turbine. The Liberals and Jean of Love must connect, put an end to the procrastination and announce that they go ahead, "said Bernard Drainville. 
In accordance with the decrees issued by the Parti Québécois government, Hydro-Québec Distribution launched a call for tenders in December 2013 for the purchase of a wind energy block produced by parks representing an installed capacity of 450 MW , or 300 MW for the regions of Bas-Saint-Laurent and the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine, and 150 MW for other projects elsewhere in Quebec. 
"Who, to the government, defends the wind industry and its workers? I do not question the good faith of the minister Jean d'Amour but, for now, it's radio silence on his side and it's disturbing. He must speak, defend this industry and more vigorously support the communities involved. I remember that the net profits would share equal parts the partners, that is to say the MRCs of the region and the Maliseat First Nation of Viger, will be reinvested here and there is no doubt that we need these investments. When will we hear the regional minister? "Asked the hon. Member for Rimouski. 
"The wind industry is a sector of the future at home. It represents significant investments and quality jobs in several regions of Quebec, including here, in eastern Quebec, and in the Matanie MRC in particular. This clean and renewable energy generated a dynamic manufacturing industry and, for the reception regions, it is a symbol of economic vitality. It would allow us to develop know-how in a sector of the future and project carrier. The workers of the region and the whole of Quebec would benefit, "added, for his part, Pascal Bérubé. 
A paid industry 
Remember that the wind employs 5000 people full-time in Quebec, including 1200 in Gaspésie and the MRC of Matanie. The average annual salary of these workers is 30% higher than the Quebec average. According to the Secor-KPMG firm, in a decade, the development of the wind industry in Québec will have allowed investments of $ 10 billion, an annual wealth creation of the order of $ 473 million and annual tax revenues and parafiscal. M $ for the Government of Quebec. 
