Montreal- The Quebec Prime Minister and Head of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, announces that a government of the Parti Québécois will continue the transition to a green economy. 
"The basics of the transition to a green economy are in place. My government has announced an ambitious shipyard, that of transport electrification. It will increase the number of electric vehicles on our roads, developing a strong industrial sector and a new technology knowledge cluster, "said Pauline Marois. 
"The results of the 18 months of my government is remarkable. We asked brave gestures by leaving Quebec from nuclear energy and asbestos. We have set up a BAPE on uranium and filed a bill for a moratorium on shale gas, to which the PLQ and the CAQ oppose. We put an end to minicentral projects, that Philippe Couillard wants to bring back, "added the Prime Minister. 
Nationalstratégium of sustainable mobility, received favorably by the actors of the environment, is another important milestone of this transition. It allows Quebec to position itself as a leader with respect to the transport of the future and the fight against climate change. In fact, the Carbon Stock Exchange, put in place with California, will help us, in particular, meet the objective, for the 2020 horizon, to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 25% compared to the 1990 level. . 
In parallel, the Parti Québécois government has integrated environmental requirements in the calls and proposals of the public and parapublic sectors with economic priority employment priority. Quebec industrial lapoliticism also the principle of eco-sessionality in government financial assistance programs and establishes a new program dedicated to corporate ecroperformance. 
Finally, a government of the Parti Québécois will adopt a new energy strategy that will promote the development of renewable energies and their production. 
"Philippe Couillard does not have a team or program in environmental matters. He has not made any commitment to the environment and sustainable development. The only guarantee of continuing to advance with a government that implements an industrial policy, a transport electrification strategy, a strategy of sustainable mobility and an energy policy is to vote for the Parti Québécois, "concluded the Prime Minister. 
We have a plan and the team to succeed. Today, it's time to give us the means to go further. 
Watch press clause. 
