Quebec - Member for Chicoutimi, the leader of the official opposition and spokesperson for the reform of institutions, Stéphane Bédard, and the members of the Quebecois Party of the Bas-Saint-Laurent regions and the Gaspésie accept the proposal of the Coalition for the maintenance of counties in the region to extend beyond 30 June the suspension of the delimitation process of the electoral map provided for in Law 132. 
"The finding is quite eloquent and shared by the majority: Bill 19 does not meet expectations and does not solve the problem on a permanent basis. The solution must be durable, not just for an election. That's what we have been saying for a long time and that's exactly what the coalition also asks. To do this, we must hold a parliamentary committee as soon as possible to review the criteria of the electoral law, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
The Parti Québécois and the Coalition share the same concern that this parliamentary committee looks at the principle of the dynamic occupation of the territory and the fair representation of rural and urban districts. "Urbanity and rurality are present in all regions of Quebec. It is a criterion for us that would allow the maintenance of the political weight of our region and all the regions of Quebec, "said the hon. Member for Matane, Pascal Bérubé. 
"The coalition offers the Minister for the reform of democratic institutions, Pierre Moreau, to get out of the corner. He must endorse this offer and postpone the deadline of 30 June. Parliamentarians must meet this autumn, in a serene climate, in order to achieve a sustainable solution, "continued the member for Kamouraska-Témiscouata, André Simard. 
"The Citizens of Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie want real sincerity and a real desire to protect the weight of Quebec regions in a sustainable way," said the hon. Member for Rimouski, Irvin Pelletier. 
Remember that an agreement took place to keep consultations on the following criteria: 
"Today, the ball is in the camp of the Prime Minister of Quebec, Jean Charest. It must, at a minimum, authorize his minister to say yes to this request, "concluded the hon. Member for Matapédia, Danielle Doyer. 
