The Chief and Vice-Check of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée and Véronique Hivon, as well as the candidates Nicolas Marceau (Rousseau), Alain Therien (Sanguinet), Jean-Martin Aussant (Pointe-aux-Trembles), Dieudonné Ella Oyono (Saint-Henri-Sainte-Anne) and Éric Tremblay (Repentigny), introduced this morning in Montreal, which is the only financial framework of this election campaign that holds the road. 
IN SHORT 
The Parti Québécois today has the most rigorous and realistic financial framework for the campaign. 
Unlike the executives of the other three parties: 
"Our vision is clear: priority for services. Before promising anything, a serious political party must ensure that the services already available are maintained. Our financial framework clearly expresses our desire to go to this effect, to cut no service. As proof, we used, to establish our calculations, the specific amount validated by the Auditor General to avoid any cup of services; For 2019-2020, it is $ 868 million. CAQ and did the Liberals take into account this official figure? No. We are the only ones to guarantee the maintenance of services, "said Jean-François Lisée game entry. 
"We are going, first, recover the money that the Liberals have granted doctors, thanks to a gel of their compensation envelope. In other words, an additional $ 4 billion will be injected into the services during the next mandate, "then illustrated Alain Therrien. 
Indeed, unlike some, we will not hesitate to attack us at the monopoly of doctors. "I am a doctor and, my priority, it's not to be better paid: it's the improvement of services. Because currently, in our public health system, there are two things: patients left behind, and exhausted staff. From this fall, we will invest urgently $ 10 million to give some air to the attendants and nurses. Then we will use $ 500 million to hire others, "brought Éric Tremblay. 
"As for home care, they will benefit from $ 1 billion of new money. And we will invest, from the first term, more than $ 200 million more than what is already planned for the Quebec Infrastructure Plan to improve Quebec CHSLD, including $ 100 million in 2019. Finally, the patient will be placed in the center of the system, And the 200,000 health professionals other than doctors will have a government that supports them, who works for and with them, "added Véronique Hivon. 
"The government of the Parti Québécois will also rebalance the sharing of wealth by recovering the hundreds of millions that escape us because of the tax avoidance. We will deposit the first green budget, which will give the Green Fund to Quebecers. We will give the time and room for maneuver to families by coming out of traffic jams, reducing child care rates and fighting cartels. And we will trust the regions: with us, the citizens who live there and their elected officials will have a real capacity for decision, "said Jean-Martin immediately. 
Schools and green transport infrastructure will also prioritize the next government of the Parti Québécois. "From our first budget, we will add $ 4 billion at the Quebec infrastructure plan for collective and active transport infrastructure. We will also invest significant sums to repair old schools and create new places in early childhood centers, "continued Dieudonne Ella Oyono. 
In closing, Nicolas Marceau emphasized the seriousness of the Parti Québécois approach, when compared to that of his opponents. "We are the only party to have made a financial framework in line with the model proposed by the Association of Quebec economists. We are the only party to have used the numbers of the Auditor General. The only one whose financial framework is supported by three independent experts. CAQ invented $ 700 million in economic growth; The Liberals invente $ 1.5 billion. We, we chose the truth, rigor. We respect Quebeckers; No question for us, therefore, to tell them stories, "he insisted. 
Our financial framework is online 
See the Excel file 
See the "Consolidated Expenses" file 
