Quebec, on 1 February 2021 -The leader of the Quebecois, Paul St-Pierre Plamondon, as well as the Madeleine Islands and Health Spokesman, Joël Arseneau, consider that it is time for the system Regional colors alerts make its return to better reflect epidemiological lasitation in each of the regions of Quebec. 
In brief▪ the epidemiological situation differs a lot from one region to another; Yet the continuingness continues to impose the sanitary measures evenly .▪ In the eyes of the Parti Québécois, a return to the regional alert system - the famous color code - is desirable because it more reflects the reality of each region .▪ According to this Logic, we must also remove the curfew in the regions to keep yellow or orange. 
Paul St-Pierre Plamondon believes that a distinction must necessarily be made between the latter regions affected by the number of cases and hospitalizations, and those where the situation is stable for several weeks. "In Bas-Saint-Laurent, on the North Shore, Gaspésie and the Madeleine Islands, for example, the data is stable or even encouraging. In these circumstances, it would be elogical that the Government relaxes certain measures and constraints imposed on the population, "he argued." For example, in these regions, one could particularly think of giving a little air to sports organizers, to non-essential shops as well as the cultural sector. In addition, considering that the firewall was a measure of last resort, superimposed on the maximum alert level, we should raise in the areas considered less at risk, "continued the leader of the Parti Québécois.Outrily, ideally, we would come back to the regional alert system. "The Code of Color Sebase on scientific criteria for public health and the epidemiological situation of each of the integuments. It reflects a lot better the real situation that the "wall-to-wall" method currently underway, and whose limits are obvious, "chained Joël Arseneau.The Parti Party asks the government to come back from February 8, to a taker. differentiated by region. "It is not only a question of transparency, butausi of coherence - two essential issues if one wants the accession of the population. And it is that for hundreds of small traders, it could make the difference between LaSurvie of their business or bankruptcy, "concluded Paul St-Pierre Plamondon. 
- 30 - 
Source: Lucas MedernachDirector of CommunicationsParti Québécois 
