Nicolet -The Member for Drummond, Yves-François Blanchet, the President of the National Executive Board of the Parti Québécois, Raymond Archambault, and the President of the Party of the Center-du-Québec region, Serge Bouchard, wanted to react today At the announcement, by the member for Nicolet-Yamaska, Jean-Martin immediately, from the creation of a new political party. "In 2008, the citizens of Nicolet-Yamaska chose the Parti Québécois for his program and for his leader. I am convinced that they will make the same choice at the next election campaign. From this moment, we leave the electors of the constituency judging the legitimacy or not of Jean-Martin ausing, "said Yves-François Blanchet immediately. 
The citizens of Nicolet-Yamaska can be assured that the Parti Québécois has a strong organization in the riding and ready to face quickly to any election event. "Certainly, there are some departures within the party executive in Nicolet-Yamaska, but we can count on many activists to take over. Our party is strong here and we will demonstrate it at the general meeting to be held in the coming weeks. Whether it is partial or general, we will have the team to win the next election in Nicolet-Yamaska, "added Raymond Archambault. 
The National Executive Board of the Party proceeded to the guardianship of the Party Association in the constituency. "This decision is made necessary to ensure the replacement of the team. The tutelage will end at the time of the General Assembly where Nicolet-Yamaska's Quebec's members will elect their representatives, "said Raymond Archambault. 
"The activists first, then the citizens of Nicolet-Yamaska, participated in the recent redesign of the Parti Québécois program. Jean-Martin's Project, must be presented to the voters who will of course have the choice to reel another member of the Parti Québécois. I do not think Nicolet-Yamaska wishes to divide the progressive and sovereignist vote for the benefit of Conservative Federalism of Jean Charest and François Legault. The only party capable of realizing Quebec's sovereignty is the Quebec party, "concluded Yves-François Blanchet. 
