Quebec- The Quebec Party spokesperson for Women's Status, Carole Poirier, introduced this morning to Bill 595, An Act to protect access to institutions where voluntary interruptions are practiced, so To allow women to safely access the voluntary interruption services of pregnancy, with respect for their dignity and privacy. 
The member wishes the support of the Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Lise Thériault, as well as opposition parties to pass this bill quickly. "Unfortunately, many patients and several employees of abortion clinics are intimidated in Quebec. It is a brake on free and informed access of women in this right of abortion, "said Carole Poirier. 
"Bill 595 aims to guarantee women the right to their private lives and their dignity, as well as to receive personalized and safe health care. The objective is also to guarantee the owners of the buildings the right to enjoy their property, which includes that of accessing them without obstruction and that of allowing their tenants to enjoy peacefully. Finally, more specifically, the bill would create inviolable safety perimeters around the 47 abortion, public or private services, which Quebec account, "added the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve. 
Other jurisdictions, as well as many levels of government in the world, have adopted similar legislation, including Australia, Canada, South Africa and the United States. 20 years ago, British Columbia has strengthened access to abortion clinics with its law on access to abortion services, which courts have found in line with freedom of expression. It should be noted that in August 2015, the Superior Court of Quebec stated that the freedom of expression of anti-choice protesters was limited by the rights of patients. This freedom can not cause "serious and irreparable" harm, like preventing women from receiving care in a serene context, or degrading the staff work environment. 
Also remember that 15 organizations supported the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve: the Female Medical Clinic, the Alternative Clinic, Morgentaler Clinic, Action Canada for Sexual Health and Rights, the Association of Obstetricians Gynecologists of Quebec The Mauricie Women's Health Center, the Montreal Women's Health Center, the Outaouais Women's Clinic, the Vigilance Committee of Quebec, the Quebec Interprofessional Federation, the Federation of Women From Quebec, the Federation of Omnipratic Physicians of Quebec, the Federation of Medical Specialists in Quebec, the Federation of Quebec for the Naissance Planning and the National Federation for Abortion (NAF Canada). 
"The Minister Barrette has already served his support. Let's hope he can convince his colleague responsible for the status of women, Lise Thériault, to quickly call the bill, to be adopted before the summer, "concluded Carole Poirier. 
