The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesman for health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, and the spokesperson for social services and youth protection, Dave Turcotte , are proud to announce that the commitments of the Parti Québécois to give the health system to the service of the patients have been welcomed very positively by the representatives of the health collective, after a meeting with their representatives. 
IN SHORT 
"The collective meeting patients, physicians, stakeholders and health managers in the same conclusions as we: after 4 years of austerity and missed reforms, the improvement of our public health system and social services will be a major issue of the election of the next 1octobre. The Parti Québécois already offers concrete solutions to meet this challenge, starting with the gel of the remuneration of physicians that will invest in improving direct services to the population, the expansion of the fields of practice of 200,000 professionals Health and the restoration of public health budgets to better prevent health problems before hearing them, "said the official opposition. 
"The commitments of the Parti Québécois are consistent with the priority actions requested by the collective, because they are thoughtful, credible solutions that will make a real difference in patient access to health services. We must deploy in the CLSC professionals, including specialized nurse practitioners (IPS), and make real points of service open 7 days a week, from 9 am to 9 pm, for minor emergencies. We must also encourage the creation of local clinics, inspired by models like Sabsa and others, where CLSCs can not play this role. The remuneration of doctors must also be reviewed to promote teamwork and collaboration with other professionals. It is also unavoidable to ensure a minimum number of hours of respite every week for caregivers. Our health plan is ready and focuses on the patient, because that's what Quebeckers want! "Said Diane Lamarre. 
"The overload of work of health and social services employees has reached a critical point after 4 years of austerity and missed reforms. The Parti Québécois is committed to adding staff to remedy and improve the quality and speed of services that patients need. We must also give a voice to the users as well as different territories in decision-making, while they are often ignored in the megastructures of CISS and CIUSS of the Minister Barrette. The contribution of the succession, which it comes from here or abroad, must also be valued and encouraged, always keeping in mind that it is the interest of the patient who must prevail, "added Dave Turcotte . 
"The Parti Québécois has been the first political formation that has agreed to meet with us and exchange with us as a result of the unveiling of the priority actions we propose to improve the health system and thank them. We find that on many aspects, their program corresponds to our demands and we now wish to meet other political courses in order to produce a "notebook of notes '' of each of them to assess their respective commitments to The next election ", concluded Jérôme di Giovanni, President of the Health Patient Alliance (APS), on behalf of the Collective, which also brings together the Medical Association of Quebec (AMQ), the Confederation of National Trade Unions (CSN) and the Association of Higher Executives of Health and Social Services (ACSSSS). 
