Montreal - Surrounded by the Party candidate in the riding of Bourget and Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the candidate in Verdun, Lorraine Pintal, the candidate in Mercier, Sylvie Legault, of the candidate in Charlesbourg, Dominique Payette, the candidate in Laporte, Sophie Stanke, and the candidate in Jean-Talon, Clément Laberge, the premier of Quebec and Head of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, presented the commitments of the Parti Québécois for the world of culture. Quebec. 
"Our culture is a source of pride for all Quebeckers. It contributes to the fulfillment of the Quebec nation, the vitality of the French language; It is the mark of our specificity. To showcase our heritage and shine our talents and artists, the Parti Québécois is committed to providing Quebec with a new cultural policy. This policy will strengthen our culture, will give it the means to develop fully, to remain inspiring and dynamic, "said Pauline Marois. 
For 25 years, technological changes have been changing the cultural universe by repelling borders, markets, skills, laws and funding. Cultural institutions and artists must learn to live with these changes. Quebec's cultural policy has been modernized for 22 years. 
"The Liberal Party has no vision for the culture of Quebec; He has not made any commitment on this subject. We can not trust Philippe Couillard to defend our identity and culture, "added the Prime Minister. 
The government of the Parti Québécois has advanced several files that stagnated under the Liberals. We have announced significant investments: 
In addition, in the context of the 375th anniversary of Montreal, the Government of the Parti Québécois committed to support the expansion project of the Pointe-à-Callière Museum and the Project Cité Memoir, which will aim for the development of heritage in Old Montreal. 
Finally, the "Gaspé Creation and Dissemination Center", from the square foot consolidation, with a view to installing, in dwelling artists and craftsmen in the mile end, was financially supported. 
"To give a new impetus to our culture and to increase its vitality, I announce that a government of the Parti Québécois is committed to ensuring that the culture sector takes the digital turn. We also announced $ 150 million, in the 2014-2015 budget, to support the media and cultural institutions, from creation to the marketing of works, "said Pauline Marois. 
The Parti Québécois government is the first to have published a real digital strategy for Quebec. It affects all the major cultural sectors of arts and letters, cultural industries, media, heritage, museology and libraries. The cultural strategy will enrich the supply of digital cultural content and will facilitate the diffusion of content. In particular, it will allow the purchase and access to state-of-the-art equipment for artists and for the halls, and will allow the digitization of content. In the era of new means of communication, it is a major step forward for visibility and access to our culture. 
Télé-Québec's cultural web platform is also a concrete illustration of the digital turn that the Quebec cultural world must take. SitelafabriqueCultural.tv offers a showcase of choice to our artists from all disciplines and all regions of Quebec. Culture enthusiasts have access to portraits, interviews, performances, creative works, short films and archival documents specific to our culture. 
In addition, over the last 18 months, the government of the Parti Québécois initiated the pilot project "A school hosts an artist" so that children and young people are more in touch with art. This initiative will be expanded in a future mandate. 
In addition, the government of the Parti Québécois has begun important work on cultural philanthropy, the future of our cinema and the improvement of our museum network. This work has been made in partnership with the environments concerned. Recommendations have already been put in place, particularly with respect to philanthropy. The work will continue over the next four years. 
Finally, a government of the Parti Québécois is committed to introducing a bill to supervise the new book award. 
"To the Parti Québécois, we believe that contact with art makes the best human, that our culture is rich, that it is a source of pride and prosperity. We have a plan to support the culture of Quebec; We want to continue our work, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
We have a plan and the team to succeed. Today, it's time to give us the means to go further. 
Watch press clause. 
Watch the lemessage of Lorraine Pintal. 
For a strong and living culture!, A ticket from Lorraine Pintal to read on LoBlog du Huffington Post Québec. 
