Quebec- The hon. Member for Kamouraska-Témiscouata and spokesperson for the official opposition in agriculture and food, André Simard, claims Minister Pierre Corbeil a complete state of situation on the slaughter of animals according to rites religious. He asked for the minister to make this portrait by March 23rd at the National Assembly. 
"For some time, Quebeckers have discovered the effects of a legal provision allowing ritual slaughter. Thus, it is learned, through the media, that Quebec consumers buy halal meat without being informed. Malay is real in front of this lack of transparency, "said MP André Simard. 
Indeed, the legislation has long allowed the slaughter of animals according to religious rites. Regulation is federal and Quebec must comply with it. This type of slaughter hit the Quebec values hard. "In Quebec, we have been choosing for a long time to slaughter our animals for consumption by taking steps to insensitize animals and slaughter them by minimizing suffering. In their great openness, Quebeckers also accept that, on an exceptional basis, religious communities can proceed with a slaughter according to rituals. However, when the exception becomes the rule, there is a problem, "continued André Simard. 
The hon. Member for Kamouraska-Témiscouata, also veterinarian, has been contacted by different sources for a few months to inform him of this practice that seems more and more widespread. The Parti Québécois also attempted to get more information at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (MAPAQ), but without success. The ministry has no information on this subject, according to a response to a request for access to information that the official opposition has sent a few weeks ago. 
André Simard was surprised to learn yesterday that the slaughter of the poultry of a slaughterhouse of the Olymel company is of halal type, without any form of identification. "It is no longer hearsay, but corroborated facts. It is therefore saying that this type of slaughter is widespread and it worries me, "he added. 
A few days before an interpellation that will take place at the National Assembly on March 23, the Parti Québécois therefore claims details from Minister Corbeil to know the application and supervision of this legislative provision. "The Mapaq has enough inspectors for the minister to have a clear portrait quickly. Consumers must be able to make an enlightened choice on the origin of the products they buy. In this case, it is not normal that we shut up information on the type of slaughter, "concluded André Simard 
