Quebec, December 3, 2014 - The member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for social services, the protection of youth, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, and the hon. Member for Rimouski and spokesperson for seniors as well as in the fight against poverty, solidarity and social economy, Harold Lebel, took advantage of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities to remind the government that it must implement everything to facilitate their integration. 
"This day is an opportunity to raise awareness about the importance of having a society that further adapts its reality to people who have a disability and who must, on a daily basis, live with the challenge of difference", has Declared Jean-François Lisée. 
During the question period, the hon. Member for Rimouski reminded the government that people with disabilities should face challenges and obstacles that are sometimes insurmountable on a daily basis. "After the Minister of Municipal Affairs cut off the Grants of the Quebec Housing Corporation for the adaptation of homes, the Minister of Labor filed a draft regulation by voluntarily excluding any requirements for the adaptability of housing. Why did the minister delete these requirements? He asked. 
Harold Lebel also pointed out that these two liberal cups adds that of $ 3 million in child care grants for the care of children with disabilities or special needs. 
"In addition, we still wait for the Government to file Phase 2 of the National Strategy for the Integration and Maintenance of Persons with Disabilities, as well as the substantial investments, to end the freezing of integration contracts at work, Which allow hundreds of people with disabilities in all regions of Quebec to integrate the labor market each year. It is essential that the government leave aside austerity and intensifying its actions to eliminate barriers to the social participation of people with disabilities, "added the member for Rosemont. 
"Finally, we have, on this day, to emphasize the work of the Office of People with Disabilities of Quebec and all the actors of the associative and community circles, who accompany these people day after day and work to defend their rights and to increase Their social participation ", concluded members. 
