Quebec - "In the aftermath of the admission of the Liberal government of the decline of French in Montreal and elsewhere in Quebec, Minister Christine St-Pierre remained from ice and showed no real desire to make an effort so that the situation. Improvement, "said the member for Drummond and the official opposition on the language opposition, Yves-François Blanchet. 
"Even though yesterday the Liberals recognized that the French language is mistreated in Quebec and that the efforts to protect it were insufficient, this morning Christine St-Pierre does not show us anything. I interviewed the minister about the use of English as a language of work, on the Anglicisation of Immigrants, on the commercial display, on the gatelry schools, on English as a matter at the top of the list on the list New newsletters, on the Anglicisation of the institutions and all that I got as a response was a passive attitude, to let it certainly know the consequences, "continued the member. 
"Vote for a motion of the official opposition stipulating:" That the National Assembly notes and deplores the non-compliance with the provisions of the French Language Charter in terms of commercial display "should normally be heavy consequences. Yet, in the light of what we see this morning, all that this government wanted was to save the face, "pursued Yves-François Blanchet. 
"We have no more answers in five minutes during the interpellation than in a minute thirty to the question period. It's so distressing the Quebec government to be responsible for Quebec's Anglicisation by its excessive indifference. How can the Liberals show so much lax? Asked Yves-François Blanchet. 
"For example, with respect to the English file at the Québec Deposit and Investment Fund, I asked for at least seven times to Minister St-Peter what she intended to do. His solution: think. It promises! ", Ironized the member. 
"The linguistic policy of the Liberals is a public relations campaign that allows English to evolve discreetly. It needs to change! ", Concluded the member for Drummond. 
