Quebec, on July 15, 2016 - It's due to the many incidents and problems in detention facilities, the official head of the official and MP, Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as the member for Matane-Matapédia and spokesperson. Parti Québécois on public safety, Pascal Bérubé, asked the Liberal government to launch an extended and non-partisan parliamentary consultation on the situation of detention facilities in Quebec. 
"Detention facilities are struggling with many problems and resources to deal with it. The overpopulation, the lack of staff, the maintenance deficit, the flights of drones and the riots, for example, are situations that are growing more and more in the network. You have to stop adjusting them to the room. We must have a global reflection on our correctional system. It is therefore imperative that the National Assembly holds expanded consultations in order to find solutions. I invite the Minister of Public Safety and the Liberal Party members to accept our proposal so that we can quickly start this consultation, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"In this consultation, MPs could hear several stakeholders: peace officers, school leaders, experts, unions, prosecutors and stakeholders in addiction, mental health and reintegration. In addition, elected officials could meet people concerned on the ground in order to have a complete picture of the situation. Thus, solution tracks could emerge and allow for a more efficient and safe deployment of correctional services, "said Pascal Bérubé. 
Multiple problems 
The member for Matane-Matapédia recalled that several incidents required the intervention of the Liberal government. "When Maurice Boucher's son was mistakenly released, the idea of the fingerprint verification was raised. The bill that would address this situation has still not been called. In addition, with regard to helicopter escapes, no net has been installed; For cellular use, there are still no waveries, and for the use of drones, no intervention by the Minister of Public Safety has been made, "he continued. 
"No later than 3 July, there was an uprising at Roberval. This is just an additional example of the many incidents that occur in our prisons. Let's add a hostage catch to Sept-Îles, recently. Among the many causes at the origin of these incidents, we can identify the lack of staff. For Roberval specifically, 7 of the 15 new posts to be filled did not have been. At Leclerc, reintegration services are cut because there is not the required staff. More extra time means more stress and more fatigue, which does not improve safety, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
Eloquent figures 
Overcrowding is also a problem, just like the institutional maintenance deficit. For the year 2015-2016, 6 holding establishments out of 18 had an occupancy rate of at least 100%. In 5 years, the number of detainees sent in increasing increased by 33%. Last year, 6% of detention facilities were listed, either very bad, in the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. This year is 33%. 
Since the closure of Tanguay Prison, the Montreal Region Women's Detention Center, some 250 inmates have been transferred to Laval, the Leclerc Detention Center, which has become a joint prison. The cohabitation between women and men detained creates serious problems. 
"The numbers are convincing, the situation is very problematic. The system is full to crack, our institutions fall into ruins. Peace officers claim to lack adequate training to handle situations of mental illness. Cases are becoming increasingly heavy among prisoners: addiction, mental health, older helds, not counting escapes or smuggling, "added Pascal Bérubé. 
"The situation is serious, the Liberal government can not stay the arms crossed. We propose a large non-partisan consultation, in order to listen to the stakeholders and to study the many problems of our prison system. This is the security and probity of our judicial system, "concluded the official opposition. 
