Quebec- The member for René-Lévesque, Martin Ouellet, introduced this morning a petition asking the Government of Quebec to modify Laloi on elections and referendums in the municipalities of the next elections, so that any member of A council or municipal body deemed criminally responsible for sexual assault be declared disadvantageous to perform its duties, regardless of the sentence. 
At a press point held with his colleague Carole Poirier, spokesman for the Partié Québécois in the field of women's condition, as well as Julie Fréchette, Guilaine Lévesque and Maryse Gagnon, Calacs Boreal Light Baie-Comeau, Sylvie Ostigny, of the Grouping of women in the North Shore, and Isabelle Brouse, the group of women's groups in the Capitale-Nationale Region (Portneuf-Québec-Charlevoix), the member for René-Lévesque has also recalled the inadmissible nature of A situation that persists in Baie-Trinity. 
"The mayor of this municipality of the North Shore has been convicted of sexual assault in July 2015. However, he continues to perform his duties. It's unsustainable, especially for victims. It is absolutely necessary to remedy the situation and to ensure that when a decision is made by the Court, the judge is required to establish clearly whether the elected representative is disabled to sit on the board. This modification would make it possible to shorten the time since now, a second procedure must be engaged to do this, "exposed Martin Ouellet. 
"In the study of the appropriations, the Minister responsible for the Status of Women indicated that it intended to act quickly to settle this type of situation, in collaboration with the Minister of Municipal Affairs. We expect concrete gestures on his part, "said Carole Poirier. 
Recall that Laloi provisionally identifying a municipal elected office, adopted under the Government of the Parti Québécois in the wake of the Charbonneau Commission, had already drawn solutions to avoid such situations. "Unfortunately, in the present case, the fact that the sentence is already pronounced prevents the application of this law. That's why today we ask the government to use other ways to correct this situation as quickly as possible, "continued the member for René-Lévesque. 
Finally, the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois on municipal affairs, Sylvain Gaudreault, wants the government to take this opportunity to make another amendment to the law. "It would be time to cease to pay start allowances to the elected officials leaving their functions being mandated; I ask the Minister to act promptly in this sense, "he said. 
