Quebec- The member for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, as well as the member for Marie-Victorin and Spokesperson for Energy and Natural Resources, Bernard Drainville, the member for Jonquière and Spokesperson for the environment and sustainable development, Sylvain Gaudreault, and the member for Vachon and spokesperson for transport, Martine Ouellet, reiterated the opposition of the Parti Quebecois to the Energy Pipeline project. 
"We can not accept the Energy Pipeline project. These are the federal laws and powers that have preceding the laws of Quebec, particularly in terms of environment and finance. Committed to our desire to make Quebec a country, we are against the Energy project, which will be imposed on us by the federal authorities by ignoring citizens about the protection of the environment, the social acceptability and social acceptability and Economic benefits. This project is not good for Quebecers and Quebeckers. This is a concrete example of the separation of skills under the constitutional law of 1867: Quebeckers are unable to make a choice about an issue as decisive for our nation than that of oil transport, as for so much Other issues that affect us directly. We no longer wish to be tenants from our territory, but well owned, and have all the tools to decide our destiny, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
The energy pipeline project is to transit by Quebec oil for export oil. "Even some fundamental aspects of the project remain unknown to date, including the final route and the construction of a petroleum port in Quebec. In addition, the economic benefits for Quebec of the Energy project is very small, compared to environmental risks, "added Bernard Drainville. 
"Despite a unanimous motion that I filed on November 6, 2014, which asked the government to assume its environmental jurisdiction, the Liberal government has completely dropped its responsibility by not requiring the respect of Quebec laws in Environmental matter, and setting up a facade baper, "Sylvain Gaudreault continued. 
In addition, we are witnessing an increase in oil trainees for export, which is just as unacceptable. "Since 2009, the number of car transportation wagons has increased, with all the risks we know, without the Quebeckers coming on the matter. This is another proof that Quebec is currently not master of its territory, "said Martine Ouellet. 
"What the Liberal Government proposes and the Coalition Future Québec to assert the interests of Quebeckers in this file? How can they prevent such a project for Quebeckers? , "Said the leader of the official opposition. 
