Québec, on October 23, 2014 -The members of the Parti Québécois will today submit a motion without notice to refocus the debate on the real issues that journalistic independence and freedom of the press are. The Government's motion, listed on the Order Paper, is only intended to legitimize a process that aims to expulsion from the member for Saint-Jérôme of the National Assembly. As evidence, the government wants to create a parliamentary committee controlled by the Liberals and the CAQ. However, it is the duty of the National Assembly to deal with this issue in a non-partisan way. 
"Prime Minister Philippe Couillard says he wants to raise the debate beyond partisan issues. Today, the Parti Québécois presents its contribution to the debate. We hope that parliamentarians are neither judges nor parties. A committee of independent experts and members chosen by each of the parliamentary groups seems to us the best way to meet all the actors involved in this debate, "said Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard. 
The motion reads as follows: 
"That the National Assembly mandate a working committee to analyze journalistic independence and freedom of the press in media companies in Quebec; 
That this committee looks at the sealing of the drafting rooms, the relations between the directors of information and the journalists, the protection given to journalists by collective agreements or any other employment contract, as well as the political influence. may have the owners and the media control shareholder on journalists; 
That this working committee is made up of a member chosen by the Quebec Press Council, a member chosen by the Press Tribune, and a member chosen by each of the three parliamentary groups represented in the National Assembly ; 
That the organization of the mandate is entrusted to the members of this committee; 
That this committee intends to, in public session, members of the boards of directors, publishers, editors, information directors, headers and journalists of the following media groups: Radio-Canada, Quebecor Media, VAT Inc., TC Media, Bell Media, Cogeco inc., Duty, Gesca, a subsidiary of Power Corporation of Canada, RNC Media, Rogers Media Inc. as well as any other person or group likely to provide expertise related to the mandate of the Committee; 
That the Committee's report be deposited at the Assembly no later than Friday, November 28, 2014; 
Finally, that this motion becomes an order of the assembly. » 
"It go to government et la cake Sont Sontiné de tradipper de trad france antique stuck. A REJET "**** DENI MOTIVATION I EIGHT OUT FOR EIGHT A AVHEDER, PAST PARCISÉQUE, PAST Préléer, the conclus », at Conclus Stephane Paléphane Bédard. 
