Quebec- The member for Marie-Victorin and the official opposition on energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, as well as the member for Verchères and Spokesperson in Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Stéphane Bergeron , are amazed at the membership of the Government of Quebec to the Canadian energy strategy. 
"It's wondering if Philippe Couillard is not giving in to the rest of Canada the keys to our energetic future. It is a heavy gesture of consequences because in these subjects, Quebeckers have a vision to the antipodes of Canadian values. Philippe Couillard is giving up the control of our energy development, the control of our energy sovereignty. By accepting the Canadian energy strategy, the Prime Minister does not accept, by the very fact, the transcanada pipeline transition to our territory? Where is Quebec interest? Bernard Drainville said. 
The Canadian Energy Strategy will necessarily reflect Canadian energy values, and these are the opposite of Quebec values. "We have clearly developed an energy identity of its own. We are among the world's leading hydroelectricity leaders, we participate in the carbon market and we promote the emergence of green technologies, "said Stéphane Bergeron. 
Who will decide for Quebec? 
Several principles of the Canadian energy strategy threaten to weaken our power to decide in the best interest in Quebec. As a single adhering to the carbon market in the Canadian territory, Could Quebec have to pay the cost of energy decisions taken for the sole benefit of other provinces? By braking, for example, all our efforts to reduce greenhouse gases, with the aim of promoting a strategy focused on the development and export of fossil fuels, particularly oil sands oil? 
"By adhering to this strategy, the Liberal government is fi of the skills of Quebec. It aims to promote open and non-discriminatory access to electricity transport networks; Will there be an impact for Hydro-Québec, or on our ability to remain "masters at home" in terms of energy? Do the authorization mechanisms for energy projects by Quebec, through the Energy Rights Act, could be questioned? ", Continued the member for Verchères. 
"How can we, as Quebec, develop an energy independence strategy that is its own, and taking into account our characteristics and strengths, if you have to be at the trailer of a pan-Canadian strategy? Bernard Drainville concluded. 
