Quebec- The member for Vachon and sentence of the official opposition in terms of transport, Martine Ouellet, the member for Taschereau and spokesperson for the Capitale-Nationale Region, Agnès Maltese, the member for Marie-Victorin and spokesperson for energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, and the candidate of the Quebecois party in the riding of Jean-Talon, Clément Laberge, are concerned about the safety of the citizens of Jean-Talon and find that the government Liberal is still absent subscribers when it comes to defending the interests of the citizens of Jean-Talon and Quebec face the lack of consideration of the federal government. 
"If a new oil port settles in the Port of Quebec, hundreds of cisterny wagons will go to the heart of Jean-Talon's riding. The City of Quebec should not turn into highway for oil sands export. Transport Canada has been blamed by many reports for its safety lax and, during this time, the Liberal government is kneeling to the federal government. A BAPE must consider the project of the Port of Quebec for people in the region to express themselves, "said Martine Ouellet. 
"The Hamad and Hamad Ministers refuse to confirm whether there will be BAPE consultations on the Port of Quebec City project, and they claim that Quebec's laws will apply ... Find the error! Only a credible body like BAPE can evaluate the project and allow people to express themselves. We must consult our world independently. For the Liberals, a BAPE for Cacouna's oil port, it's good, but a BAPE for an oil port in Quebec, we will see. Be serious! "Sought Agnès Maltese. 
"In recent months, several projects have demonstrated the limited capacity of Quebec to exercise its full environmental sovereignty. In response to this, on December 3, my colleague Sylvain Gaudreault filed a bill that affirms the primacy of Quebec's environmental competence. For the Parti Québécois, it is natural that Quebeckers have full control of what is happening on their territory. Unfortunately, the Liberal government of Philippe Couillard refuses to defend our interests against the Government of Canada, "added Bernard Drainville. 
"It is not a question of alarming the citizens, but to inform them that the project of the Port of Quebec concerns them very directly. I think it's the role of a member for being alongside the population before the risks that could assign it. The CAQ candidate does not even seem to know. As for the Liberal Party, what has it done so far? I put Sébastien Proulx to say to the public if he intends to oppose the transportation of oil for export in Jean-Talon, "Clement Laberge concluded. 
