Montreal - "We have to look better about our world. The aging of the population is a major issue that needs to become a real priority in Quebec. We must humanize the way we take care of our elders. We need to help them live as long as possible at home by providing quality, varied and accessible home care. " 
This is what the hon. Member for Charlevoix and Head of the Official Opposition, Pauline Marois said, by making public the Québécois proposals for our elders. On this occasion, it was accompanied by Carole Poirier, MP D'Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and official opposition spokesperson for seniors, and Réjean Hébert, professor at the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences at the University of Sherbrooke. 
In the next ten years, Quebec will experience a significant aging of its population that will result in exorbitant costs if a turn does not begin quickly. To meet this challenge, the Parti Québécois offers essential changes for the well-being of our seniors including the creation of a network of care and home services and a fund autonomy and the adoption of a policy on Aging and seniors. 
"By taking this turn for our elders, we have also lightened the burden of caregivers families and loved ones. Thousands of people, women in particular, become natural caregivers too often without having training nor support. It becomes difficult to reconcile work, family life and assistance to aging parents, "said Pauline Marois, pointing out that the Québécois party proposals bring concrete solutions to the real problems that many people live. 
This turn will also allow us to better manage our public finances not that the aging of the population becomes an economic burden. Substantial savings can be achieved by better manageing places and especially by offering better home services. For example, an elderly person waiting at the hospital, for want of better, costs $ 200,000 a year, in a CHSLD, $ 60,000, while home care costs can be around $ 25,000 per year. 
A home care and home service network will contribute to a greater number of seniors and people with loss of autonomy can stay at home, near their family as wishes for a vast majority of them. They will be able to receive the care and professional services they need no matter where they live. The benefits of such a turn are obvious both human and financial. 
"To finance this turn, we propose to create a fund autonomy. This fund would devote money exclusively to take care of our elders and caregivers. This is an intelligent investment that will benefit everyone. Other states have done it successfully. We need to achieve this turn without delay, "said Réjean Hébert who co-chaired the public consultation on the living conditions of seniors in 2007. 
"The Liberals hold beautiful speeches, but are unable to deliver what they promise. We are still waiting for the hiring of the 23 inspectors promised last March in connection with the certification of private residences for seniors. The Government has still not changed the Temperature Temperature Regulations in seniors and refuses to ensure a minimum level of training for beneficiary attendants, "said Carole Poirier. 
"A crucial debate on the future of our elders must be held by the next elections. The Liberals make promises that are contradicted by their assessment while for François Legault, the fate of our elders is totally absent from his speech. A government of the Parti Québécois will make our seniors a priority. We have clear and strong proposals to take care of our elders, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
