Ville-Marie- On behalf of the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, the member for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue, Mr. Gilles Chapadeau, is proud to announce The official creation of the Opemican National Park, which will result in investments of more than $ 40 million in the Témiscamingue over the next few years. 
"In less than a year, we have made this project a reality since the Quebec Prime Minister announced on March 21, 2013 his intention to create Opemican National Park in Témiscamingue. All legal and administrative approaches have therefore been completed by the Government of Quebec to formally create this 26th Park of the Quebec National Parks Network. The Témiscamingue region is now represented in this vast network that protects part of the biodiversity and natural heritage of Quebec and its regions, "said the Minister Blanchet. 
The territory of Opemicanoccoupe National Park an area of 252.5 km2 and is entirely consisting of public lands. It will be divided into four distinct sectors: the Kipawa River sector and the Témiscamingue Lake Cliffs, the Opemican Points sector, Lake White and Strawberry Island. In order to respond to the requests expressed by various stakeholders during the public consultation, certain portions of the territory initially referred to, either the sectors of McKenzie Island and the peninsula of the tip of the Rock in Crow, were withdrawn from the limits of the National Park. However, in order to ensure the protection, approaches will be carried out to give them the permanent biodiversity reserve status, which will address the concerns mentioned on this subject at the public hearing held in June 2012. 
Environmentally, Opemican National Park contributes to the achievement of the objectives of the protected area network, particularly in southern Quebec. It also protects part of the shores of the Témiscamingue Lake and Kipawa Lake, the Kipawa River, several lakes, streams and wetlands, old pine forests and various floristic and wildlife species, including the pilgrim hawk. vulnerable species that niches inside the territory. 
In addition, this new national park will contribute to the preservation and enhancement of the cultural heritage of the region since the buildings of the Opemican historic site will be restored. This will include the case of the Jodoin Auberge, which is the third oldest building in Abitibi-Témiscamingue. 
The establishment of quality infrastructures at Opemican National Park will make more accessible sectors of this protected territory to the entire population of the region. It will also help to make the Témiscamingue more known, and the region as a whole, as a real tourist destination. 
"I want to remember that the economic benefits of the Opemican National Park in Témiscamingue are valued at about $ 7.5 million annually and that nearly 30 new jobs will be created. Part of these jobs aimed at young people, the creation of the National Park will definitely allow to curb their exodus towards large centers and promote the retention of newcomers in the region. The new national park therefore represents an important lever to diversify the economy of the Témiscamingue and enriching the development of the tourism industry in the entire region, "said the member for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue, Mr. Gilles Chapadeau. 
