Quebec- The hon. Member for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, as well as the spokesman for the Parti Québécois on entrepreneurship, Martin Ouellet, wanted to salute the memory of Mr. Bernard Lamarre, Renowned Quebec engineer, who has been learned the death earlier today. He was 84 years old. 
"On behalf of the entire Quebec party team, I offer my sincere condolences to the family and relatives of Bernard Lamarre. This animated entrepreneur of passion and audacity traced the way for generations of engineers. His talent, recognized and greeted by all, allowed Quebec genius to radiate in the world. Mr. Lamarre will remain forever associated with the emergence of Quebec inc. It represents a pride for all Quebeckers and all Quebeckers, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
Among the achievements to which Bernard Lamarre participated, mention the Hydroelectric Complex of James Bay, the completion of the Montreal Olympic Stadium, the Champlain Bridge, the Ville-Marie Highway and the Louis-Hippolyte Tunnel Pont-Tunnel-La Fountain, in addition to many projects abroad. "The ambition of Bernard Lamarre did not know any limits. Under his leadership, his company has crossed the borders and has become one of the largest engineering companies on the planet, piloting large-scale projects in about fifty countries, "continued the leader of the official opposition. 
In addition to its business successes, Bernard Lamarre has also been actively involved in the community. "He was appointed officer, and then grand officer of the National Order of Quebec, including his constant commitment to social and cultural causes. The Montreal Museum of Fine Arts, the Order of Engineers of Quebec, the Old Port of Montreal, among others, have been able to count on its experience and dedication. He has always pleaded in favor of entrepreneurship, and used his communicator donations to promote it. No doubt Bernard Lamarre is one of the great builders of modern Quebec, "added Martin Ouellet. 
