Montreal- The candidate in Rosemont and Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Jean-François Lisée, the candidate in Pointe-aux-Trembles and Minister of the Family, Nicole Léger, The candidate in Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, and the candidate in Saint-Henri-Sainte-Anne, Véronique Fournier, announced today, on behalf of the team of Quebec's candidates of the island of Montreal, several Commitments to retain families in the heart of the metropolis. 
"Since our election 18 months ago, our government has made concrete gestures to retain families on the island of Montreal and contribute to the human, cultural, economic and linguistic growth of the metropolis. , explained Jean-François Lisée. We are today announced strong commitments to achieve this essential goal, "he added. 
In September 2013, the Parti Québécois government released the progress report of the Montreal Steering Committee = Families. We are committed to following the recommendations and act concretely on the two main pitfalls for families' retention: the cost of dwellings and the availability of units that meet their needs. Six complementary measures will be implemented. 
The costs associated with decontamination constitute a major obstacle for the construction of new dwellings in Montreal. The current parameters of the ClimishSol decontamination program are poorly adapted to the Montreal reality. From this year, a government of the Parti Québécois will carry out a revision of the regulatory framework on the protection and rehabilitation of land and the management of contaminated soils, taking into account the peculiarities of Montreal within the framework of the ClimishSol program. Decontaminated lands with this additional effort will be dedicated to the construction of family, social, community and affordable homes. 
Dozens of public lands, the properties of the Government of Quebec or the City of Montreal, are available on the island. A government of the Parti Québécois will propose in the short term to the City of Montreal the establishment of a joint committee responsible for listing vacant land to form a bank. The Committee will determine the ways to facilitate the layout of these lands for the construction of housing and dwellings for families, including co-operatives and non-profit organizations (OSBL). 
In large projects of residential construction, a significant portion of the new offer must be adapted to the needs of families. As a result, a government of the Parti Québécois will give cities the power to require the construction of dwellings with more than two rooms for families. 
In recent years, the Montreal rental park has been sketching, because of the transformation of rental properties into undivided properties for resale purposes. A government of the Parti Québécois will analyze, in particular with the City of Montreal, the mechanisms, regulations and programs capable of stemming this phenomenon, while allowing tenants who wish to legitimately acquire their housing to be able to do so. 
An innovative practice of access to lower cost ownership is to enable cooperatives and NOBS to acquire residential buildings or sets that become collective ownership. A government of the Parti Québécois will propose to entrust, in conjunction with the City of Montreal, a specific mandate to the technical resource groups (GRT) specialized in this type of operations to facilitate them. 
A government of the Parti Québécois is committed to providing Quebec with a new housing policy that will develop adapted responses to new housing needs. This policy will take into account the challenges posed by central and old neighborhoods. It will include senior tenants against the risk of avoidance of their housing. 
A citizen government is also committed to modernizing Laloi on the Régie du Livrementafin to simplify the rules and improve access and deadlines. 
These six new commitments are adding to the announcements made during the publication of the Montreal Platform of the Parti Québécois, which includes the following measures: 
"Montreal differs from the majority of other cities in North America by its lively central districts. This neighborhood life, we owe it largely to families who live there. Our party believes that more families need to be allowed, regardless of their income or situation, to make the choice to live in the city. We commit ourselves to put strong and concrete gestures to this effect, "concluded Véronique Fournier. 
Watch press clause. 
