Québec-from the assessment of the last parliamentary session, surrounded by his caucus, the official Leader of the official and deputy of Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, regrets that Quebec is overplaced. It listed several proposals made by the Parti Québécois during the last session to improve the effectiveness of the state and the quality of life of citizens. One to one, the Liberal government preferred to ignore them. 
"We have suggested a ceiling price on the essence, as it has been done in a few years in New Brunswick with a result in favor of motorists; The Government of the Tergiverse. We want increased use of Quebec wood in construction; The government refuses to act vigorously in this direction. We wish greater transparency at Hydro-Québec to improve its effectiveness. We want the Auditor General to fully have access to the books of the Crown corporation, without restriction. However, the Liberal government refuses. We propose that pharmacists have more powers to disengorge emergencies and facilitate access to health care for Quebecers; The Liberal government is dragging its feet. These are some examples that could improve the lives of Quebeckers, but the government does not want, "said Pauline Marois. 
The last political session has been marked by the long-awaited announcement of the North Plan. Clearly, this plan is more important to an image campaign for the Prime Minister than a real development plan. "All projects included in the North Plan were already in the cartons. What Jean Charest had sown as hope was more related to energy development. He failed, because what was presented in the matter feels the heated on a full nose, "said the official opposition. 
She has benefited from the opportunity to indicate that the Parti Québécois is due to a real debate on natural resources and royalties. "We want Quebeckers to get richer, with respect for the people and with respect for sustainable development. Yes, we have to develop the north, but developing the North does not mean to give it. This is what Jean Charest is currently doing, denounced the official head of the official opposition. A substantive debate on a policy responsible for royalties on our natural wealth is necessary and must snap off, "she continued. 
It reiterated the demand many times repeated of a public inquiry into the construction industry, in particular to restore the confidence of Quebeckers, but also for the government to cease to waste millions of dollars currently falling in The pockets of dishonest people. "For two years, the finding has been troubling: nothing has changed. Certainly, we have adopted some laws, but they have not settled anything. Worse, the Quebec justice system is in crisis, followed by the Sharqc operation and the Matracking law on the prosecutors and lawyers of the state illustrate it perfectly, unfortunately. Now, to restore confidence, in addition to a public commission of public inquiry into the construction industry, the current Minister of Justice must be replaced, "said Pauline Marois. 
For its part, the hon. Member for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, notes that the bills adopted will not revolutionize Quebec. He notes, however, that some bills have been curiously abandoned. "While Jean Charest promised us to prioritize all ethical bills at the present parliamentary session, he deliberately dropped two bills on the electoral law and particularly with the financing of the funding. races at the chieftaincy. It's curious! "Note Mr. Bédard. He also regrets that the Liberal government has led to the citizens of the regions, concerned about the redistricting of the electoral map. "It jumps in the eyes that the liberal defeat in Kamouraska-Témiscouata has deflected Mr. Charest who prefers today to abandon them. However, the problem is real and it is logical that we discuss, without partisanship, the opportunity to integrate the concept of the dynamic occupation of the territory. The Liberals have therefore chosen partisanship at the expense of the defense of the regions of Quebec, "sorry Stéphane Bédard. 
The Leader of the Official Opposition notes with concern that the Liberal government has made many victims in recent months. "Students are experiencing an excessive rise in tuition fees; Families will not have CPE places promised by the Liberal Party; Farmers cross an unprecedented crisis and the government closes our eyes; Elders will still have to wait in sometimes inhuman conditions before the government acts quickly and vigorously. The only ones who receive the attention of Jean Charest's Liberal government are once again the regime's friends. It's time for it to change: Quebec deserves better, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
