Montréal - the member for Joliette and responsible for mission for civil society relations, citizen participation and convergence, Véronique Hivon, takes note of the decision of the members of Quebec Solidarity (QS) to close the door at the opening of Discussions about the conclusion of an agreement for the next general election. 
IN SHORT 
The Parti Québécois respects the decision of Quebec Solidaire. 
This is not the decision we were hoping for, but we are proud to have tense and have dared to try to make politics off the beaten track. 
Véronique Hivon welcomes the democratic process that has been led. "It's not the decision we were hoping for. We are disappointed especially for Quebecers and Quebeckers, for the independentists and progressives who urge us to work together, to rise above the traditional partisanship, of our political parties, for the common good, To offer hope that things can do otherwise in politics, "she said. 
"But, beyond the disappointment, I am proud that we have dared, had the audacity, the Parti Québécois, to reach out, to try, to propose something else, to aim the addition of the forces rather than the division. We risked and this risk was worth it, because it could have completely changed our approach to politics. We knew very well that a company as ambitious and located as far from the beaten track was demanding, but we dared! , Added the member. 
The Parti Québécois is now the only political force that can prevent the re-election of a straight federalist government. We are determined and confident of getting there, strong from our 90,000 members, our ideas and ideals, those of bringing the project of a freer, more green, more just and stronger for all Quebeckers and All Quebeckers. 
It is now belonging to Quebec Solidarity to explain its choice to the population, which ardently wishes that progressives and sovereignists work together to put an end to the Liberal austerity plan. "For our part, we know where we go. We will continue work with enthusiasm, determination and trust, "Hivon concluded. 
