Montreal - The Quebec Prime Minister and Head of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, presented the actions that a party of the Quebecois party will pose to combat homelessness. It was accompanied, for the occasion, of the candidate of the Parti Québécois in Joliette and Minister delegated to the social services and the protection of the youth, Véronique Hivon, of the candidate in Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Daniel Breton, of the Candidate in Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, and the candidate in Saint-Henri-Sainte-Anne, Véronique Fournier. 
"The government of the Parti Québécois has been the first to provide Quebec with a national anti-roaming control. This policy was needed and it was claimed in vain for eight years. Today, we are making a commitment to deploy our national homelessness policy, which will be followed by a plan implementing targeted and concrete actions, "said Pauline Marois. 
In Lebudget 2014-2015, investments are planned, especially for the construction of 3250 social housing units, 500 of which will be reserved for people with homelessness. The Quebec party government will develop and improve local services, mainly in health and social services and community support, thanks to an investment of $ 6 million. In addition, among the measures announced last fall in the Solidarity document: a wealth for Quebec, $ 120 million over 3 years have been awarded to support the overall mission of community health and social services. 
Over the years, the face of roaming has changed. We need to face many forms of roaming. This complex phenomenon now affects women, Aboriginal people, immigrants and young people in family rupture. Roaming exists in all major cities in Quebec. 
The policy will deploy according to five priority axes of action: housing; health services and social services; Income; education, social integration and socio-professional integration; as well as social cohabitation and issues related to judicialization. 
"This policy was expected by all middle players for a long time. I had the honor of piloting the work leading to the establishment of a comprehensive, coherent and sustainable policy to better prevent and counter homelessness in Montreal and Quebec. Our action plan will provide for specific and concrete gestures for all priority areas, "said Véronique Hivon. 
"Solidarity is a wealth for Quebec. Our development is linked to our ability to work together to the common good, to take care of our world. We have a plan to build a more just society and more in line with Quebec's values, "concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
We have a plan and the team to succeed. Today, it's time to give us the means to go further. 
Watch press clause. 
Read about Quebec's Blog: Our Homelessness Policy: Living in Dignity 
