Quebec, on April 28, 2020 - Believing that many special cases will emerge and require quick answers, the member for René-Lévesque and spokespersons of the Parti Quebec's economy, Martin Ouellet, proposes the establishment of A line 1,800 deconformation, to answer questions from entrepreneurs and employees who will soon return to work, among others. 
IN SHORT 
"The economic consequences of COVID-19 are very large and plunged Quebec entrepreneurs into the greatest uncertainty. They will need accompaniment to get back on foot, because tons of questions about specific measures will emerge. Several, for example, are worried about the number of inspectors of the CNESST which will be present on the ground; Will there be enough to enforce the distancing instructions? Others do not even know if they are among the companies that can reopen, or if their doors have to remain closed again for a few weeks, "illustrated Martin Ouellet. 
The workers, too, have legitimate questions. "The wage processing, working conditions in a pandemic context, the application of safety instructions and all the new ways of doing things that will be implemented, all this is not necessarily clear and cause of uncertainty or even Concern, "continued the member for René-Lévesque. 
To respond quickly to the concerns and questions of both parties, the Parti Québécois asks Quebec to put in place an information telephone line: 1,800 decorfining. This one could of course provide support now, but also in the next steps of the deconformation. Ideally, it would also serve parents and teachers for all the issues surrounding the reopening of schools; We have seen it today, there are many. 
In addition to all outstanding issues, the plan announced today leaves many SMEs and even more workers on their hunger. "Business in the tertiary sector, including they also need a horizon. When can they start their activities again? In addition, considering that the reopening of the economy will necessarily have effects on the health of workers, how are it measured, and how to ensure that no one will be endangered unnecessarily? In addition, the government has indicated wanting to test further, with the aim of getting a fair portrait of the pandemic progression. Can he give us more details? We ask him to be transparent, "insisted Martin Ouellet. 
In closing, the member for René-Lévesque, himself entrepreneur, invites Quebeckers to support their local businesses. "In all regions, small businesses have suffered a lot, to stay closed while the supermarkets enjoyed them with market share. Now that they can reopen gradually, we must show them all the importance they have for us by buying home, "he concluded. 
