Quebec- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the member for Duplessis, Lorraine Richard, proposed a solution to the Liberal government to support the former workers of the mining Cliffs Natural Resources and to fill the deficit of their pension fund. Several ex-employees and retirees of the company were present at the press to press the proposal of the Parti Québécois. 
"These people who accompany us today are victims of the North Plan. When the price of metals has dropped, foreign investors have disappeared, leaving them unemployed and deprived of some of their retirement. Since Cliffs has been under the protection of Laloi on the arrangements with the creditors of the companies, the government has acquired at low cost of the cost-effective assets of the company. After the acquisition, the Government must announce the establishment of a limited partnership to operate the assets of Pointe-Noire, the railway and the port. We propose to include the shareholders' agreement the reimbursement of the missing amounts to the Cliff Employee Pension Fund to restore full capitalization, by the payment of 30% of net operating revenues. Performance on these assets will also be used to repay the government's investment, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
Remember that Laloi on the arrangements with the creditors of the Companies does not consider retirees as priority creditors. As a result, the disposition of the assets of Cliffs will not honor the employer's share of pension fund contributions. 
"Cliffs Natural Resources has ceased its activities, resulting in the loss of 600 jobs in Quebec and amputating 21% the pension of more than 700 pension plan participants. For the North Shore, it's a real drama; Economic development is a great deal, being deprived of important amounts. The North Plan for the ex-Cliffs employees is a loss of 21% of their pension plan, which is a deferred salary for work already done. The solution we propose could take place for a few years, allowing everyone to find his account, including taxpayers and users, "added Lorraine Richard. 
