Québec- The member for Vachon and sentence of the official opposition on transport, electrification of transport and maritime strategy, Martine Ouellet, and the member for Terrebonne and Family Spokesperson, Mathieu Traversy, Deplore the Minister of Transport, Robert Poëti, withdrew Highway 19 of the 2014-2024 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI), without any consultation of the actors concerned. 
"An unjustified retreat. As in the SLR file on the Champlain Bridge, the minister is ignoring all the work already done and the consensus of the elected representatives of the regions concerned. The minister must explain to the population the political choices he is for transport infrastructure in the metropolitan area, "said Martine Ouellet. 
"By sending several contradictory messages, Minister Poeti does not do anything to reassure the citizens of my riding and the North Shore of Montreal. These are dismayed to see that it turns the back to this important project for the economic development of the region, "continued Mathieu Traversy. 
Asked by the official opposition, Minister Poëti stated that the project of Highway 19 was not found in the 2014-2024 PQI because, he pretended, he waited for the opportunity before taking a decision. 
"The opportunity file has been completed by the former Liberal government in 2009. In addition, several projects under the study in the PQI are not even at the opportunity stage. The minister tries by all means to hide that he denies the liberal promise to complete Highway 19, "added Martine Ouellet. 
Recall that in June 2010, Prime Minister Jean Charest announced that he went forward with the completion of Highway 19, and that the work would be completed for 2015. Upon his arrival in power, the Quebec party discovered however, no money had been reserved for the project. 
From May 2013, the Government of the Parti Québécois corrected the shot by registering the project in the PQI, by depositing the environmental impact study and enhanced the project. Indeed, in order to promote collective transportation, a 280-seat incentive parking has been added in the Earth of Terrebonne and amenities for reserved routes. 
