Québec- "It is a bouquet of democratic measures that the Parti Québécois offers to restore confidence in the population in its institutions. Upon arrival in power, a government of the Parti Québécois undertakes to put forward five measures to give more power to citizens. » 
This is the assurance given by the official Leader of the official and deputy opposition of Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, by making the commitment to establish fixed elections, to limit donations to political parties at 100 dollars. Increase the powers of the Auditor General, to give the population a popular initiative and to appoint a parliamentary director of the budget. 
To put an end to the absolute power of the Prime Minister to be the only one to have the prerogative to trigger an election, too often according to partisan interests as is preparing to do John Charest, a government of the Parti Québécois will table a project of Law establishing fixed elections as soon as it comes into office. 
"Quebec will then hold a general election at a predetermined date as the United States, France, Canada and eight Canadian provinces are doing. Jean Charest is against fixed date elections. He prefers to keep power to trigger the election at the moment that will best serve him according to his interests and not those of Quebeckers, "said Pauline Marois, mentioning that fixed date elections would save thousands of dollars to the citizens . The responsibility of the Chief Electoral Officer to always be ready for electoral trigger has a significant cost. » 
As soon as they took office, a government of the Parti Québécois will drop a bill to limit the influence of money within political parties. Funding for political parties will become essentially public. The maximum gift of a political party will be 100 dollars, excluding membership fees, while the policy tax credit will be eliminated. 
This reform will control the cynicism by raising the suspicions of the population in relation to the financing of political parties and further pushing the great reform of René Lévesque. The Parti Québécois is the political training that posed the most gestures to clean up our political manners. With the proposed reform, no one can "buy" influence with a donation of $ 100 or give the appearance of doing so. 
Increased powers for the Auditor General  A government of the Parti Québécois will extend the mandate of the Auditor General of Quebec to all Crown corporations. The government will adjust its budget accordingly. "This reform will allow increased transparency in the management of Crown corporations," said the leader of the official opposition, Stéphane Bédard. 
As soon as they took office, a government of the Parti Québécois will amend the Popular Consultation Act to mark the right of initiative. This amendment will be subject to consultations with the population. 
Large principles should guide the supervision of this right including respect for the Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms, the future Charter of Laity and the Future Constitution of Quebec. All tax matters should be excluded from this right of initiative. To trigger the holding of a referendum, the registry should count the signatures duly registered by at least 15% of the population, or about 850,000 people. Signature campaigns should take place as part of clear financing rules. 
"The introduction of the right of popular initiative is a powerful democratic tool that offers citizens a new way of expressing and introducing debates. It is a question of giving the opportunity to Quebeckers to be heard outside the electoral periods and not only for the four years, and for the government, this is the best way to stay attentive to the needs of The population, "insisted Pauline Marois. 
A government of the Parti Québécois will provide the National Assembly of a Parliamentary Budget Officer. Its mandate will be to present annually to the National Assembly an independent analysis on the state of public finances, the government's expenditure budget and its Crown corporations as well as the trends of the national economy. This reform will avoid trafficking from the portrait of public finances to which the Liberal government has used. With this increased transparency, the debates around public finances will be more rigorous. 
"To restore the population in its political institutions, the Parti Québécois offers concrete and bold measures. Not only are we committed to creating these reforms, but we are also committed to respecting our Word, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
You can view the message of the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, at the following address: http: //go.pq.org/6d5. 
