The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, accompanied by candidates Maka Kotto (Bourget), Dave Turcotte (Saint-Jean), Odette Lavigne (Fabre) and Frédéric Lapointe (Maurice-Richard), as well as Camil Bouchard, ex- Member of the Parti Québécois and reference in the field of childhood, presented his plan to ensure the benevolence of the state towards the children of Quebec, therefore to guarantee a bright future to each of them. 
IN SHORT 
Le Guvernmenter de parts Qualbécois saforing a: 
"All levels of government, the entire company must commit to ensuring the well-being of children and young people. A government of the Parti Québécois will therefore raise youth and education to the rank of permanent national priorities; The commitments we take today illustrate it eloquently, "first declared the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
The evidence is no longer to do: liberal austerity has resulted in the decrease in budgets reserved for the protection of youth and youth centers. "If we take into account that everything is played in the early years of life, it is not acceptable. Quebec must take better care of its young people. Each of them must have the opportunity to become an adult capable of loving and being loved. Everyone must develop his talents, have confidence in his abilities and manage to be happy. A blooming child will become a free adult, in full possession of his means and engaged in his community, "Camil Bouchard chained. 
To do this, the government of the Parti Québécois will create a position of Prime Minister's Charger for Children. "This person will report directly to the Prime Minister. It will be able to challenge the Quebec government and other levels of government on all issues related to the protection of our children and young people. It will, in particular, ensure the application of the recommendations of the Commission on Human Rights and the Rights of Youth. Another of his mandates will be to identify proven strategies to combat child abuse, "added Dave Turcotte. 
The Project Manager will also be mandated to pilot the national kind of kindness to children. "This policy will include an ambitious national goal - but absolutely necessary - to reduce abuse towards our children over a horizon of 4, then 8 years old. To ensure its success, we will put in contribution the best research and preventive intervention teams in the abuse of children and young people, "says Odette Lavigne. 
Frédéric Lapointe has, for his part, recalled the commitment of the Parti Québécois for the adoption of a law shield, which will protect the budgets related to education, the protection of youth and the family (of which the educational custody services). "Thus, future governments will be forced to pay the minimum sums to support system costs over the years in these sectors. With such an law in force, there will be no more generation sacrificed. The well-being of children and young people will now be placed above budget hazards, partisan interests and electoral schedules, "he proudly insisted. 
Finally, a Quebec government government will designate a youth minister, who will see questions about primary and secondary education, the protection of youth and the family. "By grouping these areas, we will be able to ensure a more coherent educational continuum between educational custody services and the school network. In addition, youth protection services and the school network will be able to collaborate more effectively, "said Maka Kotto. 
"Every time it has been in power, the Parti Québécois has adopted laws, policies, programs that have improved the fate of hundreds of thousands of children and parents. I have today a thought for Mr. Jacques Parizeau, who often repeated that the primary mission of a government was to "protect his world". We strongly commit ourselves to pursue this mission and we will live up: we will protect our world, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
