Montreal, March 20, 2021 -The leader of the Quebecois, Paul St-Pierre Plamondon, strongly denounces the will of the Ministry of Higher Education to amputate the content of the course initiation to the history of Western civilization, offered to the College ; He asks Minister Danielle McCann to intervene to counteract and prevent this leveling from below. 
IN SHORT 
Recently, the Minister of Higher Education, Danielle McCann, gave the green light to a recommendation from his department that from 2023, antiquity and the Middle Ages will no longer be taught to a large part of the students. Collegiate, despite the alarm bells drawn by many hearts. The reason? The program would be "too busy". 
"Here is a very eloquent illustration of the leveling concept at the bottom. In Quebec, since the late 1960s, we are mainly from the classical course - which insisted enormously on philosophers, theologians and currents of thought - to the evacuation of everything that allows to think by yourself, d have structured critical thinking; As if we wanted to tear off our roots, erase from our memory all the luggage of our civilization, particularly with regard to philosophy, democracy and the scientific method. It certainly can not be a good news, "said Paul St-Pierre Plamondon game. 
The new version of the course provides for the teaching of recent history only, that of the 15th century to the present day. "How will students become involved in understanding the sequence of historic events? Where will they hear, now, from Athens, Romans, eras and founding events of Western civilization? In question the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
Like emeritite teachers who spoke, the latter proposes a solution: divide the material to teach in two courses, offered in as many sessions. "We can not amputate the story according to the mood of the moment! As Minister, Ms. McCann can not certainly endorse such recommendation. On the contrary, it must be inspired by the philosophy and humility of Bernard de Chartres, which, in the twelfth century, claimed that the thinkers of a given time were dwarves on the shoulders of giants; In other words, that any intellectual advance must rely on the work of our predecessors. It is an immutable principle, which retains all its relevance, today more than ever, "concluded Paul St-Pierre Plamondon. 
