Quebec- The member for Rousseau and the official opposition for the finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, announced that the Parti Québécois has requested an initiative mandate to the Finance Committee to In terms of international tax evasion and the methods that Revenu Québec is used to attack. 
"While the toxic austerity falls on Quebec, we learned a few days ago that hundreds of rich Quebec people held or hold secret bank accounts at the HSBC Private Bank of Geneva. Several hundred millions of dollars are hidden. It is systematic and large-scale tax evasion, involving wealthy taxpayers and the complicity of a bank. A parliamentary committee should study this issue, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
The mandate filed with the Commission reads as follows: 
"In accordance with the provisions of Article 149 of the Regulation of the National Assembly, I wish to propose to the members of the Committee on Public Finance to refer primarily to an initiative mandate on the phenomenon of the use of tax havens. 
By this mandate, we wish that the Commission looks at the level of use of tax havens by companies and individuals in Quebec and the role played for this purpose by the financial institutions, which it assesses the extent of tax losses. According to the use of tax havens for Quebec, as well as the effectiveness of the methods employed by Revenu Québec to combat tax avoidance and tax evasion associated with the use of tax havens. » 
The hon. Member recalls that such a committee had already done this work for smuggling of tobacco; She had been very useful. Then, in another order of ideas, it mentions that the tools available to Quebec to combat tax evasion are insufficient. 
"Revenu Québec uses a voluntary disclosure program with amnesty. But while the list made public contains several hundred names, Revenu Québec received only 88 disclosures. Obviously, the amnesty program has reached its limits. Let us add that the vast majority of Quebecers believe that real sanctions must be imposed on the faulty taxpayers and the accomplices banks. For if wealthy do not pay all their taxes, all the citizens make the costs. The Minister of Finance, Carlos Leitão, must respond positively to our request so that the Public Finance Commission looks at tax evasion, "concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
