Quebec- On this National Day of the Patriots, the Leader of the official opposition and deputy of Saint-Jérôme, Pierre Karl Péladeau, is pleased to remind the memory of Quebeckers the determination and pride of women and men who have struggled for The recognition of their nation, for its political freedom and the establishment of a democratic government. 
"Let us remember the courage whose patriots have shown; They did not hesitate to stand up to those who refused to consider their claims. Their legitimate fight for the recognition of our nation was memorable; With the decline, we can say that it represents a turning point or decisive, of our collective destiny. They struggled for a great democracy, for freedom of expression and freedom of the press. We owe them, among other things, to continue our journey as a French-speaking people in America, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
The Leader of the Official Opposition also wishes to emphasize the fact that in the course of the activities surrounding the National Day of the Patriots, two of his colleagues will be honored by the rally for a sovereign country for their unwavering commitment to independence. From Quebec: Agnès Maltese, MP for Taschereau, will receive the Prix Marie-Victoire-Félix-Dumouchel, and Stéphane Bédard, member for Chicoutimi, the Louis Joseph-Papineau Prize. 
Pierre Karl Péladeau also wanted to congratulate Mr. Marcel Tessier, Historian, who will receive the Chevalier-de Lorimier Prize, and Simon-Pierre Savard-Tremblay, for the early Literary Prix of Quebec Press 2015. He also pointed out The posthumous tribute rendered to the Quebec war hero Leo Major. 
"I warmly congratulate all recipients, especially Agnès Maltese and Stéphane Bédard. This public tribute is quite deserved and will keep their achievements alive and intact. These are, first and foremost, independence activists. By their work and their commitment, they have shown out of any doubt that the most promising way of the future for Quebeckers is to give oneself a country, "concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
