Montréal-Pierre Duchesne, Quebec's candidate in the constituency of Borduas and Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, announces that the Parti Québécois filed a complaint to the Chief Electoral Officer (DGE) ) of Quebec with respect to a $ 428,000 funding activity revealed in searches related to the Funding of the Quebec Liberal Party (PLQ), and which is not found in any financial report. 
"Philippe Couillard wants to become prime minister; It must therefore answer the legitimate questions of the population about the party it directs. Today, he announces that he wants to be transparent, but he does not say everything. What you need to know is the reasons that led UPAC to make searches at the Liberal Party's head office last summer. We remember that Philippe Couillard personally received the investigators' visit. What does he know that he refuses to say? Asked Pierre Duchesne. 
Indeed, it was learned in March 2013 that the UPAC led to an investigation into an alleged illegal financing system involving contractors who obtained contracts in exchange for political financing. A search at the Liberal Party premises highlighted some financing activities, including a list listing about twenty activities in which more than $ 700,000 were raised. A cocktail has also raised $ 428,000, a sum that is not found in any document transmitted by the PLQ to the DGE. 
"Philippe Couillard must tell us what he knows about this illegal funding system. Where did this money go? Has Philippe Couillard made checks in his party to find out what happened with this money? Is it used in this election campaign? Why does this amount do not appear in its party's financial statements? It must be explained, "insisted Pierre Duchesne. 
The search also taught us that there was an exchange of envelopes with Schekbeton, a company belonging to Marc Bibeau, which is presented as the great Argentier of the PLQ. "What role played Marc Bibeau at the time, and is he still present in the PLQ fundraising campaign? The police investigate these issues, but it seems to us that it is the least in the election campaign, that an aspiring as prime minister responds, "concluded Pierre Duchesne. 
Watch press clause. 
