Montreal- The candidate of the Quebecois party in the constituency of Vachon, Martine Ouellet, made public three measures for Quebeckers collectively enrich themselves with natural resources. "The exploitation of our natural resources is a major economic issue that is also linked to sustainable development. We need a government that stands up to protect our interests and that is what the Parti Québécois intends to do. It is over the export by boat from our gross ore in raw state without claiming anything back, "said Martine Ouellet on the occasion of a debate organized by the Quebec Chamber of Commerce Federation. 
"The Liberal government has a 20-year lease a lease, which gives them all rights, without any requirement or guarantee of economic benefits. If the Parti Québécois is brought to power, we will negotiate so that there is local transformation with each new mining project. Other provinces or countries have done so, and mining companies have folded their requirements, "she said. 
The Parti Québécois undertakes to demand companies in a position to do so that they realize 2nd and 3rd transformation in Quebec, in order to create quality and sustainable jobs. "You really have to take control of our natural resources. Many wealth is created by transformation and it is necessary to demand that it be done in Quebec, "said Martine Ouellet, recalling that several Canadian jurisdictions require the local transformation of their mining resources. Ontario and the Northwest Territories request that 10% of diamonds operated at home are also processed locally. Newfoundland has been able to negotiate an advantageous agreement with the Vale Inco company for the Voisey's Bay deposit. 
The Parti Québécois is also committed to creating a chief mining position. Based on the model of the Chief Forestier, it will be mandated to ensure that the exploitation of mining resources reports to Quebecers sufficient amounts to compensate for the loss of these non-renewable resources. It will provide financial control with mining companies on behalf of the Government of Quebec and a technical control over the volume operated as well as on the extracted value. 
"With the Parti Québécois, it is the Quebec population that will be enriched with the exploitation of our natural resources and not only a few companies. The signing of agreements and the impact of the transformation will help the acceptance of mining projects by communities. Everyone will be winning. This is the commitment we take and that we will realize! ", Concluded Martine Ouellet. 
