Quebec- The hon. Member for Chicoutimi and Head of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, as well as the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesperson for the status of women, Carole Poirier, emphasize International Women's Day, which will take place tomorrow. 
"Since its inception, the actions of our political formation have been guided by this aspiration at full equality between men and women. From one generation to another, this fundamental cause has ceased to be incarnated by women and sometimes too exceptional men. Women have risen at higher levels; In all areas, they explored glass ceilings. In Quebec, thanks to pioneers, women now know that they do not have to impose limits on their ambitions. I am extremely proud of, moreover, having had the privilege of rubbing a few. On the occasion of the International Women's Day, the members of the Parti Québécois join the whole population to pay tribute to each of these unique and remarkable women, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
"In Quebec, the theme of the International Women's Day, this year, is women on the move for equality - solidarity against austerity. This theme brings us, in the context of the decisions and cuts of the current government, to reflect on the fragility of our achievements, which have all been, we know it, won high struggle, "added Carole Poirier. 
"When the government cuts in health, social services, food security, social assistance, employment assistance, education, duties assistance, local and regional development, in the environment, Community housing, in culture and services to people with functional limitations, it affects women in the first place, and it is worrying, "continued the member. 
"The March 8th day, this year, is not one where we will remember only the past struggles in order to never forget what others have done before us. More than ever, it must be one allowing us to unite our strength, to be in solidarity and to fight the present against this austerity that threatens our achievements. As long as all women will not be free, we will be running, "concluded Carole Poirier. 
