Québec-Diane Lamarre, Member of Parliament for Taillon and spokesman for the health and accessibility of care, introduced this morning to the National Assembly Bill 691, An Act to prohibit billing fees ancillary For insured services. This bill comes to delete the regulatory authority from decreing ancillary fees that the Minister Barrette had given in Bill 20. 
"The Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette often complains of the length of the study of Bill 20. I challenged for hours the amendment he wanted to impose on ancillary costs. The minister tried these fees, refusing to see a clear obstacle to universal access to care. However, for the disadvantaged, for the elderly - often the most affected by these costs in ophthalmologists or dermatologists -, these "surprise overloads" at the office of the doctor can make unaffordable careless care, "held to mention Diane Lamarre. 
While organizations representing several hundred thousand Quebecers and Quebeckers, including groups of physicians, also publicly opposed these incidental costs, the minister persisted in wanting to impose them. It was only recently that he realized how much his amendments for the ancillary fees were unacceptable. 
"The minister reported a few times in recent weeks that he no longer intends to publish a list of fees that may be charged with physicians to patients for services already insured by the RAMQ. There is no need to maintain this regulatory power. We propose - like the Protector of the Citizen, who made it a recommendation, again recently, during his visit to Bill 92 - to suppress the power of the Minister Barrette. You have to send the clear and equivocal message that the ancillary fees, it's over, and that from now on, they are formally prohibited, "said the member. 
"The Parti Québécois continues its fight against surfacting on behalf of the patients, on behalf of the users and on behalf of all the citizens of Quebec who already pay, by their taxes and taxes, for health services. We use the government's collaboration and ask him to call and quickly adopt our bill, "said Diane Lamarre. 
Remember that Bill 20 provides, in Article 76, that 'ancillary costs [planned for agreements] (...) may continue to be charged until the first regulation came into force; So as long as the minister will not abrogate this provision, it is the status quo that prevails. His statements that there will be no regulation have no legal value. He must call and quickly adopt Bill 691 to end any ambiguity. 
