Quebec-the member for Beauharnois and official opposition on the work, Guy Leclair, accompanied by the member for Jonquiere and spokesman for the official opposition in terms of energy, Sylvain Gaudreault, has arrested at The National Assembly, the Minister of Labor, Lise Thériault, and claimed the modernization of the Quebec's health and safety regime. 
"After 30 years of existence, the CSST must be modernized. The current application of the law poses a lot of problems. The Minister of Labor is responsible for correcting these problems for the benefit of workers and employers. But the reports multiply, but nothing moves. Minister Thériault has a bread on the board; She can no longer maintain the status quo before the multitude of problems and palpable tensions that will become ingestible if nothing is done, "said Guy Leclair. 
He recalled that the Camiré report was tabled in December 2010 and has disappointed a lot. Unions and the employers have not reached a consensus. The report did not meet the essence of the CSST law, which targets parity as several recommendations greaterly reflected the employers' concerns. Of the 32 recommendations of the Camiré report, 28 responded to employers' requests and only 4 responded to requests from workers. "The imbalance of this report was palpable. Minister Thériault can therefore endorse it in its entirety, "added the member. 
The member Leclair also sorry that the report of the members of the National Assembly on the Medical Evaluation Office (BEM) in 2006 remained unanswered. "Unanimously, parliamentarians demanded significant changes to the BEM. Five years later, no signal, no follow-up. However, the issues are not resolved, in the chagrin of accident workers. To justify its inaction, Minister Thériault takes refuge behind the Camiré report, as if it contained the solution. But this is not the case and she knows it very well, "added the journeyman for work. 
If the recasting of the CSST must make it possible to correct unfair situations for workers, particularly with regard to the medical assessment and the treatment of professional lesions, the opportunity is given so that the Government firmly undertakes to apply the regime of the CSST to domestic workers. "The time to procrastinate is over: the case of domestic workers is also another element that requires concrete gestures from the Minister. It must now take and cause for these women and give them the same treatment as all other Quebec workers, "concluded Guy Leclair. 
