Montreal- "Definitely, the excess languages become a habit at Quebec Solidaire. Françoise David must apologize on behalf of his party and recall his troops to order these insulting and misleading attacks, "said Bernard Drainville, Quebec's candidate in Marie-Victorin and Minister responsible for democratic institutions and Citizen participation. 
Indeed, this morning on the waves of the 98.5 FM, to the emission that the COCOF of Quebec Solidaire must be rising, André Fontecilla, compared the Parti Québécois on the far right and the French National Front, in mentioning that the charter of secularism would be an anti-digusulman identity decline. Andrés Fontecilla refused to apologize after having pronounced these words, despite the express request of Bernard Drainville. 
"Quebec Solidarity does not seem to be able to debate the challenges related to the Charter without falling into insults and vicious attacks. The team of Françoise David seems to us resolved to want to tax ourselves of intolerance, but the reality is that it is the solidarity that turns completely closed to ideas and people who do not think like them, " Added Evelyne Abitbol, Quebec candidate in the riding of Acadia. 
"The debate on the Charter is necessary to ensure the equality of all citizens, the equality of all beliefs and gender equality. The secularism of the Quebec state is not affirmed in no law; The rules for managing this secularism do not exist black on white. This silence explains some of the problems that we currently live. The Charter offers clear and reasonable solutions for the state to be neutral to all Quebeckers, "added Djemila Benhabib, candidate in Mille-Islands. 
"The Charter offers tags to prevent new unreasonable accommodations into the future. But, above all, it will ensure better social cohesion and a better integration of neo? Quebeckers, conjugating identity and diversity, "said Yasmina Chouakri, candidate in Anjou-Louis-Riel. 
"On the part of a party that is feminist and progressive, we could have expected that Quebec Solidarity affirms the equality of man? Woman without compromise. Instead, we see that it adopts a minimal position on the wearing of religious signs, and delivers unworthy attacks by a serious political party. We expect to better, "concluded Leila Mahiut, candidate in Bourassa-Sauvé. 
It should be noted that last week, Amir Khadir compared the candidacy deputy Karl Péladeau at the coming of Ayatollah Khomeini in Iran. Françoise David has still not reminded his member of Parliament. 
"We demand again that Francoise David dissociates himself from the words of his candidates, that she will stop these insults who discredit his party. Quebec Solidarity can continue to isolate oneself in its ideology, but we can no longer tolerate this attitude worthy of the Liberal Party, which affirms that all those who do not think it's wrong, "concluded Bernard Drainville. 
