Québec- The member for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, arrested today the Liberal government on the benefits of Quebec's sovereignty. 
"Every day, what happens in Quebec demonstrates the population all the benefits that Quebec would have to be independent. For the protection of our territory, for our environmental choices, for the safeguarding of our social policies, for our economy than for the defense of our language or culture, the sovereignty of Quebec has never been so much relevant. There are two findings right now in Quebec. First, the major choice of society that will determine our future will not be done in Quebec. The other finding is that it has become very clear that the national interest of Quebec is currently opposed to that of Canada in the most important issues, and that these issues affect Quebeckers in their reality. And these two interests, in the current context, are irreconcilable, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
The head of the official opposition also lasted that Prime Minister Philippe Couillard and the head of the CAQ, François Legault, did not participate in the interpellation to defend their vision, that Quebec has the advantage of staying within Canada. What's more, the CAQ representative has left the Chamber, thus demonstrating the inability of his political training to defend his vision of nationalism and debate about concrete issues, whether about the Champlain Bridge, the increased oil transport for export or French language. 
The protection of our territory 
"How to tell a family of Cacouna or Sorel-Tracy that oil transport projects are not decided by the Quebec government, but by a Canadian institution, the National Energy Board, which is guided by interests. Economic and energy, not by security and environmental concerns? So, what remains of us? Lobby. Who will decide? Canada. The Liberal government has not demonstrated today that decisions will take place in Quebec. The choices imposed by Ottawa do not help us, "added Stéphane Bédard. 
Economic, environmental and cultural issues 
"The federalists are ceasing to bring us back the argument of equalization. Examples of economic choices that disadvantage Quebec abound, however. Instead, we should have a Quebec economic policy, with all our means, which would not support Alberta oil, Ontario car or Toronto's financial circles. We favor our areas of excellence: the electrification of transport, the forest, the aeronautics industry and that of the pharmaceutical, in particular. Sovereignty is the end of the duplication of the 83 structures that exist at the same time in Ottawa and Quebec. The greatest household in structures and bureaucracy, it is the Québécois party that proposes it, "continued the member for Rousseau and spokesperson for the official opposition in finance and income, Nicolas Marceau . 
"There will be a conference on climate change in Paris next year. Does the government find acceptable that Canada speaks on our behalf on this issue that opposes us? Is it normal for Québec to be forced into a corridor diplomacy, far from the real discussions? The Liberals make the choice to try to influence Canadian forums, while Quebec should make his voice heard in international bodies. For years, Quebec has requests that our law 101 applies to federal jurisdiction. Ottawa systematically refuses. Does the Liberal Party find that the Quebec government is unable to enable its language and its own laws on its territory? ", Questioned Stéphane Bédard. 
"Today, Minister Jean-Marc Fournier and the CAQ have not demonstrated the interest of federalism. Worse, they were unable to evoke a single gain obtained from Ottawa since the election of a federalist government in Quebec. Yes, we believe that Quebec would have all the benefits to be independent. What I want to my children is that the debates that currently divide us are soon a thing of the past. In a country of Quebec, tomorrow morning, no matter where we come from, no matter our luggage, whether come from a family arrived here at the same time as Champlain or last year, we would all be together to speak One voice, indicate our priorities, enter our values, here and internationally, "concluded the official opposition. 
