Montréal - the candidate of the Parti Québécois in the constituency of Marie-Victorin and Minister responsible for democratic institutions and citizen participation, Bernard Drainville, asks François Legault to remember his candidate in Notre-Dame-de-Grâce, Noah Sidel, for several remarks held on his blog, especially those who make a comparison between Law 101 and Nazism. 
Lors de la campagne électorale de 2012, M. Sidel a en effet écrit, le 24 août :« There’s a guy who runs a great blog called “No Dogs or Anglophones” that I read regularly. I’m starting to feel like a PQ government might actually go as far as to start posting those signs and forcing us dirty Anglos to wear a big A on our sleeves. […] But it’s not hard to imagine a PQ-governed province in which the English language is simply banned ». 
Does François Legault assume the words of his candidate, who makes a comparison between the Nazism and the Parti Québécois, simply because we take commitments to defend the French language? On August 3, 2012, Mr. Sidel even wrote that Law 101 was the most restrictive and oppressive law in Canada. When a candidate benefits from such remarks, how can the future Coalition Québec say that it is committed to strengthening the protection of French? Asked Bernard Drainville. 
Bernard Drainville also asks François Legault to explain the words of his candidate about the Charter of Québec Values: 
·         « Secularism charter’s
raison d’etre is to divide and create
hatred » (23 août 2013)    « If they
want to cover their faces, then so be
it – as long as they understand that
they can’t impose that upon others.
Legislating against Muslims covering
theirs faces is not progressive, it’s
racist, and I am unequivocally opposed
to it. » (21 mai 2010) 
"Does François Legault believe, as his candidate, that the purpose of the Charter is to divide and create hatred? Does he consider that the obligation to have the face discovered when given or receives a state service is a racist measure? Such remarks, held by a CAQ candidate, demonstrate that only the Parti Québécois can adopt a real charter of values, "added Bernard Drainville. 
Recall that last Tuesday, on the waves of 98.5 FM, François Legault refused to condemn the words of his candidate. "By doing so, François Legault confirms that the Charter of Values and the Respect for Law 101 are secondary issues for the Future Québec Coalition," concluded Bernard Drainville. 
