S Orel-Tracy, on October 26, 2014- Members of the Parti Québécois join the citizen event against transport for the export of oil sands oil on the St. Lawrence River, standing today in Sorel-Tracy. The member for Vachon, Martine Ouellet, the hon. Member for Vérchères, Stéphane Bergeron, the member for Berthier, André Villeneuve, and the member for Saint-Jean, Dave Turcotte, are present alongside the public to tell the government to take his responsibilities . 
"The Liberal government and the federal government must listen to citizens present at this event. The St. Lawrence River must not turn into a highway for the export of west oil. There is no structuring impact and Quebeckers must assume all risks. In addition, Quebec still does not have the necessary tools to effectively intervene in the event of an accident. Prime Minister Philippe Couillard may pretend that we are well equipped to deal with this possibility, all studies say the opposite. Citizens clearly do not trust, just like us, and require more transparency and security, "said Martine Ouellet, the official opposition spokesman for transport, transportation of transport and Maritime strategy. 
Several recent reports confirm the deficiencies in the Canadian Coast Guard intervention capacity in the event of an accident. In November 2013, the Committee of Experts on the Safety of Tank Ships criticized the low hydrocarbon recovery capacity in the event of a spill, which is between 5% and only 15%. In May 2013, a Genivar study concluded that the Gulf of St. Lawrence and the St. Lawrence River formed one of the two sectors of the highest risk of significant oil spill in Canada. Finally, in September 2013, another Genivar study highlighted the deficiency of the ability of the federal authorities in case of emergency in the Gulf of St. Lawrence. 
Stéphane Bergeron, official opposition spokesperson for Canadian intergovernmental affairs, welcomes the commitment of the citizens of Montérégie and Sorel-Tracy. "The people of our home are very mobilized for the protection of their living environment and their environment. We have repeatedly asked Transport Canada to organize information sessions to keep people aware of the measures taken to ensure the safety of citizens and the protection of the environment, which has always been refused. The citizens are in line to know, "he added. 
