Quebec, March 18, 2021 - The multiplication of cases reported with abuse and abuse, in addition to the tragedy that was played last year in the CHSLDs and the RPPs, the member for Duplessis and spokesman of the Québécois Party for Seniors and Home Maintenance, Lorraine Richard, is impatient. It demands that all means be taken to better protect the elderly of Quebec, wherever they live and whatever the stakes involved. 
IN SHORT 
- an elder protector position must be created to ensure the safety of the elderly as well as respect for their rights.- Seniors should no longer be afraid to denounce the abuses of which they are victims. The multiplication of cases of abuse , Financial or other, in the RPAs is due in particular by the shifting of inspectors.- A commission of inquiry into the management of the pandemic in accommodation resources is also necessary. 
For years, the Parti Québécois has been calling for the creation of an elder protector position. "Every day brings us a new case of abuse or abuse concerning an elderly person, or new revelations about appalling living conditions in some residences. Regularly, the media report cases of non-compliance with ratios, inadequate care, a lack of staff, medicines or equipment. It must stop, and it has been repeated enough. Like the citizen protector function, a protector specifically dedicated to seniors must be appointed, to ensure their safety and ensure respect for their rights, "reiterated the member for Duplessis. 
A protector of seniors, fully independent instance, could in particular encourage the denunciation, also considers Ms. Richard. "It is known, the elders are reluctant to denounce the abuses of which they are victims - abusive increases of their rent or rates for the care, expenses required for services not offered, negligence in all its forms, obsolescence of the facilities ... They are scared, and it's normal! Who would dare to denounce a person or a business of which we depend every day for his care? She highlighted. 
At the same time, the system must have more inspectors with the responsibility to ensure that RPP care and services are adequate. "There are currently only 7 inspectors in Quebec. These completed a total of 550 visits in 2019, while Quebec has 1750 RPP. The minister is aware of the situation, for months. What does she expect to remedy this? "Desite Lorraine Richard. 
Moreover, visits should be carried out without notice. "When the inspectors are announced, it is obvious that the institutions will do the necessary to camouflage their gaps. We believe that visits must be made without prior notice, and at any time, not just day, on weekdays, "said the member. 
Finally, Lorraine Richard reiterates that a public and independent inquiry should be triggered to shed light on how the pandemic has been managed in the RPPs and CHSLDs. "We need to guarantee Quebeckers and Quebeckers that next time we will be better prepared," she concluded. 
- 30 - 
SOURCE : 
Laura Chouinard-Thuly 
Press Officer 
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois 
514 880-9594 
Laura.c After i's -t care liquid @as is NAT. Second. Wipe 
