Quebec- As part of the International Literacy Day, the member for Saint John and the official opposition spokesperson for employment, vocational training, literacy and youth, Dave Turcotte, says The importance of literacy and good learning of the French language for the establishment of a more just, richer and more prosperous society. 
UNESCO has chosen as an annual literacy and sustainable development theme, emphasizing the correlation between our ability to read and write and make informed and judicious choices for the socio-economic and environmental future of our societies. Twenty-two organisms of Quebec civil society have taken the bull by the horns by setting up today the illiteracy network, an initiative that needs to be supported. 
"In the world where we evolve and where the information is omnipresent, it is clear that alphabetization rhymes more and more with inclusion. It is irresponsible if only to reflect on the possibility of removing tools to people or organizations that promote lifelong learning and who seek to improve the living conditions of thousands of Quebec women and Quebecer, "said Dave Turcotte. 
The Infertima Engli-Matories, Morth French Guiana "Private ins rental in French Pource in the Applicant and Procery Salervis Deval in La Société in La Société Québécoise. 
"In order to come to a more egalitarian society, the entire population must have access to an official language learning. That's why francization courses for people who choose Quebec as a hostland are so important. Living and working in French everywhere in Quebec, but also can learn to read and write, at any age, it is important. We will never repeat it enough: the predominance of French is, in Quebec, a major factor of integration, the gateway to Quebec culture, labor market and intercultural dialogue. In short, francization is the keystone of successful integration, "said Maka Kotto. 
A government responsibility 
The member for Pointe-Aux-Trembles and spokespersons for primary and secondary education and school perseverance, Nicole Léger, insists on his side on the necessary efforts to be made to improve the teaching of French in our schools . 
"Unlike Yves Bolduc Minister, who has no strategy to improve the teaching of French or agenda to do so, we believe essential to consider it seriously. Instead of making cups in teacher training and pedagogical advisory positions, an action plan must be implemented. We still do not know what is the vision of the minister, nor what are his priorities. The French should appear, "said the member. 
Dave Turcotte wants to remind the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Yves Bolduc, that he has homework for people wishing to fully integrate active lives by enterprising steps to improve their reading skills and writing. The Parti Québécois has always committed to this effect and will continue to insist on concrete actions from the government in literacy and adult education. However, it goes through the renewal of adult education policy, including a vast project to combat illiteracy in Quebec. 
"The Government of Quebec must make every effort to promote the control of the French language by the whole population. It is imperative to be able to read and write to fit fully, both in the social universe and in professional life; Minister Bolduc must therefore make sure to provide the necessary support for students in training as well as persons who choose to meet the literacy challenge at some point in their lives, "said the member for Saint John. 
Recall that Minister Bolduc did not hesitate to suggest to school boards and schools to slash the purchase of pounds and improvement programs, which betrays a blatant lack of knowledge of the importance of the book and reading From an early age in countering illiteracy. 
"Quebec has significant challenges to this chapter; His Minister of Education must be the extension of all the measures and the means that will promote the learning of the language written lifelong ", has concluded Dave Turcotte. 
