Montreal- The Quebec Party Candidates team in the Metropolitan Area announces its commitments for Montreal. "A government of the Parti Quebecois will appoint a minister responsible for the metropolis. The Liberals abandoned Montreal and its priority issues, collective transport, roads, francization and integration of newcomers, the fight against poverty and homelessness. These files rarely retained the Prime Minister's attention, deplored the candidate of the Quebecois party in the riding of Pointe-aux-Trembles, Nicole Léger. We will redress this situation. The Government of Quebec must govern its metropolis in an integrated and coordinated way. » 
The Minister responsible for the metropolis will be endowed with the authority and powers necessary to ensure the coherence of government policies to Montreal. It will be supported by a permanent ministerial committee and will link with the Metropolitan Community of Montreal in the realization of the Metropolitan Plan of Development and Development (PMAD). 
Nicole Léger has also returned to the commitments of the Parti Québécois family. "We have to keep our families in Montreal. Since the coming to the power of the Liberal Party, the Montreal Interregional Migration Deficit is greater than 20,000 people. You have to change that! She launched. A government of the Parti Québécois will take the fair share of Montreal as to the construction of social and community housing and will complement the network of early childhood centers so that each child has access to a day care. 
"We will also conclude an agreement with the City of Montreal regarding integrated urban revitalization, added Nicole Léger. It is important to maintain a diversified social fabric and a good intergenerational equilibrium to preserve cohesion and avoid the impoverishment and aging of the metropolis. Our neighborhoods must remain attractive living environments for all. » 
The candidate in the riding of Gouin, Nicolas Girard, as for him presented the commitments of the Parti Québécois on the environment and collective transport. "We will modernize and electrify the collective transit network," he said. Road congestion has increased over the last ten years and it now costs us $ 1.5 billion a year. There has been no new metro station on the island for 30 years. And while nothing is done, greenhouse gas emissions continue to increase and stifle our planet. » 
A Quebec party government will extend the blue line of the metro to Anjou and will add reserved routes in all upcoming road projects for the Greater Montreal area. In order to reach 40% increase in the transfer of the transit network by 2020, the financial priority will be given to the collective transport projects prioritized by the Montreal community. 
"We will improve the quality of the environment with the full participation of citizens, pursued Nicolas Girard. In accordance with the principles established by the PMAD, we will protect woodlots and wetlands on the island of Montreal. We will also increase the offer in collective transport and we will develop the green economy of Montreal. » 
The fight against waste is also part of the priorities of the Parti Québécois platform for Montreal. The rehabilitation programs for aqueduct and sewer networks will be reviewed to reduce losses in the distribution of drinking water and improve wastewater treatment. 
The protection of the French language and the promotion of culture are at the heart of the commitments of the Parti Québécois for the metropolis. "We will adopt a new Charter of the French language to make French the official language of work and teaching. It is not normal that more than a quarter of the Montreal shops do not respect the provisions of Law 101 on the display and do not welcome their customers in French. It is necessary to give back to Montreal his French face, "said the candidate of the Parti Québécois in the riding of Rosemont, Jean-François Lisée, adding that the cultural vitality of Montreal is also a great strength of international attraction on which we must bet. to attract investment. 
"Headquarters and large companies leave Montreal. These are well-paid jobs that are lost. This bleeding must be stopped and intervening more quickly, relying on the new Quebec Economic Development Bank, which we will create, and the Québec Filing and Investment Fund. We must also bet on the strength of our culture, our language and our distinct identity to attract the best at home, "he added. 
"The French language and the cultural dynamism make Montreal a unique city. These are attraction forces for skilled workers and entrepreneurs everywhere. We must bet on these forces. Our language and our culture are our best business cards to invite the whole world to come to us, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
For the candidate in the riding of Cremazie, Diane de Courcy, education and the economy are two essential themes for the future of the metropolis. "We will accelerate efforts in stall struggle and better prepare students with the requirements of the 21st century. To get there, we will enhance the science and technology succession and we will support a future city of trades to make vocational training more accessible for under 20 years, "she supported. 
"Let's not forget that the manufacturing sector has been considerably weakened since the last ten years. The unemployment rate is 3% higher in Montreal than elsewhere in Quebec. Several factories have closed their doors, it's unacceptable! "Added Diane de Courcy. 
To tackle these problems, a government of the Quebecois party will create favorable conditions for retaining businesses and attracting new ones, including supporting the city's centers of excellence. "The cultural vitality of Montreal is an exceptional business card to attract new investments. But the formation of a skilled workforce and support for economic development clusters in some key sectors are the best ways to retain them. It is time for Montreal to become the economic locomotive of Quebec! "Concluded Diane de Courcy. 
