Quebec, on December 19, 2016 -The spokesperson for the Quebecois Health, Accessibility to Home Care and Home Support, Diane Lamarre, the hon. Member for Verchères and Head of the L'Outaouais Region, Stéphane Bergeron, as well as the Treasury Board Word, Lightweight Nicole, denounce Omerta in the health network. They again ask the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, to mandate the Insss so that the processes and impacts of the OPTILAB project are evaluated. "The health network is not an authoritarian regime where all must obey blindly. Employees have the right to denounce waste or harm caused to the population, "said Diane Lamarre. 
"While my colleague from Saint-Jean, Dave Turcotte, denounced the saga surrounding unused laboratories at the Hospital of Haut-Richelieu, now we learn that a brand new laboratory that cost $ 450,000 to taxpayers does not serve strictly to Nothing for six months at the Outaouais Integrated Health and Social Services Center. This is the most total improvisation since the beginning of the Optilab file, and the citizens of Gatineau pay the price, "denounced Stéphane Bergeron. 
Diane Lamarre also believes that it is, again there, an example of the improvisation of the minister barrette in his optilab reform. "The minister refuses again and again to reveal the impacts that his reform on the time of analysis of the samples. He also refuses to give guarantees as to the transport of samples which, in some cases, will have to travel several hundred kilometers. It is also noted that it improvises with public funds. The minister must ask for Unfolders to draw up a clear picture of the consequences of the OPTILAB project for patients and the health network. He has never filed any information on presumed economies. For the moment, there are significant transportation costs, allents of unsealed samples, including biopsies, and lost jobs. Nothing to improve economy or efficiency, "she deplored. 
As far as Omerta is concerned in the Outaouais Health Network, the Parti Québécois has made the protection of journalistic sources one of its battle horses during the study of Bill 87, aimed at Protect warning launchers. "I immediately arrested Minister Carlos Leitão so that, on the one hand, public disclosures are protected against reprisals, in the same way as those made in the public body or the citizen's protector, and that, On the other hand, wrongdoing covered include the waste of public funds. Allow public disclosure is to open an extra door so that the truth bursts, even if, sometimes, this truth disturbs. Why has the minister not favored all forms of disclosure, targeted all wrongdoing, protected all warning launchers? Unfortunately, a few days after the passage of Bill 87, we already see the consequences, while two employees are suspended for publicly denounced a clear waste of public funds, "concluded Nicole Léger. 
