Québec- "It is totally inadmissible that a francophone is obliged to use the services of a French-speaking private officer because he is unable to obtain French care from the attendants of a hospital in Quebec.". That said the hon. Member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, informed of a complaint filed by a Francophone Montreal citizen who was forced to assume the cost of a Francophone private attendant to heal his mother in A hospital in Montreal. 
Receiving long-term care at the Royal Victoria Hospital and waiting for transfer, an elderly lady is unable to be treated in French, a situation experienced by several patients. According to this complaint, this situation is known to the leaders of the hospital, but no change has been made. Thus, unilingual English-speaking staff is related to Francophone patients. 
"This situation is not just a question of language, but also dignity and security," said Carole Poirier. 
The member for Taschereau and the official opposition to the health opposition, Agnès Maltese, has been stumbled to hear the Minister of Health and Social Services, Yves Bolduc, affirm to the National Assembly that Quebec has English-speaking hospitals. " It's wrong. The minister does not know the law. All institutions must offer services in French. The law allows access to health services in English, but there is no English-speaking hospital in Quebec. There is a serious drift and the Minister of Health must act to recall the leaders of the Royal Victoria, "said Agnès Maltese. 
It was just as surprising to hear the minister say that a francophone has the right to be treated in French if he makes the request. "We do not have to do the request, it must be automatic. Minister Bolduc must quickly claim a portrait of the linguistic situation of medical staff in Montreal, "she added. 
For the member for Drummond and sentence of the official language opposition, Yves-François Blanchet, this case demonstrates the passivity of the Liberal government and the minister responsible for the Charter of the French language, Christine St-Pierre , to protect French in Quebec as a common language. "When a government minister says that there are hospitals in Montreal who are English speakers, we have the greatest illustration we are well in a linguistic drift," concluded Yves-François Blanchet. 
