Quebec- The member for Rousseau and spokesman for the Parti Québécois in finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, strongly denounces the announcement of the Minister of Finance, Carlos Leitão, who intends to bring the QST to 11%; This increase in the tax is unacceptable, given what the Liberal Party had promised in the election campaign. 
"The Liberals had committed to lowering taxes, not up to raise taxes! Unfortunately, it is the recipe that they favor: promise one thing, but govern by doing its opposite. They work for 12 years! , Denounced the member for Rousseau. 
It should be noted that since the return of the Liberal Party to the government, in April 2014, the families of Quebec have seen their tax burden increase by some $ 1500. "This new liberal decision is unfair, especially for people who arrive at retirement age: all their lives, they paid a lot of tax but few taxes, and now that they have lower taxable income, They will have to pay more taxes! There is no equity in this decision, it is regressive; The tax is more progressive and contributes more to social justice, "continued Nicolas Marceau. 
In addition, there is no reason to believe that the changes announced by Carlos Leitão will actually be at zero cost, as it claims. If that was the case, there would necessarily be losers and winners, but who are they? The government does not identify them. "What we know is that the rising of the QST announced by the Minister of Finance will increase inequalities in Quebec. The families of the middle class, among others, will not be protected from its effects, nor those of the increase of the many other rates. Let us add that the Ministry of Finance has already overestimated the revenues from the QST. Finally, the government has no solution to counteract tax losses related to e-commerce and cross-border commerce, "added Nicolas Marceau. 
The spokesman press the Prime Minister to clarify his real intentions. "Considering the number of times the Minister of Finance has been scrapped by Philippe Couillard must now look at Quebeckers in his eyes and tell them whether or not he intends to increase the QQ to 11%", A-T -He concluded. 
