In support of the Citizen Committee Kamouraskois My care remains here, the official opposition spokesperson for health, accessibility to home care and home support, Diane Lamarre, as well as the spokesperson for seniors, Harold Lebel, denounced the ineffective liberal strategy of centralization in the field of health care. "Care must go to patients; not the opposite! , They supported. 
IN SHORT 
In May 2017 in Kamouraska was held a great walk to demand maintaining services and local care at the Pocatière Hospital. "More than 5,000 people had gathered to send a strong message to the Liberal government. A petition of some 9000 signatures was also filed at the National Assembly. The population and municipal elected representatives of Kamouraska were mobilized for the cause. Yet a year later, nothing is yet settled. We are more and more concerned about it, because it would not happen otherwise if we planned to close the Pocatière hospital, "said Anne Marie Labbé, Jean Martin and Lilou Cottinet, members of the My Care Committee stay here. 
"If ever that scenario had to materialize, it would be dramatic for the people of the region, especially for the elders, on his side Emphasized Harold Lebel. Deadlines are lengthening. The offer of services decreases; Many are just no longer offered. People have to move further and further and, for some, it's difficult and complicated. What did the minister tell all those who worry about? He asked. 
Diane Lamarre is formal: Members of the Committee My Care remain here and the entire population of Kamouraska can count on the Parti Québécois to maintain local care in the region, as elsewhere in Quebec. "A government of the Parti Québécois will give the patient to the heart of the health system, including giving more autonomy to 200,000 health professionals who are waiting for that. We will support community staff and organizations that work every day to help our world. And as early as October 2018, we will redirect the billions promised to doctors to home support and local care, "she insisted. 
