Drummondville - The Quebec Prime Minister and Head of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, presented his commitments to better care for our elders anywhere in Quebec. 
On this occasion, it was accompanied by the candidate of the Parti Québécois in the riding of Saint-François, Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, the candidate in Joliette and Minister Delegate to Social Services , Véronique Hivon, of the candidate in Blainville, Gyslaine Desrosiers, of the candidate in Taillon, Diane Lamarre, the candidate in Drummond-Bois-Francs, Daniel Lebel, and the candidate in Johnson and Minister of the Environment, Sustainable Development, Wildlife and Parks, Yves-François Blanchet. 
"The first choice of our elders is to stay as long as possible in their home. We are going to give Quebeckers and Quebeckers the freedom to choose where they want to age, giving them access to adequate services and ensuring the development of home support services, through self-reliance insurance, "said Pauline Marois. 
The Autonomy Insurance Plan will have a closed budget envelope, the Fund Autonomy, which will be subject to a particular accountability. This fund will consist of the amounts planned for long-term care and services and an additional investment announced by the government of more than $ 500 million until 2017-2018. Remember that in 2013-2014, more than $ 110 million that have been invested in home care and services throughout Quebec. In the future, $ 500 million will be invested in home care and services for seniors and people with disabilities. 
"The Liberal Party simply offers to invest extra money, without changing ways of doing things. But if we continue to do things in the same way, we will get the same results. And the results obtained by the Liberal home care party have been highlighted by the Auditor General of Quebec: disorganization; insufficient and inadequate services; regional iniquities in access to services; incomplete waiting lists; Absence of national standards. We do not want to do things like the Liberal Party. That's why we have to adopt the Autonomy Insurance Act, "said the Prime Minister. 
The caregivers wish to be better supported. This is why respite services will be part of the eligible services in the context of autonomy insurance. The caregivers are valuable partners, and the Parti Québécois government will bring them better support. 
"Abuse towards seniors can take many forms. In addition to physical violence, we can think of financial pressures, psychological or emotional abuse, sexual abuse. It is essential to act to raise awareness and stakeholders in this phenomenon, "continued Pauline Marois. 
The Government of the Parti Québécois announced the financing of projecting the abuse of seniors through training and awareness, submitted by the provincial consolidation of the users' committees (RPCA). This project, which will be deployed in the 18 regions of Quebec for a period of three years, aims to raise the awareness of the elderly, their relatives and the population to the abuse towards the elders, thanks to the training that will be exempt from term, by volunteers members of the users and resident committees. 
To ensure seniors who require heavier care and living environments that meet their needs, the government will continue investments for the improvement of CHSLDs. The money needed to realize these real estate investments comes from the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. 
Finally, it should be noted that the government has set up the Fire Protection Committee in private residences for seniors. This committee assesses the opportunity and modalities so that all elderly residences have a sprinkler network. It is made up of representatives from the Ministry of Health and Social Services, the Régie du Building du Québec, the Association of Heads in Fire Safety in Quebec, the Quebec Regroupment of Seniors Residences, the Housing Corporation. Quebec, from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupancy of the Territory and the Provincial Association of Quebec Housing Builders. The work of the committee are still in progress. 
"We have a very good assessment of care to our elders. We want to go further because we have a duty to take better care of the elderly. We have the moral obligation to help them live as long as possible at home by providing quality, varied and accessible home care, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
We have a plan and the team to succeed. Today, it's time to give us the means to go further. 
Watch press clause. 
