The Swiss Passage in the Chaudière-Appalaches region, the Quebec Prime Minister and Head of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, presented his plan to enhance entrepreneurship. 
"Our government will support and grow Quebec companies. It is the companies and entrepreneurs who create jobs and we are determined to support them with force, using the levers of the state, "said the Prime Minister. 
Pauline Marois has announced four commitments to help businesses and entrepreneurs. 
A government of the Parti Québécois: 
Maximize the impact of oil exploration on the island of Anticosti for Quebec SMEs. 
"My political commitment is motivated by the will to contribute to Quebec's prosperity. We must help our businesses grow, export, to conquer the world. This is the culture we want to deploy: in business, Quebeckers must become the best in the world. Young people need to be encouraged and supported in business, to be audacious. Quebec needs your talents, skills, ideas, "added Pierre Karl Péladeau, Party candidate in Saint-Jérôme. 
"For 18 months, the roadmap of our government is impressive, especially thanks to the economic priority employment, which acts on several fronts. With industrial lapolitics, to increase our productivity, leaplan of foreign trade development, to increase our exports, and the national lapolitics of research and innovation, to support the marketing, we have put in place the necessary conditions to support the creation. jobs. Finally, with lastgion of transport electrification, we develop a new high-value industrial sector with high added value, "continued the Prime Minister. 
"Electrifying our transport, it means betting on companies here, which already manufacture trains, metros, buses, batteries and components for electric vehicles. This will allow us to create new technologies and skills in a crowd of areas such as urban planning, design, alternative modes of energy and many others. We have everything you need to do a more prosperous Quebec, "concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
We have a plan and the team to succeed. Today, it's time to give us the means to go further. 
Watch press clause. 
