Québec- The member for Taillon and spokesman for the Quebecois health and accessibility of care, Diane Lamarre, joined his voice today to the health commissioner and the health commissioner. To well-being (CSBE). 
"I want to emphasize this citizens' initiative launched by Ms. Line Bélanger, a member of the CSBE consultation forum, aimed at gathering all the groups to speak with one voice to denounce this completely foolish liberal decision to abolish the Sentinel, the Dog of the health network, at the moment when it suffers repeated and undocumented against the reforms of the Minister Barrette. By doing so, the minister deprives us with an independent look of great importance. These are several organizations representing citizens, doctors, unions, among others, who speak with one voice today; The minister must hear right and return to his decision, "said the hon. Member for Taillon. 
"It's Philippe Couillard himself who created the CSBE just 10 years ago. What does he think of dismantling his health minister today? Is not it strange that this government that promised so much transparency is also opaque and that it tries to silence the CSBE at the very moment when the latter leads work on emergencies, CHSLDs and the remuneration of doctors? In these circumstances, we support the completely legitimate application of three former health deputy ministers, claiming that the Auditor General urgently proceeds to the assessment of reforms. Nearly 50% of the Quebec budget is attributed to health. If the minister has so much confidence in his changes, he should promote and not muzzle their assessment. Why this resistance? All these questions, we asked them this morning, but we did not get any answer, "added Diane Lamarre. 
The spokesperson recalls that in 2016-2017, the CSBE plans to publish several very relevant works. "We are waiting for the publication of a Quebec Emergency Performance Study with recommendations, an analysis of the complaint review plan, as well as a report on the hosting of the elderly. In addition, the CSBE pursues extensive consultation on Quebecers' concerns about the basket of insured services, and for which it has already received nearly 2,000 public testimonials. He also started the necessary work on the revision of the method of remuneration of doctors, as well as on the public coverage of social services. It would be really damage or even aberrant, that such efforts do not know their culmination, "she concluded. 
Finally, remember that the Parti Québécois sponsors a petition for maintaining the CSBE position. It can be viewed and signed online auhttps: //www.assnat.qc.ca/en/exprimez-your-opinion/petition/petition-5947/index.html. 
