Shawinigan- The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, with the member for Saint-Maurice, Luc Trudel, announced the ranking of the former Samwinigan smelter as heritage building under the law on Cultural Heritage. The event took place in the presence of the Mayor of Shawinigan, Michel Angers, of the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the City of Energy, Roland Deaulniers, and the Director General, Robert Trudel. 
"The old shawinigan alumiller is considered the first aluminum complex in the country and is an important witness of the Heritage of Mauricie. By granting the status of heritage building to this significant industrial set, we intend to protect and showcase a legacy of a great wealth for the history of Quebec, with the greatest benefit of citizens, "said the minister Kotto. 
"Anyone who has once visited the old alumilier has seen that these facilities constitute a unique and mythical industrial place. I am delighted with the protection of the Quebec government today. This ranking helps to preserve a set that is intimately linked to the development of Shawinigan and which makes the proud of the Mauritians and Mauritians, "said the member Trudel. 
Established in 1899, the former Shawinigan alumiller is the first electrometallurgy plant established in the country and is of major heritage interest for its historical and architectural values. It is a remarkable witness of the birth and development of electrometallurgy at the turn of the twentieth century and recalls the implantation of large industries near hydroelectric plants at that time. It was in 1901 the first aluminum lingot in 1901. 
The buildings are representative of the industrial architecture of the first half of the twentieth century, characterized by the use of new structuring materials on which elements drawn from different architectural styles were plated. This set recalls the privileged spatial organization for the aluminum plants of that time and testifies to the will of the various designers to create, despite successive enlargements, a harmonious industrial architectural ensemble. 
The ranking of a heritage property aims to guarantee its protection, knowledge and development in the public interest as well as its transmission to future generations. The city of energy, as the owner of the former Samwinigan smelter, is responsible for ensuring the preservation of the heritage value of the protected buildings. 
Additional information about the former SHAWINIGAN smelter is available on the Cultural Heritage Directory of Quebec (CPDC) (www.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca). This dissemination tool of the Ministry of Culture and Communications makes it possible to discover the richness and diversity of the Quebec cultural heritage by making it accessible to all. Part of the RPCQ content is now on the Open Data Portal of the Government of Quebec (www.donnes.gouv.qc.ca). 
