Montréal - the candidate of the Parti Québécois in Bourget and Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the candidate in Jean? Talon, Clément Laberge, and the candidate in Verdun, Lorraine Pintal, condemn the lack of vision of the Liberal Party of Quebec and the future Coalition Quebec in the field of culture. 
Mute since the beginning of the campaign on its cultivation commitments, the leader of the PLQ, Philippe Couillard, said yesterday, in a stunt of which he alone has the secret, that he did not know if the state of public finances It will allow him to maintain the $ 150 million envelope over seven years for Quebec's digital cultural strategy. 
For his part, François Legault has nothing to say about culture. He did not even bother the subject during the election campaign, except to say that it would cancel projects already announced and unanimously, as the Diamond project of Robert Lepage or that of the news. Barracks. 
"On March 26, at the announcement of our cultural commitments, we mentioned that our opponents did not have a vision or ambition for culture. Philippe Couillard proved yesterday that our analysis is good: nothing reassuring for help with the creation and dissemination of the works of our creators. Culture is essential to the development of the Quebec nation and we see very well that Philippe Couillard has nothing to say about this, "said Pintal Lorraine. 
"Digital has become a powerful transmission vector for culture and heritage, as well as a major lever for economic development for the media and cultural industries. To maintain the vitality and competitiveness of this sector on scenes and local, national and international markets, the state must accompany cultural circles in their transition to the digital universe. We have already expected too expected to support creators and entrepreneurs in the field, who face the transformation of their disciplines and dissemination channels allowing them to radiate our culture around the world, "added Clement Laberge. 
Remember that Quebec accused a real delay in the capture of digital turning in culture, because of the inaction of the Liberal government. Digital Cultural Lastrate, unveiled on March 3rd and accompanied by a $ 150 million envelope, will fill this delay. She was unanimously greeted by the cultural environment. 
"The Parti Québécois is committed to ensuring that the culture sector takes the digital turn and encourage cultural philanthropy. If the cultural community wants to be able to count on a government that supports it, it must choose the Parti Québécois. We are determined to defend the culture and the French language, "concluded Maka Kotto. 
We have a plan and the team to succeed. Today, it's time to give us the means to go further. 
