The Vice-Chauffe of the Parti Québécois, Véronique Hivon, as well as candidates Carole Poirier (Hochelaga-Maisonneuve), Maka Kotto (Bourget), Jennifer Drouin (Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques and Marie-Aline Vadius (Laurier-Dorion) , presented the Plan of the Parti Québécois to give a concrete sequel to the movement #Moiausi: the Parti Québécois will take into account the reality of the victims by setting up, in collaboration with the judiciary, a chamber specialized in the field of sexual and marital violence. 
IN SHORT 
To better accompany the victims, the Parti Québécois commits to: 
"The #Moiausi movement will open the eyes of many Quebeckers. All these revelations about daily sexual violence by many women and men can not remain unanswered from elected officials. We wish to live up to the courage of those who have broken the silence, on behalf of many, and testified of an intolerable situation whose magnitude has been too often minimized in the past. And we will do it by giving them the essential tools to go from #Moiausi to #Plusjamais, "said Véronique Hivon. 
The movement has shown that the victims are often refractory to appeal to the judicial system, which appears to them poorly adapted to their reality. "We must restore confidence. This is one of the objectives of our proposal to create a specialized chamber on sexual and domestic violence in the Quebec Court. This instance would consist of specialized judges and prosecutors. It could develop rules of practice that would facilitate the consideration of the particular reality of the victims of sexual and conjugal violence, particularly with regard to the modalities for testimony, the support of the victims and the consideration of their needs in development. Sentences, "added vice-cheese. 
"Due to psychological injuries, victims of sexual assault often need time to rebuild and find the strength to denounce their abuser. We believe that the time has come to abolish the limitation period for civil matters so that each victim can obtain justice. The protector of the citizen and the Barreau du Québec also recommended to go in this direction, moreover, "said Carole Poirier. 
"The associations are unanimous: those who are victims of a criminal act do not have sufficient support. Since its adoption, in 1970, the Compensation Act of Victims of Crime has never been aggregated. We will undertake this project and give this law a more humane application framework and more concerned with the mourning and pains felt by the victims, particularly on the psychological level. We will see, among other things, all the aspects of the time required to apply, and that of the type of suffering that may be compensated, "Jennifer Drouin chained. 
"We have also made a commitment to improve funding for the Community organizations of $ 200 million. It should also be noted that surpluses of $ 40 million accumulates in the Fund of Assistance to Victims of Criminal Acts. We will redirect this money where he has to go, to the victims and organizations that support them, "said Maka Kotto. 
"In addition, too often, sexual and conjugal violence require victims to relocate their living environment. In addition to the efforts made by hosting homes, we are committed to building 3,000 social housing per year, some of which will be reserved for women, to facilitate their long-term relocation, "says Marie-Aline Vadius . 
"The Parti Québécois has heard the victims of sexual and conjugal violence: they want more justice and a better understanding of their reality. Collectively, we owe them a sincere and serious answer. This is what we do today, "Concluded Véronique Hivon. 
