The member for Rousseau, Nicolas Marceau, as well as the Dieudonnonian candidates Ella Oyono (Saint-Henri-Saint-Anne) and Jean-Martin Aussant (Pointe-aux-Trembles), reacted to the presentation of the pre-electoral report commented by the Auditor General (VG). Together, they denounced partisan management of public finances by the Liberal Party. "It's shown: after austerity, election gifts are raining, and it only serves to prepare a new service reduction cycle. In addition, it is now clear that there is no room for maneuver for taxes promised by the CAQ, unless cut into services, "they declared. 
IN SHORT 
"What we have denounced for several months is confirmed: the PLQ instruments the Quebecers' portfolio to buy a re-election. The Auditor General confirms the Liberal Cycle of Austerity: Only for next year, the shortfall is $ 868 million. This is the cost of electoral candies distributed during the summer. We, the Parti Québécois, we will put an end to the yoyo budget that only strengthens cynicism with regard to elected officials, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
For his part, Dieudonné Ella Oyono insists: The promises of the CAQ are unrealistic. "It does not balance! There is no room for maneuver to make taxes and taxes without reducing services. The VG report confirms it: we need all our money to maintain the quality of services. Those who will say the opposite are disconnected or do not know how to rely. In short, if the CAQ and the Liberals persist in their poorly enlightened choices, they must tell the truth: What services will they cut to finance their promises, to find the $ 868 million? He asked. 
"Unlike the head of the CAQ, we, the Parti Québécois, we are serious when we talk about numbers. We can not promise Quebeckers one thing and otherwise. We can not commit to increase services while reducing Quebec's revenues. For example, we need to renegotiate with the doctors to give better health services. The cycle of electoral gifts and austerity, with the Parti Québécois, it will be over. Seriously, "concluded Jean-Martin. 
