Quebec, August 19, 2016 - after the Minister of Transport, Sustainable Mobility and Electrification of Transport, Jacques Daoust, made the decision that was necessary, to resign, the head of the Official opposition and MP from Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as the member for Sanguinet and spokesperson for the Economy Party, Alain Therrien, consider that the Prime Minister of Quebec, Philippe Couillard, owes many explanations to Quebeckers. that all the light is done on the decision process and the ways of making his government. 
"Why does Philippe Couillard still await a scandal to act and do the checks? He knew very well that the parliamentary committee was coming, next week; Why neither her office nor that of Minister Anglade did not make the necessary verifications from Investissement Québec, in particular about the supposed absence of Jacques Daoust when the board of directors met to discuss the future of RONA? Why no one checked after the Auditor General's report, after the Quebecois party filed the minutes and finally after the emails revealed yesterday? It is unacceptable, and it poses serious questions about the decision-making chain in this government, "supported the official opposition. 
"Does Minister Dominique Anglade, for his part, knew that Investing Quebec was busy gathering all parts and information about the sale of Rona's shares? In this story, all the people who were to be attributable, in the first place Minister Daoust, lied on their responsibility. Who is attributable, within this government? Who takes his responsibilities? Sylvain Gaudreault continued. 
Alain Therrien has insisted that the parliamentary committee to take place next week is held in the presence of the former head of Cabinet Pierre Ouellet. "The Commission is still necessary. You have to shed light, know who decides within this government. Prime Minister and Ministers, or Cabinet Managers and Subcom Ministers? This resignation illustrates again the prime minister's lack of interest in state affairs. It takes all the evidence and even more before moving or even checking the information. That does not make sense; We need to know who decides within the Liberal government, "concluded Alain Therrien. 
