Montreal - with vehemence with the contempt of Federal Minister Vic Toews at Quebec and the choice of its priorities, and worried about the major impacts that may have in Quebec the adoption of certain measures in Bill C-10 On crime, the Québécois party asks the Government of Quebec to express, on behalf of Quebeckers, their pure and simple rejection. 
"Stephen Harper's Bill C-10 is an attack on Quebec values, we knew it. But the invitation made by the Federal Minister of Public Safety, Vic Toews, to amend Quebec priorities to charge conservative decisions are unacceptable. The Government of Jean Charest can not remain silent in the face of this despised attitude towards Quebec, "said the member for Marie-Victorin and the official opposition spokesman for Canadian intergovernmental cases, Bernard Drainville. 
"The Conservative strategy is shocking. The Harper Government is drowning some good measures by trying to swallow others who go totally against the Quebec values and consensus of the National Assembly, "said the member for Joliette and spokesman of the Official opposition in terms of justice and protection of youth, Véronique Hivon. 
The Québécois Party is fiercely opposed to the federal ideology that wants to reject the Quebec model of justice for adolescents, a model that allows Quebec to view one of the lowest crime rates in America. 
The silence of the Charest government is worrying 
Since its deposit in the House of Commons last September, several voices in Quebec have in turn denounced Bill C-10. 
The Commission on Human Rights and the Rights of Youth has, rightly, indicated that 
[C] Amendments will be detrimental to the rehabilitation and reintegration of adolescents offenders and go against most of the provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which Canada has ratified. 
The Association of Youth Centers of Quebec, meanwhile, stated that the bill constitutes 
a net decline in rehabilitation and social reintegration of adolescents. 
"Neither the Minister of Justice, Jean-Marc Fournier, neither the Minister delegated to Social Services, Dominique Vien, have relayed this categorical rejection formulated by Quebec stakeholders. The proverb that does not say word consent applies? This is our fear. The changes that the Conservatives want to force the Conservatives will have a disastrous impact in our justice system and in our youth approach. The silence of ministers suggest that they are complicit in the federal strategy. They have a duty not to let them do, "added Véronique Hivon. 
What are the financial impacts for Quebec? 
For its part, the member for Verchères and the official opposition spokesperson for public security, Stéphane Bergeron, requires the Minister of Public Safety, Robert Dutil, that he publicly presents an impact on the costs. that could lead to the adoption of the bill. 
"The choice of Stephen Harper to prohibit suspended sentences for certain offenses such as the Flight of Bestiaux 'comes to remove the power to judges to award a sentenced sentence. In doing so, the number of inmates will grow greatly in Quebec jurisdiction prisons. This represents monetary and social costs. The Minister Dutil must say, "supported Stéphane Bergeron. According to some estimates, the simple abolition of the stay for several crimes represents between $ 400 and $ 500 million for Quebec. 
"Sabling in education, social assistance or social services, as the Minister Toews would like, is the best way to increase crime and, ricochet, an additional increase in incarceration and costs which will be connected to it. Can we have a better illustration that it is better to invest in prevention rather than in repression, as the conservative logic roughly suggests? Stéphane Bergeron. 
"The federal government totally ignores the consensus of the National Assembly. Such an affront to Quebec is an eloquent demonstration of the need for Quebec to decide, by itself, guidelines that stick to its reality and its values. In these materials, as in many others, Quebec is different and over the years spend more it is closely in the Canadian as a whole, unable to be respected, "concluded Bernard Drainville. 
