Quebec, on December 21, 2016 -The Parti Québécois spokesperson for Aboriginal Affairs, Alexandre Cloutier, and the spokesperson for Status of Women, Mireille John, welcome the creation by the Government of Quebec. A public commission of public inquiry into relations between members of aboriginal nations and police officers. 
"The triggering of a Quebec commission of inquiry had become inevitable. The government has made the right decision by following the demands of Aboriginal nations, supported by the Parti Québécois, from the revelations of the issue investigation. It is necessary to ease the tensions that currently exist between the communities that rub shoulders and the police officers since the events of Val-d'Or and elsewhere; To do this, it is obviously essential to shed light on the distress that Aboriginal communities are experiencing, and its causes, "said Alexandre Cloutier. 
"A commission of inquiry is obviously essential, but it should be ensured that Aboriginal nations are involved in the process. In addition, special attention should be given to aboriginal women and the violence they undergo. In the immediate future, moreover, concrete measures must be put forward in order to counter the violence with aboriginal women, especially those of a sexual nature. It's primordial. Because, during the unveiling of the strategy to counter sexual violence by the minister responsible for the status of women, Lise Thériault, nothing has been proposed to support aboriginal women. We expect structuring gestures as soon as possible, "added Mireille John. 
"It's a shame to see that it took more than a year to convince this government the need to investigate this tragedy, to put the means for finding solutions. If he had been more prompt in his reaction, we would be much more advanced in the process. Let's hope that in the future, this government will be more sensitive, more attentive to the reality of Aboriginal nations, and that it will intervene at the time it is necessary. The Parti Québécois will be very vigilant about monitoring the work, "concluded Alexandre Cloutier. 
