Quebec- The member for Saint John and spokesman for the Employment, Social Solidarity, Poverty Reduction, and Youth Spokesman, Dave Turcotte, has tabled a motion today aimed at withdrawing the project 70. 
"The Minister Blais, as his predecessor, has not been able to demonstrate in any way the effectiveness and importance of sanctioning new applicants for social assistance. On the contrary, it is an approach that does not work and that has a negative impact on providers. We denounced the sanctions, we mentioned submissions, reports, groups that came to parliamentary committee. None of them supported the penalties that are planned by Bill 70, because it's simple, we can not live in Quebec with only $ 400 per month, "said the member for Saint- Jeans.
"We were learning yesterday that a primo-plaintiff enjoys social assistance for a period of just 9.7 months on average. Therefore, the Employment Objective program, which aims to bring the new social assistance applicants out after 12 months, is useless; People are coming out of themselves. The bill, with penalties imposed on new applicants, tackles a false problem. What is needed is more resources to make sure they are coming once and for all, "added Dave Turcotte. 
The text of the motion, which was rejected, goes as follows: 
"That the National Assembly denounces the fact that Bill 70 imposes sanctions for new welfare applicants who refuse to participate in the Employment Objective program;  That it recognizes that the sanctions imposed will have serious consequences, that they risk aggravating the situation of new applicants for social assistance, and that they condemn them to even greater poverty;  That the National Assembly recalls that many groups of civil society, as well as 300 academics and public figures, firmly opposed the bill and requested its withdrawal;  That the National Assembly asks the Government to withdraw Bill 70. " 
"After saying that the Advisory Committee on Fighting Poverty and Social Exclusion lacked rigorous, that the Union of Public Service and its 300 former university colleagues were a little ignorant, and that the collective for a Quebec without poverty had not been illustrated in the debate, that the minister is illustrated, and that he withdrew his bill, "concluded the hon. Member for Saint John. 
