Québec- So in Quebec, on May 1st, the Solidarity Sabsa cooperative will cease to offer unpaid health services, the leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the door? Quebec party In terms of health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, and the member for Taschereau and the Deputy Parliamentary Leader of the Official Opposition, Agnès Maltese, have denounced the disrespectful and arrogant responses that the Liberal Prime Minister Philippe Couillard has given when 'It was questioned about this important file. 
"The Prime Minister has not even been able to answer the clear and simple question we were asking him: does he commit to maintaining access to the Sabsa clinic beyond May 1? Two years ago the Liberal government is in power. If we had to summarize it, it would be simple: everyone has tasted. Teachers, nurses, pharmacists, child care and taxpayers. Obviously, there is an exception, one, and it is a very embarrassing exception: doctors. These are well represented in the government, by the Prime Minister himself and his Minister of Health. Why did Philippe Couillard did not want to answer? What disturbs it when asks questions about the privileges granted to doctors? Asked Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
In the company of Mrs Isabelle Têtu and Marie-Christine Leclerc, nurses at the Sabsa Clinic, Mrs. Emmanuelle Lapointe, coordinator in the same place, and Mr. Bernard Roy, researcher at Laval University, Diane Lamarre and Agnès Maltais emphasized the 'importance of the cooperative for the population of Lower Quebec City. 
"While the government pays billions to doctors, here in Quebec City, a clinic of specialized nurse practitioners is being asphyxious by the Minister of Health. Even the Montreal Economic Institute recognizes that ensuring the survival of this clinic would be a service to be given to the community. The Minister of Health rather signed his death. Can the Prime Minister stop governing in the sole interest of doctors? SABSA saved $ 147,000 in medical care in 2015 and has joined nearly 1600 patients since opening. We are wondering what more evidence is waiting for the Prime Minister to recognize that this pilot project is a success and that it improves accessibility to care. The refusal to support Sabsa is a serious social injustice and an affront for specialized nurse practitioners. Obviously, the minister dreads any form of autonomy of nurses, even if it generates savings, "added Diane Lamarre. 
"The situation of Lower Quebec City is the following: social workers will soon be transferred from CLSC to GMF; Community organizations of the entire territory are currently weakened; Then, because of the SPLI, we lost 15 community stakeholders. The solution we found, it's Sabsa. And the Minister of Health drops her. He lets all the people of Quebec fall. Gaétan Barrette has already invited patients to walk 40 meters more to see a doctor; In my turn, I invite him to go down the coast to meet the people of the clinic. He will understand, "Agnès Maltais concluded. 
