Quebec- The member for Berthier and the official opposition spokeswoman in agriculture, fisheries and food, André Villeneuve, denounces the fact that the Prime Minister has abandoned Quebec's milk and cheese producers. It has indeed stated yesterday that the ratification of the Global Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada and the European Union could be done without any agreement allowing producers to receive full compensation. 
"For several weeks, I have asked the Minister Pierre Paradis and the government to make a clear commitment not to ratify the CETA without the dairy and cheese producers have received full compensation. Prime Minister drops producers by canceling their balance of power with the federal government. The government abandons producers, and this important economic sector for our regions will suffer, "said André Villeneuve. 
The Prime Minister also declared: "However, we are very optimistic that, on the one hand, the impacts on our producers will be mixed by the quality of our products that will also have access to a large European market. » 
"The producers say that it is illusive to believe that there will be compensation for the effects by a greater entry of Quebec products on the European market. I would call back to the Prime Minister that European producers are 64% subsidized. How does it think that our producers, although their products are indeed high quality, can be competitive? , "Added the spokesman. 
Recall that according to the CETA, more than 17,700 additional tonnes of European cheeses will enroll in the Canadian and Quebec markets. The shortfall of Quebec producers must be offset. 
"Minister Paradis laminately failed in his work. He had to put pressure on the federal government to support our producers. The Prime Minister should realize that he significantly reduced the power of producer force with Ottawa. It must readjust the shot, back down and support our producers by returning to the position we had as government, whether the National Assembly will be seized of a Canada-Europe agreement only when they are assured of Getting a full and entire compensatory agreement with the federal government, "concluded the member for Berthier. 
