Montréal- As part of their participation in the Days of Culture, the Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, remind the support of the Government of Quebec to the democratization of culture By announcing that, from October 1st, the entry price for young people aged 13 to 17 at the Museum of Civilization, the Montreal Museum of Contemporary Art and the National Museum of Fine Arts of Quebec will be a dollar. 
The Government of Quebec thus gives one of the recommendations of the Working Group on Cultural Philanthropy, chaired by Pierre Bourgie. This group proposed various measures, including the one announced today, in order to raise awareness and open young people to culture as soon as possible. Its effects will be beneficial, since it will significantly increase accessibility to three state museums and to make known national collections. 
"Attracting adolescent girls and adolescents is a challenge for museum institutions. This privileged access to national collections becomes a great opportunity to encourage young people to tame arts and inculcate their taste for culture. It is also a step closer to bring young people to build a lasting relationship with culture, relationship that is not going without influencing identity building and report to another, "said the Prime Minister. 
"I welcome this initiative since it will create meeting spaces between young people and culture. Places of curiosity, knowledge and leisure, our state museums contain rich collections that deserve discovery. I strongly hope that this measure encourages our teenage girls and adolescents to invade them and to appropriate them, "added the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto. 
Thus, as of October 1, whether as part of a visit for personal or school purposes, any young to 17 years old will pay a dollar to enter the three Quebec state museums. For children aged 12 and under, the entry will remain free. 
Remember that the report unfivement, for a philanthropic culture in Quebec! Was released on June 11, 2013 and is available on the website of the Ministry of Culture and Communications (www.mcc.gouv.qc.ca) and the Ministry Finance and the economy (www.finances.gouv.qc.ca). 
