Quebec- The member for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, deplores the premier's refusal to offer the necessary services for autistic children and their families. 
"In 10 years, the number of students with disabilities or in difficulty at home has increased from 37 to 81. last year only about forty children were excluded from their school. I put seven questions to the Prime Minister to find out what concrete actions his government would put forward so that autistic children and their families receive the support they deserve. I could not draw: nor answer, nor commitment, nor sensitivity, or compassion. Instead of committing themselves to support them, the Prime Minister has locked up in his bookkeeper, claiming that budget balance had to be achieved before improving services. It is a nonsense that testifies to the remoteness of the Prime Minister of the reality that these families live, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
"The field groups are worried and fear that current cuts come accentuate the problems faced by these families. They have already challenged the Prime Minister, but remain waiting for concrete actions on his part, "he added. 
To illustrate his remarks, the official opposition leader recalled the case of the young Benjamin, who has been the subject of many articles and reports in recent months. This ten-year-old, non-verbal autistic child and having an intellectual disability, has been expelled from his school before Christmas and, since then, his parents must deal with barely five hours per week of home school, offered by the school board. Out of breath, they ask, like several other families, the help of the government in order to obtain the resources necessary to educate their child and allow him to continue to flourish. 
"The young Benjamin has been expelled because it is considered by the establishment as a" too heavy "case. The question is as follows: if the specialized school, with all the resources it has, can not take care of it, who else can do it? Is the Liberal government's solution, in such a situation, is to give up the parents? Unfortunately, it seems that yes, "concluded Stéphane Bédard. 
