SALABERRY-DE-VALLEYFIELD, September 5, 2019 -In the framework of its presensive caucus, the parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois announced that this fall, it will make the French language its favorite subject in its exchanges at the National Assembly . 
IN SHORT 
"After the spring of secularism, Quebec is ready to live its autumn of the French language. We will give this issue more than priority at the center of our debates at the National Assembly. The Government of Quebec will have to agree to look at Law 101 and strengthen it, as we have been proposing to do so for several years now. Our political action of the coming months will be in this sense; Thus, French will find its place, in the foreground, in Québec culture and identity. Moreover, our project of independence will not be achieved without a healthy French language, "said the parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois, Pascal Bérubé. 
This fall, in its interventions, the parliamentary wing intends to put three main concerns forward: the valorization of French at work, the francization of newcomers, and the place of French in the public space. The Parti Québécois, who wants the Legault Government to be able to catch up with its inaction of the last few months, will make several constructive proposals to shine the French language, including the following: 
1- extend the law 101 to companies from 25 to 49 employees; 
2- Make the francization of newcomers mandatory upon arrival in Quebec; 
3- Welcoming immigrants already fluent French; 
4- Effective Article 1 of Law 104, which the state communicates only in French with legal persons; 
5- Apply Law 101 to federally chartered companies; 
6- Prohibit companies from requiring English when hiring when it is not necessary for use; 
7- Make the host language a major axis of the French promotion campaigns. 
"By dissociating the file of the French language of that of culture and communications, the CAQ makes a serious mistake. Our language is at the heart of our culture and must stay there. The change of minister is only cosmetic and does not attack the merits of things, contrary to what Quebeckers want. The CAQ government must assume its responsibilities, and take steps that will really enhance our language, "the French-language spokesperson, Joël Arseneau. 
