Quebec- On the eve of the launch of the 2015-2020 Transport Electrification Action Plan 2015-2020, the member for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the hon. Member for Vachon and spokesperson From the Parti Québécois on transport, maritime strategy, electrification of transport and telecommunications, Martine Ouellet, presented the priorities of the Parti Québécois. 
"The Marois government had made transportation of transport a priority during its mandate, announcing investments of more than half a billion. Since the arrival of the Liberals, almost 18 months ago, the electrification of transport is neglected. Several companies have even been obliged to reduce their activities, lack of government support. Meanwhile, other nations are advancing. Tomorrow, the Couillard government will finally announce a strategy to revive this neuralgic sector for the energy independence of Quebec, for the reduction of its carbon footprint and for its economy. We hope that this strategy will be supported by a real government will to ensure success, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
Clear requirements of the Québécois party 
Martine Ouellet presented the priorities of the Parti Québécois who, according to her, should be in the plan of action. "We presented, several months ago, a zero emission bill to significantly increase the supply of electric vehicles in the Québec automotive market. Such legislation would make sure to make branchable and electrical hybrid vehicles more accessible for Quebecers. This law also would encourage major car manufacturers to sell an increasing amount of such vehicles in Quebec, as is done in 10 US states, representing nearly 30% of the market. In addition, the Liberal government must clearly support the nomadic project, a 100% Quebec electric vehicle, "she said. 
In addition, in terms of collective transportation, the procrastination of the Minister of Transport must cease. It multiplies studies, recedes on decisions and extends deadlines. The Liberal government must, for example, return to the rails three structuring projects for Greater Montréal: the extension of the blue line of the metro, the SLR on the Champlain bridge and the electrification of the Saint-Michel-Montreal axis. 
"Transport electrification is an essential building site for the development of Quebec of the 21st century. We have all the elements in hand to advantageously position us around a new cluster converge and integrated natural, intellectual and financial resources. We hope that the Liberal government will hear the call of all actors. Quebec deserves a real plan of action, and results, in electrification of transport, "concluded the official opposition. 
