Quebec- Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Yves-François Blanchet, and the Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier , today reported their lively disagreement as to possible registration of five populations of Quebec Atlantic salmon in the Federal Species at Risk Act (SARA), while the Quebec management system of this species does not motivate in no way this decision. "Current data on the size of salmon populations in Quebec and their demographic evolution do not justify this designation. This registration would have harmful economic and social repercussions in the eastern regions of Quebec. It could even deprive fishermen of their activity and Quebec workers from their source of income, "said Minister Blanchet. 
The intention to register Atlantic salmon on the list of species at risk is based on a report of the Committee on the situation of species at risk in Canada (COSEWIC) which recently held consultations in Quebec regarding the registration of these five Atlantic salmon populations in Appendix 1 of the Species at Risk Act. The final decision must be made by the Federal Minister of Fisheries and Oceans, KEITH ASHFIELD. For several years now, Quebec has itself assumes responsibility for the activities related to the protection and recovery of species at risk. With regard to the Atlantic Salmon populations in particular, Quebec conducts tight follow-up and adequate management, which should not be questioned by the federal government. But everything indicates that the latter seems ready to move forward. "It returns to Québec to continue to manage these species according to our needs, our expectations and our objectives," said Minister Blanchet, who officially serve his opposition to this registration in a letter sent on June 6 to the Minister Ashfield. 
It is all the more legitimate to denounce the intention of the federal government that the federal government does not take into account recent data compiled by Quebec as well as Quebec consensus on the issue. Indeed, the COSEWIC report is based on data that goes back to 2008, while salmon populations have increased considerably since. 
During COSEWIC public consultations, the Quebec Federation for Atlantic Salmon (FQSA), the Quebec Federation of Federation (FPQ), the Quebec Federation of Hunters and Fishermen (Filap) and the Society of Outdoor Institutions of Quebec (Sepaq) has jointly deposited an unfavorable memory for the registration of Atlantic salmon populations as a species at risk. The Federation of Salmon River Managers in Quebec (FGRSQ) also filed a brief in this direction. 
"There is no doubt that we are best placed to know how to handle our populations of Atlantic salmon. We know the dangers that threaten them and we already have the tools that allow us to effectively manage the situation. We ask the federal government to hear the legitimate and founded objection of the Government of Quebec and to act in good faith by avoiding us to impose a new legislative and regulatory overlap that no one wishes in Quebec, "concluded Minister Cloutier. 
