Quebec- The Vice-Premier Ministre De Agriculture, C Percement Du Québec, M. Chieve Valoire PA British Airways, France, Madi Riz. Me in Ses Colluggue by Proves de Conceptionis Qualeres, Queenencis Synariire Québépanives Québécoges has been parted to Bialanese HERA Next Sauties HAPARIER M. Wendron the Experé Cet Reunion-territorial-territorial met Minisres de Haletax Les 18th Julett. 
The Quebec actors of agribusiness address this issue from the perspective of "reciprocity of standards". These may be deviations regarding sanitary or phytosanitary rules or product labeling. "Processing companies and agricultural enterprises indicate that the differences between regulations give a competitive advantage to imported products. This is why the degree of dissatisfaction is so high in the agri-food sector with respect to the framework of imported products, "explained the Deputy Prime Minister. The Federal Minister has agreed to take this concern into consideration. 
In conjunction with the Prime Minister of Ontario and also Minister of Agriculture and Food, Ms. Kathleen Wynne, Mr. Gendron insisted with the federal government to clarify and strengthens the management of rates applicable to products. imported that compete with Quebec products subject to supply management. "The federal government must tighten and clarify the rules applicable to imports that compete with Quebec products that are under the management of the offer, just as it must absolutely maintain and strengthen the necessary border controls," said Minister Gendron. 
Quebec and Ontario also raised the issue of the use of pesticides of the neonicotinoid family and bee mortality. Mr Gendron requested that the revision of the approval of these pesticides be accelerated. He also expressed the concern of Quebec with regard to the use of genetically modified alfalfa. 
The minister also addressed the subject of ice wine, head-to-face with his federal counterpart. "I am pleased that the federal minister confirms that the definition of ice wine encompasses Quebec's mode of production," said Gendron. 
Finally, the Minister has made awareness of its federal, provincial and territorial counterparts with the situation in the United States pork sector, with the spread of swine epidemic diarrhea. "The federal government must ensure that all measures are taken to prevent this disease from entering or repaying itself in Canada," the minister concluded. 
