Quebec, on March 16, 2017- The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois on the environment and the fight against climate change, Sylvain Gaudreault, and the spokesperson for international relations, Stéphane Bergeron, ask David Heurtel and Christine St Pierre, respectively Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment and Fighting Climate Change and Minister of International Relations, to define a strategy to maintain the pressure on the protection of the environment. 
"By suppressing multiple budgets dedicated to the protection of the environment, the Trump administration confirms its intention to disengage from this common responsibility, such as the US President repeatedly. Minister HROTIL should have anticipated this orientation, take note of it and intensify Quebec's efforts, in consultation with the US states, to continue and accelerate the overall momentum that the environmental field has been in recent years, "said Amblated Sylvain Gaudreault. 
More specifically, the abolition of the $ 300 million annual budget dedicated to the Great Lakes restoration measures is a disaster, including fighting the invasion of Asian carp, which now reaches the St. Lawrence River. "The Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence are intimately connected ecosystems, both economically and about. Obviously, the disengagement of the US federal government threatens the efforts made in a concerted way for decades, which will also have disastrous consequences on the United States' side, "also deplored the spokesperson. 
"The Minister St Pierre is now responsible for intervening as soon as possible with his federal vis-à-vis, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Chrystia Freeland, but also with the American States Partners of Quebec, in order to define a Joint Action Strategy aimed at influencing the decisions made in Washington. It is unthinkable that Quebec remains arms crossed and does not react to the predictable disastrous consequences of these cups. This is reminiscent of what Quebec is hindered in its ability to defend and promote its own interests to the US federal authorities, because of the obstinacy opposition of Ottawa to allow the establishment in due course of a delegation. General of Quebec in Washington, "said Stéphane Bergeron. 
