Quebec - The National Assembly will have to vote on a motion filed by the Parti Québécois so that Quebec has its criminal laws. 
"The federal government's indifference facing the Quebec refusal to be imposed on Bill C-10 and the abolition of the gun registry illustrates the dysfunction of the federal system. It is therefore necessary to take the steps so that the will of Quebecers is reflected in our institutions and in this case, it is necessary to take the steps to equip Quebec with its criminal laws. " 
This is what the member for Joliette and spokesman of the official opposition on the court, Véronique Hivon, after having filed a motion on which the members of the National Assembly will have to decide tomorrow, at the end a debate that will take place between 3 pm and 5 pm. 
The motion is read as follows: 
The member for Joliette recalls the incongruity in which Quebec finds himself, that he must administer the criminal laws of another nation. "Criminal law is the responsibility of the federal jurisdiction, but the administration of justice and the ability to sue the jurisdiction of Quebec. The nonsense of this division of powers is strongly illustrated in the debate that currently occupies us with Bill C-10. Due to our responsibility in administration of justice, we must assume the costs of federal intentions, even if we are unanimously against. It does not make sense. In addition, the criminal law is intimately linked to the values of a nation. It is fundamental for a nation to be able to decide what needs to be prohibited and what can be accepted, "she added. 
For its part, the member for Marie-Victorin and the official opposition spokesman on Canadian intergovernmental cases, Bernard Drainville, believes more than ever necessary that the National Assembly is clearly expressed on this fundamental issue. 
"We feel daily the effects of the dysfunction of the Canadian Federation. It is particularly obvious these days with the fierceness of the federal state to want to impose, with all steam, Bill C-10 and the abolition of the firearms register, two intentions that go to the against the interests of Quebec. We must therefore equip us with criminal laws that reflect Quebec values and it is now necessary to hope that the Liberal government spends speech to acts and that the CAQ of François Legault ceases to make the ostrich and supports this approach. The higher interests of Quebec, "concluded Bernard Drainville. 
