Québec-echoing at the request of the Citician Collective for Excluded Trustees, the Informatic Resource Puce, among other groups, and thousands of people concerned about access to information technologies (IT), the member. D'Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, and the spokesperson for the Quebec party in digital economy, Mireille John, claim the Liberal government that it puts in place a training program that will allow to combat the digital divide. 
In Quebec, according to a survey conducted in 2014 by CEFRIO, 58% of households whose income is less than $ 20,000 do not have internet access at home. This rate rises to 70% when the head of the family does not have a high school diploma. In addition, 56% of the ages 65 and over do not use the Internet on a regular basis. "We all agree to say that the Internet and digital technologies are essential to Quebec businesses. What we forget too often is that they are just as essential to citizens, regardless of their social level. Depriving a citizen of these technologies is to deprive him of the possibilities of economic, social and intellectual development they offer. The numbers show that Quebec is far from being a hyperconnected society; We must act, "said Mireille Jean. 
"Nowadays, following the technological shift, the Internet and various software is needed to access multiple government services, for example. Do not master them puts people away, on the sidelines of access to knowledge, "has released Lise Vincete, computer member for all. 
Amélie Daigle, Excluded Deparole General Coordinator, adds that "digital divide has its source in socio-economic inequalities. The government has a duty to act to promote skills development and access to IT. This is what our program for digital inclusion proposes to do. 
Indeed, the collective, in concert with the chip, has developed a continuing education program for community organizations. It allows both to initiate digital clientele and update their computer equipment. "This program, free and adapted to the needs of non-initiates, offers self-awareness and awareness activities throughout Quebec," said Louise St-Jacques, director of the chip. 
Today at the National Assembly, Carole Poirier has filed a petition, signed by 1872 people, calling for the establishment by the government of a similar program. "We ask the Quebec government to act to combat digital and computer exclusion; It's a matter of equity, "she concluded. 
