Quebec - "To improve access to health care, we need to better support family physicians, develop more family medicine groups, use the pharmacists as well as other health professionals and reduce the bureaucracy. This is what the Parti Québécois is proposing to improve access to health care in Quebec, "said the member for Taschereau and sentence of the official health opposition, Agnès Maltese, in response Under the study of the Canadian Medical Association, conducted in collaboration with the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada and the College of Family Physicians of Canada, whose results were made public this morning. 
Recall that according to this survey, it is in Quebec that one has the most difficulty to be seen by a doctor within 24 hours when there is an urgent problem. It is also in Quebec where access is the most limited to non-urgent care within a week. Finally, it should be noted that this survey reveals that it is in Quebec that doctors still use in greater proportion a medical record on paper only. 
Continue the development of family medicine groups (GMF) and more health professionals on the front line to help the family doctor 
In order for GMFs to offer more services, the Parti Québécois proposes to make available additional professional resources such as psychologists, nutritionists, inhalotherapists and nurses. 
"In collaboration with the doctor, these health professionals can make medical follow-ups to patients. As a result, the doctor is released to see more patients, "said the member for Taschereau. 
On many occasions, the Parti Québécois proposed to enable pharmacists and pharmacists, within a well-marked framework, prescribing, prolonging and renewing drug requirements for certain benign infections, as well as for certain diseases. Diseases Chronicles. 
"We have 5200 pharmacists in more than 1700 pharmacies throughout Quebec. Elsewhere in Canada, pharmacists may extend, renew and sometimes under certain conditions, prescribe drugs. For a year, we have been asking the government to act in this direction, but it always postpones the adoption of this measure. However, it is necessary to act to improve access to the health network and to facilitate the lives of thousands of families, "said Agnès Maltese. 
Unfortunately, the Auditor General of Quebec has confirmed that the Quebec health record is a failure. We need to put back on the rails the computerization project of the health and social services network. This is not only a cost of costs, but also access to health care. According to the Medical Association of Quebec, computerization saves 20% of the time spent on patients. 
"Access to care remains difficult. However, eight years ago the Liberal government had promised to eliminate the expectation once and for all healthy. Quebecers and Quebeckers have expected enough. The Québécois party offers the right ways to improve access to health care throughout Quebec, "Agnès Maltais concluded. 
