Quebec- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, arrested Prime Minister Philippe Couillard on the additional 200 jobs at Rio Tinto in Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean. 
"It has not created a single job in Quebec since April 2015. Only in recent weeks, job losses have multiplied: Colabor, Transcontinental, Jean Coutu, Tembec, Bell Helicopter, Bombardier , Rio Tinto. Nevertheless, for the Prime Minister, everything is fine. We lose the property of Rona, and the Minister of the Economy tells us that it is beneficial for Quebec. Bombardier announces the dismissal of 7000 people, and the Prime Minister says it's good news. Rio Tinto announces the abolition of 200 executive positions, and the Minister of Finance argues that it is not a disaster. What happens in this government? Asked Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
The Leader of the Official Opposition recalls that the Convention on Continuity, signed by Alcan and the Government of Quebec before the sale of the company in Rio Tinto, in 2006, requires "maintaining, in Quebec, activities and headquarters Important operational, financial and strategic operations for Alcan and its assets at levels mainly similar to those of Alcan at this time. " Article 15 also states that before making the decision to amend its policies on the maintenance of its registered office in Quebec, the company must notify the government of its intentions in writing. 
"The Prime Minister has obviously not done its basic duties for Alcan employees, nor for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region, nor for Quebec. Does it take the commitment to assess the removal of the 400 jobs at the Rio Tinto head office in the light of the obligations and consequences provided for in the Continuity Convention, and to inform Quebeckers of the Suites that it intends to give analysis? "Added Mr. Péladeau. 
"We do not know if the government has been notified or what it will do. We therefore understand that the Minister of Finance and his colleague of the economy are once again missing at their homework. They do not seem to realize that it's dramatic for Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean to lose 200 high quality jobs and see a decision-making center crumbling. Instead of saying that it is not a disaster, could the government finally act to stimulate job creation? ", Concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
