Quebec, on September 16, 2016 -The member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the Quebec's social services, youth protection, home care, public health and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, denounced, At a press briefing, the rationing of home care that persists, despite the intervention of the Protector of the Citizen with certain health facilities. For the occasion, he was accompanied by Mr. Michel G. Pigeon, who saw his home support to be amputated from 11:45 per week at the beginning of the year. 
"The cuts with which the health network must compose have very concrete impacts for citizens. While his situation and his needs have not changed, Mr. Pigeon suffered collateral damage, "denounced Jean-François Lisée. 
"Mr. Pigeon's case is a typical case of rationing home care, which persists despite the urgent and specific recommendations of the Protector of the Citizen. In a survey report transmitted on August 19 to the institution concerned and the citizen who filed a complaint, the protector recommended "to immediately reallocate the user all [home support]". However, to date, the institution has still not applied this recommendation, "added the spokesman. 
It can indeed read, on page 5 of this report of the Protector of the Citizen: 
"Since your situation is singular [because] you are totally dependent [home care], that you live alone, that you do not have a natural caregiver, that you actively participate in society and that you occupy A full-time job that involves a strict schedule and a continuous presence at your workstation, the citizen's protector is concerned that the establishment substantially reduces the hours allocated to you without demonstrating that all of your needs, which have not changed, can be [satisfied] by the new [intervention plan]. » 
"While the Minister of Doctors continues to deny that his cuts of nearly $ 1 billion in health care and services have devastating effects for patients, with the case of Mr. Pigeon, a concrete example that highlights them. The rationing must stop and I ask the minister to intervene on the spot so that Mr. Pigeon's home support hours be reinstated tomorrow, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
