Quebec- The Quebec Party spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, and the member for Taillon and spokesperson for health and spokesperson. Accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, denounce the rationing of home care by the Liberal government. 
"The minister said he was surprised by the report of Radio-Canada, yesterday, illustrating the effects of liberal austerity in the Montreal health network. Yet, did he not read the last annual report of the Protecteur du Citizen, published on September 17? Here are some excerpts, which I had quoted at the National Assembly the same day: "Complaints received over the past year reveal that users whose condition requires home support services remain struggling with Problems of reducing services, waiting times, exhaustion of caregivers and regional disparities. " "The facts prove it, home support services do not respond concretely to basic needs," said Jean-François Lisée. 
The protector also presents three situations that illustrate the problem of lack of resources: a 84-year-old lady who takes care of her husband and who only receives 13.5 hours of home support per week, while The evaluation of the CSSS indicates that the torque should receive 37.5; A disabled lady, whose condition and needs have not changed, but who has seen the number of home support hours that it receives amputated by 40%; And a lady, become paraplegic, to whom his CSSS, lack of means, refused support. "In all three cases, we are witnessing a rationing of care, and the additional examples presented in the media in recent days only confirm the liberal tactics. It's unacceptable, and the minister needs to go back on the spot, "said the member. 
"The money that is missing for home care exists and it is at hand from the Minister Barrette. The 148.5 million which were given to physicians up compensation at the Broadcasting Agreement by the Auditor General - correspond exactly to the amounts promised by the Liberals for home care, but that they have never paid. The minister also cuts health facility budgets and are seniors, persons with disabilities and the most vulnerable who are echoing and who need to deal with a decline in essential services and support. Why not take the money where it is and use it to give services to those who really need it? "Concluded Diane Lamarre. 
