Quebec, on November 5, 2019 -Ars that the Minister of Municipal Affairs and Housing, Andrée Laforest, is preparing to pass Bill 16, aiming, among other things, to reform the Régie du Housing, the member for Rimouski And spokesman for the Quebecois Housing Party, Harold Lebel says, with reason, raises questions in tenant rights groups. "In fact, and from what we have heard during the consultations, this law does not go far enough and will not really facilitate the lives of tenants," he said. 
IN SHORT 
This morning, members of the Consolidation of Housing and Tenant Associations of Quebec (RCLALQ) will be gathering in particular before the constituency office of Mr. Lebel to present their version of a reform of the Housing Régie. Received in Quebec City due to parliamentary work, the member wishes to offer them support. "For the regulation of housing, which will become an administrative court, it takes more than a change of name; It takes a real reform, in depth, as evidenced by the list of necessary and legitimate proposals of the RCLALQ, "he mentioned. 
Even though they have been at the heart of the member's demands, for several years, many issues have not yet been taken by the government: the accessibility of services, especially in the region, the protection of the rights of the rights. Tenants and waiting times for those who want to assert them, the control of rents, the eviction processes and the conduct of the hearings before the Régie, in particular. 
Bill No. 16 is an omnibus bill; It concerns not only the governance of housing, but also the condominium, the building code and the municipal affairs. Now, Harold Lebel believes that special attention should have been paid to the Régie. "I attended the consultations, and I consider that the issues surrounding, among other things, access to the services of the Housing Régie should have been treated more specifically. I therefore ask the Minister to seriously consider the RCLALQ's demands, "Harold Lebel insisted. 
