Quebec- Minister of Finance and Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, today released the government's position for the establishment of a new progressive health contribution and its impact on personal tax so to respect the commitments made during the last election campaign aimed at the abolition of the current health contribution. 
The elements set out in the government's position will take effect from 2013. Quebeckers will therefore have to pay for the year 2012 the amount of $ 200 for the current health contribution. As for the taxes of individuals, no modification will apply in 2012. 
With the implementation of the new gradual health contribution in 2013, it is 3.1 million taxpayers who will pay less than in 2012. Nearly 900,000 people more than currently be fully exempted from the payment of the health contribution. In addition, 2.2 million additional persons will see their reduced contribution, compared to what they will have to assume in 2012. In total, more than four million taxpayers who will not have to pay for health or who will see Their reduced contribution from 2013. In addition, 1.8 million people will see their contribution unchanged for the years 2012 and 2013. 
In return, taxpayers with an income of $ 130,000 or more will have to assume an additional contribution that will reach $ 1,000 for an income of $ 150,000 or more. "The new health contribution will be progressive and therefore, it will comply with each contributing to the financing of our health care," said Marceau. 
In terms of individual tax, we expect to add a new taxation level, which will be at the rate of 25.75% for the portion of the income exceeding $ 100,000. This new rate represents an increase of 1.75 percentage point at the current maximum marginal rate of 24%. This additional level will bring the maximum combined marginal (federal and provincial) rate at 49.97%, a rate that will remain below the threshold of 50%. 
Like the amounts from the new gradual health contribution, the additional amounts collected from the personal taxes will be devoted to the financing of our health care system and will be paid to the Fund of Financing for Health and Social Services (FERIMESS) . 
In addition, the minister has announced that the government will not go forward with greater taxation of capital gains and dividends, with the aim of not adding the tax burden of several households in the classroom. average that declare this type of income. "Our intention is always to ask the best contributing taxpayers to contribute more without imposing an additional effort to the middle-class families who hold financial and real estate assets," held to clarify the minister. 
With the approach taken by the government, more than $ 400 million will be requested to exempt taxpayers with low income from the payment of the health contribution and to reduce the contribution of an important part of the middle class. 
"The proposal made public today respects the spirit of our electoral commitment, namely to give oxygen to the families of the middle class, restore a progressivity and equity in the contribution of each to the financing of our health care, And this, without affecting public finances, "added the minister. 
"As I repeated it several times, we are firm on the lens and flexible on the means. The solution presented today is a very good example: it represents the best solution and a reasonable and acceptable compromise for all Quebeckers, "concluded Mr. Marceau. 
