Quebec "Cancer Quebec Lerager is now operational. This innovative tool is now one of the pillars of our action and will guide the interventions of the Ministry of Health and Social Services, institutions and clinicians of all Quebec. The ultimate goal is to improve our ways to do in the fight against cancer, which is the leading cause of death in Quebec, "said the Minister of Health and Social Services today, Réjean Hébert. 
Most institutions in the network have successfully transmitted data to the new central database of the Quebec Cancer Registry. It is a crucial step for both the health network, the Quebec Cancer Directorate, the health teams only for people with cancer. 
The Quebec Cancer Registry (RQC) provides all cases of cancer by consolidating available information, including the nature of the tumor, the stage of the disease and treatments. The registry, which replaces the Quebec tumor file, responds, in particular to the objectives of monitoring the state of health of the population, care planning, support for research and evaluation of programs. It also meets the needs of Quebec Cancer Cancer and Cancer Program.  More than 150 variables on each cancer 
To ensure the evolution of the Quebec Cancer Registry, nearly 65 institutions offering treatment with people with cancer have established local registers that meet the RQC standards. Training as well as support and support activities are also offered to medical archivists who are key players in the implementation of the RQC. At the same time, work will be conducted to standardize and computerize the content and format of pathology reports, which will facilitate the work of the pathologists while allowing to more efficiently fuel the new register. Work to ensure data quality will continue until 2014. 
The Quebec Health Insurance Régie (RAMQ), which collaborates with the teams of the Ministry of Health and Social Services at the implementation of the register, is responsible for the development and operation of the RQC database. "By December 2016, additional data relating to the four main types of cancer, either colorectal cancer and those of breast, lung and prostate, will enrich the register. In the end, more than 150 different variables that can be centrally recorded, based on information from 65 health facilities, "said Jacques Cotton, the new President and CEO of the RAMQ. 
Processes guaranteeing the security of the transmission of information have also been put in place, as required to meet international standards with respect to the establishment of a registry on cancer. 
"The development of the Quebec Cancer Registry is part of a continuous improvement, the services offered in this area by giving the necessary tools to better document and evaluate the care provided. This is an excellent news, both for those who fight against this disease and for researchers and clinicians, "concluded the Hébert minister. 
