Quebec- The member for Johnson and the official opposition on the road, Etienne-Alexis Boucher, the member for Matane, Pascal Bérubé, and the member for the Assumption and Spokesman of the Official Opposition environment, sustainable development and parks, Scott McKay, support the approach of elected officials, business people and citizens of Gaspésie to preserve the Gaspé railway. 
Indeed, in the eyes of the Parti Québécois, the rail link between Gaspésie and the rest of Quebec is essential to promote its economic development and to avoid the isolation of the region. "Trains now stop 300 km from Gaspé so many rails are in poor condition. The ultimatum was set as at March 31 and measures must be taken by then to avoid closing the section. Gaspésie needs these investments, "Pascal Bérubé said. 
All levels of government must contribute at the request of $ 93.5 million formulated by the railway company of Gaspésie. "A real development policy of sustainable transport must certainly provide for the conservation of existing rights and rail infrastructures. It is also planned in the Parti Québécois program. The decrease in road transport involves the development of the principle of intermodality, whose rail transport is one of the angular stones, "said Etienne-Alexis Boucher. According to the latter, we must preserve our road infrastructures and see in the long run so that the train occupies a greater place, particularly in the transport of goods. 
Finally, the increase in rail transport and its corollary, the decrease in road transport, must be part of a global greenhouse gas control strategy. "In Quebec, the road transport sector alone accounts for 43% of greenhouse gas emissions. It is essential to reduce the environmental impact of the transport of goods and people. In addition, this allows us to free ourselves from our oil dependence, "sued Scott McKay. 
Recalling that millions of dollars are planned for the construction of new infrastructure in the Northern Liberal government plan, the Parti Québécois stresses the need to maintain the current infrastructure. "It's particularly shouting in Gaspésie. For the safeguarding of the rail network, the Quebec government must force the federal government that is once again shooting. Quebec must announce its contribution to send the message to Ottawa that Gaspésie is waiting, "concluded the member for Matane. 
