Québec- After several advertisements of rates and revelations of deplorable situations involving elders, the Parti Québécois convened the Government in arrest so that it explains it. The exercise was conducted this morning, at the National Assembly, by the member for Richelieu and the official opposition spokesman for seniors, Sylvain Rochon, as well as the hon. Member for Rimouski and spokesperson Poverty, solidarity and social economy, Harold Lebel. 
"We would have liked, like several groups, a change of tone from the government. Parliamentarians must be able to work together for the well-being of the elders of Quebec, and they do not have to be rationed for budgetary grounds. In two weeks, we obtained two declines from the Liberal government, the cancellation of the increase in CHSLD tariffs and the cancellation of the 600% increase in the price for adapted transportation and 87% for meals in day center. It's a step in the right direction. Now, the government needs to decline on the drastic cups it intends to impose, in particular, to our elders, and act concretely to improve their quality of life and their access to care and quality services, "said Sylvain Rochon. 
For its part, Harold Lebel recalled that from 2003 to 2011, the proportion of women aged 65 and over low-income increased from 3% to 15%, despite Quebec with a law for fight against poverty. "Obviously, we have a good collective discussion to have on the situation of our elders, especially if one considers the disengagement of the state to them. We have seen it recently with the closure of twenty day centers and the transfer of services to the community - already overwhelmed and shortage of resources: the government discharges its responsibilities at the expense, among others, of our Elders, and it's a very disturbing precedent, "he supported. 
"It's time to cease to make small savings on the back of seniors, and make a real advanced as to their quality of life. The government has no plan to deal with the aging of the population; However, it is urgent to take the turn to home care. We invite the Liberal government to leave the structural reforms, patient quotas and budget cuts for the benefit of home care development and bonus, as proposed by the government of the Parti Québécois, "concluded the member for Richelieu. 
