In light of the actions we asked in the last 18 months, we can easily say that the government of the Parti Québécois is listening to its youth and its concerns. 
Following the student crisis orchestrated by the Liberal government, the government of the Parti Québécois put in place on higher education with all the actors of the environment. In a climate of exchange and openness, we therefore have a large consultation on an important issue for Quebec society: the future of our higher education network. 
From this summit have decoucinq work sites. As the accessibility of studies being at the center of our concerns, one of these projects is an additional investment of 25 million financial assistance. This project has established Financial Assistance Priorities and has defined the ways in which these sums would be spent. 
In total, thanks to the envelope bonus dedicated to study financial assistance, 120,000 students will receive more money this year than last year. For the first time since 1985, the government is granting more scholarships than LoansPuque On next year, 52% of the financial assistance granted will take the form of scholarships and 48% will be in the form of loans. 
The government will also reinvest funds totaling $ 1.8 billion in the University Network by 2018-2019. In concrete terms, this means that from 2013-2014 to 2014-2015, the budget will increase from $ 3.075 to $ 3.337 billion. In fact, half of this reinvestment will be attributed to the hiring of new teachers, as well as for help for first generation students, disadvantaged students and students with disabilities, among others. 
With respect to the student invoice, the Government of the Parti Québécois committed to abolishing the massive rise of 82% of tuition fees announced by the previous government. A government of the Parti Québécois will maintain an adjustment of tuition fees according to the disposable income of households. 
On the research side, with larecent into force of the NPO, $ 3.7 billion over 5 years is invested by the government. By promoting the synergy between the network of higher education and the private sector, by investing more in research infrastructures, encouraging research centers, institutions and businesses to work more in partnership, the government wants to reach a level investment in research and development corresponding to 3% of Quebec's gross domestic product. 
More than ever, higher education and research are at the heart of government priorities. Knowledge is a common good and helps to enrich all Quebeckers and all Quebeckers. The Parti Québécois knows it. We must develop it and enrich it. This is what the Parti party does and what we intend to continue to do. 
