Quebec- The hon. Member for Chicoutimi and Parliamentary Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, deplores the fact that the Liberals, with the complicity of the CAQ and Quebec Solidarity, instrumentalized the institution of the Jurisconsult and the Commission. Study Durapport on the implementation of the code of ethics and ethics of the members of the National Assembly. 
Remember that on February 26, the government's parliamentary leader ordered an opinion on the member of the member for Saint-Jérôme. "By acquiring at the request of the Government to file an opinion on another elected representative, the Jurisconsult failed to the obligations imposed on him by law. Last week, the ethics commissioner told us that not only should this notice be sought by the member himself, but that he should have, moreover, remain confidential, as provided for in the Code " , indicated the parliamentary leader of the official opposition. 
Yesterday, the Jurisconsult confirmed that this opinion was based on its interpretation of popular perception, not on the law. "Judging popular perception is not part of the mandate of the Jurisconsult. We have not hidden our disappointment in the face of such a breach of his responsibilities. In addition, as shown yesterday in parliamentary committee, Mr. Bisson has missed consistency compared to previous opinions, including the one concerning David Whissel, "continued Stéphane Bédard. 
As such, the motion filed by the second opposition group, the aftermath of a difficult testimony, was entirely inappropriate. "Again, the Liberals and their accomplices have only two objectives: to dismiss a duly elected political opponent who respects the code of ethics and ethics, and make diversion for Quebeckers to forget their austerity policies. Vision that affect families, regions and education of our young people. We invite the other political courses represented at the National Assembly to stop instrumentalizing institutions and to return to constructive and serene discussions on the real issues, "concluded Stéphane Bédard. 
