= Québec- Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, accompanied by representatives of the tourism industry, today launched the St. Lawrence's 2014-2020 St. Lawrence Development Strategy. Outcome of the development of the tourism industry, the strategy is for the vision of the St. Lawrence a tourist icon of international caliber, which will make the pride of Quebeckers, will enjoy a notoriety with foreign customers and will benefit from a development sustainable with considerable economic benefits. 
The strategy, with a fiscal envelope of $ 77.3 million, is granted through the Employment Priority Employment Policy announced in October 2013. 
"The St. Lawrence is the very nature of the Quebec landscape, its human development and its exceptional natural resources. The presence of remarkable natural attractions, calling products for several tourist regions, characterizes the river, its estuary and its gulf. Its diversified land and maritime offer makes it a national jewel and an attractive and sustainable tourist destination. Its potential is unanimously recognized, we still have to fully value it, in respect and innovation, "said the minister. 
The strategy focused on priority products that demonstrate regional development potential and an ability to generate short-term investments, in addition to being attractive to our priority markets. These products are international cruises, cruises-excursions, river and maritime cruises, the observation of marine mammals, natural and patrimonial sites, nautical tourism, as well as festivals and events. 
$ 77.3 million, the Government of Quebec consecrates $ 21.8 million to the sepait to carry out innovative projects, in particular, to develop sites and national parks of the sepait, strategic for the positioning of the St. Lawrence tourist, and Consolidate the supply of Saguenay-Saint-Laurent Marine Park. 
Too : 
In addition to these investments, the financial envelopes of other Tourisme Québec's other financial programs and levers can also be involved, including: 
The minister wanted to thank industry players, grouped into a working group dedicated to the development of this strategy, to have joined Tourisme Québec, including the tourism associations of Quebec, regional and sectoral. He concluded by using the mobilization of his many regional partners: "The collective desire to concentrate our efforts will allow the achievement of objectives. Together, in the short term, thus put on the cruises of the St. Lawrence, on our marine mammals, on the poles and tourist tours of the St. Lawrence, disseminated from west to east. In the medium and long term, let us turn on its undeniable natural and cultural wealth, in order to make it the pride of Quebeckers as well as a true international icon. " 
The "St. Lawrence Tourist 2014-2020 Development Strategy and 2014-2017 Action Plan" can be consulted on the Quebec Tourism website: www.tourisme.gouv.qc.ca. 
