Quebec- The hon. Member for Gaspé and official opposition on municipal affairs, Gaétan Lelièvre, as well as the member for Rousseau and spokesperson for finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, deplore that fears. raised by the signing of the tax pact are confirmed in cities' budgets; The effort of 300 million they are claimed will be carried out by taxpayers, who will see their taxes increase. 
"Just as the mayors of five big cities had predicted when the tax pact is signatured by the Liberal government, the amount requested from the municipalities will be absorbed by the citizens. Already, in Longueuil and Laval, for example, taxes have been increased because of the tax pact. Trois-Rivières also plans to act in this way. Budgets from other cities are coming and, already, the harmful impact of the tax pact is clearly visible. The Liberal government breaks its rehearsal promises since its arrival. The maneuver of the Minister of Municipal Affairs appears in broad daylight; The signatures imposed on municipalities make a lot of money from citizens and regions. In the end, it is always the same pocket that is targeted: that of the middle class, "said Gaétan Lelièvre. 
The Union of Quebec Municipalities (UMQ) has also declined the infantilement of the Prime Minister, which claimed that following the signing of the tax pact, any eventual municipal taxes would be unjustifiable. The UMQ estimated that the compressions would do very badly and inevitably result in difficult budget choices. The President of the Quebec Federation of Municipalities, Richard Lehoux, went in the same direction by stating that as a result of the cuts, "there will be either an increase in taxes or a compression at the services level. Nobody can deny that there will be an impact. " 
"This $ 300 million, ultimately refused to taxpayers, is in addition to a long list of liberal increases. It was first 232 million in last June budget, then 455 million in the economic update of last week. The Liberals apply their good old recipe: centralization. They cut the resources in the region and reflect the municipalities the increases in taxes, the latter to be absorbed by the population. In short, the Liberals do what they have always done: they promise tax cuts and taxes in the election campaign, and they govern by increasing them, "concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
