Montreal, on October 27, 2014 - At the occasion of a meeting of the Montreal Regional Caucus, the members of the Parti Québécois have denounced the liberal will to dismantle the regional consultation and development agencies, the Youth-Emploi crossroads (CJE) and local development centers (CLD), among others. 
"Under the mask of austerity, the Liberal Party, with the support of the CAQ, made the choice unilateral to withdraw the means to support its entrepreneurs and your youth to the metropolis. There is a centralization exercise around ministries in Quebec City, as if the Liberals knew better than people in the field how to serve their fellow citizens, "said the member for Bourget, Maka Kotto. 
"Once again, the Liberal government turns your back on the model of consultation and proximity, and sacrifices young people from Quebec. It is a real disorganization of services that is announced, especially here in Montreal. Since their creation in 1995 by the Parti Québécois, CEPs have developed youth-oriented expertise and local services. The strength of the CJEs lies in their flexibility and their accessibility, which allow them to help a large number of young people with literacy, dependence and intimidation problems, or who would be tempted by the dropout, "said The member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier. 
CLDs: Economic Development Support  The member of Pointe-Aux-Trembles, Nicole Léger, insists on the essential contribution of CLDs to the Montreal economy. "CLDs are front-line organizations that stimulate, consolidate, promote and position entrepreneurship. In addition, they often prove to be the only professional and financial resources available to local and regional leaders, to support them in their mission of dynamic occupation of the territory. These places of consultation and action are essential to the development of our neighborhoods; They must be preserved, "she said. 
In addition, the Cuteillard government seems to abolish the Montreal Regional Regional Conference, despite its important contribution to the coordination of the island's partners in several economic, social and environmental issues. 
"This liberal centralization means neither more nor less than the government appropriates all the levers of decision. Montreal's nipper members prefer to trust people in the field, who offer local services and who know the peculiarities of each of their neighborhoods, "concluded the member for Rosemont and the official opposition spokesman for the metropolis , Jean-François Lisée. 
