** Quebec, on March 20, 2017 ** - Members of the Quebecois Party of Montreal, gathered in caucus, as well as the residential spokesperson, Catherine Fournier, have now demanded a massive reinvestment in programs. home that allow the construction of social housing, their renovation and their adaptation for people with disabilities. They also ask the Liberal government to intervene to limit the phenomenon of undivided conversion and to update the rate grid used to establish the costs of building social housing. 
"In Montreal, 143,900 households spend more than 50% of their housing income. More social housing needs to avoid being specified by a rent increase. But the Liberal government has cut the budget of the access program by half. Two times fewer housing units for Montreal, it's unacceptable! We ask him to restore the financing of accesslogis. In addition, for accessLogis adequately responds to Montreal reality, the eligible rate grid used by the technical resource groups, which dates from 2009, must quickly be updated, "said Catherine Fournier. 
In addition, to convert immovables into social housing, as well as to renovate cooperatives, there are public renovation programs. However, the Liberal government has abolished the Rénovation Québec program. "This decision has had a devastating impact, including the adaptation of housing for people with disabilities. We therefore ask for the restoration of this program, to effectively fight unhealthy, improve the quality of life in social housing and allow the construction of adapted housing. It is important, "said Nicole Léger. 
According to MPs, the Liberal government must also find a way to limit the conversion of undivided housing in Montreal. "The phenomenon to sneakly sneak the Montreal rental housing stock and threatens tenants in low or medium-income, families and seniors, who fear the housing they live in several years being taken back and converted into a condo. The Liberal government must come out of its stubborn immobility and act concretely to limit the conversion of rental housing into undivided condos, "on its side claimed Maka Kotto. 
"Logging in Montreal must remain accessible. It is therefore necessary to curb real estate speculation. Yet in this area, the Liberal government has always been less since its election. As soon as last year, $ 406 million had already been cut into housing! How much will this amount rise this year? Montreal needs more social housing units and its existing real estate park, renovations. Families, low-income tenants must be able to stay in Montreal, in their neighborhood; Their exodus has repercussions throughout the metropolitan area. Unjust housing and the scarcity of social housing provoke a lot of concern; Can the Liberal government finally look at reality in front and adequately finance housing programs? ", Wanted to know the Quebec party spokesperson for the metropolis, Carole Poirier. 
