Québec- On the occasion of the study of the budgetary appropriations of the Ministry of the Executive Board, the member for Chicoutimi and Official Opposition Leader, Stéphane Bédard, expressed his concerns about the creation of quality jobs for the Quebec workers. He asked the Prime Minister to put in place structuring measures to support her. 
"The only stop sure we see is the one that the government applies to job creation. He must act concretely to support our SMEs; We can not postpone the exercise until the next budget. What does the Prime Minister wait to set up a clear and credible plan to support job creation? He questioned Stéphane Bédard. 
The Liberals had promised Quebeckers "The Liberal Effect" on job creation. However, the result of this "effect", it is 50,000 jobs full time less in two months. The Liberal job creation plan was mainly based on another broken promise: the $ 15 billion increase in infrastructure investments. But this one did not respect the ability to pay Quebeckers and led Quebec to a financial discount. 
"Now that the Prime Minister heard right and declining about $ 15 billion, we find that the entire Liberal financial framework collapses. There is no more plan for economic development. The commitment to create 250,000 jobs has even become a mere objective, according to the Minister of Finance. How can the government achieve this goal if it does not have any vision for creating quality jobs in all regions of Quebec? ", Continued the leader of the official opposition. 
Remember that the government has abandoned several measures planned by the Parti Québécois government in the economic priority employment priority. 
Stéphane Bédard also considers that the agreement concluded by the Liberals with the doctors represents a huge pressure on the public finances of Quebec, whose state is already precarious. 
"The increase in the doctors' salary, which has been granted by the Liberals, is the largest pressure on the public finances of the Government of Quebec. This represents $ 2.2 billion this year and eventually $ 2.5 billion annually. This amount is higher than the total cost for the CAUTION network in Quebec! , "Added the leader of the official opposition. Also note that the Prime Minister has confirmed that all increases for the current year were going to be taken directly in the planned budget for the population. 
"A possible failure of the negotiations with the doctors would reduce the expenses, so the care given to the population. While it was a priority before the budget, these discussions drag in length and Quebeckers still do not know what the impact of the public finance agreement will be. Considering the great importance of this file, it is imperative that it comes to a settlement, "concluded the hon. Member for Chicoutimi. 
