Baie-Saint-Paul- Access to adapted electricity rates to support the development of the serricole sector has been announced by the Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois. This announcement was made during the development of the Food Sovereignty Policy for several representatives of the bioalimentary sector. 
"These electricity rates will allow Quebec server farms to reduce their energy costs and thus improve their competitiveness, while contributing to sustainable development. This support supports perfectly with the objectives of the food sovereignty policy, which consists of privileging local production to feed the population and make products available year-round. In concrete terms, this targeted help will allow Quebec server products to take more space on the tablets of our grocery stores. I often repeated it, I want our energetic surpluses to create wealth, and that's exactly what we do today, "said the Prime Minister. 
The energy issue facing ger-farm is twofold: a need for energy for heating and a need for electricity for photosynthesis (lighting). 
Nordic climate server production generates higher energy costs compared to competitors, limiting the competitiveness of Quebec companies. Fuel oil is still a fuel widely used to heat greenhouses. As its cost is high, the production season is limited. To help businesses reduce their heating costs, the Hydro-Québec's Bienergie Tariff will be offered to farms. This measurement targets the conversion of fuel heating (fuel oil and used oils) to electric heating for farms already eligible for domestic rates. 
Greenhouses will use greener energy, which will reduce greenhouse gas emissions and contribute to the sustainable development of our agriculture. 
SERRICOLE PRODUCTION requires the use of photosynthesis lighting in a winter period to overcome the low amount of sunshine under our latitudes. By offering an additional electricity option adapted to the peculiarities of their mode of operation and taking into account network management needs, Hydro-Québec will enable companies to increase their production period. The objective of this measure is to increase the efficiency of companies and, above all, to ensure the supply to the year of our grocery stores, for the benefit of Quebec consumers. 
"These measures will relieve greenhouse businesses and will allow them to be more competitive and competitive. Quebeckers will also have a better guarantee of an offer of Quebec products year-round. It is a formula where everyone wins, both companies, the environment and the Crown corporation, "said the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron. 
In addition to these measures, Hydro-Québec intends to participate in research and development on light-emitting lighting (LEDs) for photosynthesis to improve the energy efficiency of serricole companies. Hydro-Québec, in consultation with the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and the Key Interested, will work to explore other avenues for the development of the sector. 
For more information on food sovereignty policy, we invite you to regularly consult the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa), or Still following the ministry on Twitter (https://twitter.com/mapaquebec). 
Consult the Communications of Press at the unveiling of the Food Sovereignty Policy. 
