As part of the 17th alternating meeting of Quebec and French prime ministers, from 14 to 17 March, the Minister Delegate to the Minister of Economy and Finance, in charge of the social and solidarity economy and the Consumption, Benoît Hamon, was visiting Quebec. On this occasion, the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb invited him to visit the very first urban farm in the world. Indeed, Lufa Farms erected 31,000 feet2 of greenhouses on the roof of 1400 Antonio-Barbeau Street, a borough building Ahuntsic Cartierville. 
Its founder, Mohamed Hage, welcomed Ministers Zakaïb and Hamon. He explained the wheels of his urban farm. They are subsequently mounted on the roof to circulate in the huge greenhouses where more than 25 varieties of vegetables, shoots and herbs are grown without pesticide or antifungal or herbicide. 
The fertilization of these hydroponic greenhouses is possible thanks to false drones flying freely; Ladybugs also control harmful insects that could introduce it. Watering water is recovered and reused. The fact that they are installed on a roof reduces the heating costs of the greenhouses in winter, because the roof is not frozen and heaters, especially since the sun plumbs without hindrance. Vegetables and other cultivated greenery are picked in the morning, according to orders received, with the cherry tomato. 
Indeed, from the websiteou of mobile applications, consumers concoct and command their baskets of vegetables themselves, which are then routed to 50 points of public fall in the Montreal area. 
Urban agriculture, proximity trade, carbon footprint reduction, greening roofs and technology gathered for citizens: this is an innovative idea, many from home, that all cities in the world can implement. 
The guests tasted vegetables from the greenhouse picked in the morning and were delighted with their freshness and tasty taste. Minister Zakaïb also offered a tasting of Quebec cheeses to Minister Hamon and his political advisers. They were a bit skeptical, but were impressed by the cheeses from here. 
It took a little bit so that the minister decides to settle in Quebec. Finally, that's what the Minister Hamon told Minister Zakayb ... Suddenly, Minister Hamon has returned to France with the desire to import the new Quebec know-how. 
Minister Hamon invited Minister Zakayb to visit Paris to visit his TourAutolib ', the free divisional car service, and the plant that builds vehicles. It is a little the Parisian community, but with an entire fleet of electric vehicles. This is inspiring for the Marois government, which is committed to transport electricity. 
Here, a new impetus is given to the Franco-Quebec relationship, and it is to follow in all sectors where innovation and creativity are in the spotlight! 
