Val-d'Or- Thanks to the joint investments of the governments of Canada and Quebec, from the city of Val-d'Or and their partners in the environment, people in difficulty and homeless people now have access to a house of Accommodation of 22 rooms. 
The project rebunts the piale, whose construction required an investment totaling more than $ 2.6 million, was inaugurated today by Senator Ghislain Maltais, on behalf of the Honorable Candice Bergen, Minister of State (Social Development ), and the Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs and MP, Ms. Elizabeth Larouche, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Company. Quebec Housing (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The Government of Canada, through the Hosting Housing Improvement Program, and the Quebec Government, under the AccessLogis Quebec program of the SHQ, jointly invested nearly $ 2.1 million for the implementation of this project. The total contribution of the environment is more than $ 610,000, nearly $ 340,000 has been granted by the City of Val-d'Or. The project also benefited from a subsidy of nearly $ 44,000 awarded by Employment and Social Development Canada as part of the Roaming Control Partnerships Strategy. 
"Our government recognizes the need to provide people at risk of roaming a safe place to take refuge in a crisis situation. By granting these funds to rebuild the Piale, we give access to safe and affordable housing to all residents in need. As specified by the Prime Minister, our government continues to focus on four priorities for Canadians: their families, the safety of our streets and our communities, their pride in being citizens of this country and, well Safe, their personal financial security, "said Senator Maltais. 
"Since its opening 25 years ago, thousands of people in need have been housed at the Val-d'or Piale and has benefited from the organization's support. It was therefore very natural for the Quebec government to reach out to this organization and support it in its reconstruction project. The new building that is much more spacious can welcome and help more people and offer decent accommodation conditions to its occupants throughout the year, "said the Minister Delegate Elizabeth Larouche. 
The VAL-D'OR PIAULE is a non-profit community organization that offers the cottage and covered for short-term stays and destitute, in an emergency or struggle with a dependency problem. . The organization also offers support, support and listening to promote social reintegration or recovery of its clientele. 
This year, through CMHC, the Government of Canada will invest approximately $ 2 billion in housing. Of this amount, $ 1.7 billion will be devoted to supporting nearly 594,000 households living in social housing. In Quebec, this represents some 127 150 households. These investments improve the quality of life of low-income Canadians and households living in social housing, including homelessness and people at risk, seniors, people with disabilities, recent immigrants and Aboriginal people. 
To learn more about how CMHC supports the development of solid houses and prosperous communities for all Canadians, contact CMHC at 1-800-668-2642 or visitwww.cmhc-schl.gc.ca. 
Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the Quebec Housing Corporation contributes to improving quality. of life of 230,000 households each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. You will also be able to consult Habitat, the WEB magazine of the SHQ, which deals with the spin-offs of the interventions of it on the whole of Quebec society. 
