Montreal- The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, is satisfied with the federal government's decision to confirm its financial support for the moving of Major Ballets of Montreal in the Wilder Building and the culmination of the Espace Dance project Quebec. The work will begin shortly. 
"The Major Ballets of Montreal are a large Quebec institution, and we are pleased to support this organization so that it can have adequate facilities. This dance house project in the Wilder Building, which finally materializes, illustrates our desire to support the training, creation, production and dissemination in the arts. It is a concrete gesture of support for creators, "said Maka Kotto. 
Last May, the Quebec government announced an investment of $ 63.2 million for the repair and expansion of the Wilder Building, located in the heart of the district of the shows. Cultural bodies will stay there, including the major Canadian Ballets of Montreal, the Montreal Contemporary Dance School, Tangent and the Agora of Dance. Montreal offices of the Ministry of Culture and Communications, the Council of Arts and Letters of Quebec and the Cinema Régie will also be developed in this building, recycled for cultural and artistic purposes. In total, nearly 300 people from the cultural environment will be found there. 
Financial contributions from the Ministry of Culture and Communications, $ 43,1 million, and the Quebec Infrastructure Corporation, the owner of the building, $ 20.1 million, are part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan 2013-2023, made public last April. Recall that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 2 billion investments for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebeckers, to measure the associated costs and to make informed choices. 
