Sainte-Perpetuation - Thanks to the joint investments of the governments of Canada and Quebec and their community partners, on a slight loss of autonomy now have access to 20 new affordable housing and adapted to their needs. 
The inauguration of the shelter of the Appalaches, whose construction required investments totaling nearly $ 3.2 million, was emphasized today by Jacques Gourde, Parliamentary Secretary to the Prime Minister, on behalf of the Honorable Candice Bergen Minister of State (Social Development), as well as by the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupancy of the Territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault . The ceremony took place in the presence of the Mayor of Sainte-Perpetuation, Mrs Céline Oats, the President and CEO of the SHQ, Mr. Charles Larochelle, and many community partners. 
The Government of Canada, through the Canada Economic Action Plan, and the Government of Quebec, under the AccessLogis Québec program of the SHQ, jointly invested nearly $ 1.4 million for the implementation of this project. . The total contribution of the environment is nearly $ 561,000, of which $ 350,000 was granted by the municipality of Sainte-Perpetuation. 
"Our government is working to help those who need it. These new homes are more than just a safe and affordable place to live, they are the key to a better life for the elderly who will find one home. We continue to focus on four priorities, as set out by the Prime Minister, who are most important for Canadians: their families, the safety of our streets and our communities, their pride in being citizens of this country and, of course, , their personal financial security, "said Parliamentary Secretary Jacques Gourde. 
"The sector of the South Coast is a magnificent territory to which its residents are attached. Now, we know that many of them, and especially seniors, are obliged to leave it because they do not find homes tailored to their needs. Fortunately, these 20 homes allow deans of Sainte-Perpetu and the surroundings of staying in the environment that is expensive and familiar to them and to evolve in a peaceful and safe environment, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
Note that additional financial assistance of more than $ 344,000, divided over five years and 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the municipality, currently allows all the tenants of the shelter of the Appalaches to benefit from Rental Supplement Program. Thus, they disbursed only 25% of their income to stay, which helps increase their purchasing power for essential goods. 
The shelter of the Appalaches also received a subsidy of nearly $ 39,000 from the Office of Energy Efficiency and Innovation of the Ministry of Natural Resources so that the building responds to the Novoclimat standard. This standard provides renters of comfortable housing and a significant savings on heating costs. 
This year, through CMHC, the Government of Canada will invest approximately $ 2 billion in housing. Of this amount, $ 1.7 billion will be devoted to supporting nearly 594,000 households living in social housing. In Quebec, this represents some 127 150 households. These investments improve the quality of life of low-income Canadians and households living in social housing, including homelessness and people at risk, seniors, people with disabilities, recent immigrants and Aboriginal people. 
To learn more about how CMHC supports the development of solid houses and prosperous communities for all Canadians, contact CMHC at 1-800-668-2642 or visitwww.cmhc-schl.gc.ca. 
Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000. households each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. You will also be able to consult Habitat, the WEB magazine of the SHQ, which deals with the spin-offs of the interventions of it on the whole of Quebec society. 
