Shawinigan- The Minister of Infrastructure, Communities and Intergovernmental Affairs, and Minister of the Economic Development Agency of Canada for the Regions of Quebec, the Honorable Denis Lebel, as well as the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and of occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, are pleased to announce that Shawinigan residents will soon benefit from significant improvements to the City's water treatment system through investments. governments of Canada and Quebec. 
The target work includes the construction of two drinking water treatment plants: one for lake water intake to fishing and the other for that of the lake of batteries. The project also includes the establishment of an eight-kiky drinking water supply line between Saint-Mathieu rank, the expansion of the grandmother drinking water tank and the repair of the tank chlorination system drinking water from beeches. 
The construction work of these two new facilities should begin in September 2014 and end in July 2017. 
"The improvements to the Shawinigan water treatment system will provide residents with a reliable, sustainable and safe source of quality drinking water for future generations. Long-term jobs, growth and prosperity are the main priorities of our government, and we are proud to invest in infrastructure projects like this, which makes it possible to significantly improve the treatment system of the Water in Shawinigan, emphasizing the promotion of strong and prosperous communities in Quebec. " 
The Honorable Denis Lebelminister of Infrastructure, Communities and Intergovernmental Affairs, and Minister of the Canada Economic Development Agency for Quebec regions. 
"I am very proud of this important financial support for Shawinigan City for the setting standards of its drinking water supply facilities. This project represents a major investment of the most valuable for the future of the municipality who can offer quality consumption water for many years, thus promoting the health and well-being of its citizens. Our government is constantly working in partnership with municipalities to ensure that each Quebecker can benefit from essential public services, such as access to quality drinking water. " 
Sylvain Gaudreault of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupancy of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière 
