Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu- Families with low or modest income from Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu will soon have access to 12 affordable homes thanks to the construction of the complex Mercier dwellings. This project, whose site has recently been launched, will result in an investment of more than $ 2.4 million from the Government of Canada, the Government of Quebec and community partners. 
"Our government is working to help those who need it. These new homes are more than just a safe and affordable place to live. They are the key to a better life for families who will find one home. We continue to focus on four priorities, as set out by the Prime Minister, who are most important for Canadians: their families, the safety of our streets and our communities, their pride in being citizens of this country and, of course, , their personal financial security, "said the Honorable Denis Lebel, Minister of Infrastructure, Communities and Intergovernmental Affairs, Minister of the Economic Development Agency of Canada for Quebec Regions and MP Roberval-Lac- Saint John, on behalf of the Honorable Candice Bergen, Minister of State (Social Development). 
"This housing project is an excellent news for our region since it will allow parents and their children to evolve in a healthy and secure living environment. In addition, Mercier dwellings will meet the specific needs of families by offering accommodations of three or four bedrooms. The Quebec government is very proud to associate with an initiative like this, whose goal is to combat poverty and improve the quality of life of Quebec households, "said the member for Saint John At the National Assembly and Deputy Whip of the Government, Mr. Dave Turcotte, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport, Minister responsible for the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ) , Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The Government of Canada, through the 2011-2014 Affordable Housing Investment Agreement, and the Quebec Government, under the AccessLogis Québec program of the SHQ, jointly invested more than $ 994,000 for The construction of this building. The total contribution of the environment is approximately $ 617,000, of which $ 570,000 is granted by the City of Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu and just over $ 35,000 come from the Efficiency Office and the Energy Innovation of the Ministry of Natural Resources so that the building responds to the Novoclimat standard. Finally, the SHQ guarantees the mortgage lending contracted by the Top-Richelieu Municipal Housing Office, which makes it possible to supplement the financing of the project. 
Half of the tenants of the Mercier dwellings will be able to benefit from the rent supplement, a financial assistance for low-income people who, without this support, would be obliged to pay more than 25% of their income to stay. This additional assistance represents an investment of more than $ 103,000 over five years, assumed 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the city. 
This year, through CMHC, the Government of Canada will invest approximately $ 2 billion in housing. Of this amount, $ 1.7 billion will be devoted to supporting nearly 600,000 households living in social housing. In Quebec, this represents some 127 150 households. These investments improve the quality of life of low-income Canadians and households living in social housing, including homelessness and people at risk, seniors, people with disabilities, recent immigrants and Aboriginal people. 
To learn more about how CMHC supports the development of solid houses and prosperous communities for all Canadians, contact CMHC at 1-800-668-2642 or visitwww.cmhc-schl.gc.ca. 
Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000. households each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habit.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Habitat Espace, the WEB magazine of the SHQ, which deals with the spin-offs of the interventions of it on the whole of Quebec society. 
