Quebec, on July 19, 2016 - On the meeting of the Council of the Federation, in Whitehorse, the member for Verchères and spokesman for Quebec's Quebec-Canada Relations Party, Stéphane Bergeron, reminds Prime Minister Couillard that his Priority must be to make gains for Quebec and not to defend the interests of the rest of Canada and the Canadian unity. 
"Often, Philippe Couillard passes the Canadian unit before the interests of Quebeckers. The Prime Minister seems to consider that the fact, for Quebec, to negotiate nation to nation with Canada without going through the approval of the other provinces constitutes a failure of Canadian federalism. The Council of the Federation should, however, serve as a forum to affirm the Quebec difference and leverage to obtain profits for Quebec. However, there are too often hearing Philippe Couillard boast, for example, the merits of a pipeline that will be useful for the West only, rather than to make the voice of the concerns of Quebeckers, "a Declared Stéphane Bergeron. 
Many litigation with the federal government remain unresolved
"The number one priority of the government must be the rise in health transfers. Justin Trudeau was open to discuss it. It is insufficient. The share of federally assumed health financing must, as soon as possible, be 25% increased. It is a minimum, considering that the federal government initially committed to assume half of health expenditures. It is off the mark! However, all studies prove it: Ottawa's tax capacity allows it. The federal government must stop strengthening continuously in Quebec's skills. It must rather try to assume its fair share of costs, without condition. In addition, if Philippe Couillard wants to look for a useful consensus for Quebec, it must absolutely convince several other prime ministers to re-evaluate their position on a pan-Canadian securities commission, as some have indeed declined and accepted the principle of such a Federal interference, while the Trudeau government has formulated the wish to move forward with the Stephen Harper project. Philippe Couillard must also get fair treatment for Quebec on employment insurance. The last federal budget has enhanced it for several regions of Canada, but absolutely none on the Quebec territory, "continued the member. 
Also remember that Quebec received only 3.1% of the National Naval Construction Supply Contracts, while the Davie Site has a greater capacity than Vancouver and Halifax. "The Liberal government in Quebec is also forgetting the workers of the Davie site. The site did not have its fair share because the criteria for the call for tenders were based on promises of future capacity. After the contract signature, the Vancouver site had benefited from subsidies to carry out work, which is contrary to the call for tenders. The Government of Quebec must now make an official request: the strategy must be reopened, so that the Davie site can bid in equitable conditions, "concluded Stéphane Bergeron. 
