Quebec- The member for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, as well as the member for Taillon and spokesperson for health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, deplore the fact that the government Requires a downward revision of the net salary and working conditions of Quebec nurses, while there has been a need to increase the salary of doctors. 
"The latest government offers at the Quebec Health Interprofessional Federation are insulting. Nurses, who provide services on the front line, deserve more consideration from the government; Their role and importance in our public health network are recognized by all. Now, obviously, they are not entitled to the same treatment as their physician colleagues who, only this year, will receive $ 327 million more - in the futures, we are talking about about $ 2.5 billion more per year - without However, having to offer more services to the population. Why this two weights, two measures? , "Said the leader of the official opposition. 
"After brought back the bolduc premium, after cutting in the basic services to the population, in the supervisory services, in those offered to the most vulnerable, among others, the government proposes to remove the premiums of Critical care, night and weekend to nurses. Why? According to the FIQ, the salary declines could vary from 6% to 12%; This is considerable, "added Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
It is also noted that during this time, the government has amended its bill 20 to reduce the requirements for specialist physicians. "By a new amendment, the period will restrict the period during which specialists must follow up within three hours for patients referred to them to them. In addition, the requirement for them to provide services to patients who have been waiting for more than six months has been lifted. Why does the Prime Minister squeeze the nurses with one hand, while he alleges responsibility for specialist doctors on the other, while increasing their salary? Diane Lamarre continued. 
"At the Pierre-Le Gardeur Hospital, for example, the patient ratio by nurse, at emergency, will increase from 5 to 6, but their remuneration will decrease. Their task is increased, but their salary is lowered. Have the Prime Minister and his Minister of Health asked what will be the impact of their decisions on Quebec patients? ", Concluded the leader of the official opposition. 
