Quebec- The Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, denounces the attitude of the liberal opposition that creates uncertainty by voluntarily delaying the adoption of the principle of the bill on mines. 
"Several groups, including municipalities, citizen organizations, workers, environmental agencies and mining require a new mines law. The liberal opposition persists in the parliamentary obstruction in order to delay the adoption of the principle of the Mining Bill. They are once again showing partisan blindness, "explains Martine Ouellet. 
Bill 43 is the third attempt to redesign the mining regime. This bill is based on consensus on the two previous bills. "As a minority government, the collaboration of the opposition groups is essential to the adoption of the bill. I repeated it several times, we are open to discussing the content of the bill and making improvements. In all, 74 memoirs were filed, of which 48 were heard during the work of the Parliamentary Committee. We listened to stakeholder suggestions and we are now ready to work with opposition groups to improve the bill during the detailed study. But, to do this, we must adopt the principle of the bill and the Liberals are attempting to stretch the procedures, "adds Martine Ouellet. 
The Minister of Natural Resources has been open on many occasions to make changes to this effect, including on the following points: 
With regard to the transformation, the minister announced at the beginning of the particular consultations, as suggested by the Quebec Mining Association, which it is a desired opportunity and market study. An amendment will therefore be filed in this sense; 
As suggested by several groups, the minister is open to two committees to this effect, an environmental monitoring committee and a committee for the maximization of economic benefits; 
As recommended by stakeholders in the municipal world, the Minister will recommend an amendment to the Minister's power as a result of the adoption of the Regional County Municipalities (MRC) development scheme; 
"This sector is of paramount importance for the Quebec economy. Letatu whom is more acceptable for the Quebec population. To ensure stability and predictability, both for citizens and businesses, it is high time that the Liberals cease to block the modernization of the Mining Act and make the interest of all Quebeckers before their partisan interests " , concluded Martine Ouellet. 
