Quebec- The member for Matapédia and the official opposition on social services, Danielle Doyer, and the hon. Member for Saint-Hyacinthe and official opposition spokesperson for persons with disabilities, Emilien Pelletier, deplore the Decision of Liberal MPs Members of the Health and Social Services Commission not to take out petitions on services for persons with disabilities and accessibility to services for young adults of 21 years with disabilities. 
During the month of February, several petitions, signed by nearly 8,000 people, were filed at the National Assembly. The problems of rupture and decreasing services for young adults over the age of 21 have occurred when the Ministry of Health and Social Services has requested intellectual disability rehabilitation centers to revise their offer to focus solely on Rehabilitation services. This situation has left many people with disabilities at the expense of their parents several days a week. 
"Parents must struggle to find resources to supervise their child, as the petitioners have denounced. The consequences for parents' ability to hold a job is serious and several parents must leave their jobs to care for their child. We must find a solution to this problem without delay, but we have no listening on the part of the government! The hon. Member for Matapédia, Danielle Doyer insurgent. 
"Minister Dominique Vien must ensure that rehabilitation centers maintain services for all their users until new programs have been put in place," the member continued. 
For members of the Parti Québécois, an intervention is urgent, because many young people with disabilities who finish the school are on a waiting list, either to have access to a day center or to be admitted to protected workshops. In the meantime, their parents ask the question about what they will do to continue to develop their achievements and be part of a social network. 
"The refusal to hear the petitioners in parliamentary committee, it is an unprecedented event of indifference from the Liberals. It is a lack of listening to the person responsible for the petition, Ms. Raymonde Faubert and Manon saved, who worked to collect these 8000 signatures, and towards the officials of the organizations who accompanied them to Parliament during the deposit. But above all, we repeat it, it is a gesture of indifference to people with disabilities who live serious problems of services, "concluded Emilien Pelletier. 
