Quebec, October 31, 2014 -Afin to find solutions to speculation and purchase of agricultural land by private investment firms, the member for Berthier and the official opposition spokeswoman in agriculture, Fisheries and Food, André Villeneuve, asks the Liberal Government and the Future Québec Coalition to agree to its proposal that a parliamentary committee is seized of an initiative for elected officials to hear the affected stakeholders. 
"Private investment funds are increasingly interested in Quebec farmland, including the firm Pangea, led by Charles Sirois, a well-known businessman and co-founder of the CAQ with François Legault. Panga covers agricultural land in several regions of Quebec. Thus, it creates speculation that leads to increased land value, making access even more difficult for agricultural succession. Young farmers are worried about this land grabbing they need to ensure the future of agriculture in Quebec, "said André Villeneuve. 
The member emphasizes that specific cases have already been identified by the media. For example, a producer of Lac-Saint-Jean, who wanted to assure his daughter the necessary space for her to take over, had the bad surprise to see his offer of purchase rejected in favor of that of Pangea. . In Bas-Saint-Laurent, Panga gave 465 acres of agricultural land at $ 2,000 acre, or double market price, thus sowing worry among young farmers in the region. 
"How can young farmers hope for a future, while increasingly acquiring agricultural land can only be done at a price exceeding their means? The government must work with environmental players to find sustainable solutions, especially for succession. Until now, Minister Pierre Paradis remained his arms crossed, having even stated that he would wait for a disaster before acting. The minister must seize the opportunity to return to his clumsy comments and participate in the parliamentary committee, "added André Villeneuve. 
Charles Sirois at CAQ Congress  In addition to the inaction of the Liberals, the CAQ encourages investment funds to dispose of our farmers of their land. François Legaul-T rejoiced, last March, financial maneuvers of his friend Charles Sirois on agricultural land. Indeed, he said, "Honestly, between going to borrow money at the bank and repaying his mortgage every month, or pay a rent to a financier, what matters is that the rent is at a reasonable price " In short, for François Legault, it does not matter that a producer has the land it cultivates. 
"Tomorrow, Charles Sirois must pronounce a conference at the CAQ Congress. Instead of inviting him to his congress, his friend François Legault should denounce the participation of Charles Sirois with the manevers of dispossession undertaken against our agricultural producers, "concluded the member for Berthier. 
