Quebec- The member for Bourget and spokesperson for the official opposition responsible for the French Language Charter, Maka Kotto, denounces the gesture of the Liberal government and the Coalition Future Québec (CAQ), who voted against his motion aimed at To reaffirm the essential and essential character of the French as well as the need to amend the law to bring fixes to the Charter of the French language, following the judgment of the Quebec Court of Appeal regarding the language of display. 
"The Liberal government adopts the posture of quiet resignation, or even indifference, in the face of the erosion of our common public language. The CAQ, in this matter, is a pale copy of the liberal leaving. It's incomprehensible. Collectively, for generations, by our determination and struggles, we wanted to raise the French language to the rank of usual language and, fundamentally, to make French the common and normal language of our public life. The fight of the French language is not completed; We have the demonstration every day, "said Maka Kotto. 
The member also denounces the total absence of the Liberals during the unveiling, this afternoon of the bust of Camille Laurin, father of the French Language Charter, at the Park of La Francophonie. "No one from the government has deigned to pay tribute to Dr. Laurin, the one who left us the law 101. How can the Liberals pretend, after that, wish the protection of our language? ", he added. 
The Parti Québécois, the only party to defend French 
Maka Kotto also deplores the apathy of the CAQ in linguistic material. "Even that François Legault has already claimed that his party was nationalist and in favor of the protection of French, he votes against our motion. Every day we have the proof of this: PLQ and CAQ, it's the same fight! , "He continued. 
"The least nationalist prime minister in Quebec's modern history admits that he has no intention of acting in order to amend the Charter of the French language and to ensure that French is the common language throughout the Public space Quebec. However, it is the responsibility and responsibility of the government to protect and defend our language. The scope of this judgment is important: it confirms that one can bypass the spirit of the law 101. The Government of Quebec must clutter this breach and extend the provisions of the Charter to apply French as the language of work to businesses from 26 to 49 employees, "concluded the spokesperson. 
