Quebec, December 9, 2016 -The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the Parliamentary Leader, Pascal Bérubé, raise the record of the parliamentary session that ends under the sign of the gag. They note that rather than taking note of the strong message that Quebeckers sent to him during the four partial elections, the government prefers to ignore it and, worse, he pruded, on one side, to have "Save Quebec". , while he wants, on the other, turn the page by extending the session. The Parti Québécois has heard the desire to change citizens, their appeal to listen to their concerns, and it intends to embody this new breath that Quebec needs so much. 
"I could spend hours enumerating the long list of what the Liberals hurts. But, beyond the crisis of time in our justice system, beyond their catastrophic management of agriculture and the maintenance of Pierre Paradis as minister, beyond the crisis at the Ministry of Transport and the fact that Robert Poëti, who wanted to make the light, was dismissed, what we will hold back from this political session is that this government has reached the point of non-return with respect to the confidence of citizens and citizens " , said Jean-François Lisée. 
A black page 
In March 2016 budget, the Department of Finance claimed that the year 2015-2016 would suspend zero. Then he tabled his financial monthly that showed that for the first 10 months of the 2015-2016 fiscal year, the government was already posting a surplus of $ 1.66 billion. At the time of autumn update, last October, he confirmed that after all the consolidations, it was even a surplus of $ 2.2 billion. 
"The Prime Minister would like to leave the year 2017 with a blank page, but he can not erase the black page he wrote in 2016. Mr. Couillard has cut too much and, when he realized that he was going to go beyond The budget balance and make surpluses, rather than slowing down the pace, he has supported the accelerator. I immediately appeared on the harm he had to suffer from the citizens, particularly the most vulnerable of our society, but it remained insensitive, and even after the disastrous results he knew during the partial elections. He persists and signs, "continued the leader of the Quebecois party. 
The Protector of the Citizen has confirmed what we have denounced for two years: "The austerity hurts". The government has cut $ 900 million from the health sector since its election. "This is not the reinvestment announced during the economic update that will repair the damage that has led to a situation that goes to the limits of abuse for our elders. Panties for incontinence that can not be changed if they are not full, rational baths, timed powder potatoes ... The overwhelming testimonies on the care offered in CHSLD continue to accumulate. If we had to write the tombstone of this government, we would write: "Below the government that pushed the elders towards the limits of abuse". And, now, the Prime Minister begs us to turn the page? In fact, the first words of his opening speech should be formal excuses for the damage he has caused, "added the official opposition. 
Quebec's Party Listening 
"Voters have launched a clear message in the partial elections: the Liberal government is wrong. The Prime Minister replied, "No, we will continue, we saved Quebec". And the last gesture that the Liberals have chosen to ask in 2016, it is to make a proprietroe bill under gag. The Québécois party heard the citizens who wish a government that brings together and looking to the future, "the parliamentary leader said. 
We have heard Quebeckers who want a resolute, balanced and responsible approach to secularism. An approach that will better train our young people at a committed and enlightened citizenship around our shared values, to walk tangibly towards a secular state, to establish an immigration policy on healthier bases, and to ensure the success of each of the Quebeckers and each of Quebeckers of various origins. 
We have heard Quebeckers who want progressive forces to get closer to beat the Liberals. In keeping with their differences, the Parti Québécois and Quebec Solidarity opened the dialogue to work together on the common goal of dislodging the most toxic Liberal government in our history. We have also heard citizens who want their vote to have more weight. On December 7, we said, together with the Coalition Future Québec, Quebec Solidarity, National Option and the Green Party, our desire to develop and present a joint proposal for the regional mixed proportional voting, with a view to the next election general and applicable in 2022. 
We have heard the regions, which face enormous challenges. "It was important for me that my first question as the official opposition leader in the region, who saw one of their development tools disappear since the election of the Liberals. Farmers, for example, have suffered the government's full contempt in land taxes and compensation for dairy and cheese producers. We will continue to fight, too, for the forest regions, while a new timber crisis threatens ", also said Jean? François Lisée. 
We have heard Quebeckers who want a government that proposes. On December 1, we proposed the "right to oblivion" for cancer survivors, who are often victims of a form of discrimination when they try to contract insurance. We also proposed muscular measures of economic nationalism to protect our jobs. 
"The Parti Québécois listens, hears and respect Quebeckers and Quebeckers. They told us that they did not want a short-term referendum, whom they wanted to go to green energies and release Quebec oil, that they expected the government to provide good health services and in education, and that it helps families. The by-elections have demonstrated: we gather, we are in tune with the needs of Quebecers. And it only starts, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
