Quebec- The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, and the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, will participate in the 50th International Aerospace Fair and Space (SIAE) Paris-Le Bourget. The event will be held from June 17 to 23 and will bring together some 1,300 exhibitors and more than 130,000 professionals from 45 countries. 
Ministers will be at the head of a delegation of about fifty Quebec industrialists in the aerospace sector. For the occasion, they will be accompanied by representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, the Ministry of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Investissement Québec, Montreal International, of the General Delegation of Quebec in Paris and Aero Montréal. 
"This prestigious event is one of the top places to promote Quebec ingenuity in the aerospace sector. It is a large technological showcase and, at the same time, an open market for our aerospace industry where conditions are favorable for foreign investment, "supported Nicolas Marceau. 
"The SIAE offers a favorable context for the positioning of Quebec companies that negotiate with advanced manufacturers about sustainable partnerships. Our companies will make their innovations in aerospace, fruit with a powerful education network and state-of-the-art research centers, "added Zakaïb Élain. 
Experts in aerospace and investment will support Quebec SMEs to optimize their meetings with strategic stakeholders. Individual appointments and various companies' presentations have been planned for visitors who will manifest interest. In addition, Trade Attachés du Québec in Europe will meet Quebec companies to facilitate contact with companies from the European continent. "Quebec has carved an enviable place in the aerospace sector over the years. It is therefore necessary to take this opportunity to raise awareness of our expertise and know-how, "said Minister Marceau. 
During this mission, Ministers Marceau and Zakayb will meet with representatives of large aerospace companies and leaders of important industrial groups. The goal is to highlight the special benefits of Quebec, the strength of the Quebec aerospace industry and the innovation capacity of our businesses in this sector. They will also take advantage of the opportunity to assert the advantageous investment conditions prevailing in Quebec in addition to promoting the approaches of Quebec companies for the realization of partnerships with key players in the international industry. 
