Montréal - Minister of Culture and Communications, Mr. Maka Kotto, and the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, today unveiled the names of the Thirteen recipients of Quebec's prices awarded in the fields of culture and science. The laureates and the winners will formally receive their price at a protocol ceremony on November 12, in Quebec City, at the Parliament Hotel. 
"By advancing the knowledge in their fields of activities for a lifetime, the recipients of Quebec's prices have made an outstanding course. Thanks to them, our know-how and our culture radiates in Quebec and in the world. It is with great pride that we will argue the legacy they are legent by giving them the highest distinction granted by the Quebec government for the entire career, "said Maka Kotto ministers and Pierre Duchesne. . 
Great cultural personalities at the heart of our identity 
Scientists with remarkable progress 
In addition to a $ 30,000 scholarship, recipients will receive a silver medal, original creation of a Quebec artist chosen by public competition. This year, the medal was carried out by the jeweler Daniel Moisan. As traditions, a copy will be kept at the National Museum of Fine Arts in Quebec. Recipients will also receive a calligraphied parchment and an exclusive pin with the Quebec prices symbol. 
Short interviews, made with the recipients of the Quebec Awards, may be viewed today on YouTube and on the site, atwww.prixduquebec.gouv.qc.ca. The Twitter thread of the two ministries (click-click # PristeCebec) as well as their Facebook page will also follow the activities surrounding the prices of Quebec, including the official discount ceremony. 
The interviews were turned to the ecomuseum of the proud world, in a beautiful heritage building. Extracts of 30 seconds will be broadcast at Télé-Québec as of October 31st. 
The Quebec Awards Website is a reference for all those who are interested in a pan of our cultural and scientific history since it allows to go back through the course of the personalities who have been illustrated over the years. . The site also includes a complete medal inventory that are the signature of artists in visual arts as well as jewelery craftsmen. 
