Quebec- The Minister of Public Safety, Stéphane Bergeron, accompanied by the member for Abitibi-West and Minister responsible for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue Region, Mr. François Gendron, confirmed today that the construction project The new AMOS detention facility has been approved by the Council of Ministers, and that the launch of tenders and the construction of the AMOS detention facility are allowed. 
"I know that the population of Abitibi has been too often scalded, in this file, by ads, who have never materialized. Well, I can tell you that, this time, it's good! The new AMOS detention institution was expected. We therefore want people to be proud of it. I welcome the efforts made by the many people who have allowed the upcoming completion of this beautiful project, which will allow both to boost the economy of the region, to better meet the needs and requirements of security, and to offer a good Environment for workers at this institution, "said Minister Bergeron. 
The specific needs of the Aboriginal clientele that will be incarcerated there has also been taken into account in this project, including providing special developments for Aboriginal people. In addition, the Department of Public Safety continues its discussions to ensure that the offer of services provided to the Inuit clientele respects the wishes expressed by their representatives. 
Built at nearly $ 126 million, the new Amos detention facility will accommodate 220 offenders and will therefore offer 98 places more than the current property. This construction will allow, among other things, to ensure regional autonomy in terms of prison infrastructure and facilitate the supply of social reintegration programs. The first public tender, concerning the deforestation of the land, will be launched in August. The start of construction is scheduled for the spring of 2014, for project delivery in the fall of 2016. 
"The new detention institution will be an important economic engine for our region, both during its construction and when the work will be completed. More than 250 jobs will be created during the work while the new institution will require some 70 new ongoing jobs. The population will benefit from a project that meets regional needs, including offering offenders' programs and services, "said Gendron Minister. 
The contribution of the Department of Public Safety to this project is part of the 2013-2023Rendu in infrastructure (PQI) framework last April. It should be remembered that this decennial plan will eventually lead to investments of $ 92.3 billion in all sectors of activity in our company, including more than $ 1 billion for public safety institutions. This plan will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. It also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
