Notre-Dame-de-Ham- Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, the Wildlife and parks, minister responsible for the regions of Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec and MP Johnson, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, are pleased to announce that the municipality of Notre-Dame-de-Ham will benefit from a Government assistance for the construction of a building gathering the municipal garage and the fire station. This assistance is granted under the new subpaid 5.1 of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructures Program (PIQM), which is devoted to municipal and community-based infrastructure projects. 
"I am very proud to announce today the participation of our government in the implementation of these important infrastructure projects in the Center-du-Québec region. The future six-door building that will bring together the barracks and the garage will replace the Garage and the Fire Barracks and will offer the space for the municipality to adequately store its equipment in a safe and functional environment. This new building will enable the municipality to provide a better work environment for its employees in addition to adequately responding to the requirements of the fire department, and this, in the best interests of the population, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"The selection of the projects of this second phase of approval of RECIM projects perfectly reflects the will of my government to put integrity at the heart of its decisions. The projects chosen meet the standards in force and take into account the objectives of occupation and the vitality of the territories for the benefit of all Quebeckers and all Quebeckers, "added Minister Gaudreault. 
Under the current rules and standards of the PIQM sub-component, the financial assistance for the implementation of the project of the municipality of Notre-Dame-de-Ham is estimated at 75% of the amount of eligible costs. 
With a budget envelope of nearly $ 60 million over five years, the PIQM sub-flap 5.1 allows Quebec municipalities to carry out construction, setting up, rehabilitation or refurbishment of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offering and the quality of life of citizens in addition to overcoming the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures. 
The Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI)  The support of the Quebec government to the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) released last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
