Saguenay- Minister responsible for Government Administration, President of the Treasury Board, Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean Region and MP for Chicoutimi, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, announced on behalf of the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, that midwife services are now available in the region and that a birthday will soon see the day on the territory. He was accompanied on this occasion by the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the occupation of the territory and deputy of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"This announcement shows the importance that our government places at work done by midwives in Quebec. In accordance with the Perinatality Policy 2008-2018, we want to speed up the deployment of their services across Quebec, in order to give many families the opportunity to use it during a natural physiological childbirth, in a framework. Custom and warm, "said Minister Hébert. 
These new midwife services have been offered since autumn to pregnant women across the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region. To access prenatal monitoring services, women must have a pregnancy without complication. For now, deliveries can take place at the Chicoutimi hospital or at home, provided it is less than 15 kilometers from this hospital. Midwives are available for their clientele at any time, seven days a week, 24 hours a day. Their services also include postnatal follow-up, up to six weeks after birth. 
"We are pleased to offer this new opportunity for women in the region, which are more and more numerous to wish to receive this type of accompaniment. They will benefit from the expertise of a team of five seasoned and passionate midwives. I am pleased to note that the culmination of this project is the result of a sustained commitment from different partners, all sensitive to the needs of the population, "said Minister Bédard. 
In addition, in order to offer an additional option to the mothers of the region who wish to resort to the supervision of a midwife, a new birthplace will open in August 2014. It will be located near the hospital. Chicoutimi to ensure women medical support needed when needed. It is estimated at almost 200 the number of deliveries that will be performed annually. Many prenatal, perinatal and postnatal services will be offered, including health assessments, group meetings, pregnancy monitoring and breastfeeding support. The house will include three bedrooms, three consultation rooms, a gynecological examination room and a community hall. 
"By the establishment of this first birthday in the region, we want to give families, especially those of Jonquière, the possibility of choosing the way they will live this happy event that is the birth of a child. We are happy to be able to offer them this intimate and warm frame. In closing, I want to emphasize the supported and persevering work of the House of Births 02 in favor of this project, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
With a total cost of $ 2,266,952, this birthday will be funded for $ 1,425,000 by the Ministry of Health and Social Services. This amount includes a recurring budget of $ 850,000 for operating costs as well as a non-recurring amount of $ 235,000 for equipment and another $ 340,000 for the building. The balance of $ 841,952 will be assumed by the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean's Health and Social Services Agency. 
