Québec- The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of women, minister responsible for the regions of the capital and the Chaudière-Appalaches and MP for Taschereau, Mrs Agnès Maltais, are pleased to announce that the municipality of Saint-Evariste-de-Forsyth will benefit from government assistance for The expansion of its fire barracks. This assistance will be granted under the new 5.1 sub-component of the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM) program, which is devoted to municipal and community-based infrastructure projects. 
"I am very pleased with the decision of my government to support this project to expand the fire barracks in the Chaudière-Appalaches region. The Barracks of Saint-Evariste-de-Forsyth will allow the municipality to ensure the safety of its citizens and its employees, as well as to respond more adequately to the requirements of the fire department, and this, in the best interest of the population, "said Minister Agnès Maltese. 
"The selection of the projects of this second phase of approval of RECIM projects perfectly reflects the will of my government to put integrity at the heart of its decisions. The chosen projects comply with the standards in force and take into account the objectives of occupation and vitality of the territories for the benefit of all Quebeckers and from all Quebeckers, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
Under the current rules and standards of the PIQM sub-component, the financial assistance for the implementation of the Canton of Saint-Camille is estimated at 65% of the amount of the eligible costs. 
With a budget envelope of nearly $ 60 million over five years, the PIQM sub-flap 5.1 allows Quebec municipalities to carry out construction, setting up, rehabilitation or refurbishment of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offering and the quality of life of citizens in addition to overcoming the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures. 
The support of the Quebec government to the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) released last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
