Québec- The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region and MP From Matane-Matapédia, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, are pleased to announce that the Regional County Municipality of Kamouraska (MRC) will receive government assistance for the reconstruction of its administrative offices. This assistance is granted under the new subpaid 5.1 Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM), which is devoted to municipal and community-based infrastructure projects. 
"I am very proud to announce today's support for my government to implement this important municipal infrastructure project in the Kamouraska MRC. The future building, strong by the community and the municipal authorities, will meet the needs expressed by the environment. This new infrastructure will enable in particular to improve the service offer to citizens in addition to ensuring employees a healthy and safe workplace, "said Minister Pascal Bérubé. 
"The selection of the projects of this second phase of approval of RECIM projects perfectly reflects the will of my government to put integrity at the heart of its decisions. The chosen projects comply with the standards in force and take into account the objectives of occupation and the vitality of the territories for the benefit of all Quebeckers and from all Quebeckers, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
Under the current rules and standards of the PIQM sub-component, the financial assistance for the realization of the Kamouraska MRC project is estimated at 65% of the amount of eligible costs. 
With a budget envelope of nearly $ 60 million over five years, the PIQM sub-flap 5.1 allows Quebec municipalities to carry out construction, setting up, rehabilitation or refurbishment of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offering and the quality of life of citizens in addition to overcoming the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures. 
The support of the Quebec government to the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) released last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
