Drummondville- Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, and the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment and Parks and MP Johnson, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announced today Investments of $ 8,340,916 at the Vocational Training Center (CFP) Paul-Rousseau, an educational institution from the Oak School Board. 
"The Quebec population recognizes the importance of obtaining solid qualifications. For many, it helps to awaken and fuel the taste to learn. We must ensure that every student, whatever his age, can go to the end of his abilities, by offering accessible and diversified training routes. A strong and prosperous Quebec needs to rely on women and men we have given every opportunity and the support needed to obtain a degree or qualification, "said Malavoy Minister. 
The investments announced today are intended to meet the needs of equipment and premises for the implementation, on a permanent basis, of the highway heavy vehicle studies program (5330). They will accommodate two student cohorts, or 40 students per year, in this curriculum. They will also help meet the needs of the Center-du-Québec region, which is currently suffering from a shortage of beginner workers in this area. 
"The Center-du-Québec is one of the most dynamic regions and we find here the spirit of entrepreneurship and the talent that it takes to ensure the long-term regional prosperity. I note that these future graduates will not only be an essential labor force for the transport of goods but they will also be valuable allies as part of the inspection and maintenance program for heavy motor vehicles (Pieval). Through this inspection program, we want to ensure that heavy vehicles comply with environmental standards. Education is a real instrument of sustainable development, "said Minister Blanchet. 
This investment at the Paul-Rousseau vocational training center is part of the overall investment framework of $ 24.3 million also announced today for vocational training. 
