Quebec- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert, and the Minister of Public Safety, Stéphane Bergeron, announce that the patrol vehicles of the Sûreté du Québec all are all equipped, by three years, automated external defibrillators. 
These devices automatically analyze the activity of the heart of a person who undergoes a cardio-respiratory arrest. The defibrillator then allows, if it is indicated, to deliver an electric shock, thus starting the cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Once equipped with these devices, the police officers of Quebec will be able to support people at cardio-respiratory shutdown until the arrival of paramedics. 
"The intervention with the defibrillator with these victims, to be effective, must be as fast as possible, hence the advantage of the partnership between the emergency prehospital services and the security of Quebec. The experience of other Canadian provinces or US states demonstrates that the addition of defibrillators in police services increases survival substantially. Every minute is an improvement of the victim's survival chances of 7 to 10%. This partnership could make our urgent prehospital services in North America as such, "said Minister Hébert.
The Minister Stéphane Bergeron has said: "Often, the police officers of Quebec are the first arrivals on the places where there are people with heart-respiratory distress. By providing automated external defibrillators in their vehicles, they will be able to ask the appropriate gestures before the arrival of the emergency prehospital services teams. This additional tool provided to police officers will enhance the services and allow, in certain situations, to make a difference and save lives. " 
The Ministry of Health and Social Services will invest a sum of $ 2.1 million for this purpose. Québec safety can be provided about 1,200 aircraft, as well as the supplies necessary for their operation. As defibrillators deploy, patrollers will be trained by emergency prehospital service teams from each health and social services agency.  It is expected that the deployment of the pilot project will start in seven regions next June, which corresponds to nearly 20% of patrol vehicles. The operation will continue in the next two years, so it is anticipated that the devices will all be installed by 2015-2016. 
