Longueuil - Minister Delegate to Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Ms. Véronique Hivon, and the Minister responsible for Democratic Institutions and Citizen and Deputy Participation of Marie-Victorin, Mr. Bernard Drainville, today announced the realization From the Zenith Academy Project, which is aimed at young adults aged 21 and over with an intellectual disability or autism spectrum disorder (TSA). 
The goal of the Zenith Academy Project, which will have its premises in the constituency of Marie-Victorin, in Longueuil, is to set up a day activity service that will host young and older young people with a disability or TSA. finished their school career. The project will allow 20 young adults to maintain and develop the achievements obtained at school. It will give them the opportunity to attend a place meeting their health and stimulation needs in a safe environment and with qualified personnel, while providing them with greater social participation. They will practice various physical, cultural and artistic activities in groups that will facilitate their integration into the community and the development of the skills necessary for their fulfillment. 
"Zenith Academy is a good example of the mobilization of the community, a mobilization that the government is pleased to support by putting forward the importance of solidarity. Thanks to the collaboration of many partners from various horizons, these young people will be able to benefit from a new environment that will meet their needs throughout the specificity and complexity of their situation, and which is a logical sequence at the end of their school. This is an innovative project that, I hope, will be imitated in other regions of Quebec, "said Ms. Hivon. 
Recall that on April 8, Minister Hivon announced the addition of a recurrent budget envelope of $ 10 million, on an annual basis, of which $ 4.3 million were granted to the Montérégie Region in order to Improve the offer of socio-professional activities and residential services adapted to young adults with a disability or TSA. For the completion of the Zenith Academy Project, whose funding stems from this investment, an agreement has been signed with Pierre-Boucher and Champlain-Charles-Lemoyne Social Health and Social Services Centers, which grant him a total of $ 138,660 . 
"The Zenith Academy Project responds to a desired need in Montérégie and I am happy, like my colleague, to see that the work done for several years upstream will take shape and give rise to a promising project. Maryse Tessier, instigator and general director of Zénith Academy, quickly convinced me of the need for this project and since my first meeting with the latter four years ago, my team and I put a lot of effort so that the project is realized. I would also like to thank Minister Hivon for being sensitive to the equity of funding between the regions in the investment of sums in deficiencies. Young Montasian adults with a disability or a TSA and their families will now have access to additional resources to ensure a good start in their adult lives and a continuity in services received, "said Drainville. 
