Quebec- The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as the Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Elders, Minister responsible for The Estrie and Deputy Region of Saint-François, Dr. Réjean Hébert, are proud to announce the granting of $ 100,000 financial assistance to the city of Saint-Joseph-de-Beauce, in the region. of the Chaudière-Appalaches, for the construction of a service stop at the municipal park. This assistance comes from the Québec-Municipal Infrastructures Program - Municipality Friend of Seniors (PIQM-Mada). 
Thanks to the Québec-Municipal Infrastructures - Municipal Municipality of Seniors, municipalities incurred in the MADA approach have access to funding to support them in achieving small infrastructure projects that meet the needs of seniors. 
"I am very pleased with the realization of this project in Saint-Joseph-de-Beauce, which will allow the city to offer seniors a recreational and safe community of which they will benefit fully. I am all the more proud of our government's commitment to this beautiful initiative a few years ago and to which the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, of which I am Responsible, is associated. Improving the living conditions of our elders is to contribute to their fulfillment as an individual in the community. To assume together a responsibility that challenges us all to make Quebec a place where it is good at age, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"This project, like many others who are emerging in all regions of Quebec, confirms the priority that our government gives to the quality of life of seniors. I wish to salute the initiative of the city of Saint-Joseph-de-Beauce and the involvement of those responsible for the realization of this project, which comes to meet the needs of elderly persons and thus contribute to their safety and the quality of Life while allowing them to stay active as long as possible, "said Minister Réjean Hébert. 
Briefly, the project aims at the construction of a service stop near the petanque lands in the northern sector of the municipal park, which is the place of gathering for citizens of all generations. This new quality recreational infrastructure will include public facilities accessible to the public at all times, storage spaces and a terrace partly covered. Thus, the addition of this service block will allow seniors to have easy access to this place of amenities located near the petanque terrain. 
The realization of this project requires a total investment of $ 300,000. Under the PIQM 2.5 component, the Quebec government contributes $ 100,000 for this project. 
Let us mention that the municipal park brings together several recreational infrastructures to improve the quality of life of the community and also encourage it to remain active. Many organizations and citizens gather there to practice community, social and sports activities. Thus, this future infrastructure will be added to those existing, and this, for the greatest benefit of all generations. 
The PIQM-MADA is equipped with an annual $ 3 million envelope from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the occupation of the territory, reserved for the financing of infrastructures meeting the needs of seniors. Since 2010, there are 137 projects that benefit from this envelope accessible to municipalities incurred in the Municipality Municipality of Elders. These investments are part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. The PIQM-MADA program is also an action listed in the politicsVerville and live together at home in its community in Quebec. 
Strong today's membership of 704 municipalities or MRC, the MADA approach was established in Quebec by the Seniors Secretariat in 2008 and continues under the responsibility of the Minister responsible for seniors and Minister of Health and Social Services. This is inspired by an approach developed by the World Health Organization (WHO), and the model it proposes has been designed to enable citizens to age while remaining active in their community. The collaboration of the entire community is one of the winning conditions of the approach, but it could not succeed fully without the participation of seniors themselves and that of local organizations that represent them. Quebec is considered by WHO as the most advanced company in the world in the application of this approach based on the adaptation of municipal policies and services to the aging of the population. 
