Bas-Saint-Laurent- The Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, and the Minister Delegate to Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, announce the issuance of a certificate authorizing Boralex inc. To carry out the TéliCouata II wind farm project in the territory of the municipalities of Saint-Honoré-de-Témiscouata and Saint-Elzéar-de-Témiscouata. 
"For the last 15 years, the Quebec government has made the fight against climate change one of its top priorities. Various policies launched in recent years clearly demonstrate the concerted action of the government to reduce Quebec's greenhouse gas emissions. We are recognized as leaders internationally with respect to this global challenge. Our vision is to make Quebec a prosperous society that combines economy and environment optimally for the benefit of its citizens. The use of renewable energy sources such as wind, sun and water will enable us to achieve our goals, "said Minister Blanchet. 
The project provides for the establishment on public land where forest cover dominates, 22 wind turbines of 2.35 megawatts each, for a total installed capacity of 51.7 megawatts. The wind turbines will be located about one kilometer from the homes. The project also provides for the construction of access roads and a collector network at 34.5 kilovolts, which will route the electricity produced at the voltage lift connection. 
"This is an excellent news for the local population. In addition to creating employment and economic benefits for the region, this project will contribute to the development of the wind industry in Quebec, clean and renewable energy, which is part of Quebec's energy independence., underlined Minister Bérubé. 
Indeed, this wind farm will create approximately 200 jobs during construction and five permanent jobs during exploitation. Its commissioning is scheduled for December 2015 and its cost-of-the-art is estimated at a little over $ 130 million. With respect to economic benefits, 60% of the overall project costs will be spent at the provincial level, or about $ 80 million. 
Note that this project is part of the continuity of the TéliCouata wind farm project put forward by Téléli Téléli Dry, authorized by Decree No. 827-2013 of 23 July 2013, and which will be implemented in the municipality of Saint-Honoré-de-Témiscouata. The two wind farms will share some infrastructures, such as the connecting station and paths. 
The decree concerning the issuance of the certificate of authorization and the environmental analysis report may be consulted soon on the website of the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, following the publication of the Order in the official Gazette du Québec. 
