Québec-visiting the Berges School in Quebec City, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, and the Minister of Culture and Communications, Mr. Maka Kotto, signed the new Interdepartmental Culture-Education Memorandum, which aims to strengthen the collaboration of school and cultural circles as well as the integration of the cultural dimension at school. 
"Given the constant evolution of the different modes of cultural expression as well as new information technologies, which transform the cultural practices of young people, a revision of our ways of doing things. Even more integrating culture into different school learning is a gesture of a wide range, which promotes the full development of young people. This integration increases school motivation and can also contribute to learning and the fight against school dropout, "said Malavoy Minister. 
The updated version of the Memorandum of Understanding proposes various channels to increase the synergy of cultural and academic environments, such as the improvement of the conditions facilitating school outings in cultural environment, both for high school students and for those of primary school, or in encouraging the diversity of the artistic expression and diffusion modes of culture. In addition, regional and national partners in cultural and school environments will be consulted by the spring of 2014 by the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport (MELS) and the Ministry of Culture and Communications (MCC to develop the multiannual action plan of the protocol. 
"The renewal of the Protocol and the announcement of the new" school "component", which, at first, will be experienced in the form of pilot projects, are a first step that will facilitate in the child the pleasure of Learn and the desire to develop his creativity. Artistic and cultural activity allows our young people to shape their identity; It gives them the taste of excellence, perseverance and overrun. We must never underestimate the positive impact that the arts can have in the formation of the psychic personality of our young people, "concluded Minister Kotto. 
This "a school welcomes an artist" will gradually be set up, in collaboration with the cultural and school networks, and will allow students to enroll in an artistic approach by giving the possibility to an artist, a writer or a writer Professional cultural organization, a member of the Culture-Education Resource Directory, to live a residence experience in schools and inspired themselves to create. 
With a total budget of $ 100,000 from the MELS, pilot projects will be conducted in the winter of 2014 in six targeted regions. As a result of these pilot projects, the component will be deployed and the Culture-Education Resource Directory will be adapted to integrate a section devoted exclusively to this new component. 
Note that in 2011-2012, more than 13,000 cultural activities have been conducted as part of the Culture at School program. With an annual budget of $ 3.2 million, this program is the centerpiece of the MELS and MCC agreement since 1997. It allows students from all regions of Quebec to make cultural outings or to participate in the school at creative activities animated by professional artists, writers or cultural organizations. Since 2008-2009, the number of student participations for activities supported by this program goes beyond the half-million course each year. 
