Gatineau - The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault and the Minister of Public Safety, Minister responsible for the Ottawa and Deputy Region of Verchères , Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, are proud to announce that the city of Gatineau will receive government assistance totaling $ 59,669,635 for the realization of two major water infrastructure projects. This important contribution comes from the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities Program (PIQM). 
"As Minister Responsible for the Outaouais Region, I am very pleased with the major financial support today announced in the city of Gatineau for the implementation of important water infrastructure work. These are projects that are consensus and who had become absolutely indispensable. Our government is aware of the need to renew and develop water infrastructure in communities across Quebec. That is why, he works in partnership with these valuable partners that are the municipalities, in order to allow access to quality public services for the entire population, in accordance with the principles of sustainable development, "said the Minister Stéphane Bergeron. 
"Every Quebecker must be able to benefit from access to quality public services. Our government's commitment aims to provide municipalities with the support needed to enable them to move forward with their infrastructure projects. Thus, the aid granted to the City of Gatineau will ensure essential services to citizens, in addition to providing this city of infrastructure that meets the standards in force and to enhance the quality of utilities, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The first project focuses on the refurbishment of the treatment plant and pumping positions. Its realization will renew deficient and obsolete infrastructure to make them more efficient and efficient. The main jobs consist of upgrading the main pumping station, the addition of a digester and replacement of the equipment obsolete to primary decantation, secondary treatment, treatment and drying of sludge. The work also includes the reconstruction of seven pumping positions. 
Under the 1.4 PIQM component, the contribution of the Government of Quebec awarded to the project is $ 53,092,635. For its part, the city of Gatineau invests $ 26,546,277, bringing the total amount of investments at $ 79,638,912. 
The second project provides for replacement of drinking water and wastewater pipes under Vanier Road and the Bruyère Streets, Metcalfe, Pigalle and Symmes. It aims to replace drinking water pipes, wastewater and the addition or replacement of rainwater pipes under the Greber and Saint-Joseph boulevards, as well as under the streets Bélanger, Chomedey, Émile-Bond, Graham Greig, West Maclaren and Pierre-Paquin. In total, water pipes over almost four kilometers will be renewed in Gatineau. 
The support of the Government of Quebec to these projects is part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) 2013-2023 released last April. It should be remembered that this decennial plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the associated costs and to make informed choices. 
