Québec, on July 20, 2016 -The MP for Joliette and spokesperson for the Quebecois Justice and End-of-Life Care, Véronique Hivon, deplores the answers given by the Minister Barrette since Monday. That is why it returns to the expense and the press to cancel the guidelines transmitted through a letter which aims to modify the access protocol for medical assistance to die, provided by the Quebec law on the end-of-life care. 
"The minister must explain by virtue of what principle he believes he can amend a law that has been adopted in good form. The provisions of the Quebec law are the result of a long consultation and a very broad consensus in Quebec, and the imposition of a fixed time as 10 days, now introduced, had been expressly rejected. Despite this, the minister does not defend the validity of our law, yet recognized by the courts and which has applied since last December. It abdals quietly Quebec health skills to submit to federal standards that do not concern the framework of our law. We would like to hear the Minister of Justice, who defended the Quebec law before the courts. Did she also decide that Quebec could no longer exercise health skills? "," Said the hon. Member for Joliette. 
"The minister is not expected to import federal standards that have no place to be, especially since they are going to accentuate the suffering and stress of end-of-life people. It is expected rather to be the guardian of their well-being. For end-of-life people who suffer, every hour can be a real torture. In addition, with the addition of the signature of two witnesses when applying, they are imposed an excessive burden, "continued the spokesperson. 
"Can the minister tell us how the population can trust when no public announcement of these new requirements has been made, and that if the letter had not been transmitted to the media, the population would still not be informed? How should the End of Life Care Commission behave now? Should she rely on the law or this letter? We swim in confusion. That's why we ask that these guidelines be canceled on the field, "said Véronique Hivon. 
