Shawinigan - Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, accompanied by the member for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, announced the payment of a loan of $ 100,000, by Investissement Québec, to support the growth of microbrewery the devil's hole. 
"Entrepreneurship can take several forms and all are welcome," said Élain Zakaïb. "Whether it's a private enterprise, a cooperative or a social economy company, all these types of companies contribute to the prosperity of their region and job creation. The project of which it is today is a good example of a dynamic and efficient cooperative and we are happy to support its growth. Quebec's industrial policy, recently made, presents concrete measures that can help manufacturing companies from all regions of Quebec to increase their competitiveness. » 
Founded in 2012 by the Coop de Work Brasserie Artisanale, the hole of the devil breast of large-scale beer and distributes its different varieties on the North American market. The loan granted to the company will be injected into its working capital to meet the sustained growth it is currently experiencing and participating in the development of the European market. 
"Today's announcement shows us that Shawinigan companies are in action and concentrate their efforts to grow further," said Luc Trudel. "Their perseverance is worthy of mention and I am very proud of the support brought by our government to help them reach, and even to overcome, their growth goals, as is the case with microbrewery the devil's hole, which s 'is demoted very quickly in the beer market. » 
"Our microbrewery is internationally recognized for the quality of its products and is distinguished in the field of the manufacture of artisanal beers, as evidenced by the many prices we have received over the years," said the treasurer of microbrewery the hole Devil, Mr. Luc Bellerive. "The support of the Government of Quebec to the growth of our company, by this refundable contribution, will allow us to continue our climb and to develop new markets, particularly in the United States and Europe. This will, in the short term, allow the creation of some new jobs, which addicts to the 30 jobs already created since last January. » 
About Investissement Québec  Investissement Québec's mission is to promote investment growth in Quebec, thus contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The company puts companies with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity capital investment, in order to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, it is responsible for the administration of tax measures and prospecting investments abroad. 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicidustrielle. 
