Alberta has made poorly wise choices. This is the case for decades. Hope long-term financial stability based on a historically high oil price was a struggle lost in advance. 
In recent years, we have heard, again and again, the fallacious arguments that Quebec lives on the hooks of the tax paid by the Albertans. Prime Minister Jason Kenney is the last of a long line of Western politicians who claim that Albertans pay for Quebec's social programs. It is so easy for an Albertan politician to score free politicians at home by insinuating that Alberta pays for the CPE du Québec. 
It's just wrong. Ask any expert in seriousness: Quebec does not receive equalization payments because it spends more on social programs or because Alberta spends less for this purpose. Equalization payments are calculated based on the capacity of a province to generate tax revenues. Alberta could generate huge tax revenues and chooses not to do so. It is his own choice that is legitimate, though badly notified. Thus, Albertans do not have to complain about paying any social program of Quebec. This is just not true. 
In fact, Alberta is much more susceptible than its leaders suggest it. Before Prime Minister Kenney's budget cuts, Alberta spent more per capita than Quebec. After the cuts, she continues to spend just 2% less per capita than Quebec. Alberta is not a libertarian paradise, contrary to what some like to believe. This province is a patent example of spending government. 
If Prime Minister Kenney is looking for someone or something to blame for his gigantic deficit, he should aim ... the tax policy of his own province in recent decades. A low tax rate, which has already been fixed, the absence of sales tax and "Ralph Bucks" combined with high expenses will obviously lead to budget deficits. For a long time, the financial mismanagement of Alberta has been camouflaged by high oil prices. Albertans must understand that their leaders have dropped them down. Prime Minister Kenney must stop blaming others and take responsibility, on behalf of his government. He should look, first and foremost, on his own tax policy, if he seeks solutions to his deficit of 8 billion. If it does not engage in this tax introspection, it will cement its place of proud heir to past leaders who led Alberta at the edge of the tax precipice where it is right now. 
