Saint-Jerome - the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert, and the member for Labelle and Head of the Laurentian Region, Sylvain Pagé, has announced Today the Saint? Jérôme Health and Social Services Center will be allowed to continue its efforts to build a new mental health pavilion. This project, whose costs are estimated at almost $ 100 million, will be fully funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services, under the Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI). The Premier has confirmed that the sums have been reserved for the PQI and that the process of the initial business record would be completed by the end of the summer. 
The Prime Minister and the Minister Hébert also confirmed that the Saint-Jérôme Health and Social Services Center may be allowed to carry out the final business record of the project to build a new hosting and care center of Long-term (CHSLD) of 212 beds near the Saint-Jérôme regional hospital, a project that is estimated at more than $ 53 million. 
"These two large projects will materialize for the direct profit of the people of the region, while contributing to the socio-economic development of the Laurentians and Quebec. These are so many qualifiers of promising projects, for which we have chosen to privilege them, following our firm commitment to make responsible choices in the framework of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, "said the Prime Minister. 
New Pavilion in Mental Health 
"Due to the growth of mental health care requirements, the currently available space at the Regional Hospital of Saint-Jérôme, as well as the dilapidated character of the current pavilion and gaps from a point of view of Fire safety, major work is needed for the establishment. The College of Physicians also recommended improving the quality of the current care environment while promoting integration with other hospital services, "said Minister Hébert. 
The project consists more precisely in the demolition of the current pavilion (block E), then in the reconstruction of a new wing in the same place, with an area of 15,842 m2. Estimated at $ 92,445,000, this expansion project will be fully funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services, under the PQI revealed last week. This global amount includes all the demolition work of the current pavilion and reconstruction, furniture, equipment, taxes and other inherent administrative costs, as well as the costs of developing the initial business record and the final business record. 
"We have taken into account the urgent nature of this project, which aims to respond to glaring needs in the region. This project is very expected and has been repeated in recent years. We have heard the local concerns and major challenges facing the region, and that is why we have privileged this project as part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, "added the Prime Minister. 
A new CHSLD of 212 beds 
With an area of 14,060 m2, the functional units of this new installation are intended to accommodate residents of the Hostel accommodation center and the Youville accommodation center, whose premises are obsolete and poorly adapted to the needs of a clientele in loss of increasing autonomy. Estimated at $ 52,851,000, this capital project will be funded for $ 2,509,000 by the establishment, while the balance of $ 50,342,000 will be fully funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services, too. under the PQI. This amount includes the construction costs, the purchase of furniture and equipment, as well as taxes and various other real estate and administrative expenses. 
Priority to a "living environment" approach, the construction project is divided into four separate wings assembled around a central service core. The units of life, which group only individual rooms, each count 14 beds, and have been configured to facilitate the monitoring by the staff while reproducing as much as possible a similar environment at home. In addition to optimizing the functionality and quality of living and care environments, the new construction will minimize operating costs and energy consumption. The building also provides for the necessary clearances to ensure better accessibility to people with reduced mobility, as well as rooms adapted to the needs of obese people. 
"Thanks to the recommended approach, this new accommodation center will come both to improve the quality of life of residents and facilitate the work of the staff. Although it does not increase the current capacity of the Saint-Jérôme Health and Social Services Center, this project significantly increases the quality of care and services offered in the region. This local initiative is thus in perfect complementarity with our other home support projects, "said Minister Hébert. 
"I can only rejoice today's announcements, who will have positive impacts in the area. These investments will contribute to increasing the quality of care offered, with the greatest benefit of the citizens of the Laurentians, "said the member for Labelle and Government Manager of the Laurentian Region, Sylvain Pagé. 
