Decline of the liberal government in the record of incidental fees 
Québec - After months of objections expressed tirelessly by the Parti Québécois and Diane Lamarre, its spokesperson for health and accessibility to care, against the imposition of fees by the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette , the latter recedes in the file. "We have never released our protests because it is an unprecedented attack on the universal health insurance plan, an injustice that the minister has imposed without any support," said the member. 
Nevertheless, vigilance must be maintained. At the moment when the Minister of Health seems to have heard, the Parti Québécois wishes to warn it: if he wants to pay the expense record by a negotiating negotiation with the medical federations, that should not be brought by An umpteenth increase in the remuneration of doctors. "Patients do not have to pay ancillary fees. Neither indirectly, by their taxes, nor directly, when they receive private clinic care, as is currently the case, "said Diane Lamarre. 
Since the minister negotiates behind closed doors with the medical federations, the door say they have a real fear that the invoice fee is indirectly refiled to patients, if the physician compensation envelope must finally be increased. Now, remember that over the past year, the Auditor General revealed that the Minister, by the Clarification Agreement, had already granted an additional increase of $ 148.5 million to doctors, in addition to having them Additional $ 800 million over the last five years. In addition, thanks to the Minister Barrette and its Trailer clause, doctors will automatically affect another 5.25% more, even before you start negotiating. 
"To the Parti Québécois, we have been claiming for months that the incidental costs are taken from the envelope dedicated to the remuneration of doctors. These have ample ways: between 2003 and 2015, the envelope in question increased by 134% from 2.9 to $ 6.8 billion. Restraining compared to other provinces is far behind us! Also supported Diane Lamarre. 
Let us remember that in October 2015, the Protector of the Citizen had asserted, in a public opinion, that "any change which aims to legalize a direct invoicing to users, for ancillary costs for which the physicians participating in the public. are already paid, and for some services not covered by the public scheme, constitutes an unfair avenue ". At the same time, the member for Taillon tabled Bill 491, which was intended to put an end to any form of surfacturation imposed on patients and to ensure each Quebecker the same chances of access to health care. 
