Quebec, May 24, 2017- The spokesperson for the Quebecois Health, Care and Home Support Party, Diane Lamarre, denounces the deterioration of the supply of care and home services, despite the promises of the Liberal government. "This is what the most recent official figures showing the actual expenditures of the state," she said. 
In brief-2015 and 2015-2016, the budget for support for the autonomy of seniors decreased by $ 5 million; - Meanwhile, Quebec has 100,000 more seniors; - Result? Longer access times and hours of cut services; - This week's forum was organized for the good of the image of the Minister of Health; - The Liberal government had promised an increase of $ 150 million a year for home care; He drove Quebeckers by making other choices. ** 
According to what has been published between 2014-15 and 2015-2016, for all clienteles, expenditures increased from $ 1338 million to $ 1335 million. More specifically, for seniors' support, the government cut $ 5 million, the amounts really granted from $ 763 million to $ 758 million. "In a context where the request explodes, everything indicates that this budget section means a concrete decline in services and an elongation of waiting lists," said the member 
"While community experts and organizations are talking about an increase in demand by at least 4 or 5% per year, the government has chosen to cut home care budgets. The Liberal Party has decided not to listen to experts, who all advocate to significantly increase the offer of home care to mitigate the effects of the aging of the population on the health system. Considering that presumably, the proportion of people aged 65 or over doubles in Quebec, the government goes downright. The Minister will never solve emergency clearance if he does not invest heavily in home support, "said Diane Lamarre. 
"Meanwhile, also recalls the hon. Member, 12,000 people aged 80 or older are stationed on the waiting list of the access desk to a family doctor. If, at 80, we are not a priority, when will it be? » 
Forum on Home Help: A marketing operation "After a forum on CHSLD, it's the tour of home care. However, if we can not oppose discussions on the services to be made to the most vulnerable, it is obvious that this forum is also a public relations show to redo the coat of arms, which has been blamed, just title, its insensitivity to home care. It is known, however, that Gaétan barrettes prefers to give private clinics, even if it does not obtain any guarantee as to improving access to care. In short, this minister holds forums on some topics not because he really cares, but because politically, it's profitable, "said Lamarre. 
Promise Breneral calls that the Liberal government promised $ 750 million in this mandate for home care. "Not only has the Liberal Party broke his commitment but, in addition, he dared to cut, while the needs are growing. Many citizens deplore the decrease in hours of home support. I ask the minister to publicly unveil the number of pending patients, the number of hours of missing care and the amounts really granted - not just announced - for home support. It must know that a delay in this field will cause irreparable harm and generate major costs elsewhere in the network: urgently, intermediate resources and CHSLDs, "said the spokesperson. 
"In recent months, we have tried to get data on waiting times to receive home services. Unfortunately, like many others, we stopped at the end of the minister and his department. These must be more transparent, "concluded Diane Lamarre. 
