Montreal- The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, notes that the Future Québec Coalition and its leader continue to do an erroneous and opportunistic analysis of Quebec's economic and budgetary situation. 
"The CAQ again demonstrates its amateurism, promising tax cuts with money that should be used to clean up our public finances and stimulate the economy. We made a responsible decision, that is, not to cut radically in expenses, without increasing taxpayers' taxes and businesses, to achieve a balanced budget. What Mr. Legault proposes today, it is a $ 274 million check in cuts in expenses of 1.75 billion. This amounts to promising to curb the Quebec economy, "said the minister. 
A $ 274 million tax expenditure and $ 1.75 billion cuts in expenses would have a negative economic impact of 0.35%. The CAQ proposal would increase GDP growth from 1.8% to 1.45% in 2014. 
Also, in an update on the economic and financial situation of Québec in the fall of 2013, a discrepancies of $ 400 million was identified for the year 2014-2015. "It is first of all that we must tackle. It is fundamental to control expenses and finance existing programs before spending. The best service we can give to Quebec families is to continue to put forward order in our public finances, "added the minister. 
In addition, the economic and budget update of the AUTOMNEA demonstrates that Quebec faces virtually zero inflation that negatively affects state revenues. "In its sloping analysis, Legault says that families consume less, while it is rather the stagnation of prices that affects the growth of state revenues. The CAQ should drop its magic wand and redo its homework 101, "said Marceau. 
Indeed, remember that in 2013, the growth of real consumption has remained stable at 1.8%, then the growth of nominal consumption, which reflects the price level and inflation, has been revised downward. It is 2.8% rather than the rate of 3.4% that had been planned. This shows that Quebecers spend as much, but at lower prices. 
"With its promise, the CAQ wants to make a gesture that will have a negative impact on economic growth, while continuing to slash in the state programs. The CAQ spends money that we do not have. These promises would go directly on the credit card of our children, "concluded Mr. Marceau. 
