Quebec, on March 7, 2017 - the spokesman for the Parti Québécois in finance, Nicolas Marceau, deplores that François Legault wanted to play Santa Claus with Quebec families, yesterday, while the promises he made does not rest. On any valid budget calculation. In addition, they would be discriminatory for both families and four-year-olds, and they would increase the debt of Quebecers. 
"François Legault exists from non-existent money. He believes that the surpluses available at the end of 2016-2017 will be $ 4 billion, and proposes to spend 2.2 billion. However, this sum of 4 billion does not exist. From the outset, $ 2 billion must be paid to the Generations Fund, as required by law. The rest of the recurring sums was used to reinvest timidly in education and health1. If by misfortune François Legault had to write Quebec's budget this year and apply his promises, he should either cut 2 billion of the budgets of education and health, to weigh down the debt of Quebec of 2 billion, "illustrated Nicolas Marceau. . 
In addition, the head of the CAQ does not seem aware that its promises are discriminatory for Quebec families and children. "If he decided to go still from the front, François Legault would distribute $ 500 to each person winning less than $ 150,000 a year; They are 6.34 million in Quebec. As a result, since Mr. Legault only put $ 1.7 billion aside for his project, half of the taxpayers would be left behind. Three million Quebeckers, so hundreds of thousands of families, would never see the color of the promised money, despite that they contribute, like the others, to the public treasury by their taxes, taxes and tariffs, ", added the spokesperson. 
Finally, François Legault proposes to extend kindergarten 4 years to all the children of Quebec. Once again, this measure is discriminatory. "Let's summarize: to achieve his goal, the CAQ put aside 292 million - a year, presume it. However, to cover the grant of $ 6123 per student for the 90,000 children of 4 years, it would be necessary almost twice that amount. And it is without counting the additional costs to support children in difficulty. In short, with his plan, the CAQ would offer kindergarten 4 years than one in three children. In addition, accustomed to the unrealistic proposals, Mr. Legault has also not expected a budget to find, in the thousands of already overcrowded Quebec schools, classes available to accommodate his kindergarten "wall to wall". The Québécois party proposal to keep CPEs for 4-year-olds and opening, in addition, four-year-olds in disadvantaged areas is far more efficient and less expensive, "concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
