Québec- "On September 4, Quebeckers have chosen to turn the page and open a new chapter in Quebec history. Quebeckers chose the change and they chose to do so with a government of the Parti Québécois. The first change we propose is to rely on what unites us by taking the path of listening, dialogue and action. The action of our government will be based on four pillars: integrity, prosperity, identity and solidarity, "said Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, during the presentation of his Council of Ministers. 
"Integrity will mark all government action. This will initially result in rapid reforms, where we can find common ground with opposition. The recommendations of the Charbonneau Commission should be implemented when the latter has filed them. It also means that the government will work with the public service for the state to regain the necessary expertise in the smooth running of business and to find its most effective place. It means managing Quebeckers' money with a lot of rigor, "she continued. 
Prosperity will be an important pillar of government action. This change is to find the path of sustainable prosperity for all Quebeckers. It will be necessary to act in the context of a worrying global economic situation and from public finances whose state remains fragile. We will have to overcome the gigantic wall of a $ 25 billion trade deficit. 
"Nothing is opposed to what the Quebec people are among the most prosperous on the planet. We have talent, creativity, territory, resources, energy and entrepreneurship that has allowed our predecessors to build this country from almost nothing. Our prosperity must be based on a long-term vision that reports to the whole of society, not just a minority of privileged, "added the Prime Minister. 
With Nicolas Marceau to Finance and the economy, Élaine Zakaïb, Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, and Pascal Bérubé, Minister Delegate to Tourism, we will have a Solid Team to Give Quebec on the Quebec way of prosperity. The mandate of the new Minister of Finance and the Economy will be to submit from order to public finances and restore tax justice to give oxygen to the families of the middle class. 
There can not be sustainable prosperity by opposing economic development and the protection of the environment. Both go hand in hand. With Daniel Breton as Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, and Scott McKay as Parliamentary Assistant for Wildlife Records and Parks, Quebec's development will combine with the constant improvement of Our environment and we will make sure that Quebec becomes an environmental leader in the world. 
Knowledge remains the way par excellence of individual and collective enrichment. The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Pierre Duchesne, will assume this strategic task with the mandate to cancel the increase in tuition fees and to hold a higher education. 
Quebec is rich in its territory and its natural resources. This wealth belongs to all Quebeckers and must benefit everyone. The Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, will have the mandate to propose a new mining royalty regime, to maximize the transformation of our resources to create quality jobs at home, to support the recovery of the forest industry and define a new energy policy. It will be supported in its work by a parliamentary assistant at the forest, Denis Trottier, and a parliamentary assistant to Nordic Affairs Luc Ferland. 
The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron, and his parliamentary assistant to the fisheries, Jeannine Richard, will have the priority mandate to revise programs to better support our farmers and our farmers and our Fishermen, to promote a succession as well as to propose and implement a policy of food sovereignty. 
Spatial planning and transportation infrastructure play a key role in the prosperity and quality of life of Quebecers. In a concern for coherence and efficiency, the Minister of Transport, Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Sylvain Gaudreault, will have the heavy task of cleaning within transport and then transforming the ministry in agency. All means must be taken for Quebec taxpayers to have their money. To support it in his responsibilities, he will be able to count on Gaétan Lelièvre as Minister Delegate to the National Regions and Policy of Rurality and André Villeneuve, who will act as a parliamentary assistant on municipal affairs. 
Quebec is a society open to the world, both in terms of trade and culture or international cooperation. The Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean-François Lisée, will have the task of promoting Quebec's interests on the international scene and to accompany our entrepreneurs in international markets. As Minister responsible for the metropolis, he will also have the mandate to create an organic link between decision-makers and citizens of the Montreal area and the entire government, including the English-speaking community. Alain Therrien will teach him as a parliamentary assistant to foreign trade. 
The state must regain the confidence of Quebecers. To do this, effective public fund management must be a key element. This responsibility will be shared by all ministers and state employees. As President of the Treasury Board and Minister responsible for Government Administration, Stéphane Bédard will have the mandate to flush out sources of inefficiency and waste, to eliminate them in order to use the public money that comes from The pocket of our fellow citizens. He will also be a leader of the government. 
"Quebeckers form an in-law nation whose identity has been forged throughout its more than 400 years of history. My government is sovereignist and it gives itself the task of sharing this belief with Quebeckers. From here to the achievement of this objective, it is imperative to force our interests with force and to promote our identity not as a province, but as a nation, "said Pauline Marois, designating Alexandre Cloutier to Title of Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs and Sovereign Governance, whose mandate will be to take all necessary means to defend the interests of Quebec and allow him to occupy all the possible space in the areas of his identity and his economy, including by demanding new powers. 
We must be proud of what we are, cherish our history, ensure respect for our values and the place of French as a common public language. We also have a duty to welcome and integrate newcomers into our nation. The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the French Language Charter, Diane de Courcy, and his parliamentary assistant for records in the integration of immigrants, Suzanne Proulx will assume this mandate. Propose a new law 101 will be part of their priorities, so that French will resume its place as an official language and use everywhere in Quebec. 
Culture is an essential foundation of Quebec identity. It makes us proud, allows us to flourish, to entertain us and represents an inexhaustible source of wealth. As Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto will have the mandate to support the dissemination and influence of our culture and to repatriate federal powers and budgets in terms of culture and communications. 
Democracy is at the base of our society and should not be summarized in elections for four years. Quebeckers are rendered further and want to exercise their citizenship on a daily basis. As Minister responsible for democratic institutions and citizen participation, Bernard Drainville will have the task of modifying the parties' financing mode, introducing fixed date elections and limiting the term of the mandates of elected officials. It will have to propose mechanisms to increase citizen participation, a charter of secularism and a bill on identity. 
If prosperity and identity are fundamental for a people, the same is true of solidarity. In this sense, the state not only allows to redistribute wealth, but also to ensure equal opportunities. 
The Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltese, will have the mandate to continue the work of the previous government to ensure that equality between women and men becomes a reality more and more concrete. It can count on the support of Diane Gadoury-Hamelin as a parliamentary assistant on the status of women and Gilles Chapadeau as a parliamentary assistant at work. 
Health remains one of the main priorities of Quebeckers and the government. The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert, will have the mandate to give access to front-line care and a family doctor to all Quebeckers and to deal with humanity. Our elders. It will have to implement a national home care policy for our elders by creating an autonomy insurance plan. Réjean Hébert and Véronique Hivon, Minister Delegate to Public Health and the Protection of Youth, will put in place an ambitious policy of prevention and healthy lifestyles. 
For the new government, education will be a high priority. As Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Marie Malavoy will have the priority mandate to respond to the call of teachers and parents who ask for aid in classes, and to introduce kindergarten to 4 years for children from disadvantaged circles. 
Families are at the center of many of our commitments. As a Minister of the Family, Nicole Léger will have the mandate to offer each family who wishes a place in custody and, with the Minister of Finance, to introduce tax credits for artistic and sports activities Children. 
In a law society, the integrity of justice must be flawless. The Minister of Justice, Bertrand St-Arnaud will have the mandate to administer justice with integrity and humanity. The justice system will have to be more accessible to citizens and more humane vis-à-vis the victims. It will also have the mandate to consider with its colleagues, and where appropriate with the federal government, sanctions and sentences incurred by recidivists, especially for drinking alcohol. 
All human beings want to live safely. This is a fundamental need for all companies. Quebeckers can rejoice in living within one of the most peaceful and safe jurisdictions of the Americas. As Minister of Public Safety, Stéphane Bergeron will have the mandate, with his colleague of Justice, to continue the work undertaken by the previous government to repatriate the data from the Federal Firearms Registry and to contribute to Quebec One of the most honest and safest societies. 
For more than 400 years, the Quebec nation has been cohabited on the immense territory that is ours with First Nations. The golden rule for harmonious relations between our nations is simple and is summed up in one word: respect. The person who will embody this spirit as Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs is Elizabeth Larouche. It will have the mandate to accompany the Aboriginal nations of Quebec in their economic, social and cultural development. 
As Prime Minister Pauline Marois will chair the Executive Board and the Departmental Committee on Strategic Directions. It will be responsible for the files of Canadian intergovernmental affairs and sovereign governance. In line with the commitment to the Gaspésians, Pauline Marois will assume responsibility for government action for the development of this region. 
To bridge the gap that could appear in recent months between generations, Pauline Marois asked Leo Bureau-Blouin to be his parliamentary assistant for youth files. "Together, we will encourage the generations to forge a new alliance in which the Quebec youth will take the whole place that comes back," she said. 
"Our government has a great responsibility: to make the changes desired by Quebecers. We need to rely on what people do daily and forge consensus. We must be flexible in our means while remaining firm on our goals. We have this intimate conviction that the future of Quebec is becoming a sovereign country. In the context of a minority government, we will protect each parcel of sovereignty already in our hands and we will try to acquire new ones. The aim that must all guide us, gather, surpass, is that of freedom, "concluded the Premier. 
