Longueuil - Quebec's Premier and Leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, took over his election campaign this morning by drawing up a positive assessment of the first debate of the chiefs, broadcast last night. It was accompanied, for the occasion, the candidate of the Parti Québécois in Marie-Victorin and Minister responsible for democratic institutions and citizen participation, Bernard Drainville, and the candidate in Saint-Jérôme, Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"Yesterday's debate has made it possible to clarify the issue of this campaign. It is the choice between the return to the liberal years or a government that will make Quebec stronger by creating jobs and adopting the Charter of Values. Quebeckers want a government that will take care of our world, which will take care of economy and identity. We offer them a team composed of exceptional people who will work to create quality jobs, pay jobs, in all regions of Quebec, "said the Prime Minister. 
"The stake of this campaign is not a referendum. There will be no referendum, as long as Quebeckers will not be ready. It's clear since yesterday: Philippe Couillard tries to forget the liberal years trying to make believe that the election is about the referendum. Nothing has changed to the Liberal Party: Same program, same friends, same team of 19 former Ministers of the time of Jean Charest, the same who voted 11 times against the holding of a commission of inquiry and got up for Applauder Tony Tomassi. In addition, the financial framework of Philippe Couillard does not hold the road. Ultimately, if the Liberals took power, it would be the return to old liberal cases, corruption, indebtedness and tax increases, "added Pauline Marois. 
"If I had directed Québecor as the Liberals led Quebec, I would have lost my business. This government has indebted Quebec of $ 60 billion. He let lost 150,000 good manufacturing jobs. He refused to act before corruption and collusion, and had only one exceeded economic strategy, based on asphalt and indebtedness. The Liberals of Jean Charest and Philippe Couillard are the same. Quebeckers deserve better. If I chose to engage in politics, it is to create more wealth and more jobs. We have the plan, and we have the team to succeed, "added Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"There are now more than seven months that we collectively debate the Charter of Values. We believe that this election is the best way for Quebeckers to decide, choose. On April 7, Quebeckers have the opportunity to give himself a charter who will define Quebec in which we want to live. A majority of Quebeckers support the Charter of Values. But the Liberal Party, Quebec Solidaire and the CAQ oppose it. All opposition parties voted against the Charter of Values. Worst, Philippe Couillard is committed to tearing it. If you want the Charter to day, you have to have a majority Parti party government. With Pauline Marois and the whole team of the Parti Québécois, we will adopt the Charter of Laity, "insisted Bernard Drainville. 
"The stake of this election, everyone agrees on this is to strengthen Quebec. This is what we have been done for 18 months. My team and I will do more, giving us the book from April 8th. We will take care of our world, we will create jobs, we will get rich, and we will enrich our values: the Charter of Laity will finally adopted, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
We have a plan and the team to succeed. Today, it's time to give us the means to go further. 
