Montreal- The Parti Québécois candidate in the riding of Rosemont, Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Jean? François Lisée, and the candidate in Borduas and Minister of Education Superior, Research, Science and Technology, Pierre Duchesne, ask Philippe Couillard to make the information on investigation documents currently under a non-publication order. 
Documents are in possession of several journalists who can not publish them, as a result of a non-publication order. However, since March 1, thanks to the Blog Debryan Myles on the site of the activity, we know that "11 persons, unidentified, would have been involved in an occurring financing system in exchange for public contracts while the Liberal Party of John Charest was in power. " 
"When police officers talk about an obscure funding system in exchange for public contracts, these are very serious allegations. Are former liberal ministers targeted? Do these people are part of Philippe Couillard team? Do they participate in this election campaign? Asked Pierre Duchesne. 
In response, Philippe Couillard claims that it can not give this information because the documents in question are "all cavarded" by the Director of Criminal and Criminal Prosecutions, and that he is not aware of the identity of those 11 people. 
It would be the least surprising that the PLQ lawyers did not inform the head of the nature of the search for the search and identity of the persons concerned by the investigation. It would be just as surprising that the leader of the PLQ did not do everything to know who these people are the subject of a criminal investigation. It is the duty of a candidate for the post of prime minister whether people in his immediate entourage or his team of candidates are currently under the UPAC investigation. 
"If Philippe Couillard did not seek to know the identity of these people, it's irresponsible. Is he hiding the truth from Quebeckers? To protect people from his political training? How can he continue to campaign to be elected Prime Minister if he does not know if the people around him are targeted by a criminal investigation? Philippe Couillard continues to keep Quebeckers with two days of polling. Quebeckers must have the answers to these questions before going to the polls, "added Jean? François Lisée. 
"Philippe Couillard must reveal what he knows. He must tell the truth to Quebecers. Act otherwise, it would be a denial of very serious democracy. The non-publication order aims to protect the Liberal Party, and the Liberal leader must give up the benefit of this protection. Quebeckers have the right to know before voting, "concluded Pierre Duchesne. 
Remember that Lejournal de Montréal taught us last Friday these documents concerning very compromising police investigations for the Liberal Party would remain secret until April 11. It is also learned by Radio-Canada that the judicial approaches could have been done before the elections. Everything suggests that the facts currently kept under the seal of secrecy are likely to seriously influence the decision of the electors. Two days of the vote, we find ourselves in front of a perilous situation for democracy. 
Watch press clause. 
