Quebec, February 2, 2018 -The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, as well as Vice-Cheffe and Spokesperson in terms of justice, family and end-of-life care, Véronique Hivon, are proud to announce the composition of the new spokesperson and lieutenants of the official opposition. 
"Back to the National Assembly for the last right before the election of October, we are proud to present a reinforced, reinforced team, which offers a larger place than ever to the elected officials from X and Y generations in files. crucial. They will strengthen the multigenerational team of the Parti Québécois and, in several cases, the work will be done in tandem, for more efficiency and scope of their interventions, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
MPs and MPs will continue their excellent work in their current tasks: 
President of the caucus and lieutenant for the French language 
Electrification of transport and responsible for the Laurentian region 
Third Vice President of the National Assembly and Responsible for Abitibi-Témiscamingue Laégion 
SME Priority - Innovation, Productivity, ExportsDigital Economy, Professional Information Resources 
HEALTH AND ACCESSITIVITY TO CARESET IN DOMICILLERAMQ 
Employment, Social Solidarity and Poverty Fighting, Fight Against Bulking and Maritime MaltreatmentStratesty of the Bas-Saint-Laurent Regions and Chaudière-Appalaches 
WorkRegimes retirement 
Quebec-CanadaFinancial RelationsResponsible for the Lanaudière Region 
Public Health and Preventationsports, Leisure and Healthy Vieloto-Québec HabitsForming Democratic Institutions 
Nordic Development (North Plan) Responsible for the North Shore Region 
Forests, Wildlife and Parks Responsible for the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region 
Agriculture and Food, SaqpechersResponsible from the region of Mauricie 
"Nicole Léger, Agnès Maltais and Alexandre Cloutier keep some of their responsibilities and leave others. I thank them for keeping in tandem with their colleagues, in order to work as a team on several important issues, "added Jean-François Lisée. 
Treasury Board 
Seculary and integrityRespoile of the Capitale-Nationale Region 
Higher Education and Nordic Communautés and Aboriginal Affairs Responsible for the North-du-Québec Region 
Carole Poirier is appointed deputy parliamentary leader; It will also include primary and secondary education, academic perseverance and adult education, and it will be lieutenant for immigration and diversity issues. She will shone the minister so that students receive the services they are entitled after three years of austerity and budget cuts. Alexandre Cloutier shoulder Carole Poirier as lieutenant for primary and secondary education. "I thank Sylvain Rochon, who was part of the leader team brilliant. We will seek that it presides over the Public Administration Commission, which is essential to the control of government actions, while remaining spokesperson for energy and natural resources. He also becomes responsible for the Estrie region, "added the leader of the official opposition. 
Our five elected officials of Generation X take the Galonpascal Bérubé became a spokesperson for the National Identity "Pascal Bérubé (born in 1975) retains his position as a parliamentary leader, for which his excellent work is recognized. In addition, an essential function: spokesperson for national identity. Records of culture and communications, language and promotion of history will now be under its responsibility. It also becomes a lieutenant in secularism, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
Sylvain Gaudreault named Head of the official opposition "I am pleased to announce that Sylvain Gaudreault (1970) enters the officer team as Chief Opposition whip. It will also continue to highlight the green turn of this government, just as it retains its coordinator functions of the Regions team. I would like to thank Carole Poirier for his dedicated work with his colleagues; It will pursue it, moreover, equally important, "added Véronique Hivon. 
Complete integrity recognition of Stéphane Bergeron "The Chamberland Commission having confirmed that as a Minister of Public Safety, our colleague Stéphane Bergeron (1965) had shown integrity and professionalism, I am pleased to announce that He resumes his duties as a spokesperson for public safety. He retains the files of international relations and the Francophonie, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
Martin Ouellet (1977) retains municipal business records, transportation, SME priority - regional economic development and social economy. Added the function of lieutenant for Nordic communities and Aboriginal affairs, files that continue to fly Alexander Cloutier. 
Alain Therien (1966) adds to its important portfolios of the economy and SMEs the interrelated files of the deposit fund and the REM project, for which significant cost overruns are to be expected.Nos three elected representatives of the generation rise there In Province Province (1992) retains female condition files as well as fight against homophobia and transphobia, and is entrusted with the important portfolio of immigration and diversity, on which Carole Poirier will teach it as lieutenant. In addition, while she starts a CEGEPS and UNIVERSITY tour, she also gets the responsibility of the youth file. Mathieu Traversy (1984), in addition to his member's responsibility for the organization and his mandate in tourism, becomes a lieutenant in national identity, responsible for consumer protection files - which must take more and more in the work of elected officials - and access to information.dave Turcotte (1983) retains social services, youth protection and medicine industry, tasks that he performs with aplomb and empathy, and is entrusted with the additional responsibilities of literacy and dwelling, a domain in which a major reform is expected shortly. 
