Rivière-du-Loup - Québec Prime Minister and Head of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, has unveiled its commitments in regional development and forests. The objectives pursued by the Parti Québécois are simple: more jobs in the region, economic diversification, local benefits and a better quality of life. 
A government of the Parti Québécois is committed to developing specific strategies for regions with special needs, on the model of the Government Intervention Strategy for the Development of the Gaspé-Islands Region of -la-Madeleine, and this. , in collaboration with the regional environments. 
Pauline Marois was surrounded by the candidate in Gaspé and Minister Delegate to the regions, Gaétan Lelièvre, the candidate in Roberval, Denis Trottier, the candidate in Rimouski, Harold Lebel, of the candidate in the River -DUp - Témiscouata, Michel Lagacé, and the candidate in South Coast, André Simard. 
"The economic method of the Liberals of Philippe Couillard is more asphalt and more debt. At the Québécois party, we want to create jobs in all regions. We want Quebeckers to the regions to be at the heart of Quebec's economic development. The day after the election of the 7th of April, we will continue to implement economic priority priority, the national lapolitics of rural and lapolitic food sovereignty. We will also work on the emergence of strong and diversified tourist centers in the Quebec regions, as will continue to control the effects of the Federal Employment Insurance Act for Seasonal Workers, "said the Prime Minister . 
"If the action of the previous government has been lamentable with respect to regional development, it was simply catastrophic for the forestry sector: Loss of 20,000 jobs, closure of 300 plants and failure of seven rescue plans, here is the Result of the inaction of the Liberal regime, "continued the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
A Parti Québécois government will continue the deployment of the $ 675 million plan over 3 years, unveiled when DuRend you national from the Quebec Forest. From this plan stems a new approach, which consists in particular to predict, over a 3-year horizon, silvicultural works. In addition, as we did in January, the amounts for the coming season will be announced 3 months before the start of the work, never-seen. 
The Government of the Parti Québécois also set up 3 projects - touching wood production, the effectiveness of private forest measures and improvements to the implementation of the forest regime - in addition to a strategic forum government Industry as well as an interdepartmental committee on forest contractors. 
"The former Liberal government has abandoned the regions and has dropped down the forest industry and the workers. We are the party of the regions. The Parti Québécois team is committed to building stronger, more dynamic, more independent, more prosperous regions, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
We have a plan and the team to succeed. Today, it's time to give us the means to go further. 
Watch press clause. 
