Quebec- The member for Joliette and sentence of the official opposition in higher education, Véronique Hivon, as well as the deputy of Gaspé and spokesperson for the development of the regions, Gaétan Lelièvre, denounce the liberal cuts in Higher education, which affect the quality of education and services to students in CEGEPs and universities across Quebec. 
"Record cuts of 40 million inflicted on the network this year very hardly affect student services. The negative examples of austerity are very numerous: mention the abolition of educational advisers, social work technicians and laboratory technicians, cuts in school support and psychological assistance, the reduction of hours of Opening of libraries, as well as the decline in financing sports teams. Yesterday, FECQ, FNEEQ and Settlement Departments expressed concerns for youth academic success. They also agreed, unlike Yves Bolduc Minister, that student services are affected, "said Véronique Hivon. 
The hon. Member recalls that records of $ 200 million are imposed on universities. "We are witnessing the abolition of courses, programs, and the merger of faculties. Support for students who have difficulties or deficiencies is affected. The situation is serious. The government's attitude is particularly paradoxical; When he was in the opposition, he denounced the underfunded underfunding of universities. Minister Yves Bolduc continues to say that there will be no impact and that student success is his priority; He must stop this trickery. I ask him to put an end to his bad theater and his fierceness against higher education. It is all the social, scientific and economic development of Quebec that will suffer from such bleeding, "she added. 
Laval University closes its summer school in Percé 
"The liberal cuts affecting the regions are already known; Now, we also see the effects in CEGEPs and universities there. Services are cut, programs as well. The government creates a negative spiral: young people might leave, exile into big cities and, if so, they may have less tend to come back in their region of origin. In Percé, Laval University closes its summer school. Once again, important impacts for the region disappear and these are hundreds of students who will no longer pass by pierced during their curriculum. The effect is devastating for the economy and social and regional development, "concluded Gaétan Lelièvre. 
