Quebec- The member for Rosemont and spokespersons of the Parti Québécois in social services, the protection of youth, home care, public health and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesman for seniors, Sylvain Rochon, and the health and accessibility spokesperson, Diane Lamarre, arrested the Liberal government so that it invests in home care and improving access, which is currently deficient. 
MEPs want to support the remarks of several organizations: the FADOQ network, the Quebec Health Interprofessional Federation, the Council for the Protection of Patients, the Caregiver's Caregiver of Quebec and Mr. Jean-Pierre Ménard, who argued Today the impacts of the lack of access to home care for elderly and for caregivers, as well as the importance of devoting additional amounts. 
"After cutting nearly 700 million in the health network over the last two years, not to mention the upcoming cuts, the government is trying to make us believe that we reinject money for home care. The Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, admitted himself that he did not know how much the $ 60 million was added. It seems clear that this is an improvised announcement; We have no details about the use and distribution of this amount, which is far from bridging the desired needs, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
Québécois Party members recall a report from the Protecteur of the Citizen last September that "users whose condition requires home support services remain struggling with problems of reducing services, waiting times, exhaustion of caregivers and regional disparities "(page 103). 
"In addition to reaching a very large number of seniors, home maintenance also concerns caregivers. Several aspects are worrying. In Quebec, 1 eldest 75 and over 2 has an annual income of less than $ 20,000. The waiting time to receive home care can go up to 6 or 12 months. Gold, promote home maintenance saves money and time spent in the emergency room. It is therefore essential to increase the amounts devoted to it, "added Sylvain Rochon. 
"Prime Minister Philippe Couillard had taken several commitments that flew; Let's think only about 250,000 jobs that will never be created. For home care, the promise was to invest $ 150 million a year for five years: we are still waiting for its realization. Not to mention that the minister did not specify what it will happen to the thin are invested this year. Home care has never been a priority for the Liberal government. It must change because the population has an urgent need and it is impatient in front of the false promises that have been made to it. Home care is a way to improve access and care offered, while decreasing exhausting and expensive emergency remedies, including by seniors, "said Diane Lamarre. 
