Quebec- In the company of MPs Carole Poirier, Nicole Léger and Maka Kotto, the official Leader, Jean-François Lisé, has arrested the Minister responsible for the metropolis, Martin Coiteous, on the priority issues for the population of the East of Montreal. 
"East of Montreal is neglected by the Liberal government of Philippe Couillard. Next year, when we are elected, I can assure the people it will have a government listening to Montreal, particularly as to the priority files for the East. Health, education, transportation and francization, among others, are part of our priorities for Montreal, "said Jean-François Lisée immediately. 
"We challenged the minister responsible for the metropolis, today at the National Assembly, just as we asked questions yesterday to different liberal ministers. Always the same answers, without anything concrete. However, the projects we want to highlight, these are the Priorities of Montreal, "said Carole Poirier. 
Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital 
"One of the major examples of this abandonment by the Liberal government is the project of renovation of Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital. With the expected population growth by 2020 and aging, the establishment, which dates from the 1950s, lacks space. This is a major project for the east of Montreal. However, it is totally absent from the last three budgets of the Liberal government, despite its promise in the election campaign. This Thursday, we even had to block access to the operating room to do emergency room in an elevator cage. This incident demonstrates the urgency of immediately completing the renovation project for the Eastern Montreal Hospital alone. A government of the Parti Québécois will realize the modernization of Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital, "insisted the leader of the official opposition. 
More and better for accommodation in Montreal 
The Parti Québécois also deplores the fact that the Liberal government has reinvested for barely 550 new social housing units in Montreal, while it financed more than 1000 per year earlier. "While the needs are screaming, it is unacceptable to see the government abandoning Montreal families who need housing. On the side of the Parti Québécois, we take the situation very seriously. We will gradually increase the number of new units built to 1500 per year within 5 years, while launching a permanent ecological renovation program. We will also ensure that delicing owners in the health and loss of energy can not increase rents until the situation is restored, "also mentioned Carole Poirier. 
Collective Transport: Extension of the Blue Metro Line 
East of Montreal has been waiting for years to extend the blue line, which has already been postponed to multiple times by the Liberal government. "Last spring, the federal government invited the Government of Quebec to submit its projects in collective transportation. In the fall, the Quebec government still had not submitted a single project to the federal government. Wednesday, when filing the budget, we had the results to be expected: no accurate amount was devoted to the blue line. The Prime Minister made his requests at the last minute and did not stand up to defend the interests of the citizens of eastern Montreal. When it's for the west, the liberal logic is to say that it presses. But when it comes to improving the conditions of the citizens of the East, there is never the same sense of urgency or this same sensitivity. The population of Eastern Montreal claims the extension of the blue line for a long time and, for us, the only valid signal that can demonstrate that the project advances would be to see it finally appear in the government's PQI; Otherwise, this promise of the Prime Minister is only wind. You need a very clear signal! Promises on the extension of the blue line, we have been full since 2014. It's action, now, it takes! For his part claimed Nicole Léger. 
Decontamination 
"East of Montreal has thousands of hectares of contaminated lands that, in their rehabilitation, could help revive its economic development. However, it was now two years since the Minister of Finance announced the creation of a new program, climatics-more, for the rehabilitation of contaminated land. But, to this day, no money has been allocated as part of this new program; It's Zero Dollar in 2015 and Zero Dollar in 2016. In addition, no other decontamination program has been announced by the Ministry of Sustainable Development and the Environment. And it is in vain that the Metropolitan Community of Montreal claims investments. Procrastination has limits; It takes concrete answers. It takes sub now, "concluded Maka Kotto. 
