Montreal- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, was launched the portrait of the use of information and communications technologies (ICT) in the industry. Fashion and clothing in Quebec. It also made public, on this occasion, the names of the 15 companies in the sector participating in the SME 2.0 measure. 
Equipped with an envelope of $ 6 million spread over three years, the SME 2.0 measure, led by the CEFRIO, was implemented in 2012 by the Ministry of Finance and the Economy to accompany 30 companies in the sectors Fashion and clothing as well as aerospace in carrying out new ICT adoption projects. 
"Increasing the productivity of manufacturing SMEs, including those in the fashion sector, goes through better integration of ICTs into logistics, manufacturing processes and business processes," says Zakaïb. "The 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy does not at their disposal concrete measures, particularly for the purchase of production computer equipment and the implementation of management packages. This policy, which puts on innovation as well as on the modernization and greening of our companies, represents a powerful leverage to increase the competitiveness of the Quebec manufacturing sector. » 
The publication of this portrait constitutes the first of three steps of the SME 2.0 measure. The portrait, conducted by CEFRIO in collaboration with the Department, will allow companies to evaluate their progress. It is thus an incentive to bring companies from the fashion and clothing industry to take the step towards the adoption of new technologies. The accompaniment of these companies in their integration of ICT will draw lessons applicable to all manufacturing SMEs. The CEFRIO will analyze and disseminate the results of the projects carried out within the framework of the SME 2.0 measure in order to benefit all the SMEs. 
"Several studies have established a direct link between ICT adoption and business productivity," said Jacqueline Dubé, President and CEFRIO Executive Director. "However, this link is conditional on the deployment of complementary efforts that affect both employee training, organizational changes and skills and managers in the use of digital use. It was in this perspective that SME 2.0 was developed by the Ministry: to promote optimal integration of ICTs in Quebec SMEs and maximize their productivity gains. It is really a measure that will promote the transformation by digital manufacturer companies. » 
The first section of the portrait presents statistics relating to the computerization of the various functions of the fades of the fashion and clothing sector as well as relevant data on the habits of Quebec cyber buyers. The second section exposes inspiring cases of ICT implementation in Quebec companies in the sector. The last part offers an overview of flagship technologies. Each of the participating SMEs has been the subject of a numerical diagnosis related to its business strategy and is currently developing a digital plan. 
"The integration of ICTs within the fades and clothing companies is part of the issues raised in the Mode Working Group report," said Minister Zakaïb. "I note today that the environment is more mobilized than ever to ensure the competitiveness of its businesses. They will be able to grow and create sustainable value-added jobs. » 
