Montreal- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, announced the award of a $ 1 million loan to CM Labs Simulations Inc., a Montréal company specializing in simulation in real time. This loan, consented by Investissement Québec, encourages the strong growth of the company, which needed a transfer to more spacious premises. Funding will also enable the implementation of a technological infrastructure able to support the future growth of the company. 
"The Quebec Industry of Information and Communications Technologies, ICTs, among those with the largest impact on business innovation and competitiveness in Quebec," said Élaine Zakaïb. "ICTs occupy a crucial place in our economy. They are at the heart of our industrial policy. CM Labs Simulations makes our pride here and abroad and testifies to our great capacity for innovation. We want to ensure that such companies continue to grow and shine globally, thus asserting all the potential of our skilled workforce and our know-how. We also want their innovative products to serve our manufacturing companies, in order to increase their productivity and competitiveness. » 
For more than fifteen years, the mission of CM Labs Simulations has been to resolve the challenges posed by the physical complexity of the implementation of simulators in several industries such as underwater exploration, construction, defense, port exploitation and research in robotics. The company is active both in the field of research and in training solutions. Thus, CM Labs Simulations provides virtual training environments for the preparation of teams safely and efficiently. 
Every day, operators, soldiers, engineers and pilots train on simulators of CM Labs simulations set up in more than 1,000 sites around the globe, for customers such as FMC Technologies Schilling Robotics, Irobot, CAE , L-3, Lockheed Martin, NASA, Liebherr and more than 100 other school companies and institutions around the world. 
The CM Labs Simulations team is composed of experts in the fields of training as well as the dynamics and modeling of vehicles, heavy equipment and robotic systems. The company today employs nearly 100 people, who occupy very high value-added positions. 
"We are delighted that the Quebec government is committed to our project and supports us in our growth," concluded Mr. Sylvain Lagacé, Vice President, Finance, CM Labs Simulations. "Investissement Québec has been a partner of choice since 2010. While the financial crisis was threaten, its funding allowed us to distinguish us. We hired new resources and developed innovative products for several new markets. Today, after more than 200% growth over the past two years, we are more than ever in full swing and our international reputation positions us as a provider of excellence around the world. » 
Investissement Québec's mission is to promote investment growth in Quebec, thus contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The company puts companies with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity capital investment, in order to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, it is responsible for the administration of tax measures and prospecting investments abroad. 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicidustrielle. 
