Granby - On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the hon. Member for Saint-Hyacinthe, Emilien Pelletier, participated today at the official inauguration of the barn-barn of Laferme Legacy Miner. This event occurred in the presence of the Mayor of Granby, Richard Goulet, the Chairman of the Farm Heritage Miner, Paul Bergeron, and the Director General of the Farm Heritage Miner, Caroline Gosselin. 
"The Government of Quebec grants great importance to the preservation and consolidation of our heritage, and this, in the best interest of all Quebeckers and Quebeckers. The restoration of the barn barn of the Farm inheriting Miner will contribute to the development of this agricultural heritage property and, will participate in its own way, the growth and cultural development of the region, "said Minister Kotto. 
"The barn-barn is at the heart of the Miner Heritage Farm site, which is part of the natural heritage, built and historic history of the Granby region. This old agricultural property is a pride for the entire population because it is intimately linked to the foundation of the region. I congratulate municipal, local and regional partners as well as private partners for their contribution to the safeguarding of a cultural property of a great meaning for Montérégie and the Eastern Townships, "said the member Pelletier . 
The Farm Heritage Miner is a daring project that aims to create, in the heart of the city of Granby, an ecotourism and educational farm. The site includes several buildings that will all have different vocations. The barn barn is one of the flagship elements of the site and will offer spaces for exhibitions as well as a place of animation and training. 
The Ministry of Culture and Communications has invested $ 181,000 for the restoration of the barn barn building on the Farm Inheritance Miner, as part of its scheduled assets. The rest of the funding comes from private and public partners, including the Granby Zoo and the Granby City. 
