Quebec, 29 August 2017 - August of the Mayor of Bois-des-Filion, Paul Larocque, as well as the Mayor of Blainville and Prefect of the MRC of Thérèse-de-Blainville, Richard Perreault, the Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesperson for transport, Alain Therrien, the member for Terrebonne, Mathieu Traversy, and the member for Saint-Jérôme, Marc Bourcier, have firmly arrested the Liberal government about the completion of the highway 19 between Bois-des-Filion and Laval. 
IN SHORT 
"The people of the region are discouraged by the liberal inaction, but farms in their intention to move forward, all the like. We have always been serious with regard to highway completion 19. We had a project with reserved routes and a place for active transportation. Seven years after the initial announcement Dupremier Minister Jean Charest, nothing has moved. This is unacceptable. The Liberals use this strategy in severalregions: they let their promises rot, without acting. What are they waiting for? The next elections? In order to do, Denoupeau, promises that they will not hold? , "Raised Jean-François Lisée. 
"The Minister of Transport had nevertheless committed, last spring, to submit the file to the Conseil deministers. Time has passed, and we are still waiting. But we do not forget; The people of the coalition and the elekey the region can count on us to maintain the pressure, "assured Alain Therrien. 
"Every day on Highway 19, nearly 60,000 motorists find themselves prisoners of a monster cap. The Citizens of Terrebonne, Filion Bois-des-Filion, Blainville, Rosemère, Laval and Sainte-Thérèse lost mad in their car instead of passing it with family. We will continue to work for them, "hired Mathieu Traversy. 
"It's been 40 years since the North Shore Citizens are waiting for the completion of Highway 19. In 2010, the Liberal government had promised it for 2015. We are in 2017. Citizens and elected representatives of the North Shore. have been prettypatients. It is now the minister to move. Citizens and elected officials in the region are exasperated; It takes a minister signal in the file! ", For his part, concluded Marc Bourcier. 
