Montréal- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, expressed his federal counterpart, the Minister of Transport, Infrastructure and Communities, Mr. Denis Lebel, from the official position of Quebec in collective of the future for the future Champlain Bridge. 
"The Champlain Bridge is an essential link for the entire Quebec economy. This structure must not only meet the need for mobility and growth of the great metropolitan area, but it must also be a major collective transport axis. With this in mind, the government has confirmed to the federal government its willingness to see a lightweight rail system being implemented on the new structure, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
The minister also referred to the issue of finance with Minister Lebel. "The Canadian government wants to implement on the new bridge arouses significant concerns about the fairness of this mode of financing, as well as its impact on mobility and other links between Montreal and the South Shore. . That's why we are asking that the bridge be fully funded from federal funds, which would better serve citizens and correspond to the responsibilities of the federal government in this area, "has raised the Minister of Transport of Quebec. 
The replacement of the Champlain Bridge must be an opportunity to equip the metropolis of an exceptional art work. Beyond an efficient and sustainable infrastructure, it is important to create a unique, in the demonial image, UNESCO city of design. 
"Quebec wants an emblematic bridge, a realization that will become one of the symbols of Montreal, a gateway that will stand out for his aesthetics," said the minister responsible for the Montreal region, Mr. Jean -François listed. "We believe that this approach is unifying and that it echoes citizens and partners. In order to implement it, we ask the federal government the holding of an international architectural competition, "he added. 
To make this project a success, the Government of Quebec recalls the importance of working with all the partners concerned. 
Moreover, Minister Gaudreault met yesterday with members of the Bureau of Partners - Champlainet Bridge of the elected representatives of the Greater Metropolitan Area to share some issues with regard to the replacement of the Champlain Bridge. 
"It must be ensured that the actions posed by the regional and local actors concerning transport, the public transit, the spatial planning and the economic development be harmonized with the characteristics of the new bridge. national and international. The participation of the main actors in the Montreal metropolitan area, which are also involved in this global vision of mobility, is essential to the establishment of an infrastructure of such a magnitude, "said the Minister responsible for the Montérégie Region, Mrs Marie Malavoy. 
The position of the Government of Quebec now presents fundamental elements for future discussions. "I want to reiterate the will of our Government and the Champlain Bridge Bureau to work with the federal government to make the new bridge a flagship structure and an emblem for Quebec," concluded Minister Gaudreault. 
