Quebec- Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, responded to Kathleen Weil, Member of Notre-Dame-de-Grâce, on dismissals at Sears Canada . 
"Our goal is clear: do everything in our power for these people to quickly and lastly reintegrate a new job. "Said Minister Maltese. 
Employment-Québec already puts its measures, programs and services available to these fired workers and workers to support them in their labor market integration approaches and help them improve their employability. 
See also LEPDF.QUESBEC, January 20, 2014MME Kathleen Weil, Deputy of Notre-Dame-de-GrinderHotel of Parliament1045, Street of Parliamentaries2th Floor, Office 2.53Questbec (Quebec) G1A 1A4Object: Support for workers Licensed from Sears CanadaCHERE CEARLAGE On January 15, we learned from Sears Canada's intention of Female and Workers' Sears Canada in the coming weeks, of which 38 immediately, and that in total, 1,600 employees, including nearly half of Montreal, would be affected. The same day, the Government of Quebec contacted the company to put in place measures to provide rapid and personalized support for these workers and, the speed of intervention being a guarantee of success, employment-Québec S ' is mobilized to intervene and provide assistance to those affected. 
Among the measures markedly, note the creation of a reclassification aid committee, funded by Sears Canada, to enable dismissed workers to receive individualized rapid assistance and accompaniment corresponding to their situation. Employment-Québec will be involved directly in these steps to evaluate reclassification services and ensure that they meet standards in this area. In addition, employment-Québec already puts its measures, programs and services available to these workers to support them in their labor market integration approaches and help them improve their employability. In addition, discussions have been started with companies interested in hiring some of the people affected by Sears Canada's decision. 
Our goal is clear: do everything in our power for these people to quickly and lastly reintegrate a new job. Employment prospects also indicate that nearly 142,000 jobs will be available by 2016 in the Montreal area. Also note that the latest job data indicate that there have never been so many people employed as currently in Quebec. 
Employment is a priority of our government. Several structuring measures have been put in place over the past year including the allocation strategy that aims to give impetus to our public employment services to promote the integration and maintenance of clients. underrepresented on the labor market. Also mention the Employment Priority Economic Policy, which includes investments of $ 13 billion within 10 years and the creation of 150,000 jobs within 3 years. The participation of all at the labor market is at the heart of the government's share of the Quebec government. 
You can see our total commitment to help people from Sears Canada. I count on your support in this file and hears, for my part, associate with our steps by holding you regularly informed. Please accept, Dear colleague, the expression of my feelings the best.  Agnès Maltese 
