It will be seven years old, I went out of my garden after a short retirement, because I still wanted to serve Quebec. Since then, things have happened, things; It has not always been rest, but I do not regret anything and I feel the accomplished duty. 
I am still moved that the citizens of Quebec have allowed me to be their first minister. I am all the more for being the first woman to hold this function. I am very proud of everything we have accomplished in 18 months with the great ministerial team of the Parti Québécois government. 
In terms of public finances and economics, we acted by performing tight control of expenses. The Auditor General confirmed it just before the election trigger. 
Responsibility in the management of finances and daring in the development of our economy: it was our approach. We have presented an economic policy that put on the modernization of our businesses, research and innovation, exporting and electrification of transport. 
We also endowed Quebec with a new mining regime, changing the royalty system and revising the Mining Act. We have also relaunched the forest sector and adopted the policy of food sovereignty. With Phase 3 of the National Rural Policy, we gave our regions the means to continue to grow. 
We have resumed control of our natural resources, including oil on Anticosti Island. And we did all that by leaving Quebec from nuclear and asbestos, slowing the exploitation of shale gas and putting in place a carbon market. I believe that, in the future, we can continue to see the benefit of the actions we have launched. 
We have done a lot also in terms of social solidarity. One of the main reasons I made politics is to be able to take care of our world. 
This is what we did, in the emergency, after an infernal train hit the heart and youth of Lac-Mégantic. We were still there to console and relieve the community of the Green Isle, who lost this winter some of his memory. 
We acted in front of the drama, we also acted to prepare for the future. We have adopted a first framework law on the social economy, expanded access to legal aid, increased the basic benefit for social assistance and funding dedicated to Community action. We have adopted an action plan against domestic violence and presented a roaming policy. 
In education, we put an end to the social crisis that crossed Quebec and restored dialogue with students. After frank discussions, we indexed tuition fees, launched several projects to ensure the future of our universities and substantially improved financial assistance for studies. We also created four-year-old kindergarten and invested considerable amounts to renovate our schools and sports infrastructure. 
Early childhood support has always been a priority for me. I am very proud to have finally completed the child care network. 
For the future, we have also massively headed for new health investments to home care and palliative care. It is an unfinished site, fundamental for the future of Quebec. I wish, very quickly, the parliamentarians of the new legislature will be able to agree on the bill on end-of-life care, as Quebeckers wish. 
In identity, we have also been very active. We have proposed a new charter of the French language and a charter of the institution of the state. At the moment several societies in the world are asked important questions about living together, it is normal for Quebec too. 
The neutrality of the state and equality between women and men are important values for us. The exchanges on this subject must continue. These questions are still not resolved and will continue to challenge Quebecers. 
Similarly, work started to equip Quebec with a new youth policy and to improve the teaching of our national history are very important for our future. We also presented a new immigration plan to build an open and welcoming Quebec. 
We have been very active in promoting our culture. The Wilder Building, the National Museum of Fine Arts of Quebec and the Place des Arts will be the subject of new developments. We have responded to the work of the working group on cultural philanthropy and reflection on the single price of the book. We also proposed a digital strategy to propel our culture in the 21st century. 
When it comes to defending our interests, we made the voice of Quebec heard. Whether it's the Champlain Bridge, the transport of hazardous materials, the securities commission, employment insurance or the training of the workforce, we were standing. 
Quebec is a nation and must act as such. It is therefore in this way that we have treated our Sisters and our Aboriginal brothers by signing historical agreements with many nations, including Inuit, Cree, Hurons Wendat, Mohawks and Micmacs. 
But if we had to restrain one thing from our government, I would like it to be all we made to restore to Quebec's control of their institutions. Their credibility was badly, the loss of confidence was real. 
We first had the law on the integrity in public contracts. We have given more powers to municipalities so that they can guard against collusion. We also passed Law 10, which provides temporarily identifying its functions an elected accused of criminal. 
Above all, we sent a strong message. We have given the latitude, resources and deadlines for police forces and the Charbonneau Commission so that they can do their job. Under our government, integrity has advanced, corruption has declined. 
At the end of this political period where elections were held at the municipal and national levels, citizens were able to see improvements to our democratic lives. We have introduced primarily public funding from Quebec political parties. We did the same at the municipal level. 
After repealing Law 78, we have established polling stations in schools and we have passed a fixed election law, which will apply in the future to all majority governments. 
Our political institutions are also vital for the future of the Quebec people as our language, our culture and our identity. They are a reflection of our collective will. 
I am very proud of our government's balance sheet. For me, it comes to crown a life of commitment to the service of Quebeckers. 
I want to greet the elected officials with whom I have been able to work to put our vision into action. I also thank the loyal, dedicated and competent employees of the Quebec Public Service. 
Thanks to their help, it is a house in order that we leave the new government. Finances are under control and our institutions are stronger. Quebec is better. 
So I wish Prime Minister Philippe Couillard the best chance for the future. Quebeckers have given him their confidence in a clear way. He has all the legitimacy to govern Quebec and to apply his policies. 
I allow myself to issue two wishes, both as an outgoing first and a citizen of Quebec. The first is that one continues on the carrier of transport electrification. It is the future of Quebec. 
The second is that never a Quebec government does not forget its sacred mission to defend our culture and our identity, especially our language that has flowed in America for more than 400 years. 
My last words are for Quebeckers. Thank you for allowing me to live everything I lived for over thirty years. 
Young woman, I dreamed of changing the world. Today, I humbly want to think that I contributed, thanks to you. Thanks again. 
I encounter you to continue standing, head up, to protect what is important to you. To continue to cherish the precious treasure we have received from our mothers and our fathers, and who makes us a different people. To never turn your back on the possibility that we give ourselves one day a country to us. A country to decide for ourselves and by ourselves. 
Dear Québécois, Dear Quebec, the future belongs to you. I will always stay at your side. I love you. 
