I hear people from the literary world and the teaching of literature react for a few weeks to modifying the title of the Arts and Letters Program. Offered in most of our colleges, this program now wears the name of culture and communication. 
This change is not improvised. For three years, many people and committees have planned on this program to improve and specify the content. The Arts and Letters program had not been revised for more than a decade. After multiple consultations, carried out largely by teachers in arts and letters, the content of the program has been enriched. Language management is enhanced and options are offered to deepen aspects of student training in anticipation of his arrival at the university. Among these options: arts, literature, cinema, languages, media, theater and a multidisciplinary option. 
Thus, this college program in Arts and Letters will no longer be the pre-university program with the lowest number of teaching hours. This depreciated without reason this field of knowledge. This sad situation had to be corrected. We have just added 30 hours of training to this program, which will now have more than 700, like other pre-university programs. 
From now on, a student who, for example, will choose the literature option will spend more hours in class to chat with his teacher, analyze literary texts, to develop his critical sense and knowledge in this area. I confirm that the work that has been done by the officials of the department that I head was well done, in a spirit and a relationship of respect with the community of teaching and in a whole collaboration with all the actors concerned. 
Despite this good news for "humanities", several teachers and intellectuals consider that substituting for the Arts and Letters program that of culture and communication comes to announce an important ideological turn. According to them, this bend would have to marginalize the teaching of literature and drop all the humanist legacy. By renamed this program, the secret goal would therefore be to throw the large texts of the past, the classics and poetry that has no age, to enhance only the instantaneity of communications, the short text, the short text. The contemporary text. At least that's what Respected Jean Larose suggested in a recent text. 
This debate on the title of a program may seem theoretical to many that are not literary environment. It is in fact symptomatic of what happened in Quebec for almost ten years. In this Quebec that I love deeply, another government acted without consulting the living forces in its environment. Teachers, students, support staff, directors, school principals have worked without a minister and a department act in symbiosis with them. 
As elected and now minister, I keep asking gestures to bring back a renewal of trust between all the actors of the education community. The last February summit was one example. I therefore enjoy this misunderstanding to remember that the arrival of a new government last September also means a new approach in the way of directing the affairs of the state. For my part, in the field of responsibilities entrusted to me by Premier Pauline Marois, I intend, as a new Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, to enhance our higher education institutions. In today's world, teaching good general culture is more essential than ever. We are in an ephemeral society in terms of communication, let's do everything so that our colleges and universities, in their teaching, do not become it. 
The arts and letters are part of the precious knowledge related to humanities. The message must be clear. And, in the same way, compulsory education in our colleges must be maintained and protected. It is not in my intention to reduce the place given to the teaching of philosophy, French (literature), English, physical education. It is in this spirit that we will soon add a mandatory history course. 
These materials are the torches that illuminate the critical sense of students enrolled in our colleges. By offering a strong general culture for students enrolled in pre-university training than those in technical training, we help to train more responsible, generous and critical young adults capable of having a hold on their future. Young adults who will be able to participate in the big debates and who repel the perspective of resignation as the only avenue. Young adults convinced that they can participate, beyond their individual, collective wellness. Quebec, like any modern knowledge-based society, needs young people open to the world and capable of protecting and enriching our democracy. And nothing is more vulnerable than a democracy. 
On September 4, a new government took power. I am part of a new team listening to his environment. Substitute Culture and Communication in Arts and Letters was not intended to devalue this field of teaching. 
Yes, our company changes. At a pace that sometimes seems frantic. Education, far from being isolated from it, can and must adjust it, but never to subordinate to some other imperative than those who presuppose its mission, which is to train free citizens in thoughts, just in actions and equals in luck. 
While maintaining the opening and listening with which I touched on and leads all the files that hit me so far, I hope to read this text, you will better understand my decisions. 
The Open Letter TitleChange the name of the program by "Culture and Communication" had no purpose in devaling this field of teaching, well to the contigest signed by Pierre Duchesne, Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science And the technology and deputy of Borduas, has been tinged into the daily duty of June 27, 2013. 
