Quebec - The Quebec party wants to allow the Auditor General of Quebec to have free and entire access at Hydro-Québec. 
"The history of intelligent meters stored in a doubtful room, the multiplication of contracts without tender for the use of helicopters, the granting of a 300 million dollars without call for tenders refused To unveil the details, these are new disturbing facts that accumulate many others and which would justify that the Auditor General of Quebec can finally have full and free access to Hydro-Québec, "said the member for Marie-Victorin and Expression of the official opposition in terms of energy, Bernard Drainville. 
In March 2011, through the member for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, the Parti Québécois filed Bill 197, An Act to amend the Auditor General Act to allow the integrated check of Hydro-Québec. This orientation was taken by the Leader of the Official Opposition, Pauline Marois, in December 2010, revealing several measures to restore citizens to their institutions. This orientation is also included in the new Program of the Parti Québécois adopted at the last Congress. 
The bill stipulates that it would no longer be necessary for the Hydro-Québec Board of Directors to provide its consent for the Auditor General to proceed with the verification of the books and accounts of the Crown corporation. "This necessary consent ensures that the Auditor General has never been able to put their feet at Hydro-Québec," said the member for Marie-Victorin. 
"The lack of chronic transparency at Hydro-Québec has forced the president of the National Assembly to threaten the leaders of the state of contempt society in Parliament. This is very serious. The Liberal government must come to the evidence that the population wants Hydro-Québec to be a successful and transparent society. The Auditor General du Québec can play a crucial role, "Drainville continued. 
A motion will therefore be debated at the National Assembly on Wednesday, September 28, from 3 pm to 5 pm At the end of this debate, the members will have to vote. "We invite the liberal deputation to speak and trust the Auditor General of Quebec," concluded Bernard Drainville. 
The wording of the motion is as follows: 
