Montréal - Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, announced the attribution through Investissement Québec a loan of $ 800,000 to the company Kinova for the development of US and European markets, particularly with respect to a new robotic product, resulting in the creation of seven new quality jobs. 
"The export support of high-tech companies is at the heart of our government's action," said Élaine Zakaïb. "We have pointed out at the recent unveiling of Quebec industrial lapolitics. One of the axes of this policy is support for innovation, the idea of marketing. That's why we are very pleased to support Kinova's export projects, an SME of the Montreal region with a very promising potential, which is distinguished in a particularly competitive sector. » 
Kinova is active in the design and implementation of innovative solutions in personal robotics, including robotic arms, for people with disabilities. The Jaco arm, for which the company holds several patents, is the first three-fingers robotic arm designed to help people with motorized chair to increase their autonomy. This same slightly modified product can also be used for other applications, such as remote manipulation in university research centers. This is the case of the new Mico product, developed by the company. This one can benefit the nuclear industry as well as the military industry, for delicate operations such as demining for example. 
The company is in high expansion and must make additional efforts to position its products, including Mico, foreign markets and to realize agreements with foreign distributors to consolidate its position in the global market for personal robotics.. 
"We are active in a competitive sector in full explosion, where we must constantly distinguish ourselves on international markets to support our growth," concluded Mr. Charles Deguire, President of Kinova. "This project, which we have been able to achieve through the rapid support of Investissement Québec, will enhance our promotional efforts mainly in Europe and North America and develop distribution agreements in these territories. » 
Investissement Québec's mission is to promote investment growth in Quebec, thus contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The company puts companies with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity capital investment, in order to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, it is responsible for the administration of tax measures and prospecting investments abroad. 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicidustrielle. 
