Quebec, on May 25, 2017- While we learn from the press that the sale of recreational cannabis could be entrusted to the private sector, the member for Labelle and spokesman for the Parti Quebec's prevention and public health, Sylvain It requires the Liberal government to show the most total transparency, and again calls for a traveling parliamentary committee for a real societal debate around this fundamental issue. 
IN SHORT 
"The legalization of cannabis for recreational purposes will have important consequences for public health - and young people, in particular. Serious questions arise on a multitude of aspects; For example, how to ensure that organized crime is kept away from this market? Or, from how old should we allow access to cannabis? In our view, the usual advisory process that follows the filing of a bill is insufficient; An upstream debate is necessary, too many considerations are at stake. It is unthinkable that such crucial decisions are taken without consultation, behind closed doors! Unfortunately, the Liberals are intended to refuse to hear the population and the opinion of the experts, "said Sylvain Pagé. 
The hon. Member recalls that the insp-, last November, claimed to fear a slowdown, or even conversely, the downward trend in the use of cannabis in the population if the for-profit actors seized the market. "Behold, precisely, a thesis that deserves to be more fully developed. The raison d'être of a private company is to make money. We must therefore seriously question if this possible distribution network is the most appropriate. For us, we must never compromise as to the health of the population, particularly for that of our young people, "he continued. 
"The federal government has confiscated the debate on legalization in Quebec. Now, here is that the Liberal government confiscates, in turn, to the citizens of Quebec. Again, we reiterate our request for the holding of a traveling parliamentary committee, so that all can give their opinion on the legalization and distribution of cannabis, "concluded the spokesperson. 
