Québec- "I want to reassure the population: free hospitalization is there to stay and the pricing of rooms depending on the income is not an option. This is what the Minister of Health and Social Services said today, Dr. Réjean Hébert, who made the point, while he is currently abroad, concerning the billing of the Rooms in hospitals. 
"The accessibility and universality of health care is a fundamental principle of our health system in Quebec. As a result, it is essential that there is an offer of free rooms in hospitals and this will continue to be the case, including new establishments currently under construction, such as CHUM and the MUHC, "continued the Minister Hébert. 
Changes occur in Quebec's health facilities for a few years where, for sanitary reasons such as the reduction of nosocomial infection risks, the number of chambers of more than two people tends to decline, for the benefit of A higher number of private and semi-private rooms. Currently, patients have free access to the rooms of four, but must pay if they wish to be in the private and semi-private rooms, except on medical prescription. Changes in configuration of the hospital environment force us to review our practices and carry out a revision of the circular on room pricing, which becomes obsolete in the new context, so as to ensure the principle of free. The establishment of a committee to study the issue of billing chambers in hospitals is aimed precisely this goal. 
"The Working Group will turn the question, will analyze examples from elsewhere and propose scenarios that will be both able to maintain accessibility to health care, including hospitalization, in More ensuring equity between the different hospitals of Quebec. Certainly, income rate pricing is not among the acceptable scenarios. Whatever the pricing model that will be retained, our priority is to maintain the offer of free rooms and respect the choice of patients, "concluded the minister. 
Bottom of audio thumbnail: "" Free hospitalization is here to stay and income pricing is not an option ". Audio URL link: http: //stream1.newswire.ca/media/2014/01/16/201140116_c9324_audio_en_35665.mp3 
Bottom of audio vignette: "" Free hospitalization is there to stay and income with income is not an option "- English version". Audio URL link: http: //stream1.newswire.ca/media/2014/01/16/20140116_c9324_audio_en_35666.mp3 
