Sainte-Anne-de-Bellevue- Hon. Steven Blaney, Minister of Veterans Affairs and Minister of La Francophonie, and Dr. Réjean Hébert, Minister of Health and Social Services of the Government of Quebec, today announced that the Sainte-Anne-de-Bellevue Hospital will obtain an autonomous status during its transfer to the Government of Quebec. 
"The Quebec government will be pleased to be able to acquire the Hospital Sainte-Anne as a result of the confirmation of a final transfer agreement," said Minister Hébert. The expertise developed in this establishment is valuable. That's why we will develop a single governance model, in collaboration with McGill University, Hospital staff and the Montreal Health and Social Services Agency, which will consist of a high geriatric center. level. This hospital will evolve in its service offering and serve the western populations of the island, as well as west of Montérégie. » 
"Hospital Sainte-Anne is recognized worldwide for his expertise in geriatrics and mental health. I can only rejoice in the decision of the Minister Hébert to recognize his particular status, "said Minister Blaney. Our veterans will continue to receive exceptional care within this center of state-of-the-art clinical innovation excellence. » 
At the end of the transfer, the Sainte-Anne Hospital will be an autonomous entity directly relating to the Montreal Health and Social Services Agency, and administered by a board of directors. In order to ensure a successful transition and the establishment of all the elements of the transfer agreement, a transition committee relating to the Board of Directors will be set up until March 31, 2017. Veterans Affairs Canada will continue participate in the governance process. 
The transfer of Sainte-Anne Hospital will benefit from the Veterans, hospital staff and residents of Quebec. The demand for long-term care for traditional veterans being declined at Sainte-Anne Hospital, the transfer of it to the Government of Quebec will maintain and maximize the geriatric and psycho-geriatric expertise of the 'hospital, while putting additional beds available to Quebeckers. 
