Montreal- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert, announces that the hospital of the Sacred Heart of Montreal is officially designated organ harvesting center. It also receives the government's green light for the implementation of a two-year pilot project related to organ harvesting. 
"This clinical initiative will promote an increase in the number of bodies available for transplants. We recognize the great critical care expertise of the Montreal Sacré-Heart Hospital, and the excellent results recorded by this establishment in this area in recent years, "said Dr. Hébert. 
This project is made possible thanks to the granting of a total envelope of $ 1.1 million from this year, including $ 850,000 in operating budget. 
In addition, to better support the eight other institutions1 that conduct bodies and recognize their remarkable work, the minister also announces a bonus of the amount granted to them through Transplant Québec. Thus the sample package paid by Transplant Québec will be enhanced by $ 3,000, for a total of $ 7,500 per sampling to better cover costs. "We recognize the importance of better supporting the activities and the essential work that the sampling teams play. We must never forget that this act makes it possible to improve the quality of life of many patients and of course often to prolong it or even to save it, "continued the minister. 
The minister has also announced $ 1 million to enable the establishment of financing and completing the initial business record for its expansion project for the development of an integrated traumatology center and a unit. mother-child. These studies will make it possible to properly evaluate costs. 
"I am well with the needs of the Hospital of the Sacré-Coeur de Montréal and the challenges it faces, particularly in terms of perinatal care and traumatology, especially since the establishment acts in the institution. As a reference tertiary center for about twenty hospitals in the Montreal and Western Quebec region. That's why I am pleased to announce today funding for this major project. Today we are taking a step forward towards its realization and, at the same time, towards greater accessibility of perinatal care, traumatology and endoscopy in the Montreal area, "said Minister Hébert. 
This project essentially provides for the enlargement of the east front wing in the hospital to develop an integrated trauma center including 32 intensive care beds, as well as a 26-bedroom mother-child unit. Simple, an intermediate neonatology care unit with 11 islets with a resuscitation isolate, as well as 6 sets of the endoscopy unit. Costs, timeline and some other details of this project will be specified as a result of the development of the initial business record, the deposit of which is scheduled for the summer of 2014. Note that the Foundation of the Hospital of the Sacre Hospital -Cœur, who has conducted a funding campaign for this project, plans to contribute $ 12 million. 
"Our support for this project is reflecting the desire of our government to support our health facilities with adequate and functional infrastructures to fully realize their mission," said Minister Hébert.1The eight other institutions are: 
