Quebec- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, notes that poor project planning and loss of expertise in the public apparatus, who accelerated Under the former Liberal government, continue to have negative effects on the assessment of the amendments to the Ministry of Transport. 
"The" Liberal "contracts, as Julie Boulet mentioned, as a member of Parliament for Laviolette and former official conversation of the official opposition, are very dear to Quebeckers," said Minister Gaudreault. 
In the fall of 2012, a report conducted by the Secor-KPMG firm, commissioned by the Treasury Board Secretariat, revealed that 18 of the 20 major projects analyzed knew cost overruns on average 78%. 
"Last November 12, I unveiled our Plan of ActionPayer the right cost for road investments to ensure more integrity, accountability and reissuring accounts in granting and the management of public contracts at the Ministry of Transport. The measures put in place since September 2012 as well as those presented in this action plan have allowed us to save $ 240M only for the year 2013. The fight against collusion and corruption is a priority for our government " continued Mr. Gaudreault. 
Remember that this action plan stems from a second report from the Secor-KPMG firm ordered in February 2013. This external audit was intended to consider all the additional costs required in the last 12 months. The conclusions of this review were unveiled last June leading to the 16 measures contained in the action plan. On the latter 11 were already realized or in progress. 
"Never has a government done to ensure that Quebeckers pay the right cost for road investments. We will continue to act with diligence and responsibility. The next step in this action plan is the creation of the Quebec Transport Infrastructure Agency. What does the CAQ propose to control costs and "extras"? What does Eric Cairo propose, a member of the CAQ transportation and spokesperson to consolidate and develop expertise in the Department of Transport? Unfortunately, the CAQ continues to procure its position as to the bill "concluded Mr. Gaudreault. 
