Montréal- The Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, welcomed the release of Alexander Paul, the Quebec activist of Greenpeace detained in Russia since September. 
"I am reassured to know that Mr. Paul will finally be released on bail. We do not know for the moment the conditions of his liberation, but we wish his return, in Quebec, as soon as possible. From the first days of his detention, we asked actions to ensure that Mr. Paul was in good health, that he was treated correctly and to ensure that his family, with whom we have communicated several times , can be kept informed of his situation, "said the minister listed. 
In economic mission in Pennsylvania, the minister talked this morning to Mr. Paul's mother to express his relief. 
Remember that Mr. Paul had been arrested with 30 of his colleagues after they tried to climb the Prirazlomnay oil platform of the Russian Gazprom company, located in the Arctic, to denounce the ecological risk of its drilling activities. The Arctic Sunrise vessel, Greenpeace International's icebreaker, had been arrested by an heliport commando of Russian coastguards. 
Assets since the arrest of activists, the minister spoke a few opportunities with Alexandre Paul's mother. He discussed the file twice with John Baird to direct him to talk to his Russian counterpart and meet Greenpeace. Meetings also took place with the new Consul General of Russia in Montreal. During their recent meetings in Paris, the minister Listed and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of France, Laurent Fabius, have considered ways to coordinate their efforts in favor of the release of prisoners. The case was followed with interest in the firm of the listed minister, which was informed in particular with the Quebec representatives of Greenpeace. At the hearing of November 6 at the International Tribunal of the Law of the Sea, Quebec dispatched Caroline Emond, General Delegate of Quebec to Brussels, to listen to the debates surrounding the complaint filed by the Netherlands. 
Finally, the Government of Quebec collaborated with Greenpeace, which has fully paid the costs related to the deposit, making available the human and administrative resources of the Bureau du Québec in Moscow to facilitate and accelerate the transfer of funds. 
The minister listed will be informed of developments in this case, the settlement of which could take several months. 
