The leader of the Québécois party, Jean-François Lisée, as well as candidates Mathieu Traversy (Terrebonne), Daniel Breton (Saint-Hyacinthe), Diane Gadoury-Hamelin (Masson) and Marc-Olivier Leblanc (the plains), presented today A new proposal to give more time to families: the "carpooling" component of the great unlocking. 
IN SHORT 
"The Parti Québécois will give more time to families by releasing traffic caps. The Great Unlock Phase 1 was very well received by Quebeckers, who refuse only more than 7 billion dollars are spent for an electoral gift west of Montreal Island, without congestion to The metropolitan area. Indeed, the big release phase 1, it is a project adapted to all the Greater Montréal who will remove 78 times more cars from our roads than what promises the REM: 133 000, against 1700 cars for the Liberal project, "a Illustrated entry of play Jean-François Lisée. 
Today, the Parti Québécois offers to go even further, with the "carpooling" component of the great unlocking. "There are 25 million empty seats that congest the routes of Quebec at peak hours; We will fill these seats to unlock the roads. We will offer powerful incentives to encourage carpool throughout Quebec. We will see the development of a national mobile application that will resume all available services and will be linked in real time to the routes of the different transit networks. The goal: that those who want to coperect are found. We want the matches. What we announce is the Tinder of carpooling, "said herself enthusiastically Mathieu Traversy. 
A financial incentive will also be offered to all drivers and passengers: each will receive a $ 4 trunk premium at the first year - and $ 3 hours for the following -, to go as to the return. All will be centralized and calculated on the mobile application. "For a carpooler, our proposal may represent an annual income of $ 1600! We are confident that such a direct profit will encourage tens of thousands of drivers to leave their car at home and covoiting with a neighbor or a co-worker, "Daniel Breton continued. 
"We will also add routes devoted to carpool, according to traffic, on the highways of Quebec. This new measure will eliminate 7% of the cars on the network by 2025, which is added to the 10% already provided for by the large release phase 1. in the long term, it is 3,300 vehicles less on the roads! Diane Gadoury-Hamelin chained Diane Gadoury-Hamelin. 
The leader of the Parti Québécois said the proposal does not apply to persons living the same address or those under the age of 16, and that the eligible journey should be made in rush hour. In addition, the carpooling component of the Grand Unlock represents expenditures of $ 313 million over 4 years, in addition to 2 million for the development of the mobile application. However, everything does not commit any additional burden to the state because it will be funded from the Green Fund, which will be reversed all programs. 
"We will give the Green Fund to Quebecers. Liberals do not use it effectively; They only fund programs very little useful to combat climate change, "concluded Marc-Olivier Leblanc. 
Planned costs: 
2019-2020          2020-2021         2021-2022         2022-202329 M$                  57 M$                  86 M$                 141 M$ 
For more information, click here. 
For the explanatory form, click here. 
