To give more time to the families, the leader and vice-cheese of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée and Véronique Hivon, as well as the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, today presented a commitment concerning the material school. At a press briefing, they announced that a government of the Parti Québécois will offer parents who wish the choice to obtain directly all the required school supplies. 
IN SHORT 
"A government of the Parti Québécois will give more time to families. He will release parents who wish to race to school effects and related expenses. Indeed, we will ask for primary and secondary schools to offer all the required school supplies. Families claim to be facilitated life; That's what we do. Seriously. "Said Jean-François Lisée immediately. 
"The parents, of whom I am, know the song: a few days from the start of the classes, we run on the left and right and we spend a small fortune to find all the items on the list of the school. And, year after year, the list extends ... as well as the time spent in the shops! With a Quebec party government, no need to break your head to find the pale blue binder, no need to crisscross the city to find out the stock out of stock, "said Véronique Hivon. 
The material will be given to students when starting back. "Gradually, our measure - which remains optional - will replace the $ 100 check that the Liberals have recently put to parents for the purchase of school supplies. Our choice, the Parti Québécois is to give a time check to families! , Pursued Jean-François Lisée. 
The measure will be implemented during a first mandate of the Parti Québécois. "From the first year, we will make sure that each school board offers the distribution service. As for the model to adopt and the choice of the responsible body, the motto will be "flexibility", since the needs and realities of families differ according to the regions. We can draw inspiration from the formula of stores-sharing, for example. Finally, I really like this idea, for it makes sure that children, between them, are equal, "has argued Carole Poirier. 
"This change in the ways to be really worth it, because it will have a real impact in the lives of families. Parents will have more time and will have for their money. The Parti Québécois is the real party of families! ", Concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
For our explanatory sheet, click here. 
