Quebec- The member for Marie-Victorin and the official opposition on energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, and members of the Lanaudière region, Véronique Hivon, Nicolas Marceau, Mathieu Traversy and André Villeneuve , denounce the eager decision of the Liberal government to approve the construction of the transport line of Hydro-Québec Chamouchouane-Bout-de-Léîle, despite the strong citizen opposition and the unfavorable opinion of the office of public hearings on The environment (BAPE). 
"Le Guiernerment rebuse Recommuse Refuse From ESCORE ESCORET LE POIRES. Fonce was the, cherma Le FaAa Faa 1 population is at the Population At Le Projet. Pourmontement TÉpoine-A-Il A Lape-Alins and Quest the Aprogere, Et Quest the Aproout, Caramaine, who and the Viriaise, Châtesait PAS and View the fast. WHO RESPECTERAIT THE PEOPLE? », Demy and beautiful Bernard Drainville. 
The project, estimated at $ 1.2 billion, involves construction, within a virgin territory, a new transport line of more than 420 kilometers connecting Lac-Saint-Jean to Montreal. The BAPE, in a report, recommended that the government put a brake and return Hydro-Québec to do its homework because another solution remains to be explored: the use of the rights of existing lines. 
"In a context of austerity, where the government cuts everywhere, especially in health and education, this transport line of over $ 1 billion is a luxury project. The Liberals are sitting, while there is another solution, identified by the BAPE, to ensure the reliability of the network. But the government has categorically refused to take the time to analyze this other option, even if it is cheaper and more consensual. Are the Liberals at this point short of economic projects to announce this expensive project, which clearly does not spend the test of social acceptability? Started Bernard Drainville. 
MEPs urged the efforts and work of the citizens of Lanaudière, including those of the Citizens Committee under high voltage, mayors, farmers and business people. It is a good example of solidarity and citizen mobilization. Unfortunately, the Liberal government is deaf to the will of the population. 
