Quebec, April 9, 2018 - the official opposition spokesman for the metropolis, Carole Poirier, and the spokesperson for transport, Martin Ouellet, are observing the limited commitments of the Liberal government. In the extension file of the Blue Line of the Montreal Metro. "After four years of waiting, eastern Montreal stays on his hunger. While Montrealers expected the announcement of a shovel of land, the official start of the work, the government has taught us rather that it intends to carry out other preliminary studies, "from the outset declared Carole Poirier. 
IN SHORT 
"The Couillard government has just finished its fourth year in power and today it announces the implementation of a project office. Exactly what had made by the Quebecois party in 2013! Montrealers will retain today's announcement that they attended an umpteently election boge show, perfectly staged, as only the Liberals know how to do it. A nice ad, beautiful drawings to say that we are finally ready to start studying the project. Do they know that the extension of the blue line has been on the table for more than 30 years? The only thing that should have been announced today is the beginning of construction, "has on his side insisted Martin Ouellet. 
Carole Poirier remembers the lack of seriousness of the Liberals last year, while they had criticized the federal government for not having reserved money for the blue line in his budget. "Later, we had learned that Quebec had gotten nothing ... because he had not asked anything; must do it! Today, improvisation continues: we are talking about a project of almost $ 4 billion, without being able to say how the costs will be shared with Ottawa. We are told that we go ahead but, concretely, we are announced financial commitments of the order of $ 16 million only. However, when you are serious about the realization of a project, we must not only commit firmly about the sums but, too, to be able to say with certainty from where the money will come, ", has She listed. 
"The failure is also seen in the chapter of local purchase, continued Martin Ouellet. Far from having learned from his mistakes, after the remote fiasco, whose rolling stock will be manufactured in Asia - the government did not commit to requiring Quebec content. Yet, it's everywhere else in the world! For the Parti Québécois, it is clear: we will require a minimum of 20% of Quebec's content in rolling stock. Unlike the Liberal government, we will not let our workers fall, "he assured. 
In the eyes of the deputies, the Liberal government was once again mocked by the citizens of Eastern Montreal: "Fortunately, the population is not fooled and did not bite to the hook; It is a coarse evidence that the Liberals concentrate their energies in the West for electoral reasons. » 
