Quebec, on October 27, 2016 - The company of his colleagues Sylvain Gaudreault, Alexander Cloutier and Mireille John, the spokesman for the Parti Quebecois on forests, Sylvain Roy, denounced the adoption by the Liberal government of the report on The northern limit of attributable forests. This new limit will cause thousands of job losses across Quebec, especially in Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean. 
"This is another tile that falls on the forest communities of Quebec. After the surcharge on the overcut paper and a commercial war with the Americans who loosen on the horizon in the folder of softwood lumber, which is learned that the government has established, by decree, the new Nordic limit, Without consultation or impact study. It's dramatic for our regions! Before making such a change, the Minister must assess the implications for jobs and consult the actors in the forest economy. The goal is first of all to establish a northern limit that responds to workers' concerns, "supported Sylvain Roy. 
"The situation is untenable for workers and their families. In Kenogami and the riding of the Prime Minister, in Dolbeau, two factories have already been struggling with unfair taxes for over a year, on the paper overcomed. Each plant must pay more than a million dollars a month! Why does the Prime Minister refuse to act, while citizens of his constituency lose their job? Asked Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"This file is only an additional example of the improvisation of the Liberals in the field of the forest. Let's remember: Quebec has appointed a softwood lumber negotiator a year too late, while the Americans and Canadians have already determined that quotas would be imposed on Quebec companies. The main issue of Quebec was to recognize that our new forest regime met the requirements of a free market. The Liberals of Quebec failed to make him recognized by Ottawa, "illustrated, for his part, Alexandre Cloutier. 
"Chicoutimi, when the forest economy goes wrong, the jobs in the service area are affected. In June 2015, the Prime Minister organized a regional economic summit, at the end of which the creation of two working groups on the forest was announced. The member for Dubuc, Serge Simard, had to follow up, but he failed. We have proof, today, with the imposition of a new Nordic limit, "said Mireille Jean. 
