The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the candidates in Berthier and Portneuf, André Villeneuve and Christian Hébert, have unveiled their concrete proposals to arrive at a true "agricultural independence" and recalled their unwavering support to the management of offer. Thus, at a press briefing, Jean-François Lisé presented his plan to support Farmers and producers in Quebec. 
IN SHORT 
Six flagship measures of the Parti Québécois to support and develop agriculture: 
The Parti Québécois has always had a favorable prejudice for workers; He certainly has one for agricultural workers! "Farmers' work is essential, but difficult. That's why we're going to give them an immense boost: we will launch the agricultural independence project! That is, we will promote agricultural succession, develop family farms, protect our agricultural land and revive food sovereignty policy, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
Foster agricultural succession and develop our family farms 
Among the concrete measures presented to agricultural workers, two particularly retain the attention of Christian Hébert, which is itself winegrower. "The Parti Québécois really understood the issues affecting a farmer like me by offering a FIRA +, an investment fund for the more accessible, more generous and, mostly, more audacious investment fund. This idea, combined with a more aggressive and long-term loan guarantee policy of agricultural financial, will allow for the purpose of transforming its dreams into projects, and its projects in success. We will finally be independent financially, "said the candidate. 
Quebec has chosen agriculture on a human scale, independent of large multinationals. The Parti Québécois is partly responsible for this great success and wants to continue to support family farms. "Year after year, producers pay more and more land taxes. We will tackle this situation by offsetting the increases by a defloration of the agricultural land tax credit program, exempt from land taxes, non-productive areas, which nevertheless require to be maintained, and taking into account private transactions to determine the Value of agricultural land, "André Villeneuve added, spokesperson for the agriculture for the Parti Québécois. 
With regard to the shortage of workers, the accumulation of paperwork and the multiplication of administrative interlocutors, often caused by the inefficiency of the federal government, Jean-François Lisée is committed to creating a coordinating office. Foreign, for companies to address only one interlocutor to welcome foreign workers. 
Protect our agricultural land 
The Parti Québécois also proposes to cultivate the independence of Quebec faced with foreign capital, which boost the land value of land, by submitting a law against agricultural land grabbing. In the same vein, Jean-François Lisé has made a commitment to block the landing project of the sisters of charity, in Quebec, to keep their agricultural vocation. He also wishes to speed up the processing of files at CPTAQ, without any other politicians, more promoting the dismissal. 
Revive food sovereignty and move towards agriculture tomorrow 
"François GENDRON presented a policy of food sovereignty that had been consensus. It aimed to put more products from us in the plates of Quebecers. Unfortunately, by pure partisanship, the Liberal government put it to the trash. As of October 1, the government of the Parti Québécois will activate to revive it. We will also put forward a large "Food of Quebec" campaign, which will be divided at the local and regional level; There will now be "foods of the Montérégie" or "Mauricie's food", also indicated André Villeneuve. 
"The Liberal government has not sufficiently shown the example of food sovereignty. The Government of the Parti Québécois will put its resources for the benefit of farmers so that at least half of the products served in public institutions come from Quebec. For Quebecers, it's a pride in local eating; To us, now, to be up to, "he continued. 
"There are many challenges in agriculture, and we have an ambitious plan to meet them: a large site for food independence. For a real culture of agriculture, it takes the Quebecois party in power from October 1st, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
