The "Mini Miss" contest to be held in Lavalle 24 November finally not taken place. Faced with the magnitude of the discontent of the population of Quebec, the organization responsible for the event, the National CANADIAN GIRL Pageant, has reversed: it is by tens of thousands that Quebeckers reported that this type Competition, which values the physical appearance of young girls by competing on this aspect, is not welcome at home. 
If the cancellation of the Gala planned in Laval marks the deep disagreement of our company with the idea that our girls can be presented as objects that would be judged at the first glance, it also represents the opportunity to Initiate a serious collective reflection on the issue of hypersexualization. As a member of Parliament for Sainte-Rose and Parliamentary Assistant of the Minister responsible for the Status of Women, I am particularly concerned about this problem: it is the development of the women of tomorrow that he is today. 
Even if it touches more and more boys, hypersexualization remains a social phenomenon that mainly affects girls. Whether on television, in magazines, in advertisements or in the lyrics of songs, girls are often returned to stereotyped and largely focused models. The physical appearance, seduction and sexuality are surgery, which puts undue pressure on girls and adolescent girls, still in the intense phase of identity building. 
This hypersexualization of girls is far from harmless. In 2007, the American Association of Psychology listed no less than 350 studies that reported the negative impacts of hypersexualization on intimacy, perception of self, the relationship to the body, physical health and the sexual behaviors of young people. girls. The results of many studies also draw up a rather dark picture of the effects that this phenomenon can generate. 
Start exposed to female reducing and crazy images, young girls come to believe that their greatest asset lies in their sexual attraction: they are therefore likely to start their sex life early. The idea that the woman's body is an object that can be exploited is strengthened, which contributes in particular to the trivialization of sexual violence. Should we be surprised that the data from the Quebec Institute of Statistics show that 67% of Quebeckers with a sexual age of 14 have already been victims of psychological, physical or sexual violence? 
Hypershasexualization can also bring girls to make an obsession with thinness to achieve what they believe to be the "perfect body": Draconian diets and eating disorders are already well-known manifestations of this complex invading linked to the weight . It is therefore not surprising that our teenage girls are largely dissatisfied with their physical appearance and that they are numerous to want to change it, even when they have a healthy weight. 
We note today that young Quebeckers suffer more food disorders, depression and anxiety than their male colleagues. Conversely, they are proportionately less likely to have a high level of self-esteem than boys of the same age, according to the results of the 2010-2011 high school youth health survey. 
Obviously, the phenomenon of hypersexualization is far from trivial. The harmful consequences it entails on the physical, psychological and sexual health of our girls are multiple. Before this observation, it seems to me clear that we can not content ourselves with the cancellation of "Mini Miss" competitions: it is important to find sustainable solutions to counter the phenomenon of hypersexualization, whose beauty galas are not than a manifestation. 
As a parliamentary adjoint of the minister responsible for the female status, I hear the shoulder to the wheel. Moreover, I am currently working on the organization of a day of reflection that will take place in the presence of Minister Agnès Maltais in Laval on January 30th. This event, which will bring together many local actors as well as seasoned speakers, will be used to start a deep collective reflection on hypersexualization. By asking us the right questions and examining the problem in all its seams, I am convinced that we will be able to release conclusions that will take the basis of concrete gestures to counter the hypersexualization. 
Ultimately, what I want is that young Quebec people are better equipped to withstand the pressure on them the reducing female models. Keep in mind that women represent half of our population: our collective future therefore largely depends on the current development of our girls. It is the entire Quebec society that will benefit from their fulfillment if we succeed in limiting the toxic influence of hypersexualization on their quest for personal identity. 
Suzanne Proulx, MP for Sainte-Roseadjoint of the Minister responsible for the Status of Women 
