Quebec, on April 20, 2017- The member for Jonquière and spokesperson for the Regions' Development Party, Sylvain Gaudreault, asks the government to intervene to ensure the survival of regional information. 
IN SHORT 
- Regional information is at risk because of the Liberal government. The State must intervene to curb the disappearance of regional information.- In 15 years, the share of local news broadcast nationally has increased from 8 at 1%.  A government of the Parti Québécois would bring together a group of experts to study the structural crisis experienced by the media and its impacts on democracy. 
"TC Media's decision to sell its regional newspapers, only a few weeks after the budget filing, illustrates how much the measures put in place by the Liberal Party are insufficient. Media presence in the regions continues to decline, both in newspapers and national information networks, TV and radio. Influence Communication tells us that the share of local news broadcast nationally has increased from 8 to 1% since 2001. It is therefore essential that the State intervene for the survival of information in the region, in support of initiatives who come from, "said the spokesman. 
"The government must quickly announce an action plan for the survival of the regional press. A government of the Parti Québécois would quickly bring together a group of experts who make concrete recommendations to deal with the structural crisis facing the media. Ideas already arise: as a first measure of intervention, it is absolutely necessary that the Liberals give up the idea of allowing municipalities to disseminate their public notices only on the Internet; These reviews are a major source of income for regional newspapers and hebdos. My colleague Agnès Maltais will give you shortly the details of our proposal, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"In democracy, the information is essential, he resumed. It is through the information that new voices emerge, reforms, leaders. Why is the Liberal government to weaken the regions, to strip them of their tools? Why is he silent on an issue of such importance? It's more time for him to fix shot! » 
