Val-d'Or- The member for Abitibi-East and Minister Aboriginal Affairs, Ms. Elizabeth Larouche, announced, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élain Zakaïb , the payment of a $ 90,000 grant to Meglab Electronics Inc., specializing in the design and manufacture of control systems, for the commercialization of a new product for the mining sector, the CONTISCANC, a project estimated at $ 225,000. 
ContiscoMC is innovative equipment for underground mines using a well. It allows mining to continuously monitor the integrity of hoisting cables, ore dumps and service cages. The development of this product, an initiative of the underground techno-mined niche of the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region, was entrusted to the Electronic MEGLAB company, which holds a marketing license allocated by Natural Resources Canada. 
"Our government is proud to partner with an innovative product born from the mobilization of underground techno-mined niche partners," Elizabeth Larouche said. "Now the Electronic Meglab company will use its expertise in the manufacture and marketing of the CONTISCANCC. Thanks to this technology, mining companies will be better equipped and will be able to increase their productivity while improving safety. » 
"Innovation is the key to the prosperity of our manufacturing companies," said Zakaïb Élaine. "It is for this reason that our government has made it a priority of Quebec industrial sappolitics 2013-2017. One of the axes of this policy consists in promoting innovation, the idea of marketing, that is to say by accompanying companies at all stages of the innovation process. This new product opens the Canadian and international market to the company. » 
Created in 1994, Meglab electronics specializes in the design and manufacture of electronic and electrical equipment as well as instrumentation and control systems for the mining sector. 
The company also offers engineering, installation, training and technical support services. It currently employs 80 people primarily in Val-d'Or, where is its headquarters and main factory. 
The CONTISCANCC marketing plan includes the production of promotional equipment, participation in various exhibitions and trade fairs, as well as presentation visits to mining companies. A market analysis for deep mines and another targeting other potential markets will also be performed. 
"The Quebec and Canadian mine sectors will be the first to benefit from the strengths of the CONTISCAN ™," said Sylvain Viger, Vice President of the Electronic Meglab company. "This continuous monitoring system will engender considerable productivity gains for mining companies, and facilitate planning for the maintenance of hoisting cables. The support of the Government of Quebec to the implementation of our marketing plan will help us to highlight the benefits of this promising product for the future of the mining sector. » 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicidustrielle. 
