Terrebonne- The Deputy Officer of Terrebonne and Deputy Parliamentary Leader of the Government, Mr. Mathieu Traversy, announced, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to the Industrial Policy and the Economic Development Bank of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the award of A $ 141,280 grant to Distributions Aïkiou inc., specializing in the design and manufacture of interactive products. The project, which totaled more than $ 353,000, aims to expand the range of business products for small pets. 
"By supporting the Project of Distributions Aïkiou, we confirm our commitment to supporting innovation and enhancing the development of bold companies that diversify our economy," said Mathieu Traversy. "This project also contributes to the economic vitality and growth of the Lanaudière region and, in particular, the constituency of Terrebonne. » 
Founded in 2008, the company Distributions Aïkiou specializes in the design and manufacture of exclusive products, such as interactive bowls to provide intellectual animal stimulation, reduce the rhythm of ingestion when they feed and to reduce behavioral disorders related to boredom. 
"Our government prioritizes support for the promotion, development and use of innovation in all areas," says Zakaïb Élain. "This support for innovation is one of the three axes of Quebec industrial policy, recently made public. It is therefore with enthusiasm that we encourage the innovative projects of Aikiou distributions, which are an eloquent demonstration of the audacity, inventiveness and potential of our Quebec entrepreneurs. » 
The company markets several product lines, including the Aïkiou Dog Food Activity Center, the Stimulo Cat Activity Center and Specialized Rodent Products. Aikiou distributions has become a leader in the field of behavior and feeding of pets. 
"Thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec, we will be able to develop new products that will maximize the cognitive and intellectual functions of rodents and dogs," supported the Vice-Chair of the company Distributions Aikiou, Ms. Kathleen Desrosiers. "In addition to ensuring the competitiveness of our company, these products are an integral part of our mission, which consists of improving the quality of life and the well-being of animals. » 
To learn more about Employment Priority Employment Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueEconomique. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
