Quebec- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, confirmed the payment of a $ 400,000 grant to coffection companies, specializing in the manufacture of automatic hot drinks machines . Financial support from the Innovation Support Program will contribute to a $ 1 million project aimed at improving machine screen technology. 
"Innovation is the foundation stone of productivity and competitiveness," said Zakaïb Élain. "It is also an essential component for the growth of a green and sustainable economy. Quebec industrial lapolitics 2013-2017, recently made public by our government, has the objective of supporting manufacturing companies as a cafection, which has chosen to bet on technology to make its product better adapted to the demand and more efficient. Industrial policy will act on the main determinants of productivity, including innovation, to revive the manufacturing sector. » 
Founded in 1996, coffection companies designs, manufactures and markets machines for hot drinks such as coffee and hot chocolate. It has more than 75,000 machines installed in various businesses, including convenience stores / service stations, which served more than 2 billion beverages last year only. The project announced today will help maintain the competitiveness of the company and thus consolidate its 66 jobs. 
"Increasingly, the consumer is looking for a quality coffee, and only freshly ground coffee coffee can offer it," said François Baron, president of the coffection companies. "Our coffee machine with touch screen is revolutionary. It will allow, among other things, to promote other products sold in establishments where our machines will be and customize advertisements. In addition, our infusion system allows optimal freshness, while being 100% biodegradable. This is one of the reasons why we are in full expansion. » 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicidustrielle. 
