Richmond- Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, announced the award of $ 100,000 non-refundable financial assistance to the UsInatech manufacturing company for the realization of An investment project of $ 988,600 that will allow the creation of 20 jobs and the consolidation of 235 others. 
UsInatech specializes in the manufacture and assembly of mechanical parts of very high precision intended primarily for the recreational vehicle and automotive sector. The project aims to improve the technology used by the company to meet the needs of more and more demanding customers. 
"The requirements are constantly growing for manufacturing companies, which must remain constantly at the cutting edge of technology," said Zakaïb Élain. "This is all the more true for a company like UsInatech, where accuracy is played in minute proportions. Quebec industrial lapolitics2013-2017, that we have just made public, is a major lever to support these manufacturing companies that need to innovate and modernize to meet demand and remain in the race. By helping them progress and be more productive and competitive, it is all Quebec that will benefit from the benefits. Thanks to about twenty measures and investments over $ 1 billion over four years, we anticipate the term creation of more than 25,000 jobs. » 
UsInatech is recognized for its complex, precise, high quality and produced parts in large volumes, such as gear and transmission parts. The project announced today aims to improve the finishing activities of very high precision parts by the establishment of a production unit specializing in the rectification of parts with tight tolerances. It also includes the construction of a new controlled atmosphere section to reduce the incidence of temperature changes on the precision of the parts rectified. 
"The USInatech company has seen a great evolution since its beginnings more than 25 years ago," said the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Seniors and the Estrie Region, Mr. Réjean Hébert. "It's a strategic company for the economic growth of Estrie, which we are very proud of. The project announced today will not only enable it to better meet the requirements of its main client, BRP, but also to consolidate its diversification towards the automotive industry. The rise of the regions, which necessarily involves the creation of sustainable jobs throughout Quebec, is a priority for our government. It is with enthusiasm that we help usinatech grow, to innovate and create quality jobs in Estrie. » 
"Our improvement project will enable us to meet the increasingly pointed needs of our customers," said Usinatech President Rudy Pelletier. "Several aspects must be taken into account in the manufacture of high-precision parts with respect to the appropriate measuring instruments, the filtration of the abrasive particles of the cooling liquids and the temperature variation in the plant, among others. Parts rectification is a very complex operation that requires good equipment and adequate operations in an ultrapropre environment. Government support will help us continue to grow and remain a leader in the machining of pieces of details. » 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicidustrielle. 
