NICOLET- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the regions of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élaine Zakaïb, the granting of subsidies amounting to nearly $ 1 million to three manufacturing companies, ie René mattress ($ 242,411), Milkomax, Dairy Solutions ($ 389,560) and ROVIBEC ($ 354,581), for the realization of their technological innovation projects, which total more than $ 3.2 million. 
"Innovation is the basis of modern and competitive economies," said Yves-François Blanchet. "This is why it is essential to support innovation, research and creativity in our manufacturing companies. By supporting the innovative projects of these three bold and dynamic companies in the Center-du-Québec region, we promote the development of the manufacturing sector, we stimulate the emergence of an essential entrepreneurship in the region and we ensure the consolidation of 110 jobs in the region. It is also an example of the various tools made available to Quebec entrepreneurs who are in addition to those who are clearly reserved for the region. » 
The Minister Zakaïb reiterated the importance of innovation to ensure the competitiveness of Quebec companies and welcomed the avant-garde of the three companies concerned. "We are proud to support business projects that are keen to stay at the cutting edge of technology. Innovation is one of the three axes of Quebec industrial policy 2013-2017. Our manufacturing sector is creative jobs across Quebec: it is important to support its modernization and innovation efforts. » 
Founded in 1947, René Matelas company specializes in the manufacture of high-end mattresses for its shops Boutique Aulit and targeting commercial and medical markets. The René Mattress Project, estimated at $ 913,627, aims to reinvent the suspension of the mattress. It will consolidate 42 jobs in the company facilities located in Nicolet. 
"We are continually deploying efforts to improve the quality and comfort of our mattresses," supported the Director General of René Matteras, Mr. Regis Veillette. "The support of the Government of Quebec will allow us to design and manufacture a new suspension technology, for the benefit of our clientele. » 
Founded in 2008, Milkomax, dairy solutions designs and markets trafficking robots for so-called hindered cows. To date, about 25 trafficking robots are based. Its project, which totals $ 1,023,200, consists of improving the current trafficking robot to make it a mobile robot for milking cows more efficiently. 
The project will also help maintain 10 jobs at the company factory, located in Sainte-Monique. 
"Thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec, we will be able to design a second-generation product that will meet the current agricultural needs," said Nicolas Rousseau, Milkomax Sales Manager, Dairy Solutions. "In a market where competition is lively, automation allows farmers to increase their productivity. With the improved version of our trafficking robots, we want to consolidate our position in the automated product market and help our agricultural businesses become more modern. » 
Founded in 1976, the company ROVIBEC designs and manufactures equipment for the feeding of dairy cow herds. ROVIBEC distributes a wide range of products, simple and efficient design feeding equipment through fully automated high-tech equipment. Its project, estimated at $ 1,323,772, aims at the development of a high capacity food processor to meet the evolution of local and international markets in the agricultural sector. 
"More than ever, our family business relies on increasing new technologies to ensure its competitiveness and enable the growth of the agricultural sector," said the Director General of Rovibec, Mr. Martin Rousseau. "Our project will also consolidate the 57 current jobs at our facilities located in Sainte-Monique. Thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec, we will be able to concretize a project carrying important economic benefits for the region of the center of Quebec. » 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicidustrielle. 
