Val-d'Or- Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs and MP, Mrs. Elizabeth Larouche, confirmed, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élain Zakaïb , the payment of a grant of $ 293,498 to the company MinRail inc. For the design of a new mining method using a telescopic mobile platform for the operation of low dip grounds, a project estimated at $ 805,000. 
"The Minrail project certainly contributes to strengthening the reputation of the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region of the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region, formerly known as underground techno-mines," said Elizabeth Larouche. "This method will make it possible to improve the working conditions and safety of the site as well as to reduce the costs of exploitation of the deposits. It is also thanks to such innovative projects that we will be able to ensure the competitiveness of Quebec's underground mining holdings and recognize our expertise. » 
The project aims at the refurbishment and modification of a mobile platform prototype developed in 1993 to make it an innovative tool and meet the specific needs of the mining sector. The financial assistance provided will serve in particular to the design of the method of mining, the manufacture and purchase of components used for the adaptation of the new platform as well as the production of workshop tests. 
"Since our arrival, we have made efforts to support innovation in all its forms and in all areas of activity," said Zakaïb. "Economic lapolitics Priority employs Quebec industrial lapoliticism, announced last October, put a lot on innovation to energize our economy, revive the manufacturing sector and create quality jobs. It is with enthusiasm that we support the avant-garde project of the company Minrail, which will allow our mining industry to be distinguished and to become among the most dynamic and modern internationally. » 
"One of the axes of Quebec industrial policy is precisely innovation, the idea of marketing. It includes support for companies to obtain patents, "said Zakaïb. 
Founded in 2012, the company MinRail specializes in the development and marketing of a new method of ore slaughter for the exploitation of low- or medium hangings. The company will also offer a construction ore slaughter service. 
"Thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec, we can design and patent our mining method related to the mobile platform we have recently acquired," supported the President of Minrail, Mr. Marc R. Beauvais. "Our project will allow our mining companies to increase their productivity while significantly decreasing their capital expenditures on the operation of low dip deposits. » 
To learn more about Employment Priority Employment Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueEconomique. 
