Sherbrooke- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders and the Estrie Region, Mr. Réjean Hébert, accompanied by the member for Sherbrooke, Mr. Serge Cardin, on behalf of the Minister Delegate To the industrial policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the payment of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 400,000 to the M2 laboratory company, specializing in natural disinfection and biodegradable, to support a project investment rated more than $ 2.7 million. Government support will enable the company to accelerate research and development and market new products. 
"Thanks to its ability to innovate and scientific and technical expertise, M2 laboratory is a true Quebec leader in biosafety," said Réjean Hébert. "We are particularly proud to support the project of this company, which is part of a vision of sustainable development for Quebec. This initiative will have a positive impact for our agri-food industry, while contributing to the economic vitality of the Estrie region. » 
Financial aid comes from the development support program for strategic sectors and niches of excellence and will be used to set up a research and development team focused on the growth of a disinfection platform based on natural active ingredients from essential oils, including thyme and monarde. The project also targets the design and marketing of new biological disinfectants from this platform and mainly for agriculture. 
"More than ever, Quebec, and in particular its manufacturing companies, must focus on innovation and research and development activities to grow and distinguish themselves over world markets," said Zakaïb. "The M2 laboratory project is part of our government's desire, clearly expressed in the 2013-2017 Quebec industrial policy, to support innovation, the idea of marketing. Current and future jobs are directly dependent on the innovation capacity of our businesses. » 
Réjean Hébert, accompanied by the member for Sherbrooke, Serge Cardin, announced the payment of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 400,000 to the M2 laboratory company, specializing in natural and biodegradable disinfection. // (c) Serge Cardin (source) 
