Saint-Gabriel-de-Brandon- The member for Berthier and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory (municipal business component), Mr. André Villeneuve, announced, on behalf of the Minister Delegate To the industrial policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élain Zakaïb, the payment of a grant from $ 72,608 to the company Brandon Truck Equipment for the design and manufacture of a lighter bucket, a Project estimated at $ 550,000 that will consolidate 21 jobs. 
"Quebec companies must, to distinguish internationally, demonstrate a great capacity for innovation and can be able to count on a skilled workforce," said André Villeneuve. "The company Brandon Truck Equipment has understood it. Over the years, she has developed products that use advanced technologies and have allowed him to differentiate themselves from the competition. » 
Brandon Truck Equipment specializes in general welding and manufactures tilting skips for trucks. His project relating to a lighter and equally powerful buzzer aims to better meet the needs of the industry. This bucket will be made from elastic high limit steel. The company wishes to draw inspiration from a European design that will be adapted to the North American market. 
"Our government wishes to give Quebec's manufacturing SMEs how to promote innovation in their activities," said Zakaïb Élaine. "We have thus planned to strengthen our support for innovation through measures implemented under the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy. This policy is a powerful lever for increasing the competitiveness of the Quebec manufacturing sector. » 
The Innovation Support Program, from which the financial assistance provided to the company, will be enhanced to extend its field of intervention. 
Founded fifty years ago, Brandon truck equipment, a family business, has always shown innovation. It has achieved, over the years, technological advances that have allowed it to distinguish from the competition. 
"Our company is recognized as a leader in the manufacture of tilting dumps in North America," said Daniel Rainville, President of Brandon Truck Equipment. "The support of the Quebec government will help design a single product in North America, which will meet the specific needs of the industry. » 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicidustrielle. 
