Montreal- The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane de Courcy, on behalf of the Minister Delegated to Industrial Policy and the Economic Development Bank of Quebec , Ms. élain Zakaïb, the award of a $ 127,046 grant at the Bergeron Laboratory, a division of the Ortho-DuRo company inc., To complete the development of innovative technology for molding and manufacturing Plantar orthoses from an automated station, a project estimated at $ 317,615. 
"For more than forty years, the Bergeron laboratory offers high quality products and services in the field of orthotic and prostheses manufacturing," said Diane de Courcy. "Today, this innovative project will allow the company to distinguish between its competitors and increase its reputation in a highly specialized market. It is with great pride that our government supports this dynamic business that has demonstrated its know-how over the years. » 
Ortho-Duro manufactures and distributes orthotics through its Bergeron Laboratory division, in addition to offering orthopedics to its customers. The molding and manufacture of plantar orthoses from an automated station will be done thanks to a method of injection of a thermosetting material. Swelling is thus created in a prefabricated universal sole and the orthosis takes the shape of the patient's foot in minutes. This product will allow orthosisists to make a custom orthosis in one visit, which will reduce delivery times. 
"Innovation is at the heart of the competitiveness of our manufacturing companies," said Zakaïb Élain. "That's why our government has planned, as part of its 2013-2017 industrial policy, significant support at all stages of the innovation process, from the idea to commercialization. Other measures are also planned to support the modernization and greening of manufacturing activities and promote the emergence of new flowers among the most efficient SMEs, which I call gazelles. » 
The financial assistance granted comes from the Innovation Support Program. This program is more generous and better structured in the context of industrial policy, in order to further promote innovation. 
"We have successfully completed the prototype development phases of the prefabricated universal orthosis injection system and the automated station," said Philippe Durocher, Professional Technologist, President and CEO of the Bergeron Laboratory. "In order to maximize the impact of the marketing of our product, we call on a consultant specializing in 3D animation for the design of the website, which will be used for the presentation and marketing of our process. We are also working with seasoned distributors and, thanks to our expertise, we will be able to conquer several promising markets. The support of the Government of Quebec will therefore help us to diversify our activities and increase our competitiveness. » 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicidustrielle. 
