Val d'Or- The member for Abitibi-East and Minister Aboriginal Affairs, Ms. Elizabeth Larouche, announced, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élaine Zakaïb, The awarding of a $ 400,000 loan of Investissement Québec to the company Arkys for a research and development project as well as for the marketing of a new software suite, Skeye Aviation Systems. This $ 900,000 innovation project will result in the creation of 10 new jobs, in addition to consolidating the company's 37 jobs. 
"Economic development involves innovation and new technologies," said Elizabeth Delegate Minister Larouche. "Thanks to significant investments in research and developing and expertise, Arkys has always been kept at the cutting edge of its sector. Our government encourages and supports carrier innovation projects like that of Arkys, especially since it creates and consolidates quality jobs in the region. » 
Founded in 2000, the company Arkys provides advanced technological solutions for businesses. Its avant-garde products aim to optimize business activities with a view to increased productivity and improve their customer service in a cost control context. Through its SKEYE Aviation Systems division, Arkys also specializes in software development for air transport. 
"Since its inception, Arkys have built an impressive client and a solid reputation in the field of technological solutions for business needs," said Sulaian Deputy Minister Zakaïb. "That said, our government intends to continue to implement favorable measures to help efficient businesses innovate and market their flagship products, here and internationally, while creating quality jobs. We will do so thanks to industrial policy, one of which is precisely innovation, the idea of marketing. » 
"The Support of the Government of Quebec, through Investissement Québec, will allow us to market our new software suite and thus drill the foreign market," said Eric Beauchesne, President and CEO of the company. "This funding has been supported by our internationalization strategy and strengthens our local, national and international offer. » 
Arkys is a firm specializing in consulting and the management of information and communications technologies (ICT). The company intervenes in the sectors of networking, web and IP telephony as well as in the creation and distribution of technological solutions. Arkys is distinguished by its Certified Microsoft Certified Development Service offering different possibilities for existing solutions. 
Investissement Québec's mission is to promote investment growth in Quebec, thus contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The company puts companies with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity capital investment, in order to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, it is responsible for the administration of tax measures and prospecting investments abroad. 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicidustrielle. 
