Quebec- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, announced the award of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 400,000 to the company Handyem for an investment project $ 1 million relating to the design of a second version of its HPC-100 optical device. She also confirmed $ 148,000 to UNGAVA Technologies for a project estimated at more than $ 850,000 to design and marke a new non-destructive inspection device. These projects will create 6 specialized jobs, in addition to consolidating the 18 current jobs of these companies. 
"Innovation is the basis of modern and competitive economies," said Zakaïb Élain. "Our government is therefore a duty to support investment projects that focus on the growth of advanced technologies and thus contribute to Quebec's influence as a high-knowledge company. The announcement of our participation in Handyem and Ungava Technologies companies is the proof. The 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy also demonstrates this desire by providing for significant support at all stages of the innovation process, from the idea to commercialization. Thus, support for innovation industrial projects conducted as part of the innovation support program, from which funding for these two projects, will be more generous and better structured. » 
Specializing in the field of optics, the company Handyem has developed an apparatus based on the principles of cytometry, the HPC-100, which makes it possible to measure the biological markers of importance in human cells. For research in the life sciences sector, this portable and easy-to-use device significantly decreases the patient's condition response time. Its project aims to design a second version of this device, the HPC-200, which will include several technological innovations and expand its market. 
"Thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec, we will be able to design a revolutionary device that will have the advantage of being able to be used by non-specialized staff outside the centralized laboratories," said Alain Chandonnet, President of The company Handyem. "Thus, our vision is to enable the realization of a larger number of routine tests by more people, such as doctors in firm and laboratory researchers, with the intention of responding to trends emerging in terms of decentralization and personalized medicine. » 
For its part, UNGAVA Technologies specializes in the design, engineering and prototyping of complex value-added devices for the industrial sector and the field of electronics. The project of the company is to create and market a range of non-destructive control instruments that can be used on several types of materials in different sectors, such as aerospace, petrochemistry, nuclear and wind. 
"We focus our energies in order to produce tailor-made devices that allow our clientele to be on the cutting edge of technology," said François Mainguy, President of the UNGAVA Technologies. "The financial contribution of the Government of Quebec intended for the development of our range of control instruments represents an important step in the growth of our company. We will be able to continue exporting to the US and European markets, which are very promising for our product. » 
"Over the next four years, more than $ 1 billion is that our government will invest as part of Quebec's industrial policy," said Minister Zakaïb. "We want our companies to continue to start, progress, export and innovate so that they remain leaders and offer quality jobs in all our regions. In the long term, we aim for the creation of more than 25,000 sustainable jobs in Quebec. » 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicidustrielle. 
