Terrebonne- The Deputy Officer of Terrebonne and Deputy Parliamentary Leader of the Government, Mr. Mathieu Traversy, announced, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to the Industrial Policy and the Economic Development Bank of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the award of Non-refundable financial assistance of $ 100,000 to the company Inter-CEL Radio Mobile inc. for carrying out a project of more than $ 272,000. 
The financial assistance provided will be used for the design and commercialization of an innovative computer solution for Canadian police vehicles. The interface will be installed inside the dashboard and integrate software that allows you to control the temperature of the vehicle and managing events. Nine software will need to be integrated into this interface, which represents an important technological challenge. The company will also develop a new dashboard and an automatic control of auxiliary batteries. 
"The Lanaudière region can rely on dynamic and visionary companies, such as Inter-CEL mobile radio, to distinguish and prosper," said Mathieu Traversy. "This innovative project will certainly contribute to the influence of our expertise in the telecommunication equipment sector, while generating significant spin-offs for our region. » 
"By supporting the project of the Inter-CEL mobile mobile company, our government reiterates its commitment to supporting the innovation and growth of our businesses, which boost our information technology and communications industry," said Élain Zakaïb. "The promotion and design of innovative products are part of the perspective of Quebec industrial policy 2013-2017. This policy includes a subsidiary of the innovation support program to finance companies that engage in a technological innovation process. » 
Inter-CEL mobile radio is a company specialized in integrating and maintaining computer systems for large companies and government services, mainly for police bodies. It is located in Terrebonne and has 39 employees. 
"Thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec, we can equip new vehicles with our state-of-the-art computer system," supported the Director of Business Operations Inter-Cel Mobile, Mr. Adam Boivin. "We will also design software that will take remote control of the vehicles and will provide a history of the events that took place, in order to quickly solve technical problems causing significant delays to the police. » 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicidustrielle. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
