Sainte-Julie- Minister of Public Safety and MP for Verchères, Stéphane Bergeron, announced, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to the Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakab, the payment of A grant of $ 321,600 to CorporateBiomod ConceptsFor the design and marketing of innovative technology in dermatological treatment. The project, estimated at $ 992,500, consolidate 14 jobs. 
Biomod concepts evolves in the textiles sector and intelligent flexible materials. It develops and markets flexible materials composed of active ingredients that can be applied on the skin for therapeutic or aesthetic purposes. The project announced today is to design and market Pharmacoms technology, which will include continuous cutaneous penetration of topical and pharmaceutical ingredients. 
"Our government is proud to support a strategic company of the niche advanced flexible materials from the Montérégie region," said Stéphane Bergeron. "Niche partners are actively working to recognize the region as a technological center of excellence for the design and manufacture of innovative materials. They focus on a solid network and the implementation of a sustainable development approach. » 
"The current economic context is characterized by the presence of unprecedented international competition that requires companies to innovate in order to distinguish itself," said Zakaïb Élain. "Our government is committed to their success and supports them in their approach, including the Innovation Support Program. Quebec's industrial lapoliticityPrevious several measures to promote innovation, the idea to commercialization, in order to significantly increase the support of industrial projects in innovation. » 
"Our company offers a portfolio of technologies that optimize the performance of the products of the beauty and health sectors and which simplifies their use by consumers," said Karine Théberge, founder and president of Biomod Concepts. "Our project is ambitious and highly innovative, especially for the health sector. Thus, thanks to the pharmacoms technology, we will propose combinations and unique features that can in particular be used for the control of infections or to treat particular dermatological problems. We aspire to increase our clientele in companies active in the fields of dressings, tissues and medical devices. » 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicidustrielle. 
