Bromont- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced, through Investissement Québec, a financial support totaling $ 13 million to Company TELEDYNE DALSA and its subsidiary Teledyne DALSA semiconductor to support the completion of an investment project of $ 67.3 million comprising two components. In all, 300 specialized jobs in the fields of digital imaging and semiconductors will be created in the Montreal and Montérégie regions, while 425 others will be consolidated. 
"Our government is working to make Quebec a high-knowledge society by promising investment in promising technology for our economy," supported Zakaïb. "Our support for TELEDYNE DALSA projects and its subsidiary Teledyne Dalsa semiconductor will result in the training and hiring of highly skilled engineers, researchers and technicians who will shine Quebec's know-how internationally. Creating quality jobs and attracting strategic investments for Quebec, these are the foundations of economic priority Priority! " 
Government assistance consists of a $ 3 million grant, which will be awarded to TELEDYNE DALSA Semiconductor for the first component of the project, estimated at $ 35 million, aimed at increasing the production capacity of MEMS chips (electromechanical microsystems ) A loan of $ 10 million, refundable by royalties, will be paid to Teledyne DALSA for the second component of the project, estimated at $ 32.3 million, which consists of designing and putting in place a production chain for manufacturing production. infrared sensors. 
The company TELEDYNE DALSA is the Canadian division of the American multinational Teledyne Technologies, a leader in the fields of digital imaging and semiconductors. Specialized in research and development of technology products, Teledyne Dalsa employs 90 people at his Montreal plant, while his subsidiary Teledyne Dalsa semiconductor located in Bromont has 335 employees. 
MEMS chips enter the manufacture of a crowd of consumer products from the automotive and telecommunications sectors. In recent years, the MEMS market has increased considerably. As for infrared sensors, they can enter the composition of infrared cameras and sensors that Teledyne Dalsa wishes to possibly manufacture in Quebec. This market is also experiencing strong progression. 
"The realization of our investment project will promote our Quebec soil boom," said Brian Doody, President and CEO of Teledyne Dalsa Inc.. "The full development and production of infrared cameras and sensors will consolidate our predominant position in the field of digital imaging and semiconductors, which is experiencing expanding growth. In addition, the improvement of our production capacity for MEMS chips will allow us to meet the high demand for microsystems, increasingly indispensable in many media. » 
"Quebec must strengthen its status as a high-knowledge society," said Minister Zakaïb. "The initiatives like the one announced today highlight the extent of our technological expertise and our great potential in this area. Quebec industrial lapoliticism also on greater integration of future technologies within businesses to increase the competitiveness of the manufacturing sector. » 
For information on Economic Policy Priority employment, consult the www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueEconomique. 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicitustrielle. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
