Montreal, March 23, 2018 -The leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, accompanied by the member for Rimouski and spokesperson for seniors, Harold Lebel, announced that Ms. Lisette Lapointe joins the team. Official opposition to refine the commitments of political training to support elderly people in Quebec. 
A significant addition 
"I'm proud to see Ladette Lapointe come back to us; This is fully fit for in our goal and our gathering will by next October 1st. His great knowledge of seniors' issues will be very useful to build the best possible proposals, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
The leader of the official opposition also emphasized the experience and expertise of Lapointe Lisette; Among other things, he recalled that she had contributed to the creation of the Secretariat for Autonomous Community Action and Social Initiatives, the Office of Prime Minister Jacques Parizeau, without forgetting that she was spokesperson for seniors when She was a member of Crémazie. 
"I am pleased to bring my energy and ideas to improve the important work that Harold Lebel does to improve the living conditions of seniors. The stakes are numerous: home care, the development of our cities and our villages, transportation, housing ... We must bring a vision and concrete and bold proposals. That's what I'm going to work! For his part insured Lapointe Lisette. 
Harold Lebel abounds in the same direction: "Every day, the news presents elders living in difficult or even unacceptable conditions. We realize, too, that our infrastructures are often unsuitable for the aging of the population, and the lack of local services in rural areas. We need to act. At the same time, we admire all these people, restated and healthy, who volunteer in associations or groupings, who continue to work in their community, who become mentors, caregivers, sponsors or godmother in education, Family supports. We must show them our gratitude! He insisted. 
"In Quebec, seniors live different realities, but each of them represents a wealth for our society and our children. Let's put us attentive. They offer them a society where you can live and age in dignity. Thank you, Lisette, to help improve our commitments to these women and men who have built Quebec, "concluded the official opposition. 
