Lac-Simon- Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs and MP, Mrs. Elizabeth Larouche, met, today, the Chive of the Anishnabe Nation Council of Lac-Simon, Ms. Salomé McKenzie, to discuss several Issues, particularly in terms of natural resources and occupation of the territory, health, social services and public safety. She took advantage of this official visit to announce the award of $ 430,500 financial assistance from the Aboriginal Initiatives II Fund, which will be invested in two structuring projects for the Community. 
On September 9th, the Lac-Simon community proceeded to the first shovel of the land of a brand new multifunctional center. An amount of $ 240,000 will be allocated for the renovation of the former Community Center so that it serves in particular to host a youth house. "It is fundamental that young people from 12 to 17 have a comfortable and safe place to meet, while being supervised by professional facilitators. This promotes their fulfillment and development of their relational skills, and acts as a protective factor in the dangers related to delinquency, consumption and violence, "said Ms. Larouche. 
The Center can also be used by Lac-Simon organizations to keep meetings, conferences or other activities. The renovated center will include a fitness room, a room with five computers connected to the Internet and a large room equipped with a pool table as well as multipurpose tables that can be used for various games. Computer training may also be exempted. 
In addition, a $ 190,500 will be invested in the establishment of a collective transportation service, offering the availability of shuttle companies between Lac-Simon and Val-d'Or, with the possibility of adding destinations. need. This initiative will facilitate the access of the population to the various services offered in the region, as well as training and employment. "This transportation system has become a must for the economic and social development of the community. Workers, students and the general population will benefit, including young Anishahabes who will have better access to the labor market, "supported Minister Larouche. 
The collective transportation service, which will be provided by the Wabak Transport Cooperative, will create five direct jobs. Currently, more than 50% of the Lac-Simon community households do not have a car. 
The financial assistance granted to the Lac-Simon Community comes from the Aboriginal Initiative Fund II? Community Infrastructure, Secretariat for Aboriginal Affairs. The objective of this fund is to support projects that can have significant benefits on the development of Quebec's Aboriginal circles, whether economically, socially or community. 
