Montreal- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, today launched the call for nominations for selection, through Quebec, of 300 performing SMEs, or 100 gazelles (Strong growth companies) and 200 promising companies likely to become gazelles. This initiative is part of the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy by Ms. Zakaïb last October. Interested SMEs can submit their online qualification form from today until March 28, 2014. 
Ultimately, 300 gazelles will be selected over the next three years, at the rate of 100 per year. This selection will be carried out according to rigorous criteria and objectives. Gazelles will receive an integrated service offering from the government, in partnership with several recognized organizations. In addition to the 100 gazelles, 200 promising companies will be selected this year and a separate and advantageous accompaniment will be offered so that they can also propel their organization and eventually climb to the rank of gazelles. 
"Our industrial structure is based on SMEs, the majority of which are small businesses," said Zakaïb Élain. "To achieve its full potential for productivity, innovation and export, the Quebec manufacturing sector must have more medium-sized, more structuring. Thanks to this strategic measure of Quebec industrial lapolitics, gazelles will be able to grow rapidly and surely to become our new florets. » 
The personalized accompaniment of gazelles and promising companies will be offered jointly by the regional offices of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, the regional investment antennas Quebec and the local development centers (CLDs), as part of the regional plans company intervention. Other organizations like Export Quebec and Emploi-Québec will also be involved. The Chambers of Commerce and Industry will also have a role to play, including to publicize the program to their member companies. Gazelles will also have access to advanced formations, many of which will be given by the Beauce Entrepreneurship School. 
Companies wishing to submit their application must meet certain conditions, such as being part of the manufacturing sector or the high value-added tertiary sector, being active for at least three years and count less than 250 full-time employees. 
Companies will be evaluated according to criteria grouped in the following categories: economic influence of the company; improvement of productivity; performance and financial capacity; dynamism of the management team and predisposition to growth. The selection of gazelles and promising companies will be conducted by a national committee composed of persons recognized for their entrepreneurship experience. The composition of the Committee is presented in the appendix. 
"To prosper, our entrepreneurs need personalized support and effective coordination between the various stakeholders," supported the President of the Association of Local Development Centers of Quebec (ACLDQ), Mr. Yves Maurais. "In conjunction with the Quebec government, the ACLDQ and its 120 CLD will put their expertise in support for promising companies, in addition to contributing to the offering offering for gazelles. ACLDQ and its members are proud to be part of this important approach for the future of entrepreneurship in Quebec. » 
The notion of gazelles is not new. It dates from the end of the 20th century and is used both in America and Europe. In addition to their strong growth, gazelles are often characterized by a large adaptive capacity, a solid organizational basis and open leadership. But each of them follows his own course. "We are convinced that particular support, adapted to their reality, will provide our gazelles with rapid and strong growth, and that they will become the real economic pivots of their respective regions," said the minister. "I invite all the performing SMEs of Quebec to submit their application and to seize this unique opportunity to become a jewel of the Quebec economy. » 
To know everything about the selection of gazelles and promising companies, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/gazelles. 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicitustrielle. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
ANNEX 
Composition of the National Committee: 
