Quebec- The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltais, want to clarify that the examples presented in the newspaper this morning had been detected by the department and that Procedures to recover the amounts paid have been undertaken in all cases. It is therefore increasing to suggest, as do the newspaper of Quebec and the Journal of Montreal, that no action is triggered when a fraudulent case is reported. 
"Fraud is unacceptable in all its forms. There are fraudsters in all the spheres of society, we even talk about bandits in tie for a few years, that is to say. We must be vigilant because it is essential for the government that the sums paid to the people who really need it. That's why everything is done to recover the amounts unjustly paid. To pretend that the mess is inactive does not correspond to the truth, "said Minister Maltese. In fact, the sums recovered in 2011-2012 by the Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity Recovery Center are $ 134, $ 9 million and $ 104.1 million for the first eight months of the 'year 2012-2013. 
Contrary to what has been mentioned in some media this morning, all potentially fraudulent cases reported to our department are monitored. In addition, as soon as an agent has a reasonable doubt, an additional verification is carried out and an investigation is open. When the department finds that there is indeed fraud, it commits the necessary actions to recover the amounts due. 
In 2011-2012, 96.9% of the sums paid were adequately. In 2011-12, 5% of the providers had a claim for false declaration and the amounts paid too much as a result of false statements represent 2.6% of the total value of the benefits paid. 
"The government has a duty to ensure that large amounts allocated to helping people actually serve on those who are entitled to it. While respecting his obligation to help and protect those who need it, the government must also act responsibly and ensure sound and fair management of public funds, "concluded the minister. 
