Saguenay- On the occasion of the 175Aniversity of the Foundation of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, the member for Dubuc, Jean-Marie Claveau, announced that the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, appointed the arrival of The company of twenty-one as a historic event under the Cultural Heritage Act. 
"The appointment of the company's arrival of the twenty-one is a first for the region since the entry into force of the Cultural Heritage Act. It attests to the importance of the territory of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean in the history of Quebec and in the heart of our fellow citizens and our fellow citizens, "said Minister Kotto. 
"I look forward to the magnitude of this event today and all the influence it can enjoy. The remembrance of the founders of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean will remain engraved in our memories, "said the member for Dubuc, Jean-Marie Claveau. 
The appointment is a legal gesture that aims to recall the memory of certain characters, events and significant historical places for Quebec, to maintain their place in collective memory and to promote a better knowledge of the history of Quebec. In the case of the company's arrival of the twenty-one, the gesture posed by the Minister of Culture and Communications testifies to the consideration that the Government of Quebec grants these pioneers. 
Recall that, on June 11, 1838, a group of 21 inhabitants from Malbaie in Charlevoix opened the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean to the forest industry. Its incursion into this territory, until then closed to colonization, is considered the event that allowed the development of the region. 
In 1924, a monument was erected at Grande-Baie, known today under the arrondissement of Saguenay Bay, to commemorate the arrival of the company of the twenty-one one. Since 1953, an annual festival takes place on June 11th to highlight the event at the base of the founding of cities and villages in the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region. 
Additional information regarding the company's arrival of twenty-one is available on the website of the Cultural Heritage Directory of Quebec (RPCQ) in [www.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca] (http: //www.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca]. This distribution tool of the Ministry of Culture and Communications makes it possible to discover the richness and diversity of the Quebec cultural heritage by making it accessible to all. Part of the content RPCQ is now located on the Open Data Portal of the Quebec government atwww.donnes.gouv.qc.ca. 
