Montréal- On the occasion of the activities surrounding the 50th anniversary of the Cinémathèque Québec, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, proceeded to the announcement of the award of a financial assistance of $ 3,705,500 to The Cinémathèque Québécoise for the modernization of its equipment and facilities. 
"The Cinémathèque meets a significant mandate of research, archiving and safeguarding a valuable, unique and very diversified cinematographic heritage. With this financial assistance, this place will have new instruments and equipment that will enable it to meet the challenges of the 21st century. Its positioning as a national and international cultural pole will be preserved in a sustainable way, "said Minister Kotto. 
The aid will be used to finance development work and to carry out a technological upgrade of the equipment allowing it to fully realize its mission of conservation and dissemination of national and international cinematographic and television heritage. In the context of digital, the cinematheque must modernize its equipment and practices. This real youth cure will ensure the protection and development of an important pan of the Quebec cinematographic and television heritage, in addition to making the Quebec cultural content accessible. 
Minister Kotto also announced the award of a $ 100,000 grant to support the Cinémathèque in developing a new business plan. Indeed, a committee made up of representatives of the Ministry of Culture and Communications and the Quebec Cinémathèque is currently working to find solutions to the financial issues facing, as well as to review certain elements of governance and management. adequacy with the means available to it. 
The department's contribution is part of the 2013-2023 Infrastructure Plan, released in April. Recall that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 2 billion investments for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebeckers, to measure the associated costs and to make informed choices. 
