Montréal - On the occasion of the Montreal Foundation's anniversary and in the context of the Montreal's 100AnAnSaire Anniversary activities, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announced the designation of Jeanne Mance and Paul Chomedey de Maisonneuve as historical characters, under the Cultural Heritage Act. The minister also announced his intention to classify seven albums and manuscript documents from Jacques Viger, the first Mayor of Montreal. 
"Document our story is a leading recognition gesture that is part of a continuity perspective. I take advantage of the birthday of the Montreal Foundation to designate the emblematic characters of the Foundation of the City, Jeanne Mance and Paul de Chomedey de Maisonneuve. By their actions, they contributed to the rise of the city of Montreal and the entire Quebec nation, "said Minister Kotto. 
Recall that, May 17, 1642, Maisonneuve, Jeanne Mance and their group took possession of the island of Montreal and settled at the place known today under the name Pointe-à-Callière. They founded Ville-Marie, with the mission of creating a community where French and Amerindian converted could live in harmony, in a Christian ideal. Today, 371 years later, the designation of these characters testifies to their crucial role in the history of Montreal and the rise of New France. 
The first mayor of Montreal and important memorial of the first half of the nineteenth, Jacques Viger left abundant and valuable documentation. Minister Kotto signed a notice of classification of the following seven albums and documents: County count of 1825, costumes of women's religious communities in Canada (1854), Canadian memories (around 1830-1856), NEIGHT Canadian (1810), my saberdache (red) (1840-1858), my saberdache (blue) (1839-1841), and panorama of Montreal (around 1826-1827). 
These documents testify to part of the history of Montreal and everyday life in the nineteenth. Under the Cultural Heritage Act, persons and interested groups have a period of sixty days to make representations to the Cultural Heritage Council of Quebec on this Notice of Intent. The Minister has a one-year period to formally classify these documents that are already protected and who can not be transported outside Quebec without the authorization of the Minister of Culture and Communications. 
