Grand Métis-touring in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, carried out the ranking of the Métis gardens and Villa Estevan as a heritage and building site. patrimonial, under the Cultural Heritage Act. He also unveiled the results of the first cultural heritage call call, which will total $ 649,500 for the implementation of 28 structuring projects for Quebec. 
Minister Kotto has today formalized the ranking of the Métis gardens as a heritage site and Villa Estevan as a heritage building, considering that these properties are of a heritage interest for both their historical, landscape, ethnological values and architectural. 
"It is a horticultural and historical heritage among the most interesting of the Eastern America that we place today under the protection of the law, a place of interpretation whose reputation extends well beyond Our borders. I want to greet the exemplary work of those who work to transmit the legacy of the Métis gardens and who advocate for their conservation as treasures of our national heritage, "said Minister Kotto. 
The ranking is a legal status attributed to a heritage property as a building, a site, a document or an object and aims to guarantee its protection permanently by preserving its heritage values. The ranking also ensures knowledge and enhancement of the property from the community. 
The minister took the opportunity to announce the results of the first call for cultural heritage projects. In December 2012, following the entry into force of the Cultural Heritage Act, this first call for projects was launched with the aim of encouraging local, regional and national organizations and municipalities and MRCs to Participate actively in its implementation and to highlight the distinctive elements of cultural heritage. 
"All the selected projects constitutes excellent grind, because it embodies this right balance of originality and experience, shared vision and community participation. Its diversity now corresponds to the new realities of our national heritage, "said Minister Kotto. 
The Ministry of Culture and Communications has received a total of 135 applications for financial assistance, including 28 were retained. Many of the projects will put forward the new dimensions covered by law, either intangible heritage, patrimonial cultural landscapes and historic events and places. 
The financial assistance of the Ministry of Culture and Communications comes from component of the Quebec Cultural Heritage Fund. The fund aims to give ways to preserve the witnesses of a rich and unique history, for the benefit of present and future generations. It acts as a powerful lever, making it possible to support more projects to safeguard and promote our collective heritage. 
The next Cultural Heritage Project Call will be launched on September 9, 2013. All information is available on the Ministry of Culture and Communications website at address www.mcc.gouv.qc.ca. 
Additional information regarding the Métis gardens and Villa Estevan, as well as all the heritage elements entered in the cultural heritage register, is available on the website of the Cultural Heritage Directory of Quebec (RPCQ), atwww.patrimoine-cultural .gouv.qc.ca. This dissemination tool of the Ministry of Culture and Communications makes it possible to discover the richness and diversity of the Quebec cultural heritage by making it accessible to all. Part of the RPCQ content is now on the Open Data Portal of the Government of Quebec, atwww.donnes.gouv.qc.ca. 
