Quebec - Member for Taillon and official opposition spokesperson for higher education, Marie Malavoy, as well as the hon. Member for Richelieu and Spokesperson for Treasury Board, Public Service and Government Services, Sylvain Simard, welcomed a legislative provision for free software. 
This morning, on the occasion of the detailed study of Bill 133 on the government's IT resources, the member for Taillon returned to the charge on the issue of free software, a formal commitment of the Quebecois Party for months. 
"In the law, this legislative provision will ensure that decision-makers in the state apparatus will now have to take the necessary steps to ensure that free software is considered when it comes to modernizing the computer systems of departments and Organizations. It was time, "said Marie Malavoy, who is also pleased that the government should now ensure the sustainability of its digital heritage. 
The Parti Québécois wishes to congratulate all stakeholders who advocate for the use of free software by public administration. "Even if the fight for greater use of free software is not completed, the measures adopted represent a breakthrough. You have to rejoice and persist for the rest of things, "said Sylvain Simard. 
The Parti Québécois adopted, during his last Congress, a proposal which stipulates that a sovereignist government: "will open the computing tenders to free software and will put in place upon his arrival a consulting group, free of interest. To guide it on the turn to be taken. This simple measure could save tens of millions to the government, in addition to offering more flexibility. The motto: "Modernity". 
"The adoption of these amendments to Bill 133 is a step in the right direction for Quebec to put on the diapason of several countries of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) that adopted in recent years. Policies and measures to promote and promote these free software in their administrations, "concluded Marie Malavoy. 
