Quebec- While this morning the consultations on Bill 44, An Act to strengthen the fight against smoking, the member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for social services, protection of youth , home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisé, recalls that every week, since the last revision of the Tobacco Act, 10 years ago, 250 young people start smoking; It is therefore urgent that the changes aimed at strengthening it come into effect. 
"We are asking the Minister of Public Health, Lucie Charlebois, to do the necessary for Bill 44 to be adopted as soon as possible. We welcome the proposed advances to better protect the health of Quebeckers, but consider that additional measures remain relevant to reducing the smoking rate in Quebec at 10% within 10 years. We want these consultations to be an opportunity to exchange with the groups and work together for the benefit of all Quebeckers, "said the member for Rosemont. 
The Parti Québécois, through amendments, intends to improve the proposed bill. "We call in particular that neutral packaging becomes mandatory for tobacco products; Thus, it would be avoided that they exercise an attraction on young people. Countries like Ireland, France, the United Kingdom and Australia have already chosen to adopt such regulation. Then, we will propose that a moratorium be imposed for each new tobacco product; That is, before to market, companies should obtain an authorization from the Ministry of Health. We are convinced that in this way, the very great creativity of the industry are slowed, in addition to allowing the law to adapt to new products as and when they appear, "continued Jean-François Lisée. 
The official opposition therefore intends to participate actively in consultations that begin. "Because as an elected, we have the responsibility to protect the health of thousands of people, we have no time to lose, but we also have the duty to carry out the work with rigor. We will hear about thirty groups; These, like the minister, can expect all our collaboration when it comes to better protecting public health, "the spokesman concluded. 
