Quebec, on May 30, 2017- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the Spokesperson for Work, Marc Bourcier, find the disability of the Liberal government to create consensus and arrive at Negotiated solutions - that we are talking about the construction sector, the statement of state lawyers or the government engineers. Although they have tried to improve the bill to make it acceptable, before the Liberal refusal to come back to the reason and balance, the members of the official opposition voted against the special law. 
IN SHORT 
"The government has failed on all fronts. First, he was unable to avoid conflict. Then, to fix it, he had to adopt a special law. An unbalanced law, in addition, because it does not refer the parties to their obligation to negotiate and reach a satisfactory conclusion. It would have been possible for the government to do otherwise, but he preferred to be heard, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
In addition, in the eyes of the official opposition, the law passed that night is possibly illegal, but certainly arbitrary, too. "By Saskatchewan, the Supreme Court has decreed that in the absence of a right to strike, employers and employees must have access to a system that makes it possible to solve equitably, effectively and promptly their disputes; In short, that they must be on an equal footing when the right to strike is withdrawn, which is absolutely not the case here; The Liberal government gives itself the right to dictate to the referee the subjects of arbitration, "he illustrated. 
"Indeed, the Minister of Labor, who represents a government which is the first client, the first employer of the employees of the construction, will be able to decide on the subjects on which the referee should bend, brought Marc Bourcier. It has never seen each other. The minister arrogates a right that is outlawed. Yesterday, we filed amendments to make the law acceptable, in order to truly allow the conclusion of negotiated agreements, but the minister refused to amend the substance of his bad law; We could not approve it. » 
