Quebec, April 16, 2020 - The member of the Madeleine Islands and spokesperson for the Quebecois Healthy Party, Joël Arseneau, asks the Minister of Health and Social Services, Danielle McCann, to expand The protection of alert launchers in the health network. Specifically, it claims that more entities are recognized as public bodies within the meaning of the law facilitating the disclosure of wrongdoing against public bodies. 
IN SHORT 
At the moment, the law facilitating the disclosure of wrongdoing against public bodies applies to public and private institutions agreed upon within the meaning of the Act respecting health services and social services. Now, unauthorized CHSLDs, such as Chsld Herron, escape this law; As a result, warning launchers are not protected against potential retaliation. It must change. "All health workers must be able to benefit from legal protection. Often, they are the first to see the gaps of the system, or neglect. They should not be afraid to denounce, "said the member for the Islands of La-Madeleine. 
Here are the entities that, according to the Parti Québécois, should be recognized within the meaning of the alert launcher law: 
With this proposal, the Parti Québécois believes that more problematic or inadmissible situations will be updated. "People have to be encouraged, assure them that they do not risk anything. For example, if the HERRON CHSLD staff had been protected by the alert launcher law, it was hard to bet that the situation would have been well known before, "said the member. 
On the other hand, according to the current law, a wrongdoing must present "a serious risk to the health or safety of a person" to be publicly denounced, after the information has been transmitted to the police. The Parti Québécois also proposes to expand the scope and interpretation of this provision, so as to prevent any form of reprisals against, for example, a nurse or a attendant who would denounce inadequate care. 
Joël Arseneau claims an immediate action of Minister McCann. He recalled that last January, she had stated that "the Omertà in the health community is finished and it's unacceptable. Employees must be able to express themselves freely without risk of reprisals. " "I ask him to clearly reiterate his position, to be heard of all. Privately as to the public, the law of silence does not have its place; The health, safety and dignity of people are at stake and have to prevail over any other consideration, "he insisted. 
