Quebec, November 28, 2017- In the company of representatives of the Maritime Site Davie de Lévis, the Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesman for the Maritime Strategy and responsible for the Chaudière-Appalaches Region , Harold Lebel, and the head of the Capitale-Nationale region, Agnès Maltese, denounced the liberal inaction, both in Ottawa and Quebec. 
IN SHORT 
"The federal government is currently doing a considerable productive investment, estimated at over $ 76 billion. And less than 1% of this amount, or some 650 million, is invested in Quebec. While people from here contribute to these investments by paying tens of billions in taxes, it is in Vancouver and Halifax they will take, "said the official opposition. 
"When we questioned them last week, the Minister Delegate to Maritime Affairs, Jean d'Amour, and Prime Minister Philippe Couillard stated that Ottawa had not required a second suppressive ship. However, according to a report made public, it is totally false! What did the Quebec government do to pressure Ottawa? Prime Minister Philippe Couillard timidly requested the federal government to act. It is clearly insufficient, we have to insist, to make the reason in Ottawa, "added Harold Lebel. 
"The Davie site has proven itself, recalls Agnes Maltese. Two years ago, it has been designated a better shipyard in North America! In addition, the ASTERix supply ship was delivered in time and without cost overrun. There is therefore no reason for our workers to continue to show their know-how. The National Assembly must speak with one voice and demand the fair share of Quebec with respect to these important federal investments. " 
"Only last week, the regions of the Capitale-Nationale and the Chaudière-Appalaches have lost more than 100 jobs related to Davie; Some 100 families will therefore have to compose with a salary less at the time of the holiday season. These people can count on us; We will continue to support them. We will ensure that the Liberal governments, both in Ottawa and Quebec, cease to ignore them and finally spend action, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
