Quebec, on September 19, 2017- In the case of the legalization of cannabis, the leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesman for public health, prevention and healthy lifestyle, Sylvain Pagé , and the critic for agriculture, André Villeneuve, claim a tight supervision for the substance and its derivatives in Quebec. They presented the official plan for the official opposition, given the fact that the government is not ready and that the CAQ has only improvised since the beginning of the debate. 
"This debate and the speed with which Quebec must respond we were imposed by Ottawa. Nevertheless, the Liberal government was slow to act, while we have known for a long time that legalization would become reality. Even the minister barrette admitted last week that it was going too fast. However, today we present our strong plan for the tight supervision of cannabis, "said the official opposition. 
"I participated seriously with all the consultations that the government held on this subject. Our proposal is rigorous and prepared: we want a tight supervision, always having public health and safety. There are several fundamental issues in this case: the legal age of consumption, places allowed, sale and distribution, production, derivatives ... The approach we propose is balanced and logical, "added Sylvain Pagé. 
IN SHORT 
"First, an important awareness and prevention campaign will have to be set up, from January 2018. Then, the consumption age must be consistent with that of tobacco and alcohol: 18 years old. With respect to sales and distribution, do not create a new heavy and bureaucratic state society; Rather, use the existing expertise and means at the SAQ and Loto-Québec for the marketing responsible for a product with a significant impact on public health and safety. Thus, the Parti Québécois proposes the creation of a subsidiary of the SAQ whose mission would be distinct; It would distribute cannabis, in different points of sale of those for alcohol. The Crown corporation will also be responsible for retail and online sales because it already holds expertise in these areas; Note only that strict control over the identification and age of the buyer will have to be made. Finally, to fix the selling price, we should use the expertise of Loto-Québec, which holds extensive experience with the marketing of a product which we collectively want to limit the maximum incidence, "said the spokesperson. 
"As for the edible derivatives, we denounce the improvisation of Ottawa. The federal bill does not allow them immediately, only "in a few months". But it is a growing share of the illegal cannabis market and, if the new legal market does not take care of it, it is equivalent to letting this niche in the hands of organized crime, "added Sylvain. 
A word to say about production 
"The official opposition considers that cannabis consumed in Quebec must be produced in Quebec and that the Government of Quebec has a word to say, minimally. Quebec should demand the power to supervise production, as for any other agricultural product. In addition, to contribute to regional economic development, producers should be encouraged to settle in rural communities. Finally, as for the sale, François Legault wants to entrust it to the SAQ, while it has already proposed its privatization or the end of its monopoly. Does he trust him, or not? Wanted to know André Villeneuve. 
"We have a solid, zero slogan plan. The CAQ has a slogan and no plan; The Liberals have a bad plan and full of slogans. After being said not by Ottawa, the Liberals will present a bill that will greatly improve. For its part, François Legault improvises and lacks rigor by asking the federal government not to impose GST on cannabis for Quebec, alone, to impose the QST in addition to a specific tax. However, since Quebec has signed an agreement on the harmonization of sales taxes, it can no longer impose a TVQ on a product that would be free of GST. Quebec has also affected federal financial compensation for this purpose. Since Quebec will manage almost all responsibilities related to the legalization of cannabis, we rather ask Ottawa to increase its transfers equal to the GST perceived on sales, to offset the inherent costs, "concluded. François Lisée. 
