Quebec, on July 4, 2017 -The official opposition on health, accessibility to home care and support at home, Diane Lamarre, expressed the support of the official opposition to Holy Cho Physicians -Justine who calls on the Liberal government to repair the 2015 error, while the Minister of Health had reinforced an administrative centralization of Chum and Chu Sainte-Justine. 
IN SHORT 
"We are committed to canceling this decision that does not benefit from the children and parents of Quebec. After two and a half years of barrette reform, the decision centers in the network are more than ever distant from patients and the guidelines that come from above are often absolutely not adapted to the reality of patients and professionals in the field. This unfounded centralization is particularly harmful for an institution with a particular mission as CHU Sainte-Justine. Its autonomy must be restored to maintain its specificity that has ensured that the institution becomes a center of excellence in world pediatric medicine, "said Diane Lamarre. 
False reason 
"The only argument put forward by the Minister Barrette is the transition to adult care. However, the Sainte-Justine CHU deals with children from all over Quebec and the transition must therefore be done with each of the major adult Quebec centers for the rest of the treatment. It can only be done with the Chum, it's a false reason! , "Said the spokesperson. 
"Mother-child care is already an important transition between two crucial periods of life: pregnancy and childhood. Elsewhere, we recognize the particular expertise required. In Toronto, the Hospital for Sick Children has its own autonomy, expertise and research. CHU Sainte-Justine enjoys unique expertise, international influence, a foundation dedicated to mother care and a research center that I had the privilege of recently visiting, "A-T -The pursued. 
"It is not a question of rejecting the CHUM, but to take note that these two institutions have very different missions and that the preservation of the single mission of CHU Sainte-Justine passes through complete, both clinical. administrative. Sainte-Justine must become an institution totally dedicated to the health of the youngest and not to be a built-in establishment in a larger set. All the administrators of the institution must lead to, it is his mission to provide advanced care for the children and mothers of Quebec, "added Diane Lamarre. 
OptiLabdéjà, Laboratory technicians of CHU Sainte-Justine are administratively attached to the CHUM because laboratory analyzes will be transferred from the first to the second. Keep these analyzes away and delaying results through unjustified centralization is an obstacle to research and quality care. The consequences of certain health problems on the pregnant woman and her born baby as well as the vulnerability of newborns often do not forgive any delay. 
