On October 27, 1995, 25-year-old day, Quebeckers were the witnesses of a turning point in the referendum campaign: tens of thousands of Canadians had converged to our metropolis for, so-called, tell us how much They loved us and wanted us. It was the famous love-in. 
But this declaration of love was not one; Instead, it was the expression of their own political interests and their commitment to Canada, in which Quebec was a threat to deal with all the tactical means, leaving to commit illegal acts and to make false promises. 
A controversial gathering 
This gathering was at the origin of a huge controversy, which continues today. First, because it has been funded in part by ROC corporations - what the Chief Electoral Officer of Quebec judged inadmissible. 
In other words, this deployment, this demonstration of "love" was in fact an electoral fraud. Moreover, it is the whole strategy of the camp of the NO who was based on deception, exactly as in 1980. 
Let us remember Jean Chrétien holding this speech that can easily be attributed to Trudeau Father: "We will make the necessary changes in order [that] Canada enters the twenty-first century to coast to coast and proud of its two official languages . " No, it was not love, but of a suction. The suction is even more obvious when one considers the spell that awaited Quebecers following the victory of the NO. 
The examples are numerous: the legal intimidation of the independentists through the Plan B of Jean Chrétien, the expansion of the Ottawa spending power in order to create loyalty and dependence from several Quebec sectors towards the federal government, the federal Erasing our national symbols and corruption of our elites through the sponsorship scandal, the increase in Quebec bashing, the weakening or corruption of Quebec institutions that can remind us that we exist and that we can do things differently, Thanks to the work of tandem charest-rage, etc. 
Make Quebec a province like the others, as Philippe Couillard said: the federal government's strategy following the 1995 referendum defend was not focused on the search for means for the integration of Quebec into Canada, but Well towards the weakening, even the annihilation of the sovereignist movement in particular, but also of the Quebec specificity in general. 
No change 
Twenty-five years later, not only did things have really changed, but they have herself precipitated our nation in a linguistic, cultural and undeniable economic decline. Every time, in fact, that Quebeckers are trying to assert itself, to define how they want to live, they are the subject of insults of the presumptuous English-speaking media from across Canada. 
Canadian courts do not do much better, besides. Their mission: to break and annihilate the law 101 and that on secularism, among others. In the case of the first, the work is already well started. For the second, SAPE English efforts have put the table. 
To return to the theme of love, we should rather talk about "passive-aggressive" approach to describe the link between Canada vis-à-vis Québec. 
However, this passive-aggressive link, which aims first and foremost to keep control over Quebec, mine our well-being and our esteem of ourselves. The consequences of the 1995 referendum defender have been numerous, but one of the most important remains the impact of this defeat on our ability to believe in ourselves as a people. 
It's as if part of the federalist footshafts and manipulation had really had the effect of erasing part of our collective consciousness, part of our desire to exist. Our main collective project that failed, we have been looking for something else, as if to forget. 
A project of company to complement 
How many times did politicians have been reproached to have no project of society? Yet, ours remains to be done; This is the natural culmination of our political status in a normal people status. 
It is at this precise moment of our history that the notion of courage intervenes, that of completing an unfinished destiny. Once rid of our temporary unfitness to believe in ourselves and watch over our own interests, we will get there. 
With hindsight, the moral of this story is: we have been for too many years in an unhealthy relationship that no longer works and mine our esteem of ourselves as our prosperity, but the other will repeat us that we Love and that he will change when he feels hot soup. 
Do you believe it? For my part, I believe that this bad movie, if we do not end, guarantees one thing: our decline. Quebec and Canada paralyze each other and prevent themselves from moving forward; The only way for Canada to express a form of love to Quebecers would be to collaborate on their legitimate approach towards justice, freedom and democracy, to become, as is the case for the vast majority of peoples of the earth, a country. 
