Quebec, on December 11, 2017 -The official opposition spokesperson for employment, social solidarity and poverty control, Harold Lebel, responded to the Deposit of Governmental Action for Economic Inclusion and Social participation 2017-2023. "The government plan contains some positive elements, but also reveals a lot of missed opportunities. In addition, the measures will only enter into force after the elections, while we waited for this plan for 2 years! He said from the outset. 
In Bre. 
"The government plan, which has been expected for 2 years, has some positive elements. We salute, inter alia, the significant increase in support for people with severe job constraints, which needed a lot; But they will have to have lived 5 years of misery before being recognized. In addition, free for service providers will improve access, and will undoubtedly be beneficial for school perseverance as well as to prepare children up to school, including through educational activities, " Underlined Harold Lebel. 
In the eyes of the spokesman, however, the announced plan also reveals many missed opportunities. "Food pensions were expected to be removed from the calculation; They will not be. As for people as a couple, they remain penalized. Then raise the exemption from working income per month to $ 200 to avoid a penalty, it's insufficient. Then, the coercive measures contained in the Objective Employment program are maintained, while we denounce them from the beginning. Finally, the plan seems modest to us for reintegration companies, which is particularly a shame, "he continued. 
"It is also regrettable that the entry into force of the measures announced is only planned in 3 or 4 years, while the needs are immediate. Certainly, Quebeckers can count on the official opposition; We will be particularly attentive and vigilant when studying the bill. In the context where Laloi aimed at combating poverty and social exclusion its 15 years, we will require real consultation, "concluded Harold Lebel. 
