Quebec, on April 7, 2021 -The Member of Matane-Matapédia and parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois, Pascal Bérubé, believes that the government would have advantaged to review the way it holds its press conferences on the health situation if it wishes to maintain Accession of the population. In particular, it must replace the current formula with a complete and transparent disclosure of announcements and decisions through communications, which will be followed by a press conference to answer the questions of journalists. 
IN SHORT 
The Parti Québécois believes that in order to maintain the accession of the population to sanitary measures, the government must review its approach. 
- the disclosure of information elements to certain media before the press conferences must cease; This leads to a disinterest of the public.- All relevant information is not mentioned during press conferences; Non-known people have consequences for the population and the work of the media .- To promote transparency and precision, the Parti Québécois proposes the complete publication of health decisions through communications by sector, as well as the publication Public health notices in support of these decisions, at least one hour before press conferences - which will be devoted to answering the questions of journalists. 
Pascal Bérubé and his colleagues deputies all noticed the same, in recent days: in their current form, the government's press conferences no longer meet the objectives. "The citizens tell us: it does not work, the message does not pass, among other things, because the government discloses advance information targeted to certain media. As a result, people are less attentive, saying that anyway, the Prime Minister will only repeat what they already know. We must absolutely rethink the formula, "he said. 
More broadly, the Parti Québécois questions the choices that are made by the government. "During the appointments of 1 pm or 5:00 pm, it seems to know each other knowingly certain issues or some ads, which inevitably creates confusion. Last Tuesday, for example, no mention of the obligation to wear a continuous mask at work, changes in the distancing in theaters and cinemas, or the prohibition of a red zone to A yellow zone. Why spend voluntarily in silence certain measures, even if they may seem unpopular? How can journalists do adequate work if part of the information is not disclosed to them when asking their questions? ", Wonders the member. 
Pascal Bérubé is of the opinion that by doing so, the government harms the dissemination of the message. "He relies on journalists to pick or deduct relevant information, while on the contrary, they must have engaged in hand to enlighten the population! The media is an essential link to ensure social cohesion through this historical crisis; Their work must be facilitated, "he insisted. 
To improve the dissemination of information, the parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois offers an approach using a tool that has proven itself: the press release. "One hour before each press conference, the government could issue all news releases related to the pandemic, each affecting a specific activity sector or a particular region and containing all relevant information. Then, at the press conference, it could clarify and answer questions. Thus, the government would ensure full access to information. Finally, to further improve transparency, public health opinions would also be published, as we have been asking for months, "also recalled Pascal Bérubé. 
"The government must remember that the press conferences that it is convened in connection with the pandemic are not opportunities to highlight or install its political narrative, but many times to give clear and complete information to The population of Quebec, "concluded the member for Matane-Matapédia. 
- 30 - 
SOURCE : 
Anne-Sophie Desprez 
Communications Coordinator 
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois 
418 271-0485 
@As is NAT. Second. After rubbing 
