Quebec- Minister responsible for Government Administration, President of the Treasury Board and Government House Leader, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, in the presence of the Minister of Public Safety, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, today tabled a bill on public contract integrity. The proposed legislative changes aim to ensure that companies that want to deal with the state demonstrate their integrity by obtaining an authorization to contract. 
"The confidence of the population is shaken. It is urgent to give a big bar stroke to ensure that the contracts are attributed to integral companies, which deserve the confidence of all citizens. It is time to restore healthy competition in public contracts. All types of contracts will be submitted to the law, whether the construction contracts, acquisition of goods or services. This same requirement will apply to public bodies, municipalities and Crown corporations. Our goal is clear: it must be paying to be honest, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
Towards a healthy management of public contracts, any company that wishes to contract with a public body, a Crown corporation or municipality will have to demonstrate that it and its leaders demonstrate integrity and deserves public confidence. The Financial Markets Authority (AMF) will be responsible for issuing and withdrawing an authorization to contract to any business that wants to do business with the state. 
"The AMF, which already exercises powers with respect to monetary service companies, will make its decision on the notice of the Permanent Unit Anti-Corruption (UPAC)," said Minister Bergeron. 
This authorization to contract will be valid for a period of three years and the AMF will have to maintain the list of authorized companies to contract with the state. In addition, UPAC will make a day before this list and may, at any time, send an opinion to the AMF to revoke an authorization, if necessary. Any public body wishing to conclude a contract, or any company wishing to enter into a subcontract, shall refer to this list to ensure the probity of companies. 
"Obtaining a public contract is not a right, but a privilege. The state has the duty to require evidence of their integrity before they can bid for a public contract, or even before continuing the execution of a contract, "said Minister Bergeron. 
Transparency and fairness for all  The President of the Treasury Board indicated that currently, Crown corporations are not considered as contractors within the meaning of the Public Bodies Agreement Act (LCOP) and have a great room for maneuver in the implementation of of their contracts. 
The subjugation of Crown corporations to all the provisions of the LCOP will enhance transparency in their contractual processes. We will ensure that the contracts relating to the contracts concluded by the Crown corporations are public, as they are currently for all public bodies, both for the health and education networks and for Government administration. 
"Our government's goal is clear: to make work at the best cost, by companies that have demonstrated their probity and integrity. With this bill, we want to act at the source, slowing access to public contracts to companies that do not have the necessary probity. This is how we will be able to regain the trust of citizens, not only towards the processes of contract granting, but also towards their public institutions. Also want it to be the will of all political parties, "concluded Minister Bédard. 
