Quebec- The Minister of Justice and Minister responsible for the fight against homophobia, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, is pleased to make public the balance sheet of the vast media awareness campaign to combat homophobia, launched by the government of Quebec last March. 
At the end of the campaign, the SOM Survey House was mandated to measure the impact of this government campaign on the perceptions and attitudes of Quebeckers with regard to sexual diversity. 
"We made the bold bet of surprising without shocking and bringing each of us to wonder about his degree of personal openness. This questioning is the basis for a real and lasting change for a more open and richer Quebec, a Quebec for all, "said Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud. 
The awareness campaign to combat homophobia included the broadcast of two television advertisements in French and a radio message in English. In addition to the messages, an interactive website invited visitors to assess their ease with regard to sexual diversity and to learn more about the different faces of homophobia and available resources, as well as react to scenarios. 
The assessment of the awareness campaign to combat the minophobia of the Ministry of Justice shows very good results, particularly with respect to the penetration of the campaign: more than three quarters of Quebec adults (76%) have been joined by one or other of its components. This success is mainly attributable to television advertisements; In this regard, note that the male version of advertising has been further noticed than the female version. 
Among the Quebeckers exposed to the campaign, about one in five states that advertisements have led to reflect on his own attitudes towards sexual diversity, thus joining the goal. More than a third of Quebeckers have discussed advertisements with their relatives or their co-workers. 
In addition, 4% of Quebecers exposed to the campaign say they have changed opinion with regard to homosexuality after seeing advertisements. This proportion is significantly higher, among others, among those who were little or not at all open to sexual diversity (14%). Knowing that the majority believes personally very or quite open to sexual diversity, we can say that these changes in opinions and attitudes among the individuals concerned are positive. 
"If the government has chosen to invest to achieve this campaign, it is that there are still homophobic attitudes and behaviors in Quebec society. By this awareness campaign to combat homophobia, the first of its kind in Quebec and has only few equivalents elsewhere in the world, the Government of Quebec laid the basis of the actions to come to counter this scourge, " Declared Minister Bertrand Saint-Arnaud 
It should be remembered that this campaign is part of the flagship measures of the 2011-2016 Government Homophobia Action Plan. This plan provides for a second phase to this awareness campaign in 2014-2015. 
The campaign evaluation report is available online: www.justice.gouv.qc.ca/homophobia. 
