Québec- On the occasion of an event held in Montreal and to highlight the achievement of the 2012 target of falling greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, the Parti Québécois is more than preoccupied with the lack of Leadership of the Liberal government on this issue and calls on the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment and Fighting Climate Change, David Heurtel, to spend speech on acts. 
"The achievement of Quebec's decline in GHG emissions from 1990 to 2012 is proof that citizen mobilization and environmental mobilization has made it possible to sensitize elected officials to the reality of climate change," said Sylvain Gaudreault, spokesperson for the official opposition in terms of sustainable development and environment. 
The Parti Québécois can only note that many positions of the Liberal government of Jean Charest would have directly threatened the achievement of the targets of the Kyoto Protocol, if it had been from this mobilization that slowed the Liberal government. Let's only think about the projects aborted under the pressure of the environmental groups: the project of the supinestration of a natural gas thermal power plant, the Rabaska project of construction of a LNG terminal, as well as the exploration and exploitation of gases shale. 
In this sense, the Parti Québécois today wishes that Minister Hrétiel continues the work started by his predecessor Yves-François Blanchet to achieve increased and marked recognition of the work of environmental groups. These must also obtain better financing to carry out the work towards environmental awareness and action as to the fight against climate change and the adaptation that they order. 
On the other hand, Mr. Gaudreault is concerned about the Couillard government's decision to revise the goals of falling GHG emissions, from -25% to -20% compared to 1990. He asks Minister Hettel to no longer. Waiting and unveiling the climate change plan that will define the actions to be undertaken by 2020. "Minister HROLETEL must honor the Liberal Party's commitment to convene within 100 days the Advisor Committee on the Fight against Change. climatic, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
