Quebec- The member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for social services, the protection of youth, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the member for Verchères and spokesperson In the field of Canadian intergovernmental cases, Stéphane Bergeron, ask the Minister Delegate to Rehabilitation, the Protection of Youth and Public Health, Lucie Charlebois, to make the agreement she signed with the federal government , confirming his abandonment of the Quebec approach to the fight against homelessness. 
"In this agreement in principle, Minister Lucie Charlebois completely denied the Quebec approach to controlling homelessness. Two-thirds of the money will be granted according to the "housing first" approach, a federal approach that addresses a single facet of the phenomenon of homelessness. Of course, housing is an aspect of the problem, but to devote the majority of project funding is a denial of the forces of Quebec on the fight against homelessness, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
Minister Lucie Charlebois must renegotiate the agreement 
"We are not just asking the minister to respect the transparency commitment of his Prime Minister by making the agreement in principle. She has to renegotiate the agreement with the federal government. Community organizations currently have to file their projects, despite themselves, forced to deal with the Limiting Vision of Ottawa. This is not in this way that we will manage to effectively support people facing precariousness. The Quebec approach has proven itself; Minister Charlebois must do everything to preserve and enforce it, "added Stéphane Bergeron. 
"While Québec successfully uses a diversity of approaches, Ottawa has imposed that 65% of the sums are devoted to a single variable, the housing in the strict sense. The abdication of the Government facing Ottawa will ensure that thousands of people - women, men, seniors, young people, families, even who live a homelessness, who find themselves on the street, without Resource, will lose the support they receive from our community organizations, "added the member for Rosemont. 
Jean-François Lisé recalls that the signed agreement explicitly contravenes the unanimous motions voted by the National Assembly on April 30, 2013 and 24 September 2014 on the necessary respect for the Quebec approach to homelessness. 
