Quebec - "The parliamentary committee on the roaming that took place today confirms one thing: the Liberal government's action plan does not work. It is urgent that Quebec has a real roaming policy. " 
This is what the member for Saint John and spokesman of the official opposition in employment, social solidarity and poverty struggle, Dave Turcotte as part of the mandate of initiative To take stock of the government's homelessness plan. Dave Turcotte was accompanied by deputies of Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Martin Lemay, Marguerite-d'youville, Monique Richard, and Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, to hear the Minister Delegate to Social Services, Dominique Vien, the Single and Traveling People Aid Network (RAPSIM) and the Quebec Solidarity Network (RSIF). 
The hearing of the Minister Vien in parliamentary committee will see what she seeks to deny the facts. "While the Minister says that 80% of the 70 measures of the roaming interdepartmental action plan have been carried out or are under way, there is a significant increase in demand in homeowners' refuges," continued Dave Turcotte. . 
The member for Saint John emphasized that the number of nights increased from 3477 between 2009-2010 and 2010-2011 in men's shelters in Montreal. On the side of the refuges for women, the situation is similar. Every day, women's refuges in Montreal must refuse access to dozens of them. 
Cycling brackets to reduce homelessness!  In the document tabled today, the Government submits that in its fight against homelessness, several colleges and universities have set up health menus at price equal to or lower than other menus, they have favored active travel (by installing Cycling media, pedestrian corridors, for example). 
"What is curious and embarrassing is to see how the Liberal government seeks to improve its assessment with things that have no connection with the phenomenon of homelessness. How does the addition of bicycle supports in CEGEPs and universities and the establishment of health menus contribute to reduce homelessness? In question Dave Turcotte. 
For the Parti Québécois, you have to work upstream by strengthening intensive monitoring initiatives in the community with people with chronic mental health problems, in order to promote their social and economic integration and reduce the risk of new hospitalizations and roaming. "The Parti Québécois program proposes a real homelessness policy and it is exactly what Quebec needs to make an effective approach to homelessness," has concluded Dave Turcotte.- 
