Quebec, September 8, 2016 -The Member of Saint John and spokesperson for the Employment, Fight against Poverty, Social Solidarity, Vocational Training, Adult Education, Literacy, and For youth, Dave Turcotte, is pleased to highlight the 50th anniversary of the International Literacy Day by touring various middle players. 
This year, the theme of the day is "Reading the past, write the future". "It's particularly significant," says Dave Turcotte. Because plus the literacy rate will be raised in Quebec, less we will be likely to repeat the mistakes of the past, plus Quebeckers and Quebeckers will be free and bloom, and the more our collective future will be brilliant. » 
The spokesperson therefore invites the Liberal government to fight illiteracy one of its priorities. "The latest statistical data show that more than half of Quebeckers are struggling with severe reading and writing gaps. More vulnerable, and experiencing difficulties in functioning normally in society, especially in the digital age, their contribution to progress and collective well-being is therefore limited. Ultimately, it's all Quebec that undergoes the impacts of this sad assessment because our prosperity is reduced. If the government really wants to tackle the problem, instead of cutting in help and support services, it can count on the collaboration of the elected representatives of the Quebecois, "he continued. 
On the ground all the day in the morning, in Saint-Jérôme, Dave Turcotte met with the Alpha Corner of the Adult Education Documentation Center and the Status of Women. In the afternoon, he went to Montreal to discuss with representatives of the illiteracy network. Finally, later during the day, Dave Turcotte will attend the 6th scholarships "I do not give up, I win! From the Foundation for Literacy to Espace Desjardins, Montreal. 
"The Parti Québécois has long been in the field to support the actors who struggle to eradicate illiteracy; It is essential for the economic, social and cultural development of Quebec, "summed up the hon. Member. 
