IsaeGebecanu de Rosemont and College Debian in Practices of Salandi Du Projet de la Projet Royalty of Renforcer LA Luttken in the ting, there's a luigi-limhemation. 
"I am very disappointed that the Liberal government refused to adopt our motion, filed this morning in collaboration with the other parties, asking the Government to announce the holding of the hearings in the parliamentary committee concerning this important bill," said Jean-François Lisée. 
A letter signed by several associations and groups, who request that Bill 44, No. 44, was studied and adopted, was sent to the government. Among the signatories include the Quebec coalition for tobacco control, the Quebec pulmonary association, the Non-Smoking Rights Association, the Quebec Student Sports Network, the Quebec Council on Tobacco and Health Canada Cancer Society, as well as the Foundation of Heart and Stroke Diseases. "Their message is clear and calls for action: As long as we will not tighten the law, every week, 250 new young people will be able to tobacco," added the member. 
"Time times are so much that it is the groups themselves who demand the hearings. All claim to be ready to intervene, to come to the parliamentary committee. It lacks only the government's call. Currently, we lose valuable time; Two weeks have elapsed since we asked for hearings. What feeds the government? Is it the subject of pressures from the tobacco industry? Are there reluctance in the Liberal caucus, particularly in the context of the partial elections in Jean-Talon and Chauveau? The government must move, answer the questions that its hesitation raises. We must start work right now, before the postponement of parliamentary work for the summer, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
The text of the motion rejected by the Government reads as follows: 
"That the National Assembly asks the Government to call the consultations on Bill 44 now, law to strengthen the fight against smoking, in order to prevent 250 new young people from tobacco every week. during the summer that begins; 
"It recalls availability since the day of the submission of the bill, both opposition groups, the Health and Social Services Commission and the other groups concerned to hold the specific consultations before the Adjournment of the work of the National Assembly next June. » 
