Quebec- The member for Rosemont and sentence of the official opposition in terms of social services, protection of youth, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, wants everything to be implemented by the government In order for the bill to strengthen the fight against smoking is rapidly adopted. It also indicates that its political formation will provide, mainly, two amendments. 
"The long consultations promised yesterday to the National Assembly by the Prime Minister worry us, because that's exactly what the tobacco industry wants; With its mobilization capacity, it hopes to limit the will of the government. She has often reached. However, we believe that consensus on the essence of the proposed measures is large enough, including smokers, and that there is sufficient time, by the end of the session, to conduct consultations, discuss the bill and adopt it. We offer all our collaboration so that this bill is sanctioned before the summer, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
The member also presented the amendments that the Parti Québécois will propose. "There are two important omissions in this bill; We will therefore file amendments to fill these gaps. First, there is nothing about neutral packaging. Now, Australia, Ireland, the United Kingdom and, more recently, France have adopted law making the mandatory neutral packaging. Packets should not be attractive or encourage young people to learn about tobacco. Recall that every week, since the last revision of the law, 10 years ago, 250 young people start smoking. Minister Lucie Charlebois said to be in favor of this measure this morning; Why, then, do not have added it in his bill? He asked. 
"The second amendment aims to impose a moratorium on new tobacco products. Before marketing a new product, tobacco companies should obtain an authorization from a committee of the Ministry of Health. This would prevent us from having to revise, in a few years, the tobacco law to subject new products, and would brake the very great creativity of the industry, which tries to attract young people to its products, "concluded The member for Rosemont. 
