Quebec- The member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for social services, the protection of youth, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, said today, with representatives of the Quebec Solidarity Network (RSIF), the first anniversary of the national roaming policy. On this occasion, he also denounced the attitude of the Minister delegated to Rehabilitation, the Protection of Youth and Public Health, Lucie Charlebois, in the roaming issue. The members of Joliette, Véronique Hivon, and Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, were also present to support their colleague and RSIQ. 
"The minister has launched a plan of action last December, but all the actors of the environmental control are agreed that the means that accompany him are insufficient. In addition, the soft signature, on Christmas Eve, an agreement concerning the strategy of roaming partnerships will weaken hundreds of community organizations in all regions of Quebec. This agreement is in total contradiction with the spirit of the policy launched a year ago, after a vast consultation of all the actors of the environment. It is unfortunate, because politics had obtained the accession of all and aroused a lot of hope, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
The hon. Member also recalls that opposite Ottawa, Minister Lucie Charlebois completely abandoned the Quebec approach to the fight against homelessness; It has indeed agreed to put all its eggs in the same basket, that of the housing. 
"Fi of the peculiarities of Quebec, which has paid in the past on diverse programs of prevention, reintegration and support, it is a" wall-to-wall "approach decided by Ottawa which will be applied in Quebec since this summer. However, Quebec should be able to decide itself to resort to a diversity of approaches rather than one, since homelessness is a complex problem, with many faces, "added Jean-François Lisée. 
Threatened organisms 
In Quebec City, many homelessness organizations are threatened because they do not exclusively offer housing. Therefore, many will see their cut financing and will no longer be able to give the essential services they are currently making. 
As an example, half of the 36 organizations in the Quebec City area that helps hundreds of roaming situations are on the steep rope. Let's think about the day center of Lauberivière home town center, rue Action Prevention (RAP) Youth, the Project Prostitution Quebec (PIPQ), to name only those. 
"It's a nonsense! The minister, flat in front of the federal government, gave him everything. The national roaming policy, however, advocates a multitude of approaches and put on prevention. By abandoning the defense of the interests and needs of Quebec ahead of Ottawa, the Liberal government abandons aid agencies and helpers. Once again, unfortunately, it will be the most vulnerable to our society that will pay the price, "concluded the member for Rosemont. 
