Quebec- The Minister of Public Safety, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, and the Mayor of Montreal, Mr. Denis Coderre, accompanied by the Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Mr. Jean-François Lisé announced today that the squad Protecting the city's municipal integrity of the City of Montreal, commonly known as EPIM, will be integrated into the Permanent Unit Anti-Corruption (UPAC). 
"For our government, the fight against corruption is a priority of all instants. Many laws have been adopted and new powers have been granted to UPAC. Today, we set a new gesture, which responds to the concerns and willingness that the Mayor of Montreal has expressed upon election by the integration of the EPIM, which is currently under the responsibility of the police service of the City of Montreal, at UPAC, "said Minister Bergeron. 
Thus, the 20 Resources of the EPIM, 15 of which have investigative powers throughout the Montreal territory will be incorporated into the UPAC. This integration will limit overlap in the treatment of certain files and will also create a significant distance between the EPIM and the authorities of the City of Montreal. 
"Today's announcement demonstrates out of order that the fight against corruption, collusion and malpracture is a priority for my administration. It is important that the EPIM join the UPAC so that all the forces of investigation and verification work together. Montrealers all want the allegations of corruption and collusion to be the past, and the integration of the EPIM within the UPAC will certainly contribute, "said Mayor Coderre. 
Recall that the very evening of the municipal elections in early November, the new Mayor of Montreal, Mr. Denis Coderre mentioned the importance for the metropolis, to regain all due respect. 
The implementation of the UPAC has generated many positive effects, in particular by strengthening the rules, the tightening of controls associated with the management of the granting and the execution of public contracts, both on the plan. government than municipal. Now the epim's contribution to this constant struggle will be more beneficial for Montreal. 
Since its arrival, the Government of Quebec has adopted several measures to ensure the integrity in the municipal environment, in particular with the adoption of LALOI to provide temporarily a municipal elected representative of its functions and the adoption of the law of law n ° 26 on transitional measures of municipal financing. In addition, in the last few months, the government has accompanied Montreal with, among others, LALOI on public contract integrity and the report of the Council on the Granting and West Contracts of Municipal Contracts to the City of Montreal. Today's announcement is part of the continuity of the actions taken by the Government of Quebec. 
Remember that UPAC has widely demonstrated its effectiveness since its implementation and has had a deterrent effect on all actors associated with illicit systems. The many strikes sent a strong and clear message to all: the practices of corruption, collusion and malfeasance are unacceptable and can not be tolerated in Quebec. 
At the governmental level, it is a new step aimed at strengthening investigative efforts by promoting consultation and optimizing the coordination of all stakeholders involved in the fight against corruption. 
"The Government of Quebec can only applaud and encourage such a will of the city to get involved in the fight against corruption, collusion and malfeasance. We are confident that this new approach will further promote reports and denunciations and that as ahead of Montrealers and Montrealers will benefit from this new strike force against crime, "concluded the minister. 
