Trois-Rivières- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, as well as the member for Champlain, Mrs. Noëlla Champagne, applauded the return to the region of the Sommex Bedding Corporation, A company specializing in the manufacture of mattresses. They reacted to the recent announcement of the acquisition of the company, sold to a Toronto group in 2003, by its founder, who intends to revive the activities of the latter and bring the head office in Trois-Rivières. This transaction, which will maintain the approximately 50 jobs of the local plant and will create 15 new, has been facilitated by a $ 750,000 loan granted by Investing Québec. 
"In an economy facing deep upheavals, it is fundamental to support a strong and diversified manufacturing sector in the Québec regions," said Élain Zakaïb. "That's why our government supports Mr. Ricard's project, a courageous and responsible entrepreneur who did not hesitate to leave retirement to buy the company he had sold ten years ago and thus avoid the Announced closing, while maintaining and creating Jobs in Trois-Rivières. This is also why we made an industrial policy, precisely implementation to support this sector. » 
"The recovery of the Sommex Bedding Corporation, by the same entrepreneur who created the Sommex brand in 1974, is certainly a guarantee of success for the continuation of this important manufacturing activity," said the member for Champlain, Noëlla Champagne. "Mr. Ricard's knowledge and vision will not only keep current jobs, but also to create new ones. » 
"The announcement of the sale of the company and, above all, the possibility that the Trois-Rivières factory can close its doors have established determinants in my decision to make an offer to buy the assets of the company" , "said the President of the Sommex Bedding Corporation, Mr. Normand Ricard. "Investissement Québec's participation has been of utmost importance to ensure the financing of this project that has been able to maintain all trademarks and licenses, movable assets and inventories, in addition to To be able to continue the work in progress, "he added. 
Investissement Québec's mission is to promote investment growth in Quebec, thus contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The company puts companies with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity capital investment, in order to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, it is responsible for the administration of tax measures and prospecting investments abroad. 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicidustrielle. 
