Quebec- In the wake of Rona's sale in Lowe's, the Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the spokesman for the Parti Québécois in the field of economy, Alain Therrien, as well as the spokesperson for Finance and Income, Nicolas Marceau, arrested the Liberal government so that it comes out of its economic inaction and implements measures to protect the headquarters present in Quebec. 
"The Prime Minister said last August that he would not leave an inch with opposition or our political training to defend the interests of Quebec. I would like to answer that what about us, we will not leave him half an inch. We will continue to report its poor economic performance and its refusal to defend the headquarters implanted in Quebec. The government of the Parti Québécois commissioned a report on the issue, and the Prime Minister must implement it, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"Dominique Anglade started his career as Minister of the Economy by stating that RONA's sale to the US company was beneficial for Quebec. The Liberal Party is the only one to think that losing one of our florets can be a good thing. The minister told us that she had guaranteed. What guarantees have been paved with suppliers, jobs in shops and head office? These guarantees that the minister talks about now have become expectations, "added Alain Therrien. 
Task Force on the Protection of Quebec companies 
Nicolas Marceau recalled that the report of the Quebec Protection Working Group indicated that "when a Quebec company is acquired, there is a decrease in the number of jobs following the transformation of the head office. ; the elimination of shared financial services activities; the reduction in the number and volume of Quebec products distributed by the company; The decrease in the purchase of professional services from Quebec suppliers. » 
"With Rona's sale, it's still a decision-making center we're going to lose, as well as well-paid jobs that accompany him. These are hundreds of SMEs that fall into uncertainty since this moment, RONA carries out half of its purchases in Quebec, which is obviously not the case of Lowe's. History has shown us that the sale of a Quebec company has much more risk of losing jobs than chances to win. There are solutions in the report, what will the government do? , Asked the member for Rousseau. 
"Several states protect their businesses, for a long time, and with very good results on investment. Can the Prime Minister tell us why what is good for many countries would be harmful to Quebec? Philippe Couillard compared the protection of our headquarters to the construction of a wall around Quebec. So there is a wall around the United States, France, Germany, Holland and around Canada, which has a foreign investment law? We believe in the protection of our businesses. What about the Prime Minister? ", Concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
