Montreal- The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announces total financial assistance of nearly $ 630,000 for the completion of 24 cultural heritage projects in several parts of Quebec. 
"This new financial contribution is a lever for concrete and diverse actions that will put forward this collective wealth that is our cultural heritage. It is important that our identity landmarks are better known and preserved, and I am pleased to see that this support will enable organizations to participate, "Minister Kotto said. 
The six sectors of intervention targeted by the Cultural Heritage program will be covered, either the archaeological heritage, intangible heritage, buildings and heritage sites, objects and heritage documents, patrimonial cultural landscapes and characters, events and places. Historical. 
"Our wealth is rooting, allows us to better understand the path we have traveled and the direction we take. Support our heritage and allowing it to be better known to all, better understood by everyone is part of our government's willingness to value Quebec. I would like to thank all those who, day after day, are working to highlight the history of Quebec and its heritage, "continued Maka Kotto. 
In the wake of the first project call launched in December 2012, a second call was launched in September 2013 in order to once again allow local, regional and national organizations and municipalities and MRCs to contribute tangiblely to the Implementation of the Cultural Heritage Act. The Ministry of Culture and Communications received, at the closing of the project call, a total of 56 applications for financial assistance. Among these, he has selected the 24 projects that best meet the objectives of the program and allowing organizations to conduct studies as well as the dissemination, inventory and development activities of cultural heritage. 
Additional information about the Cultural Heritage Act is available on the Ministry of Culture and Communications website, atwww.mcc.gouv.qc.ca. 
New cultural heritage dissemination tools are added to the Cultural Heritage Directory of Quebec (RPCQ), allowing to discover all its richness and diversity, making it accessible to all. Part of the RPCQ content is now on the Open Data Portal of the Government of Quebec at www.donnes.gouv.qc.ca, as well as on the Pinterest Social Network, in the form of virtual exhibitions, AWWW .pinterest.com / RPCQ. 
Online training is also offered, at the address www.formation-patrimoine.mcc.gouv.qc.ca. Composed of video capsules and learning activities, it presents the basic notions of the Cultural Heritage Act and explains the roles and responsibilities of each to promote the knowledge, protection, development and transmission of the Cultural Heritage. 
