Chandler- The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the hon. Member for Bonaventure, Sylvain Roy, announce an agreement in principle of $ 104,040 for the project to put the standards of the main building of the archaeological site of Pabos. In addition, $ 25,000 will be paid to the corporation of the Bourg de Pabos for a project of archaeological excavations on the site. 
"The protection of Quebec cultural heritage is vital. By this support at the interpretation center of the archaeological site of Pabos, the Government demonstrates that it contributes, together with all the stakeholders of the community, to preserve this heritage that belongs to the history of Gaspésie, "says Maka Kotto. 
The Archaeological Site of Pabos interpretation center includes a main building that houses a showroom that links the history and archeology of Pabos. In addition, an archaeological path allows visitors to browse the excavations site. 
"The archaeological excavation project will allow the organization to enrich its offer of interpretation by increased knowledge of a new portion of the archaeological site. For visitors this excavation approach will add to the wealth of the current collection on the Gaspé Maritime Universe, "says MP Sylvain Roy. 
This agreement in principle will continue to define the project and determine the financial assembly in order to carry out standards work. As for the site, the signaling will be reviewed, and the non-integrated furniture used for the museum interpretation will be restored. This work is needed so that the organization can continue to carry out its mandate in the best possible conditions. 
The total amount of the implementation project, estimated at $ 148,000, is as follows: $ 104,040 is paid by the Ministry of Culture and Communications (MCC) under the Capital Assistance Program, $ 39,180 come from From the corporation of the Bourg de Pabos and $ 5,000 are provided by the Rock-Percé Community Development Assistance Company (SADC). 
As for the project of archaeological excavations, it is estimated at $ 33,528. The MCC grants $ 25,000 under the Québec Cultural Heritage Fund, the Corporation of the Bourg de Pabos pays $ 7,028 and the SADC to provide $ 1,500. 
Additional information concerning the archaeological site of Pabos and all the heritage elements entered in the cultural heritage register are available on the website of the Cultural Heritage of Quebec at: www.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca/ 
