Montréal - Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs, Elizabeth Larouche, announce the designation of Katajaniq, or practice of the Inuit throat singing, as an element of intangible heritage, under of the Cultural Heritage Act. This is the first element of intangible heritage to be appointed since the entry into force of the law. 
"We are now conducting the first appointment of an element of intangible heritage, that of Katajjaniq. This Inuit tradition is still alive well today. By designating the throat song, we also want to pay tribute to the whole Inuit nation and its unique and immemorial culture, "said Minister Kotto. 
"In the Inuit nation, seniors protect and perpetuate cultural experience. With all their wisdom, these elders ensure the transmission of the traditional values of their people to younger generations. The throat songs are a convincing example. Over time, they have become an identity mark for Nunavimmiuts, "said Elizabeth Delegate Minister Larouche. 
The throat song is a traditional game practiced in all fourteen Inuit communities in Quebec. This playful practice testifies to a long oral tradition of women in Nunavik. From generation to generation, they have transmitted knowledge about the nature and the environment and technical know-how associated with throat songs. For Nunavik This traditional practice is a component of its cultural heritage and has a highly symbolic value. 
This designation confirms the interest of Quebeckers and Quebeckers for this form of rare, even unique expression. It enhances the richness and plurality of Quebec identity and is a source of pride for Inuit. 
Charlie Arngak, President of the Avataq Cultural Institute, has also been honored that the song of throat is the first designated element of Quebec's intangible heritage and considers this event as a step towards the inclusion of indigenous peoples in the definition of Quebec identity. 
Intangible heritage consists of living elements that can be transmitted by carriers of traditions, from generation to generation. This is know-how, knowledge, expressions, practices or representations. 
Additional information regarding the Katajjaniq as well as all the heritage elements entered in the Quebec Cultural Heritage Register are available on the website of the Quebec Cultural Heritage Directory (RPCQ), atwww.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca. 
New cultural heritage dissemination tools are added to the RPCQ, allowing to discover all its richness and diversity, making it accessible to all. Part of the RPCQ content is now on the Open Data Portal of the Government of Quebec, atwww.donnes.gouv.qc.ca, as well as on the Social Pinterest network, in the form of virtual exhibitions, AWWW. Pinterest.com/rpcq. 
Online training is also offered, at the address www.formation-patrimoine.mcc.gouv.qc.ca. Composed of video capsules and learning activities, it presents the basic notions of the Cultural Heritage Act and explains the roles and responsibilities of each to promote the knowledge, protection, development and transmission of the Cultural Heritage. 
