Quebec- The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, makes public action plan for the Quebec museum network. This approach follows the publication of the report of the Working Group on the Future of the Quebec Museum Network, chaired by Claude Corbo. 
"This action plan is the result of an approach I have undertaken in the fall of 2012, with the aim of maximizing the scope of our interventions in this sector. I want to make sure of the relevance, coherence and regional anchoring of the museum network. This action plan includes measures that will help boost our museum network, both structurally and financially, "the minister explained. 
The ministerial action plan is structured around six main orientations: 
"I am convinced that these guidelines will meet the expectations and needs of the museum institutions as expressed during the consultations held by the Working Group on the Future of the Museum Network. They also register in the line in the recommendations contained in the Corbo report that has been well received in the environment, "added Mr. Kotto. 
The Presidency of the Regional Concertation Site will be entrusted to Claude Corbo who agreed to continue his work for the future of the museum network. This work will begin in this spring and will aim to obtain the widest consensus of the environment. Each regional table will be invited to make assumptions about the choice of a regional resource museum and a regional theme of identity interest. 
Remember that the Working Group on the Future of the Quebec Museum Network received, in May 2013, the mandate to consult the national and regional actors concerned by museology and to make recommendations to the Minister. Consultations were held in six cities. In total, 68 organizations were heard, and 127 memoirs were filed. 
"To carry out this action plan, I count on the collaboration of all the stakeholders of the museum network and especially the Society of Quebec Museums, which has a unique expertise that can contribute to making this action plan a success. . Members of the QMS will also consulted at each stage, "the minister concluded. 
