Quebec- The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announces important changes to the composition of the Board of the Conservatory of Music and Dramatic Art of Quebec. Thus, Monique Goyette becomes president of the organization, and six new members make their entry as directors. 
Monique Goyette has a long experience in management and governance, mainly in public administration and academic media. Until recently, she was vice-rector at the administration at the University of Quebec. She has also worked as Director General for the National Library and Archives Administration of Quebec, as well as to Télé-Québec. 
The six new members, Louis Babin, Denis Bernard, Louise Fugère, Marie Gignac, Roy and Vincent Tanguay, also have a solid experience that will help develop a vision for the conservatory. 
The Ministry of Culture and Communications and the Conservatoire work collaboratively to revive the institution that is part of a much evolved environment in recent years. In order to update its offer of services, Marie-Claire Lévesque, former President and Chief Executive Officer of the Quebec Council for the Arts and Letters, will conduct a consultation in the coming weeks. 
This approach will hear from the persons concerned by the offer of training in theater and music to find ways of solicitance adapted to local and regional peculiarities. Several people and organizations will be invited to participate in work sessions, including students, teachers and staff at the Conservatoire. 
"The Ministry and the Conservatory want to develop a carrier vision for this institution. This consultation will ensure the sustainability of the conservatory which is an important training school for Quebec, a place that generates recognized talents on national and international scenes. I have confidence that the President and the Directors who incorporate the Board of Directors will give a new impetus to the Conservatory who faces great challenges in terms of its governance and services and financial services " , indicated Maka Kotto. 
