Québec, August 17, 2016 -Diane Lamarre, Member of Parliament and spokesman for the Quebecois health and accessibility of care, finds with disappointment that the choices of the Minister Barrette still do not give the promised results. "As the minister is glorified himself with his graphics and paintings, patients, are still waiting to see access to improvement," she said. 
"First, it must be emphasized that the minister's requirements for specialist doctors are much smaller than those he has to family physicians. For specialists, targets for response times to emergency consultation requests only relate to hourly ranges between 8 am and 4 pm, and only Monday to Friday. So, for all those who are urgently on the evenings or weekends, the numbers, ratios, targets and percentages - with whom the minister is going to fall asleep - do not improve access to care. What it means is that in Quebec, we can not be sick between Friday at 4 pm and Monday at 8 am, "said Diane Lamarre. 
"As for the proportion of emergency response applications within a 4-hour period, we find that it increased by just 1% in 6 months from 59.9% to 61%. It will therefore take an increase of 14% in less than 18 months to reach the target, set at 75%. This appears to us completely unrealistic. And it is not to mention that according to the agreement concluded by the Minister, this requirement, like all the others, applies only from Monday to Friday, between 8 am and 4 pm. The minister therefore has a very limited vision of real access to urgent care, yet if necessary. Better do not fall down a ladder on weekends! Patients are once again to see access to care improving under the Liberal government, despite all the promises of the minister, "continued the spokesperson. 
The Minister Barrette has, moreover, confirmed that 5000 patients have always been waiting for surgery for more than a year. However, nothing in the agreement he concluded with the FMSQ does not expect this figure to reach zero. "You have to know how to read between the lines of figures presented by the Minister. Wait over a year for surgery, it's unacceptable, and it is especially inconsistent with the targets of his ministry. In short, despite the agreements concluded and the hazardous compensation increases granted to doctors by Gaétan barrette, the concrete results for patients are always waiting. The minister must today commit to that no more than one year old patient expects surgery, "has concluded Diane Lamarre. 
