Quebec, on October 20, 2020- The hon. Member for René-Lévesque and Parliamentary Leader, Martin Ouellet, today presented the various files that the members of the Parti Québécois at the National Assembly will bear. "As our chef and our parliamentary chef, Paul St-Pierre Plamondon and Pascal Bérubé, we kept the formulas that work and did not hesitate to innovate to continue to improve," he said . 
IN SHORT 
The member for the Madeleine Islands, Joël Arseneau, will take care of mental health and solitude. The member for Matane-Matapédia, Pascal Bérubé, will defend the issues related to municipal affairs, culture and communications. The member for Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, obtains the important labor-related mandates and the Treasury Board.The hon. Member for René-Lévesque, Martin Ouellet, will deal with issues affecting Aboriginal affairs, a reality he knows well and at which he is sensitive. The member of Gaspé, Méganne Perry Melançon, inherits, among other things, records of the economy, recovery and the fight against racism. 
"The movements in our ghost cabinet are timely and significant, continued the parliamentary leader. Our chef has been opened and attentive to the priority issues for my colleagues and me, and he has been able to listen to things between Constance and Innovation. » 
This is how some important issues retain their spokesperson for the last few months, including Health (Joël Arseneau), Justice, Education and Family (Véronique Hivon), Environment and Fighting Climate Change (Sylvain Gaudreault), French language (Pascal Bérubé), Elders and close caregivers (Harold Lebel). 
"However, our team wanted to put more prominent issues that have become unavoidable, such as loneliness and mental health. This is how Joël Arseneau inherits these files, in addition to others that he brushes brilliantly, such as transport and maritime strategy. Within the caucus, there is also an obvious will to make room for youth: seen its immense interest in this matter, Megan Perry Melançon became a spokesperson for recovery, economy and SMEs. These files are added to the more social part of its mandate - Status of women, youth, immigration and fight against racism. 
Other significant changes include Sylvain Roy, a member of Parliament for Bonaventure, adds the strings of the fisheries and regional development to his bow, and that the member for Duplessis, Lorraine Richard, now officially holds the reins of the question of the question of the reform of The DPJ. Martin Ouellet, he, obtains a file that may also continue to occupy space, that of public safety. "I want to help rebuild the bond of trust between Quebecers and their institutions," he argues. 
