Québec - You will find attached a statement by the head of the official opposition and deputy of Saint-Jérôme, Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"In accordance with my statement of October 8, 2014, I set up today a mandate without the right of view with respect to the actions I own in Québecor inc. and in the Péladeau Investments inc., a company that I control and who has actions of Quebecor inc. 
The person who will act as agent without the right of gaze is the company Investments St-Jérôme Inc., a company incorporated under the laws of Quebec whose directors are: 
· Claude Beland, director of various organizations and Chief Executive Officer of the Desjardins Movement from 1987 to 2000. 
· André P. Brosseau, President of Capital Markets Avenue BNB inc. And former leader in a major Canadian chartered bank. 
· James A. Woods, Senior Associate Lawyer at the Cabinet Woods S.E.N.C.R.L. 
Due to regulatory requirements, the entry into force of this mandate is conditional on the approval of the CRTC and Industry Canada. 
On October 8, 2014, I stated that although the Code of Ethics and Ethics of the Quebec National Assembly does not force me, I intended to place the actions I hold in Québecor in A trust or mandate without the right of view if I had chosen by the activists and citizen activists as a party leader. 
I reiterated this commitment during the choice made by Quebec's party activists to go as a leader at the vote on May 15, 2015. 
I also signed this morning, in accordance with my statement of October 8, 2014, a declaration on honor, which will be forwarded to the ethics commissioner and the ethics, which I would not intervene, just as I do not Have never done, in the editorial choices made by the information directions of the different media which are the property of Québecor. 
I have had, throughout my previous professional activities, the concern to dote Québecor of the best management team as well as the best board of directors. 
I have the intimate conviction that these values will be able to keep up with the principles that I inherited from the teaching of my father, Pierre Péladeau, founder of Quebecor and great builder of modern economic Quebec ". 
