Quebec- The member for Taillon and sentence of the official objection to health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, denounces once again the control of the information exercised by the Ministry of Health and Services Social (MSSS) since the adoption of Bill 10, under gag, last February. 
"Online data on the state of the emergency rooms in two regions, Laval and Montérégie, have disappeared with the forced merger of the institutions of the health network by the Minister Barrette. This is another eloquent example of the lack of transparency of the Liberal government, "denounced Diane Lamarre. 
Indeed, following the reform of the structures of the Minister Barrette, the website informa.msss.gouv.qc.ca, which allowed until recently to citizens to have access to information updated daily , whose occupancy rate of emergency rooms, has ceased to be fueled by several health facilities. "It is unacceptable that citizens can no longer have access to this information," said the member. 
However, in its document entitled Government Guidelines for a more transparent government, the Liberal government claims to make proactive dissemination one of the most important aspects of the reform of the Access to Information Act. 
"The actions of the government are totally contrary to its promises. It removes the performance and non-performance indicators of the health system. By doing so, the Minister Barrette hides the information he himself used when he was at the FMSQ, to denounce the schemes of the system, "Renaired Diane Lamarre. 
Closure of the Ministry of Health Library 
At this aberration in terms of access to information addresses another: it is learned that the government deliberately chooses to close the library of the Ministry of Health and Social Services next September. The reason? The weight of the documents, which would seem necessary, it seems, structure work. "In the era of digitization, it looks more like a false pretext. We strongly denounce this decision, which deprives tool experts allowing them to analyze our system and to better protect the population. We ask the Couillard government to back down. He must stop depriving Quebec's essential information and copying the Conservative Strategies of Stephen Harper on access to information, "the member entered into. 
