Montreal -Participant, in Montreal, walking for independence with more than a dozen of its deputies, the official opposition and hon. Member for Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, has strongly denounced the recent conservative maneuvers of Stephen Harper against Quebec. "If I participate in the march today is because I am convinced that Quebec must become a country and every day when I see the Conservatives to make gestures to weaken Quebec, my belief redouble". 
"Since the election of May 2, gestures to weaken Quebec have multiplied. When I see Quebec be excluded from shipping contracts to promote Vancouver and Halifax, when I see the appointment of an Auditor General and unilingual English speaking judges, when I see the weight of Quebec in the House of Commons, I Know why I walk today for the independence of Quebec, "said Pauline Marois. 
Other gestures posed by Stephen Harper also indignate the official opposition leader. "The abolition of the firearms register is another example of the uncompromising Conservatives who have just served an end of non-reception in Quebec. Not only does Ottawa want to abolish the gun registry, he also wants to destroy the data so that Quebec can not constitute his own register, despite the unanimity of the National Assembly, "she added , recalling that Quebeckers paid for the establishment of the registry. 
Bill C-10 is another gesture of the Conservatives of Stephen Harper who goes against the values of Quebecers. "The Conservative strategy with regard to justice is inspired by the worst practices of the American right. Federal ideology reflects the Quebec model of justice for adolescents that Quebec has one of the lowest crime rates in America. Ottawa is drowning some good measures by trying to swallow others who go totally against our values and consensus of the National Assembly, "said the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
Pauline Marois also denounces the conservative measures announced to assert the Canadian identity. "By adding the word" royal "to the Navy and Aviation, replacing Pellan's works by the photo of the Queen, commeming the war of 1812 and especially by making two years in prison someone who Will be objected to the Canadian flag, the Harper government comes to hit Quebec values hard. It's downright unacceptable, "said the leader of the official opposition. 
"Quebeckers can only rely on the Parti Québécois to defend them against the Conservatives of Stephen Harper. Jean Charest has long groomed to stand up to defend the interests of Quebec, François Legault promises not to fight against the federal government and the NDP has remained completely silent for six months to defend Quebeckers facing these conservative maneuvers against Quebec ", Concluded Pauline Marois, adding that the Parti Québécois will always be there to defend the population in the face of the intransigence of Ottawa. 
