Québec- The Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, welcomes the adoption by the National Assembly of the Mining Law. It is an important victory for Quebeckers and Quebeckers, who will finally see modern mining legislation. 
"The adoption of a new Mining Act is a historic breakthrough that will allow the responsible development of our mineral resources for the benefit of all Quebeckers. The Act passes the essentials of the provisions of the law No. 43 that I filed this fall, while incorporating the relevant adjustments. Our proposals for transparency, transformation as well as the protection of the environment and the dialogue with the communities have achieved a point of equilibrium, the one that will collectively allow us to raise the next challenges we face. "Said Martine Ouellet. 
The production of an economic and market opportunity study for the transformation of ore in Quebec before granting a mining lease is now required. On the other hand, the government can, for reasonable grounds, require the maximization of the economic benefits of the exploitation of a mine, such as the transformation of ore in Quebec. 
In addition, the new mines law will allow regional county municipalities to delimit, in their planning scheme, from the territories inconsistent with mining activity. By giving the power to act on municipalities, the law finally restore citizens the ability to control the development of their territory. 
The new Mining Act allows the implementation of a monitoring committee to promote the involvement of local communities on all of each of the projects. 
In addition, it provides for a new chapter on consultations with indigenous communities. 
Public consultations carried out by the Office of Public Hearings on the Environment will be held for all mineral processing or ore processing plants of more than 2,000 metric tonnes or more per day, as well as for projects. Exploitation of rare earths. For other projects, a consultation must be held by the mining, according to government guidelines. All this will ensure that mining development is done in respect of the environment and local communities. 
The new Mine Act provides more transparency throughout the exploitation of a mine. From now on, for each of the mines, the quantity and value of the ore extracted as well as the royalties and all contributions paid to the state by the mining will be made public. 
"The adoption of the Mining Act launches a very positive signal, both to citizens, municipalities and businesses. Indeed, it will ensure economic, environmental and social stability. That's why I look forward to this important victory for Quebecers, "concluded Martine Ouellet. 
