Quebec- The Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, today released the final study report of the strategic environmental assessment on the development of hydrocarbons in the basins of anticosti, madeleine and bay Heats (EES2) as well as the balance sheet of the public consultation conducted in the fall of 2011. 
"I will make sure that the government has all the tools and information needed to measure environmental impacts and put in place all environmental mitigation and to measure social impacts and evaluate economic benefits For all Quebeckers. This is how we can together make an informed decision, with all the cause, "said Martine Ouellet. 
The realization of the EES2 aimed to draw up a state of situation and to obtain a better state of knowledge of the basins of Anticosti, Madeleine and the Bay of Chaleurs. All the recommendations of the study will be analyzed by the Ministry. The Minister of Natural Resources has already indicated wanting to respond to this report. Indeed, Martine Ouellet wants to put in place a structured and rigorous approach to deepen the question of the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the marine environment given the important issues it arouses. 
"The Ministry of Natural Resources plans to continue to document the subject and put forward initiatives to better define social and environmental impacts of the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the marine environment, as well as the overall economic benefits. Two expert committees, among other things, will be trained to analyze more particularly the economic and technical components, "added Martine Ouellet. 
Remember that the moratorium prohibiting any oil and gas exploration and gas exploration activity in the Gulf of St. Lawrence remains in effect. 
An online consultation on the ESS2 is open at the following address: hydrocarburesmarins.gouv.qc.ca. Citizens are invited to share their comments on the report. 
Martine Ouellet launched the Commission on the Energy Issues of Quebec on 4 July on the reduction of greenhouse gases to the energy independence of Quebec. The hearings are currently being held in the regions of Quebec. On the basis of the comments gathered, the government will report in 2014 the new energy policy for Quebec. 
To consult the session schedule: ConsultationEnergy.gouv.qc.ca. 
