Quebec- The Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, announces the establishment of the Regional and Forest Development Program. This new program will promote regional dialogue and implementation of forest projects. 
"In addition to creating jobs and wealth for our communities, the amounts associated with this program will be used for projects that highlight forest products and promote the integrated management of our resources," said Martine Ouellet. 
With the Regional and Forest Development Program, elected regional conferences will promote regional partnerships. Regional consultation activities, such as the coordination of local resource and territorial management tables and the coordination of regional organizations on natural resources and the territory, will continue to be financially supported. 
With the help of selection committees trained by several stakeholders in the regional community, elected regional conferences will contribute to regional development and the development of forest resources by funding structuring projects. Three categories of projects are eligible: Woody material development projects and non-timber forest products, structuring recreational tourist projects and integrated resource management projects (forest, wildlife and territory). 
Establishment of the new program 
To ensure better predictability of the activities, the regional and forest development program, for which the government spends $ 23 million a year, will be set up for two years, or 2013-2014 and 2014-2015. It is the regional conferences of the elected officials who remain designated by the Government of Quebec for its implementation. 
"With the announcement of this new program, our government reiterates its support for regional stakeholders, workers and communities living from the forest," added Martine Ouellet. 
The establishment of the Regional and Forest Development Program for the period 2013 to 2015 replaces the integrated and regionalized approach development program as well as the Forest Resource Development Program - component II. 
