Trois-Rivières- As part of the Energy Efficiency Week, the Minister of Natural Resources, Ms. Martine Ouellet, presents the Residual Forest Biomass Program, which provides financial assistance for the conversion of heating or industrial process. . 
"The Residual Forest Biomass Program encourages the conversion of heating systems in the industrial, commercial and institutional settings and promotes the creation of 1,600 jobs in the regions. With this program, companies will be able to make significant energy gains and reduce their operating costs. Quebec must more than ever enjoy the new emerging markets related to the forest: a great opportunity for economic development for the regions, "said Martine Ouellet. 
With a total envelope of $ 50 million, this program will allow a significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, or 70,000 tonnes of CO2, the equivalent of the removal of 20,000 vehicles from the road network. 
The analysis pane will bewared to determine the technical and economic feasibility of using a thermal energy production system with residual forest biomass as a source of energy in fossil fuel replacement. This component also allows the realization of a residual forest biomass supply study. Financial assistance is $ 25,000 for each of the studies for up to $ 50,000. 
The implantation component on energy conversion projects to residual biomass for heating or processes. Conversion projects must reduce the consumption of fossil fuel for an already furnished site. This component also encourages projects for the use of different forms of residual forest biomass for construction sites. A maximum of 75% of expenses is eligible, up to a maximum of $ 5 million. 
"Residual forest biomass will support the forestry sector and contribute to supporting forest-related jobs in a region like Mauricie. I look forward to this initiative that reinforces one of the economic engines of our region, "said the member for Champlain, Ms. Noëlla Champagne. 
Remember that the National Forest Rendez-vous brought together, on November 21 and 22, more than 250 participants in the wood sector in Saint-Félicien. These are investments of $ 675 million over three years that have been announced by the government for the forest sector, responding to the demands of different partners. 
For more information, see LerendezaLeforet.gouv.qc.ca 
Consult the press releases issued during the National Forest Rendezvous 
Visit the Quebec party blog and check out the ticket from Pauline Marois: "A big step towards the future for the Quebec forest" 
