Matane- The Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, and the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-San-Laurent Region and MP Pascé, Mr. Pasca Bérubé, participated in the announcement of the Opening a new plant innovated to Matane. 
"Innovented is a renewable energy producer that brings communities a green and innovative solution to organic waste management. I welcome their efforts to significantly pursue the objective that Quebec has given itself: that of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, "said Minister Martine Ouellet. The Matane plant will be converted into the old Rocktenn cardon closed for more than a year. A hundred jobs will be created in the coming months while the company will carry out the conversion of the facilities estimated at $ 20 million. During the operating phase, it's about forty jobs that will be created. 
From left to right: Pascal Bérubé, Minister Delegate to Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-San-Laurent Region and MPA Member Region  Richard Painchaud, President of Innoventé, Martine Ouellet, Minister of Natural Resources and Claude Canuel, Mayor of Matane / (c) Geneviève Heon- Mrn 
"I am very proud of this innovative project to revive high potential equipment for the economic development of the city of Matane. The creation of sustainable businesses and jobs in the regions of Quebec inevitably passes through green technologies. Our government supports this way for the future, creative wealth, "rejoices the minister Mr. Pascal Bérubé. 
Recall that the unique and patented process of innovate has been developed by the Agri-Environmental Research and Development Institute (IRDA) and funded in part by the Ministry of Natural Resources at $ 2.5 million in the TECHNOCLIMATET DUPLAN OF THE CLIMATE Change TechnoCLIMATET. 
Located in Quebec City, innovated renewable energy product by bringing communities through its patented technology in Canada and the United States, a  Verte and sustainable solution to the management of organic residues. The shares of innovate are listed on the TSX Venture Exchange under the IGE symbol (TSXV: IGE). For more information, visit www.innovte.ca. 
