Quebec- The Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, will be on official mission to the Republic of Korea to participate in the 22nd edition of the World Energy Congress (CME), which will take place in Daegu from 13 to 17 October. 
"Quebec stands out abroad by its green energy expertise. I will have the opportunity to speak alongside energy leaders in the high-level session on the future of transport in a green growth perspective (Future of Transport: Decarbonizing Growth). In particular, I will have Quebec's priorities and initiatives in transport electrification and what the Quebec government will do in terms of energy development, at the dawn of the unveiling of a new energy policy, "explained Minister Martine Ouellet. 
In addition, Minister Martine Ouellet will conduct an intervention on the second consultation of Francophonie's energy ministers. Under the theme "Today's supply of tomorrow's energy", this meeting will include the opportunity to state the progress of the recommendations from the Montreal meeting in September 2010 and to share the reflections carried out By the Institute of Francophonie for Sustainable Development (IFDD) and the International Organization of La Francophonie (OIFF) on the issue of energy transition. It will also provide government expertise in renewable energy to States and member governments present at consultation. 
The minister will also participate in the Ministerial Round Table of the World Energy Congress. Under the chairmanship of the Korean Minister of Commerce, Industry and Energy, the Conference will treat equilibrium with respect to what is now agreed to call "energy trilige" (Balancing The Energy Trilemma ) - Energy security, social equity and reducing environmental impacts - and the impact of shale gas development (Impact of Shale Gas). 
The World Energy Congress is the largest event in the world's energy sector. It allows participants to address energy issues on a global scale. It brings together more than 3,500 global leaders of the energy sector from industry, governments, international organizations, media, universities and energy associations. 
