Terrebonne - after the recent rumor of a departure or a change of party, the member for Terrebonne, Mathieu Traversy, wishes to rectify the shot. He also wished to say that no one checked the facts before putting the article published this morning in the Journal de Montréal. 
"First of all, it is with surprise that I learned the rumor. It is not because we have good discussions internally and that I argue different points of view from the caucus that I intend to present myself in a possible party of François Legault. I take advantage of these exchanges with my Partician colleagues to assert ideas in order to change things within our party, to continue to represent the population and improve; I do not work at all for another political option! "Said Mathieu Traversy. 
The member for Terrebonne is sorry for some have been able to perceive his attitude to want to make patches and positive changes within the party. "It's bad to know me that thinking that I can join a political movement that does not even advocate sovereignty! » 
He adds: "Quebec today must make effective choices and get out of the Canadian federal branch. On that, the proposal of the Parti Québécois on sovereign governance is the best in my opinion. It will allow us to govern Quebec, to appropriate more powers and promote our option until Quebeckers want to pronounce on the issue. The simple provincial governance devoid of promotional actions for the achievement of our country project does not interest me. " 
"Even though François Legault is a political man that I respect, no approach has never been made and I have never tried to approach him to be part of his coalition," he rectified. 
Mathieu Traversy remains convinced that the Parti Québécois, by its history and its convictions, is the only party that can do things differently to advance Quebec, especially by its desire to make it sovereign. "The freedom of a people is the most beautiful gift that one can offer him, and that is what the Parti Québécois will allow us to do," concluded the member for Terrebonne. 
