In recent years, many they like to question the Quebec model. One wonders if it is possible to maintain the social net inherited from the quiet revolution. The programs implanted from the 1960s, however, have contributed to advancing Quebeckers, to develop their full potential and to make them radiate at all points of view, all over the world: public health system, of course, but also Funding for culture, access to education for all - from child care up to university - then social and economic support promoting equal opportunities, excellence and innovation. 
These achievements are threatened. The Government of Jean Charest worked a lot over the last nine years to convince us to let them down, to put in the head we did not have the means of our ambitions, not the means to be what we are . That, in fact, rely on others to develop. 
Except that the means to help us, to affirm us, we have them! Quebec is rich. He is rich in his population, from his youth. It is rich in its territory. It is rich, too, of its natural resources. 
May the Government of Jean Charest currently sell them to the discount changes there: our natural resources can be used to enrich us all, not only a minority. 
We only have to think about the North Plan, rightly qualified debar open by Jacques Parizeau. Indeed, 10 on 19 mining companies have not paid no charge to the Quebec state in 2010. And what to say from the sale of the oil operating rights of Anticosti Island to Petrolia, whereas we would find More than 40 billion oil barrels. It would be $ 4,000 billion that Quebec would have been deprived! Let's still think about the Bécancour Natural Gas Station, built in 2007 but whose production was arrested in 2008, Hydro-Québec being in energy surplus. It's about $ 200 million a year we have to pay since TransCanada Energy, a Alberta company, not to produce electricity! 
And while we are there, we could also discuss billions of dollars in infrastructure paid too expensive, that the liberal government pours in collusion and corruption, and who have been added to Quebec's debt over the years. 
The Government of Jean Charest has not only demonstrated negligence in his management of the state, he has also denied the legacy of Jean Lesage and René Lévesque. The cry of indignant last fall, the roar of the crowd on the day of the earth, the pans of the Maple Spring do not resonate for nothing in Quebec. We want to tell us, enrich us and help us, but we have the feeling that nothing is done in this direction. It's time to clean up, resume the control of our resources and our destiny, and to become masters home! 
That's what I propose with the Parti Québécois team. Mandatory minimum fees on the gross value of material production, a taxation of the mining overprofit, the requirement to transform the resources extracted from us where possible, the reduction of oil dependence by the electrification of our Transportation, energy independence! 
Enrich yourself to assert and help each other, here is my vision of Quebec. A proud Quebec, a rich Quebec, a Quebec that stands, it's possible! 
Enrich yourself ... taking over the control of our natural resources! 
