Quebec- The member for Vachon and the official opposition spokesman for transport, maritime strategy and electrification, Martine Ouellet, and the member for Verchères and spokespersons in Canadian intergovernmental cases, Stéphane Bergeron, find that the maritime strategy, unveiled this morning by the government, knows a bad start. Indeed, since the arrival of the liberals in power, several new difficult ones hit the Maritime Industry of Quebec. 
"Given the inability of the Couillard government to stand in front of the federal government, the Maritime Site Davie accumulates bad news. It's more than 200 jobs that were lost last May. In addition, increases of 25% of certain rates and decreases of service have been announced by the Society of Fermers du Québec. Then, as to the protection of biodiversity, this strategy repels five years the achievement of the targets that the Liberals had themselves fixed at the last election campaign. Finally, after more than a year in power, this government has made no clear decision promoting the reluctant site for the establishment of the logistics pole. In short, it's a bad start for a government that says wanting to develop the maritime industry in Quebec, "said Martine Ouellet. 
Without the independence of Quebec, this plan is inconsistent 
Anyway, without a sovereign Quebec, there can never be a real development of the maritime industry in Quebec. "The Minister of Love has confirmed today that no agreement has been signed with Ottawa on the ports of federal jurisdiction. These are neglected infrastructure for years, but the Liberals still wish to invest millions. Today's announcement demonstrates, once again, that the only way to equip Quebec with an effective maritime strategy for the Quebec economy would be to make Quebec a country, "added Stéphane Bergeron. 
Not a first 
The Liberals argue that their maritime strategy is a first in history. They forget that the former Palice Minister Jacques Baril had adopted the Quebec maritime and river transport policy, in 2001. The implementation of this policy, first short-circuited by the Federal Government of Jean Chrétien, has The elsewhere was pursued by the Government of Jean Charest. 
