Quebec- The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in agriculture, André Villeneuve, the spokesperson for transport and maritime strategy, Martine Ouellet, and the member for Beauharnois, Guy Leclair, ask the government to finally listen to the government. Farmers in the municipality of cedars, who must combine with the threat of being expropriated from their land. 
"The Minister of Agriculture, Pierre Paradis, must put an end to worry and commit to not touching these farmland. These possible expropriations are a threat not only for current farmers, but also for agricultural succession. Among the projects covered by the project, 90% are insured to have a succession, "said André Villeneuve. 
The Regional County Municipality of Vaudreuil-Soulanges asked the Government of Quebec to modify by decree the zoning of about 500 hectares of agricultural land, in order to create a possible logistical pole in the municipality of cedars. If the government absolutely wants to see the logistics hub or part of the logistics cluster in this region, it only has to use the industrial locations, which are appropriate and already available. 
Martine Ouellet challenges the Minister Delegate to the Maritime Strategy: "The establishment of a logistics division should not be at the expense of Quebec's best arable land. The reluctant site has undeniable advantages for the development of the Quebec maritime sector. The government needs to reassure farmers and farmers of Vaudreuil and tell them that they will not be expropriated, "she said. 
For its part, Guy Leclair asks the government to open the dialogue with citizens: "Farmers have tried to meet Lucie Charlebois, without success. The government must respect the citizens of the region. They have the right to be informed and listened to. If the government absolutely wants to move forward with a logistical cluster in this region, which it uses industrial lands that are already at its disposal. Let's avoid reliving the episode of Mirabel's expropriations, "concluded the member. 
