Quebec- The member for Gaspé and official opposition spokesman on municipal affairs and regional development, Gaétan Lelièvre, and the member for Abitibi West, François Gendron, have held a press, this Morning, with members of the Coalition Mobilization Committee not to my area! Abitibi-Témiscamingue; Together, they again denounced the devastating impacts of liberal austerity measures on this region. 
"The government does not seem to realize how much what it asks to regions and their local actors is counterproductive. He tells them: give up your ways to do, even if they work, and adopt the unique model that we propose. Fortunately, stakeholders in the field and citizens are particularly mobilized for the safeguarding and recognition of regional consultation and development bodies, "said Gaétan Lelièvre. 
This morning, members of the coalition mobilization committee do not touch my area! Abitibi-Témiscamingue, Gilles Chapadeau, Paul-Émile Barbeau, Emilien Larochelle and Martin Ferron, came to submit to the National Assembly a petition signed by more than 6000 people from Abitibi-Témiscamingue. This petition reaffirms the importance of maintaining the tools and resources that the regions have and the dangers of centralizing decision-making powers. 
"The Abitibi-Témiscamingue, like the other regions of Quebec, refuses to be imposed a framework that does not suit him. For more than 50 years, in consultation, she has developed her own model to stimulate her economy and development; This one has proven itself and it works. It is essential that it can be preserved. The government needs to stop weakly weakening! Added François Gendron. 
"The Québécois Party fully supports the people of Abitibi-Témiscamingue and all regions of Quebec. Government action is devastating; their development initiatives are shrinked. Today, it is a cry of the heart that the Abitibi-Témiscamingue launches to the government. He must not only hear him, but listen to it with opening, "concluded Gaétan Lelièvre. 
