Quebec, on March 4, 2021 -The MEP of the Madeleine Islands and spokesperson for the Quebecois Healthy Party, Joël Arseneau, reacted to the announcement of yesterday of the Prime Minister who, again, leaves the vast majority of Quebeckers with legitimate questions about sanitary measures that apply in their region; He wondered why the government did not return to the regional level alert system, the famous "color code", yet simple and effective to understand and apply, in addition to being more representative. 
IN SHORT 
"The Prime Minister has announced yesterday that all regions of Quebec, with the exception of Greater Montréal, will spend the orange alert level after break. However, since the epidemiological situation varies greatly from region to region, would have been expected to come back to a regional level alert system, in other words in the color code, "said the deputy. 
Indeed, as the Québécois party has been repeating for several weeks, to better reflect the epidemiological situation of each of the regions, a color code of color including clear and precise indicators and an approach giving more influence to regional health directorates. public should be privileged. 
"Take the example of the Chaudière-Appalaches or the Capitale National; Because the situation is now stable, these two regions turn into orange - it is certainly a great relief for the population! However, it is the same level of alert as the northern coast, Nord-du-Québec, Abitibi-Témiscamingue, Lower St. Lawrence, Gaspé-Îles-De- La-Madeleine and Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean who, however, are considered "under control" since February 2, for more than a month. Similarly, these recent regions should have been downgraded to an alert level corresponding to their current epidemiological situation, "illustrated Joël Arseneau. 
In the eyes of the member, nuances would have certainly been indicated. "Quebec has, since last night, divided into two: red areas and orange areas. Nothing else. I emphasize that among orange areas, some still count a few dozen cases daily, while in the Îles-de-la-Madeleine, for example, no new cases have been identified for nearly two months. Where is the consistency? Where is predictability? He asked. 
Joël Arseneau nevertheless welcomed the fact that the government opened the door at the recovery of organized sports and the entertainment shows. "Finally, the call we launched alongside the artists of the stage was heard. As for sports, no accurate date has yet been announced, but hope is now there. We will maintain the pressure so that the plans of sports federations for a gradual and safe recovery are implemented. Culture and sport, it's good for morale, and I am pleased that the government will finally recognize it, "he concluded. 
- 30 - 
SOURCE : 
Laura Chouinard-Thuly 
Press Officer 
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois 
514 880-9594 
Laura.c After i's -t care liquid @as is NAT. Second. Wipe 
