Montréal visits to Saint-Émile School in Montreal, the Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Education, Leisure and Sport, Marie Malavoy, and the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve , Carole Poirier, today announced the allocation of a total amount of $ 2,705,971 for the construction of school course embellishment at the quantity of Quebec. 
"What is good in this extent, it is the collaboration between the community and the school boards. In these initiatives to improve the living environment of Quebec children, the government is acting as a catalyst and institutions as a teacher. The realization of such projects is the brand of a community mobilized to ensure its children a quality future. It must be so, "said the premier. 
The financial assistance announced today is granted as part of the Embellishment Measurement of the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport. By allowing school boards to achieve various development projects, in partnership with the Community, this measure aims, among other things, to ensure a stimulating, safe and conducive environment for physical activity. A total of 142 projects, the total cost of which amounts to $ 10,490,328, will be completed this year in about fifty school boards. 
Malavoy Minister took advantage of this announcement to make public the amounts awarded in the Montreal area. The Montreal School Boards, Marguerite-Bourgeoys and Français-Montreal will share $ 134,880 for the realization of eight school course embellishment projects. The selected projects are attached. 
"By investing in our school classes, we offer schoolchildren a safe and welcoming place, where pleasure to move and socialization form a happy mix. It is also one of the means by which the Government of Quebec ensures the preservation of the school heritage. I am pleased that we do one of our priorities and we demonstrate, by today's announcement, "said Malavoy Minister. 
Speaking of the project that will be carried out at Saint-Émile School, where the press conference was held, the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve welcomed the students attending the establishment and for families in the sector. "The school court is of particular importance; It is synonymous with pleasure. Because you know, the school represents much more than a place of learning. The more pleasant, the more environmental environment will develop a sense of belonging to the school. They will want to prepare their plans for the future and succeed. Is not that what we want for our children? "Concluded Carole Poirier. 
