Quebec- On the eve of the International Day of Free Software, the Minister responsible for the Government Administration and President of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, draws up a first positive assessment of the measures announced by the Government to increase the use of the Free software in public bodies. 
"The measures our government has announced six months ago in terms of free software give tangible results. Already, we are able to offer public bodies a leading expertise to take full advantage of the benefits of free. Other gestures will follow in such a way as to explore all possible options for making the best choices at the best costs, "said Mr. Bédard. 
Remember that last March, the government announced eight measures, including the establishment of the Center for Expertise in Free Software (Cell). Since April 2, departments and agencies have been able to count on the diversified experience and expertise of 20 developers and specialists who have the mandate to accompany them and advise them in their exploration or use of free software. 
In addition to creating the Cell, the government has announced a series of measures such as the development of flagship projects, the publication of open standards, the launch of a call for tenders for e-mail and evaluation of administrative mechanisms. Use of free software. 
"We encourage all departments and agencies to follow suit and seek free solutions for greater flexibility in managing their information resources. I also invite them to introduce their projects and the added value of these, as much in terms of efficiency and in terms of economic development of Quebec, "concluded Minister Bédard. 
Status of work for the eight measures announced in March 2013 to increase the use of free software in public bodies 
Measure 1- Creating the Cell 
The Free Software Expertise Center (Cell) has been operational since April 2, 2013. It has a team of 20 professionals working in the field of computer science for many years and possessing advanced expertise in the development of solutions based. on free software. 
Measure 2- List of open standards 
An Interdepartmental Committee on Standardization and Interoperability Grouping several public bodies has been established to develop a list of recommended open standards, the use of which will facilitate the exchanges between the information systems of departments and agencies, while allowing the government to avoid exclusive dependence on suppliers. 
Measure 3- Call for tenders e-mail 
Work for launching an open call for tenders for government email will start in the fall of 2013. 
Measure 4- Flagship Projects 
Four flagship projects have been developed since the creation of the Free Software Expertise Center within different departments, including a 40-position deployment project with free office suite at the Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities, which benefits from the Contribution and expertise of Cell. 
Measure 5- Consultation with the education network 
In the Education Network, the Cell produced studies and analyzes to replace the proprietary software used in certain college and academic formations, including the use of GIMP, free image processing software, and projectLibre , free project management software, which could replace Photoshop and Microsoft Project. 
Measure 6- Animation of a community of practitioners 
A free software governing committee that includes several departments and agencies has been put in place to make recommendations for priority projects based on government needs and with regard to the status of the flagship projects of relevant ministries. . 
Measure 7 - Assessment of administrative mechanisms Bringing the use of free software in public administration 
As part of a consultation on the best contractual practices with departments and agencies as well as the information technology industry, the Treasury Board Secretariat is currently analyzing solutions to strengthen the respect of the principles of the law. on the contracts of public bodies, including healthy competition and equity between suppliers. 
Measures 8- The three Treasury Board Secretariat Guides 
Three guides concerning the use of free software have been disseminated on the Treasury Board Secretariat website to inform public bodies in choosing the appropriate license according to their needs and costs associated with their use. 
