The official opposition spokesperson for higher education and research, Alexandre Cloutier, introduced this morning a bill to put the children and young people from Quebec safe from any eventual cup Budgetary, An Act to establish a budget protection shield for the services for education, childhood and youth protection. Accompanied by Vice-Cheffe and Family Spokesperson, Véronique Hivon, the spokesperson for school perseverance and primary and secondary education, Carole Poirier, as well as the spokesperson for the protection of The youth, Dave Turcotte, he gave a lot of lines at a press. 
IN SHORT 
The bill "shield" aims to protect the budgets of educational custody services, primary education at the post-secondary level - and the protection of youth. "We must provide for all children and youth in Quebec that they have every chance of success, regardless of the social or economic environment they come from. That their government is there for them, regardless of the budget situation. They must know that they can see great, aspire to better, that their dreams are within their reach, let us accompany them. In short, that again they will not make the costs of austerity, because it will be prohibited by law. It is a strong, unprecedented gesture, "first declared Alexandre Cloutier. 
"The main leverage of our society is education. In the same way, the key mistress of all our successes is the collective effort we invest in education, that is, the role that the state is called upon to play in this mission. To succeed, this state must be strong, flexible and effective. It must be able to guarantee the availability and quality of services, and to avoid an explosion of inequalities, "added Véronique Hivon. 
For its part, Carole Poirier highlights the contrast existing between the position of the PLQ and the CAQ, and that of the Parti Québécois. "The Liberals and Caquists have the same vision: lower taxes and taxes, leaving to harm child services. Left to jeopardize the success and flourishing of thousands of young people who have not shot the right year of birth. We, we make the bet of the franchise: we will neither reduce nor increase the tax burden of Quebeckers. We will make sure that the state retains its capacity for action, so that it can support each young person in his journey, "she said. 
For his part, Dave Turcotte mentioned that "an independent third party, like the Auditor General, will be responsible for ensuring the respect and enforcement of the law by all the governments that will follow one another. Never ever "compressions" will not rime with "education". And never again the safety and development of children will be compromised by administrative decisions. This is the tangible proof that we want to make youth in general, and education in particular, the permanent priority of the nation. » 
Finally, Alexandre Cloutier emphasized that the numbers unveiled this morning by the Quebec Institute have something to think. "In terms of the graduation rate after 5 years, it is learned that Quebec, 64%, is good in Canada. Six points behind the Saskatchewan, classified penultimate. And 20 points behind the leaders. It's dramatic and unacceptable. There is urgency to act; As recommended by the study, absolutely retain budgets above inflation and increased costs of services, "he concluded. 
