Montreal- The Quebec Prime Minister and Head of the Partician, Pauline Marois, presented his commitments to better welcome and integrate the people who have chosen to live in Quebec. 
It was accompanied by the candidate in Cremazie and Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities, Diane de Courcy, the candidate in Rosemont, Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Jean -François, candidate in Verdun, Lorraine Pintal, candidate in Saint-Henri-Sainte-Anne, Véronique Fournier, candidate in Laurier-Dorion, Pierre Cere, the candidate in Anjou-Louis-Riel, Yasmina Chouakri , of the candidate in Bourassa-Sauvé, Leila Mahiut, and the candidate in Viau, Odette Lavigne. 
"We are proud that tens of thousands of people decide every year to settle home to live and work there. We are determined to offer them the best chance of success. Several actions have been undertaken by our government, but we need to emphasize our efforts to better welcome new Quebeckers, "said Pauline Marois. 
In the last 18 months, the Government of Quebec has implemented important measures to facilitate the success of the francization and integration into employment of newly arrived immigrants and to further arrest the selection criteria. 
A Parti Québécois government will modernize the immigration system and will again propose the Immigration Act in Quebec, filed in February 2014. 
"We want to equip Quebec with a modern immigration system. We want to review the process of selection of immigrants to ensure their francization and professional integration. We will propose measures that will meet the current challenges of the integration of newcomers, "added the Prime Minister. 
Although immigrants are selected according to their schooling, their field of training and their mastery of French, they need time to adapt to the Quebec labor market, to make themselves known and find a job at height their aspirations and skills. A government of the Parti Québécois therefore undertakes to shorten this period, allowing immigrants to begin their approaches from their selection by Quebec, which generally precedes from 12 to 18 months their arrival here. 
"Concretely, we will facilitate this preparation by increasing by 10% annually the number of online francization users and 20% those of the online integration service. A Quebec party government is also committed to significantly reduce the time of comparative assessments of studies outside Quebec, "said Diane de Courcy. 
The Quebec party government has announced an additional investment of $ 13.5 million over the next three years for the francization of immigrant people. This is one of the 24 actions of the plan a Quebec with its immigration, which aim to maximize the contribution of immigration to the economic, cultural and social development of Quebec. 
"Language control is a fundamental factor in the integration of people. More support for learning French for allophone children will be offered at the preschoolery. The government will also implement innovative francing practices of temporary foreign workers. Finally, the projects promoting the integration and the francization of parents will be more supported, "added Diane de Courcy. 
"Immigration is an undeniable force for Quebec, and all regions must benefit. At present, only 20% of newcomers move outside Montreal. We will put in place measures to increase this rate at least 25% by 2020, "added Pauline Marois. 
In several regions, agreements have already been concluded in order to adapt the means to attract future immigrants or those who have just moved to Montreal. We also want to improve the support of immigrants who are already settled in the region, with a view to promoting their retention. These agreements will continue to be developed. 
Even if they are selected in large numbers for their control of French and their schooling, immigrants from the Maghreb have important integration difficulties in the labor market, especially in their early years in Quebec. 
"A government of the Parti Québécois will ensure better integrating into the professional market, by improving the recognition of their diplomas and skills. We invited Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia to work with us in this sense, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
"The Parti Québécois relies on immigration and successful integration of people who choose Quebec to live there. We must do everything possible to better integrate our immigrants and give them the means to succeed, so that together we become more prosperous, more welcoming, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
We have a plan and the team to succeed. Today, it's time to give us the means to go further. 
