Quebec, August 8, 2017 -The official opposition spokesman for immigration and cultural communities, Carole Poirier, went to note the state of the situation in the Montreal Olympic stadium facilities, transformed from a few Days in reception center for migrants who continue to cross the border to request asylum. 
IN SHORT 
路 Refugee welcomes must be done in the rules and according to our capacity. 
路 After visiting the stadium, we are reassured about the conditions and quality of the welcome. 
路 We ask that a special team, consisting of people from the two ministries of immigration and the Ministry of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, is set up so that the study of the files is jointly. 
路 The Certificate of Acceptance of Quebec, the Federal Temporary Work Permit and the Social Assistance Check should be issued at the same time. 
"We are reassured by what we have seen during our visit to the Olympic Stadium in Montreal, as to the conditions and quality of the reception. We also found that it was temporary accommodation; Migrants are quickly directed to other resources. That said, we are poorly explaining that the Liberal government of Justin Trudeau is as little effective with regard to the process of granting work permits. The Government of Quebec is able to issue a social assistance check quickly, and it is essential that the federal be just as quick so that migrants quickly find work, "said Carole Poirier. 
Without a work permit, recalls the spokesperson, these people will not be able to fully contribute to the development of Quebec and will remain on the balance of the host society, which they surely do not want. "Quebec and Canada do not have the choice to welcome applicants, according to international agreements. I call on the process of granting work permits to accelerate, so that these people can be employed and that they are no longer dependent on Quebec society to support themselves, "she said . 
Deadlines must therefore be harmonized, including that related to the Certificate of Acceptance of Quebec. "For this, we ask that a special team is set up, consisting of people from the two ministries - federal and Quebec - immigration and the Ministry of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity so that the Study of the files can be conducted jointly, "added the member. 
"The welcome of refugees must be done in the rules and according to our capacity. We hope that the Government of Quebec and the other opposition parties will support our request, "concluded Carole Poirier. 
