Quebec- The hon. Member for Jonquière and Leader of the Official Opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as the member for Vachon and spokespersons of the Parti Québécois on transport, Martine Ouellet, denounced the voluntary blindness of the Liberal Prime Minister. Allegations of irregularities in the management of contracts of the Ministry of Transport of Quebec (MTQ). 
"The Prime Minister has invoked in his own way the maxim of the three monkeys: I do not see, I do not hear, I do not speak. And this, until his breakfast from Wednesday morning. But there is clearly something wrong. As early as December 2015, the press revealed the existence of the internal audit report which the Prime Minister himself filed in the House last Wednesday, the famous report he lacked pages and for which the conclusions were changed. So, Philippe Couillard was wrong Wednesday, or he did not know anything since December. Now, in both cases, it's a serious fault. The Prime Minister could not not know, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The Liberals refuse to make all the light 
In addition, the member for Vachon denounces the refusal of the Liberal government to agree to the motion she tabled and proposed to hear the stakeholders concerned in parliamentary committee, a motion that the CAQ, QS and The independent deputy of Arthabaska. "After the blame of the Charbonneau commission at the MTQ, Quebeckers are entitled to expect a change in culture within this department. Yet we learned last week that it's nothing. Even that the former minister has faced resistance when he asked a former UPAC employee to shed light on the situation! We deplore that the Government has refused to continue the work undertaken before the Public Administration Commission by mandating the Committee on Transport and the Environment to hear key players in the management of contracts within the MTQ ", concluded Martine Ouellet. 
Here, in part, the motion that was rejected by the Liberals: 
"To shed light on the allegations of the former transport minister and MP in Marguerite-Bourgeoys about irregularities in the management of contracts of the Ministry of Transport, the Committee on Transport and the Environment proceeds At the hearing of the following persons: 
· The former Minister of Transport and MP for Marguerite-Bourgeoys; · The Minister of Transport and Deputy of Verdun; · Mr. Jean-Louis Dufresne, Director, Office of the Prime Minister; · Mr. Juan Roberto Iglesias, General Secretary and Clerk of the Executive Council; · Ms. Annie Trudel, Analyst hired by the former Minister of Transport and MPs for Marguerite-Bourgeoys; · Ms. Louise Boily, former director, investigation and internal audits of the Ministry of Transport; · former Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière; · The former Minister of Transport and MP for Louis-Hébert; · The former Minister of Transport and MP; · Mr. André Caron, Deputy Minister Associated with the Department transports. » 
