Lac-Mégantic- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, confirmed the payment of subsistence financial assistance to entrepreneurs and self-employed persons as well as the intention of the Government From Quebec to set up a financial assistance plan to help relocate several businesses and businesses hard hit by the loss of July 6th. 
"From Wednesday, July 24, at the Aid and Information Office, entrepreneurs and self-employed persons will receive a lump sum of $ 5,000," said Zakaïb Élain. "It appears relevant to us in the circumstances of providing this livelihood support to mitigate the impact and respond to immediate needs. Currently, I can assure you that we work closely with the environmental economic actors to implement, as quickly as possible, flexible and effective measures to enable the restart of economic activity. Our government's goal is truly to support our business people so that they can focus on the recovery of their business and the sustainability of their business. » 
The amounts paid will be drawn from the financial support provided for in the emergency assistance component to the affected companies. The terms of financial assistance to entrepreneurs and self-sustaining workers are available atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca / megantic. 
In addition, Minister Zakaïb clarified that the Quebec government intends to financially support the provisional relocation of certain companies. Discussions are continuing in this direction. 
"The reconstruction of the city center and the restoration of the shops and businesses remain major issues for the municipality of Lac-Mégantic and we are perfectly aware of it," added Zakaïb Élain. "One of the short-term solutions is to develop temporary buildings, home to municipal and public services, to accommodate several businesses, businesses and self-employed. I confirm that our government is currently analyzing different options to provide this financial assistance. » 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
