Baie-Saint-Paul- in the stride of the policy of food sovereignty, the Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron, confirm the implementation of a local purchase strategy specific to public institutions, by December 2013. 
"Take the path of food sovereignty, it is equipped with tools that will allow Quebec bioalimentary businesses to increase their place within the institutional sector. Through this local purchasing strategy, they will be able to fully ensure the supply of our schools, our hospitals, our daycares and other government agencies to meet the expectations of consumers, "said the Prime Minister. 
In collaboration with the actors in the Quebec biofood industry, the local purchasing strategy will focus on increasing the place of food from here in Quebec institutional institutions. To do this, the Department will focus on four fronts, either: distribution, training, business ties and tenders in the public sector. 
In particular, the strategy will aim to assert to the privileged partners that the distributors are that the bioalimentary offer of here is diversified and that it meets standards of high quality and safety. In this way, the Government may encourage them to highlight Quebec's products to buyers in the institutional sector. The strategy will also be aimed at training and tooling Quebec biofood companies to access the network of public institutions, including seminars and personalized support. 
The strategy also targets the creation and reconciliation of business ties between bioalimentary companies, distributors and purchasing managers in the institutional sector. Finally, the Government will accelerate its work on the possible addition of new criteria in public tenders, particularly with regard to sustainable development. 
"We intend to do everything in our power, in compliance with the trade agreements in which Quebec participates, so that all citizens who attend our public institutions can benefit from the great diversity and quality of food from here. . As I have already said, getting products from here, it is above all to choose as a society, "concluded the Gendron Minister. 
For more information on food sovereignty policy, we invite you to regularly consult the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa), or Still following the ministry on Twitter (https://twitter.com/mapaquebec). 
Consult the communication of press emissions from the unveiling of the food sovereignty policy. 
