Quebec- The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in the field of finance, Nicolas Marceau, is indignant to the fact that the Liberal government announces budget surpluses of 2.2 billion that turned out entirely through additional draconian cuts. Direct impacts on our patients, our students, vulnerable people from our society, as well as on economic growth, which remains in neutral. 
"While neglecting the hygiene of our elders in CHSLD, and asked to eat powder potatoes in six minutes, the government announces surpluses that will be used to finance electoral candies. These are the surplus of powdered potatoes, "said Nicolas Marceau. "Let's be clear: these surpluses are not the sign of an economy that goes well, but the result of a rampage. There is really nothing to be proud, "he added. 
While last spring, the government presented a budget that seemed balanced, it had actually cut, in a purely ideological way, more than $ 1.6 billion in expenditures in 2015-16. The Liberals went too far; The results are noted in our schools, our CHSLDs, in community organizations and emergencies. "The Liberals have truly reached the bottom. Quebeckers are not fooled; They understand that the electoral candies that will be announced are offered because seniors do not receive the hygiene care they are entitled. Liberals should be embarrassed, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
"" The house is in order ", according to the Minister of Finance, Carlos Leitão. If the house is in order, it's only because the Liberals sold the furniture and there are no more! The government has provoked clutter throughout society, especially among the most vulnerable citizens. The Protector of the Citizen was clear: austerity hurts ", continued the spokesperson. 
Of austerity disguised in investments 
Today we are announced an investment of 300 million in the health network, while the government had cut nearly $ 1 billion. We are taught $ 110 million in the education network, while it had to deal with cuts of just over a billion. We are taught 100 million for the regions, while the government has removed their development tools. Note also the lack of reinvestments in CEPs. "For the current year, the reinvestment that the government announces is 11% of what it has cut into health, and 3.5% in education. There is a sad show of pure electoral strategy, "summed up the spokesman. 
No oxygen for families 
If only the government has managed to give oxygen to families ... but it is not so. "The Liberal government went for nearly $ 1500 in the pockets of each family since its election. It would now be necessary to be applauded for the partial abolition of the health tax, which will give $ 200 to each of them. Regardless of the calculation method, families are always $ 1300 in the hole, "concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
