Islands-de-la-Madeleine - the member for the Madeleine Islands and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Fisheries Component), Ms. Jeannine Richard, on behalf of the Deputy Premier Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, Announces the Allocation of Financial Assistance $ 150,000 to the Association of Fishermen Owners of the Madeleine Islands (Appmium For the realization of its living lobster identification project caught in the Madeleine Islands during the 2014 season. 
The financial support of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (MAPAQ) will enable the Association to identify all lobsters caught in the Îles-de-la Madeleine in 2014. This includes In particular, the acquisition of the identifiers that will be set at one of the clamps of lobsters caught in the archipelago. In addition, lobster fishermen information sheets will be performed to power the websiteWww.HomardesDesIsDelamadeleine.com. 
"Thousands of Quebec consumers will now be able to recognize the lobster of the Îles-de-la-Madeleine among those coming from outside. They will now have the opportunity to "always the right choice" by enjoying a lobster well from us and of exceptional quality. I congratulate the APPM for this initiative that will bring a capital gain to the Islands lobster and will give new impetus to our industry, "said Jeannine Richard. 
By promoting the reputation of the Québec Aquatic Products offer, the project project framework with the objectives set in the Food Sovereignty and the MAPAQ Action Plan for the Development of Fisheries and Trade Aquaculture in Quebec . 
It should be noted that with $ 2.3 billion investments and an annual food demand of nearly $ 34 billion that generates 475,000 jobs, the bioalmic industry is an important engine of Quebec's economy. 
For further information on food sovereignty policy, we invite you to regularly consult the blog devoted to it (www.politiquesa.gouv.qc.ca) or to visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa). It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
