Quebec- On behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, the member for Saint-François and Minister responsible for the Estrie Region, Mr. Réjean Hébert , announces financial assistance totaling nearly $ 160,000 linked to the implementation of the Pilot Support Program for Agriculture Multifunctionality. Thus, five companies and an estrie agency will be able to benefit from government support to achieve the project "Enhancement of the Agricultural Heritage on the Highway Highway". 
"I am very pleased that these producers, who care about the protection of biodiversity will be able to benefit from tangible government support. This is all the more beneficial by doing so, collectively, we will contribute to the development of our beautiful Estrian agricultural heritage, "said Minister Réjean Hébert. 
Companies involved in the implementation of this collective project, there is the company of Mr. Simon Couture, located in Frontenac, who obtains financial assistance of $ 23,600, and that of Mr. Raphaël Lacroix, established. In Lac-Drolet, which receives $ 30,500. The forest farm Forand Senc, Notre-Dame-des-Bois, and the Farm of Mr. Jean Roy, of Saint-Augustin-de-Woburn, are both awarded $ 35,000. Also established in Saint-Augustin-de-Woburn, Ferme N.S. Enr. receives a share of $ 22,000. Finally, the local development center of the Regional County Municipality of Granite, which is located in Lac-Mégantic, gets $ 12,300. 
"This collective project aimed at developing the agricultural heritage fits perfectly with the objectives of the policy of food sovereignty, since it promotes the dynamic occupation of the territory," said Minister François Gendron. 
The Farming Multifunctionality Support Pilot Program Farm operators to adopt practices that have positive impact on both the environment and communities. For more information on this program, visit the websiteWww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca. 
For more information on food sovereignty policy, consult the blog (www.politicsa.gouv.qc.caou websitewww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa) of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and L 'Food. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
