Quebec -Realizing the economic update made available at the end of the afternoon, the member for Rousseau and the official opposition spokeswoman in economic development and finance, Nicolas Marceau, finds that Minister Raymond Bachand Renounced to clean up that he had committed to do. 
"Reading the documents unveiled by the Ministry of Finance, it is clear that the Liberal government postpones its commitment to better manage its expenses and will use the fruits of the bad deal of harmonization of taxes to compensate for his inaction. In terms of budgetary and political choices, we have seen better, "said the member for Rousseau. 
Indeed, in its last budget, Raymond Bachand promised to clean up public finances through real control of expenditure and undertakes in particular to find $ 1,325 million over the next two years. However, the minister, rather than respecting his commitment to make efforts, prefer to use the Tax Harmonization Agreement. "A good manager would have paid the money to eliminate the deficit and would have done the housework. Minister Bachand prefers the facility, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
In addition, the minister has confirmed the analysis of the member for Rousseau to the effect that the economic strategy of the Liberal government, based on indebtedness and investment in public infrastructure, had reached its limits. 
On the occasion of his press conference, the Minister has indeed admitted that, in the face of lower than expected economic growth and the possibility of an even more pronounced deterioration, the Liberal government was at the end of resources since it It will be impossible for more to increase infrastructure spending, only remedy put forward by the Liberal government in recent years to support the Quebec economy. 
"To cross the last recession, the Liberal government has massively borrowed more than $ 30 billion to stimulate the credit economy. Today, Minister Bachand acknowledged that he had reached the limit of this strategy and had no other plan. It's disturbing, "concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
