Quebec - Minister of Finance and Economy, Nicolas Marceau, today presented the Fall 2013 Economic and Financial Update. The government will return to a balanced budget in 2015 thanks to a responsible approach , without raising taxes or taxes, supported by the continuation of rigorous control of expenditure and the implementation of economic priority employment priority. 
"It is fundamental to Quebec's economic and social development to return to a balanced budget as soon as possible. That's why we rigorously controlled expenses. In addition, a shortfall in revenues makes it difficult to achieve budget balance in 2013-2014. In the current economic situation, pursuing this goal in a dogmatic way could only have been the price of measures that would have been harmful to economic growth. We therefore make the responsible choice to repel the expiry of the fiscal balance at 2015, "said Minister Marceau. 
"Unlike the former government, which missed its targets each year, we have resumed control of public spending. For a second year in a row, the government will reach its targets for spending growth. This is the best performance of the last ten years. For 2013-2014, the level of program expenditure scheduled for March 2013 will be respected at the dollar. For the years 2014-15 to 2016-2017, both program spending growth and consolidated expenditures are 2.0%, "said the Minister. 
"We have control over spending, but it must be noted that income is not at the rendezvous. Several factors explain this situation. First, Quebec's economic growth for 2013 will be lower than the last March update, which is 0.9% instead of 1.3%. This situation is part of a slower recovery context for North American and global levels. In Quebec, this slowdown was accentuated by the tightening of the mortgage rules imposed by the federal government, which led to a fall in larger housing starts than elsewhere in Canada. However, the main reason for lower revenues is very low inflation observed in recent months. In addition, the higher savings rate that expected leads to a slowdown in consumer spending. Finally, we have seen an erosion of consumer income, following the rise of two points of the Quebec sales tax. All of these factors have a downward effect on autonomous income, "the minister explained. 
In total, government revenues will be amputated $ 2.5 billion in 2013-2014 compared to last March. Added to this will be the impact of the new actuarial assessments on public and parapublic personnel pension plans, which represents an additional $ 400 million on spending and $ 100 million on the service of the debt. 
The government's financial framework provides for deficits of $ 2.5 billion for 2013-14 and $ 1.75 billion for 2014-2015. These gaps to be gained are entirely attributable to lower revenue. The budget balance will be reached in 2015-16. The government's balanced budget background is based on two major elements. To act on the income column, the government has put in place an economic development policy that adds more than 43,000 jobs and supports 7.6 billion investments to accelerate economic growth. In addition, to act on the expenditure column, the government has a high demand control, which limits their growth to half of what it has been over the last ten years. In addition, the government excludes resorting for tax or tax increases for individuals and businesses. 
"In the context of a global economy still fragile and uncertain, it was out of the question of reducing $ 2.5 billion spending to achieve fiscal balance. This decrease would have led to a negative impact equivalent to 0.7% of GDP. It would have been just as irresponsible to increase the tax burden of Quebecers, "said the minister. 
"The achievement of Quebec's debt reduction targets is essential to maintaining healthy public finances to ensure economic growth and quality public services. The goal is maintained to reduce gross debt to 45% of GDP and debt representing accumulated deficits at 17% of GDP by 2025-2026. To comply with these objectives, the impact of additional debt deficits will be fully offset by additional payments to the Generation Fund in 2016-17, "the minister announced. 
Minister Marceau reiterated that job creation is at the heart of governmental action and incarnates in the implementation of economic priority employment priority. 
"This policy, which provides for budgetary and tax measures of $ 2 billion, will strengthen the growth potential of the private sector by helping companies to diversify their products and to gain new markets to improve business competitiveness. , innovation and exports. The budgetary and fiscal measures it contains will support the economy and will create more than 43,000 new quality jobs by 2017. In total, the creation of 116,800 new jobs over the next three years ", said the minister. 
Minister Marceau has concluded the presentation of Quebec's economic and financial update by announcing the launch of the 2014-2015 pre-budget consultations. "You have to make a place to the population in preparing the budget so that the government can know its opinions, ideas and solutions to the stakes we meet," he said. 
Quebec citizens are invited to learn and express themselves on the website of pre-budget consultations, at the following address: consultations.finances.gouv.qc.ca. 
