Quebec, on November 7, 2019 -The member for René-Lévesque, a parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois and spokesperson for finance and economics, Martin Ouellet, says the main observation that emerges from the economic update and Financial presented today is that the CAQ government has the means to do much more to improve the lives of Quebeckers, but it hides money. 
IN SHORT 
"Unfortunately, the CAQ continues to apply the maneuver invented by the Liberal Party to hide its surpluses. For 4 years, we have been told at the beginning of the financial year that finances will be tight. Then, as if by magic, during the year, we discover surpluses! In all, it is a sum of 12 billion that the Liberals and the CAQ hid in 4 years. But every time the government says we owe these pleasant news to the "good performance of the economy" ... As it is simply a dubious accounting maneuver, "said Martin Ouellet. 
As proof, today, it is found that the surplus has almost doubled in six months; It went from 2.5 to 4.8 billion! "Thus, the CAQ pursues the liberal ploy: bring down expectations by saying not having money available, then raining billions at the right time. For the current year, the government predicts 1.4 billion surplus, but everything suggests that in the next budget, this surplus will increase and the government will announce more expenses. We know the song! He sorry the spokesman. 
In addition, the Government tries to make us believe that it makes it automatic for the payment of the Solidarity Tax Credit to all the providers of the social assistance, barely after rejecting a motion of the Québécois party on this subject. "It's a trickery!, Continued Martin Ouellet. Only the basic component, that is, a sum of less than $ 300 a month, will be paid automatically this year. Nothing changes, on the other hand, for the significant amounts linked mainly where the person lives. Is the government telling us that he needs a tax return to find out if a person lives in CHSLD or in a Nordic village, while it only has to look at the address on the check? » 
However, two weaknesses of the last budget are now corrected. "First, the return to the single tariff in subsidized guard service, at $ 8.25 a day. It was very expected; It means the abolition of the liberal tax on families. Second, the enlargement of the supplement for disabled child - the big absent from the spring budget. Moreover, it was the Quebecois party that had reported this "forgetfulness", and it is the parents of these children who forced the government to come back to reason, "said Martin Ouellet. 
The table below illustrates the Liberal-Caquist maneuver: 
