Quebec - In response to the deposit of the Liberal government's economic and financial update, the spokesman for the Parti Québécois in finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, and the spokesperson for economy, Alain Therien, Eonsiduct that the poor economic performance of the Liberal government and its austerity regime have deteriorated the situation of public finances of Quebec. 
"The budget balance projected in 2015-16 could give the impression of improved health of our public finances. However, the ratio debt / GDP, the standard measure to assess the health of our public finances, will increase by 1% in 2016 to 55%, when it had to fall to 54%, depending on the budget. This means a deterioration of our finances. The debt increased faster than our GDP, which grows at a very slow pace. Economic growth is slow; For example, the growth of nominal GDP is only 2.4%, and autonomous revenues are $ 203 million less than expected. This very slow growth is explained by the choices of the Liberal government, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
"The government of austerity has strongly cut into expenses, while increasing the tax burden on citizens and businesses. This is an absolute record. The government still does not have economic policy. It browsing views, with empty marketing plans that do not result. The only things that increase in Quebec are the debt / GDP ratio and the unemployment rate, "added Alain Therien. 
The promise of the 250,000 jobs: the end of a myth 
"The liberal effect is well felt: an ever lower economic growth and the end of the myth of the creation of 250,000 jobs. The job is stagnant; There has been a creation of only 6600 full-time jobs in 19 months of liberal governance. It should also be remembered the $ 1500 tax burden for Quebec citizens and the increase in business, by tightening tax credits, including. Create 250,000 jobs, it was a promise, then a target, and today it is a myth, "added the member for Rousseau. 
Productivity growth 
"While the Minister of Education considers that investing in education would be clumsy, the Minister of Finance, says it's sound. But after all the compressions, he's injecting only $ 20 million this year. In the same day, the government announces $ 80 million in education, but we learn, on the other hand, that CPEs are cut by $ 120 million; It is only a movement of money. The cuts already made and those to be predicted will result in an increase in school dropout. This will have medium and long-term economic impacts. We need to improve our economic performance, make progress in schooling and accelerate private investment. In this regard, there was a 9.7% drop in 2014, and the ISQ provides for a 2.4% decrease this year, "continued Nicolas Marceau. 
Very strong pressure on public finances 
Infrastructure spending, the explosion of the remuneration of physicians and important cuts in public services - difficult to renew in the coming years being still present - exert significant pressure on public finances. 
"The worst, in all of this is the cynicism of the government approach. The government is not aimed at fiscal balance, it aims to make Quebec a province like the others and to offer electoral gifts in 2018. When it comes to tax cuts in 2018, Quebeckers will remember it Will be the beginning of a refund of all that the government has taken in their pockets since 2014, "concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
