Quebec- The member for Rousseau and the official opposition spokeswoman in the field of finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, denounces the Liberal government, which applies the perfect little guide of what should not be done when economic growth Is not at the rendezvous, that is, to raise taxes and taxes, while job losses are continuing in all regions. 
"This is the first time in a long time since the Minister of Finance provides for a net decrease in employment, a loss of 1600 jobs for this year, instead of the 31,300 new jobs planned. The liberal effect is well negative; Its positive side only existed in the reality of Prime Minister Philippe Couillard, far from people. The economic update of the Minister of Finance confirms the poor performance of the Liberal Party in terms of economy. The financial framework of the last June budget has completely collapsed. The government does not expect absolutely nothing for the recovery of the economy and the stimulation of job creation. The tax increases of $ 600 million announced today, in addition to the increase in child care rates, will have to offset the total absence of growth, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
Nearly half a billion increase in the tax burden for families  "This is the good old liberal recipe: the decline in autonomous income is offset by an increase in taxes. After attacking families by increasing the $ 193 million custody rates, the tax burden of individuals of $ 262 million is increased. Families, young people, motorists, including, will pay for the mediocre economic performance of the government. It tightens the bonus at work, going to look for $ 29 million in the pockets of young people and students. It cuts the tax credit for trade union and professional contributions, which are mandatory: an increase in individual taxes of $ 112 million. And it is not counting the tax increases of insurance companies and financial institutions, which will affect directly in the pockets of taxpayers, "added the spokesman. 
No plan for the recovery of the economy  The government took Report on Luc Godbout's taxation and put it to the trash before its publication. He gave a stale mandate to the Quebec Tax Review Board and sown uncertainty since June. He confessed that he was mistaken, while practically did not touch the tax credits for businesses. He admits that it was a bad measure and the parametric cups of 20% last June hurt SMEs and job creation. 
"The government offers nothing to regions or entrepreneurs to stimulate job creation. The only vision he has is austerity, an idea stolen at the CAQ. Moreover, the Liberal government has tried to impute $ 300 million expenditures to the Québécois government, to deliberately blacken the table; The audited public accounts confirm the liberal fiddling of public finances, "concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
