London- The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois presented today in the London City, Global Financial Center, the new economic priorities of Quebec to the members of the Canadian Chamber of Commerce. United Kingdom. 
"The incentives and measures we have put forward in our economic policy contributes to making Quebec a place particularly conducive to investment. Today, I took advantage of the forum that was offered to launch a strong message to the decision makers and investors of the United Kingdom: Quebec is a key partner for their development in North America, "said the first minister. 
The event allowed the premier to present the main lines of the Québec economy as well as the main themes of economic sappolitics, including Lastratégia of transport electrification. She put forward the comparative advantages of Quebec as an investment land, thanks to its energy surpluses and the redesign of its mining regime. 
It was the second pass of Prime Minister Marois to the Canada-United Kingdom Chamber of Commerce. The purpose of this organization is to coordinate the activities of Canadian companies established in British soil and to promote business exchanges on both sides of the Atlantic. In recent years, several personalities have addressed the members of the House, including Tony Blair and Bill Clinton. 
During the day, Ms. Marois participated in two economic ads. The first concerning opening, in Montreal, from a White Star Capital office, a fund that invests in priming and starting companies in the information technology and communications industry, whose presence will promote This sector in Quebec. The premier also announced an immapulation of a Cinesite studio in Montreal. This project of London Cinesite VFX, specializing in the production of visual effects, will create 200 jobs. 
With nearly 150 British companies established in Quebec, the United Kingdom is third in the world for the number of foreign soil companies in Quebec. Conversely, a hundred Quebec companies are located in the United Kingdom. 
