Quebec- Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, was in Paris, from 5 to 10 December 2013, to promote the Government Guidelines of Quebec in terms of biological diversity , fight against climate change and sustainable development. 
The minister first participated in the 2013 SalonPollutec Horizons, which was devoted to ecotechnology, energy and sustainable development. The minister took advantage of his presence at this show to encourage the implementation of actions aimed at promoting the transition to a more sustainable economic model. "Our renewable energies, the" greening "of production technologies and our foreign trade development plan, which will promote technological and commercial partnerships with Europe, are assets that will enable us to meet the environmental, social and economic challenges facing We face, "said Minister Blanchet. Nearly 1,200 exhibitors were present at this show, including the Quebec Association Trimatec as well as Chamard & Associés, Consujaj, Ex, G • Stas and Odotech, five companies in Quebec. 
The minister also had several bilateral meetings during this mission. In particular, he attended the signing of an agreement the Victoriaville Industrial Initiative Corporation, represented by its President, Mr. Gilles Lafontaine, and Palme France (National Association for Environmental Quality and the Sustainable Development of the Territories of Activities), To create Palme Québec. The purpose of this partnership initiative is to facilitate the transfer of expertise and experience in the design of environmentally prosperous environmentally friendly industrial parks, economically prosperous and the quality of life of the local population. 
During this mission, the minister also visited, the Regional Natural Park of the Upper Chevreuse Valley in Ile-de-France, which is considered a model for sustainable architecture, pedagogy and preservation of biodiversity. . This visit, carried out with the President of the Park, Mr. Yves Vandewalle, has allowed the Minister to inquire about the mechanisms for creating regional parks and to read concrete examples of approaches to reconciling economic and social activities. with the conservation and protection of the environment. 
In addition, the minister had the opportunity to talk to Mr. Alain Amédro, Vice-President of the Ile-de-France Region, responsible for the development, interregional cooperation and rural contracts. 
In the climate change file, the minister was able to exchange with the Loire-Atlantic Senator Ronan Dantec and French officials to inquire about the objectives and issues of the French party with a view to the CDP21 which will take place. Paris in 2015. Mr. Blanchet took advantage of this meeting to share Quebec's experience in the implementation of a climbing system of greenhouse gas emissions, a tool more In addition, states as a preferred solution to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. "Because of the quality of life of current and future generations, the Paris Conference is crucial and will have to lead to a multilateral agreement on climate change. That is why I am pleased to have been able to exchange with French experts on how our two governments can collaborate on the promotion of this economic mechanism in anticipation of the Paris Conference in 2015, "he said . 
Finally, Mr. Blanchet took part in a round table on the conservation of biodiversity, which included high-level representatives of the French Ministry of Ecology, Sustainable Development and Energy and Partner Organizations. This was an opportunity to present the new government guidelines in Quebec in this area and to discuss the French and European approach to biological diversity from a sustainable development perspective. 
"The relationship between Quebec and France is unique. The mission I had the privilege of piloting demonstrates the potential of this affinity. We have encouraged business projects animated by this necessary conciliation between economy and ecology. We have studied forms of development that allow both the conservation of biodiversity, economic development and human habitat in already occupied sectors. We have also considered common initiatives in terms of nature conservation and have explored collaborative avenues for the next international climate change conference in Paris in 2015. Without a doubt, a dense and fruitful mission for Quebec, "said Minister Blanchet. 
