Beijing- As part of a series of meetings on Tuesday and Wednesday in Beijing to the Ministries of Foreign Affairs, Trade, Education and Science and Technology, Minister Jean-François Lisé has wished for a deepening of Economic, academic and institutional relations with China. 
The minister recalled that Quebec is, by far, the Canadian province best implanted in China. The progress of this relationship will benefit from the establishment, in 2011, a Consulate General of China and, more recently last week, from the opening in Montreal of a branch of the Bank of China. 
"However, we miss an important tool to accelerate the tightening of our relationships: a regular flight between Beijing and the metropolis," said the minister. 
The minister emphasized the need to establish a direct air link during the speech he delivered to the Canada-China Business Council in front of 350 Chinese business people, Quebec and Canadians. 
The subject was also on the agenda of a meeting with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Canada, John Baird. The situation of the Quebec activist of Greenpeace, Alexander Paul, imprisoned in Mourmansk in Russia, was also discussed. Mm. Lisé and Baird agreed to coordinate their efforts in support of Mr. Paul. "It is increasingly evident, for the international community, that the charges against Mr. Paul and his co-accused are clearly exaggerated," said Lisée. 
The minister directs in China a delegation of eighty people working in the green, fashion, stage and education sectors. 
On the occasion of a reception highlighting the 15th anniversary of the Quebec Office in Beijing, the Minister attended the signing of agreements between Quebec and Chinese organizations (details in the appendix). 
With its Chinese government interlocutors, the themes of the environment, the green building, electrification of transport, video games, personalized medicine and Nordic development have been addressed. 
With the Ministry of Education of China, it has been agreed on the establishment of a working group to maximize the presence of Chinese students in Quebec and Quebec students in China. 
Similarly, the Minister and the President of the University of Foreign Languages of Beijing, Mr. Yang Xueyi, agreed to encourage a higher student mobility in mastering. 
The Quebec delegation will complete its mission in China in Shanghai, where it will be a question of promoting Quebec's know-how in the areas of green, fashion and culture and where several signatures of agreements are expected. 
