Washington, DC, United States - Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, met today at the Eisenhower Executive Building of the House Complex White, the President of the Council on the Environmental Quality of the White House. Ms. Nancy Sutley is the main Councilor of the President of the United States, Mr. Barack Obama. Ms. Sutley, in particular, is responsible for designing the policies and initiatives of his administration in environmental matters, including those concerning the fight against climate change. This is the first time a Quebec Minister of the Environment is received in the White House enclosure. 
The fight against climate change has been at the heart of the interviews between the Minister and the President Obama's advisor. Minister Blanchet reported on the many initiatives in Quebec to reduce its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, including the implementation of the Quebec Cap System and GHG Emissions Trading. Quebec will link its carbon market with that of California on January 1, 2014 as part of the Western Climate Initiative and is actively working to expand this market, already the largest in North America with about one seventh population of Canada and United States, other partners on the continent. 
The minister also mentioned that transportation electrification was one of the priorities of the Government of Quebec. Minister Blanchet and Ms. Sutley discussed the importance of reducing the reliance on their respective jurisdictions to fossil energies, which are largely responsible for climate upheavals that afflict our continent and the world. 
The minister welcomed the intent expressed by President Obama, during his last speech on the State of the Union, to put the fight against climate change at the forefront of the American political agenda. "I expressed to Mrs. Sutley our desire to go further. We believe that a vigorous economy and a healthy environment go hand in hand and will be increasingly inseparable: all economic indicators point to the need for a global and concerted struggle against climate change, "said the minister. . 
Minister Blanchet has been convinced that Quebec can play an important role in the fight against climate change: "In light of recent extreme climate events occurring here in America, meetings like today's demonstration. that Quebec's efforts are relevant on the international scene. It is by continuing our efforts in accordance with our values that we contribute to what is the most important issue of the beginning of the XXI 
