Quebec, on March 13, 2017- in Barcelona, Munich and London, three flagship regions of SMEs in Europe, the leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the spokesman of the Parti Québécois in the field of economy And for the SME priority team, Alain Therrien, hold several elements to enrich the SME program of the next government of the Parti Québécois. 
"The Catalans have a population equivalent to ours; Yet twice as many of their SMEs are engaged in export, Jean-François Lisée, who was, among other things, foreign trade. Quebec must better support its SMEs in the markets; There is a potential for growth and important wealth creation. The leader of the official opposition is also desirable to note that last year, Quebec exports in the United States fell, despite the weakness of the Canadian dollar and US growth. "The current government simply missed the American recovery boat for our businesses and jobs," he added. 
In Barcelona, Alain Therrien was struck by the effectiveness of the Eurocat organization, which concentrates into a single counter all innovation assistance for SMEs. The two elected officials also visited the three cities of the nurseries of microenterprises, including technologies, which take advantage of public and private support. At a time when 42% of young Quebeckers are thinking of launching a business, these experiences are informative to create favorable conditions for their success. 
In addition, in Munich as in London, a particular focus is set to identify and support what is called "gazelles", companies that demonstrate rapid growth. The British government is dedicated to a lot of energy to support these companies in their progression because they are the main creators of new wealth. 
Among the innovations that have attracted MM's attention. Lisée and Therrien, mention an idea applied since November by the British Business Bank (the BBB, the equivalent of Investissement Québec) to increase the proportion of SMEs that obtain a credit: companies are traditionally turning to their bank to obtain loans ; In case of refusal of their bank, their request is automatically sent to the lenders accredited by the BBB, but which accept a higher risk. As a result, a larger number of SMEs get funding for their growth. 
These elements will be integrated into the team's reflection of the Parti Québécois PME priority, also formed MEPs Mireille Jean (Chicoutimi) and Martin Ouellet (René-Lévesque). Moreover, in parallel with the European tour of their colleagues, the latter completed, in Montreal and Quebec City, a series of meetings with decision-makers from the business world to make the portrait of the challenges facing Quebec SMEs. Finally, in the coming months, the three members of the Priority SME team crisscross all regions of Quebec to reap the testimony of entrepreneurs about the regulatory and administrative burden that is theirs. 
