Quebec- In response to the declarations of the President of Manufacturers and Exporters of Quebec (MEQ), Éric Tétrault, during a given interview last night at Radio-Canada, the member for Sanguinet and spokesman of the Parti Québécois. and exports, Alain Therrien, and the hon. Member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesperson for international relations, Carole Poirier, somming the Liberal government to stop harming our export companies. Mr. Tétrault gave the interview as he participates in the economic mission of Prime Minister Philippe Couillard in Mexico. 
"Manufacturers and exporters in Quebec are worried about liberal austerity and compressions that fall brutally on Quebec's representations and are harming the competitiveness of Quebec in the world. Obviously, Philippe Couillard and Jacques Daoust do not have a business plan, no vision for Quebec. All they have, it's a pair of scissors. When will this government offer a real economic plan? Can he minimally stop harming, if he does not help? "Said the hon. Member for Sanguinet. 
The member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve recalled for foreign trade to be an integral part of Quebec's international policy. "In the interests of efficiency, coherence and vision, we chose to merge the ministries of international relations and foreign trade because it was self-evident that Quebec gained. The Liberal government decided first of all, to divide these two functions again, and then slash the Quebec diplomatic network, all over the world. We see what it gave: poorly prepared economic missions, major diplomatic errors. Now, we learn from the mouth of manufacturers and exporters that the follow-up of missions are deficient, which hurts their chances of drilling new markets. This government is deeply amateur! She said. 
Innovation 
The President of MEQ also reminded the government that it was important to invest heavily in innovation, a notice that the Parti Québécois shares. "Our government has launched a national research and innovation policy as well as a foreign trade development plan, a first in Quebec. The Liberals, they abandoned all this, for lack of vision and by an accounting ideology. They did not understand that investing in Quebec exports is investing in Quebec's development. I ask the Minister Jacques Doust to give these policies on the rails. It is the revival of Quebec that is at stake, "concluded Alain Therrien. 
