Quebec- The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, will be on mission to Angouleme, France, from 23 to 25 August to participate in Africa's Francophone movie (FFA) which spends this year a full component of its programming In tribute to the Quebec cinema. 
"It is with joy that I participate in this major appointment of French-speaking cinema that pays tribute to Quebec. This is a mark of recognition and an exceptional showcase for our filmmakers who are illustrating abroad by the originality of their scenarios and the quality of their productions. On behalf of the Quebec government, I wish to greet the exceptional work of our creators who know, year after year, dazzle and move the audiences, "said Minister Kotto. 
At the same time, the Minister of Culture and Communication from France, Aurélie Filippetti, and Minister Kotto will meet to continue their exchanges initiated at a previous meeting last November. In particular, they will approach the International Culture and Sustainable Development Symposium, held in Paris in November 2012, and the great challenges facing the cultural industries of France and Quebec face. 
Minister Kotto will benefit from his stay in France to realize a partnership track that had been mentioned during his first official mission, during an interview with the President of the French Institute, Xavier Darcos. Indeed, Minister Kotto and the Minister Delegate to La Francophonie, Yamina Benguigui, will sign the declaration of intent between the Government of Quebec and the Government of the French Republic on cooperation in the field of culture. This declaration aims to enrich and develop the Franco-Quebec cooperation between the French Institute, the Ministry of Culture and Communications (MCC), the Council of Arts and Letters of Quebec and the Cultural Business Development Corporation (SODEC ) in all cultural sectors. 
"It is a happy ending for the consolidation of the Franco-Quebec cultural ties which is consistent with the will expressed by the Prime Minister on the occasion of the 17th alternating meeting of the Prime Ministers of Quebec and the French Republic in the French Republic. last March. We have every interest in pursuing the bilateral dialogue by providing areas for dating and tangible instruments to assert the francophone character on the international cultural scene, "said Minister Kotto. 
Finally, the minister will also visit the Magelis Image Pole, one of the first European centers of the animated image, cinema with animation and special effects. Several French young professionals working today in Quebec in these sectors have been trained at this location. 
The FFA is a major recognized event recognized as a must for the different actors of the francophone film environment. It attracts more than 10,000 people annually and promotes the promotion of French-language cinema and the emergence of young successful directors. 
Thus, ten works of the Quebec cinematographic repertoire, ranging from Leolo de Jean-Claude Lauzon to C.R.A.Z.Y. Jean-Marc Valley, will be broadcast in addition to two films from Denys Arcand, the decline of the American empire and the barbarous invasions, which will be part of an outdoor projection. Note also that two Quebec films were selected for the official competition, or Gabrielle de Louise Archambault and Vic + Flo saw a bear of Denis Côté, and that the feature of Fiction of Guillaume Sylvestre, 1st Love, will be presented in the category Favorites of the General Delegates. For full festival programming, visit the website: www.filmfrancophone.fr. 
This cultural showcase was made possible thanks to a contribution from the Ministry of Culture and Communications, the Cultural Business Development Corporation and the Quebec Delegation in Paris. 
