Quebec- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, will be on mission in France and Belgium from 21 to 25 January. This visit will allow the Minister to gather information on the health systems of these two countries, while taking advantage of the expertise and the French experience in terms of autonomy insurance and financing modes focused on the Patients. 
"As we are preparing to pose structuring devices in supporting the autonomy and financing of the health system, it is important to be able to benefit from the experience of our Belgian and French partners. I am convinced that many measures in force in Europe would be adaptable to the Quebec context, and in contrast, different elements of our health approach can be inspired for European decision-makers and managers, "said Minister Hébert . 
In France, Minister Réjean Hébert will meet with the Minister of Social Affairs and Health, Ms. Marisol Touraine and the Deputy Minister for the Elderly and Autonomy, Mrs. Michèle Delaunay. The Minister will also be auditioned by the National Assembly Committee on Social Affairs, where he will speak on the challenges of the health system in Quebec. 
Activities are also planned with the Hospital Federation of France, with the Chief Health Chair of Sciences Po, with the Institute of the Brain and the spinal cord and with the Georges-Pompidou European Hospital. The Minister Hébert will deliver two conferences on the challenges of aging and the autonomy of the elderly, one at the National Foundation of Gerontology, the other in the context of the health forums of the Health Chair of Sciences Po. 
In Belgium, Minister Hébert will meet with the Walloon Minister of Health, Social Action and Equal Opportunities, Ms. Eliane Tillieux, with the Flemish Minister of Welfare, Public Health and the Family, Mr. Jo Vandeurzen, as well as with a representative of the European Commission. He will more visit the Saint-Joseph rest house in Temploux. 
This mission from Minister Réjean Hébert in Europe follows the visit made to Quebec by Mrs. Michèle Delaunay, Minister Delegate to the French Minister of Social Affairs and Health, in charge of the elderly and autonomy, in November 2012. 
