Beijing-in China Since Monday, the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean-François Lisée, has been able to see the success and advances experienced by several Quebec companies in the Chinese market. Three Quebec companies active in the sale of consumer goods have benefited from its transition to Beijing to announce the opening of their first Chinese soil shops. 
"The emergence of a middle class in growing purchasing power opens up new niche possibilities for our distinctive products. China thus becomes a market offering interesting perspectives for our designers, our manufacturers and distributors, "said the minister listed. 
Montrealers M0851, known for its original products, bags, coats and leather accessories, designed and manufactured in the metropolis, opened the ball by inaugurating its first shop in mainland China, in Beijing, in the heart of a commercial area. Vogue, near the city center. 
For its part, the leader in Montreal-based jewelery, House Birks, also announces this week the next opening of its first shop in China, scheduled for the beginning of 2014, at the Xanadu Plaza de Beijing. It is in the presence of the minister listed and many media representatives that the company makes this announcement, the result of approaches undertaken several years ago and for which the accompaniment of the Quebec government was crucial. 
A third company, in the field of fashion this time, welcomed the opening of its first points of sale in mainland China. Judith & Charles, who will participate this week at the Exclusive Montreal Collections in Shanghai, announced the opening of two shops in the cities of Guangzhou and Wuhan, and considers to increase the number of its shops in 2014. 
"We are witnessing an evolution of our commercial relations with China: whereas it is not so long prevailed the model of" manufactured in China ", we find that it is also now possible to manufacture in Quebec. products intended for China. This should inspire some to start, "added Mr. Lisée. 
This fertile day in Beijing concluded with a networking reception highlighting the 15th anniversary of the Quebec office in Beijing. Three ads were made on this occasion: Novalux will stage a new show in China, McGill University has entered into an agreement with the Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications in order to strengthen existing links and set up a framework. of collaboration in research and training, and the digital alliance has signed a letter of intent with the China Cultural Industry Association (CCIA), which reports from the Chinese Ministry of Culture, with a view to making the CCIA the guest of honor of the next international summit of the Game of Montreal. 
Monday's day in the capital of Shandong Province, paired with Quebec since 2008, has given rise to the signing of the 3rd Quebec-Shandong Working Group. In total, six cooperation projects were selected in the areas of education, vocational training, urban spatial planning, culture and the environment. 
The development of political, cultural and business links was at the heart of a successful minister meeting with the Vice-Governor of Shandong, which announced that it would be created to be created a Quebec demonstration zone that will allow To raise awareness of Quebec's know-how in Shandong. 
Meetings were also conducted with the Dean of the Institute of Economic and Environmental Law of the University of Shandong and the Director of the Shandong Provincial Museum, with which the Museum of Civilization of Quebec wishes to develop an exchange of exhibitions. 
Quebec and Shandong, both members of the Leadership Conference of the Partner Regions have developed, since 2002, have developed close ties of cooperation in different fields, including those of the economy, trade, research and the research. Innovation, training, education and tourism. 
