Dresden, Germany- At the end of the mission he led in Germany with the Parliamentary Assistant to the Prime Minister, responsible for the electrification of transport, Mr. Daniel Breton, and a dozen companies and Quebec organizations in the electromobility sector, the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, believes that Quebec must intensify its technical, scientific and commercial collaboration with German partners. 
"Germany has a political will and has a leading expertise that have made it a must-see partner to promote the development of the Quebec industry of electromobility. Our long-standing relationships with Bavaria and Saxony, in particular, will certainly benefit from the advancement of transportation of transport in Quebec, a major economic development project and sustainable development for our society, "said the minister listed . 
In Munich, the entire Quebec delegation attended a presentation of the car manufacturer's activities BMW in the electric vehicle sector. A working workshop with representatives of companies and other community stakeholders, among other things, exchanged collaborative perspectives as part of the regional electromobility vitrine program of the German federal government. Note that Bavaria and Saxony have both restrained Quebec as an international partner of this program to develop the electromobility sector. 
In Dresden, a visit to Volkswagen facilities as well as a presentation of the company's activities in the electromobility sector were on the program. A meeting also took place with representatives of the Dresden Transport Society, which manages one of the largest tram network networks in Germany. The company is also engaged with the Saxony government in a project to increase the amount of hybrid buses in Saxon municipalities. Finally, the parliamentary assistant and the delegation of business took part in an electromobility workshop at the Fraunhofer Institute, an applied science research organization, which were invited several potential Saxon partners. 
"Quebec is well positioned to become a leader in transport electrification. It has its provision of renewable electricity and has expertise, for example, in the development of batteries and new power power and electronic power systems. However, in this highly competitive sector, our success is also based on our ability to establish business and scientific partnerships, "Breton said. 
On the sidelines of an interview in Munich with the Minister of Federal and European Affairs of the State of Bavaria, Mrs Emilia Müller, the minister listed attended the signing of an agreement aimed at developing the youth exchanges between Quebec and the Bavaria. 
Through this agreement, the International Youth Offices of Quebec (Lojiq) and the Bavarian State Chancellery want to promote the participation of young Quebecers and Bavarois in joint exchange programs and international projects. These projects will aim to improve the professional qualifications of young people in Quebec and Bavaria by offering them the opportunity to live concrete experiences that will facilitate their integration into the labor market. Lojiq and the state of Bavaria also intend to promote exchanges in the field of vocational training. 
"By tackling a greater place to the youth today, our rich collaboration with Bavaria is more than ever turned towards the future. I invite young people from Quebec and Bavaria to seize these new opportunities that will certainly contribute to enriching their career and personal career, "said the minister. 
Recall that Bavaria is one of the largest institutional partners in Quebec abroad. More than 500 cooperation projects in the cultural, economic, scientific and educational fields, among others, have been enrolled in programming for almost 25 years. 
The minister also met with the Justice Minister of Bavaria, Ms. Beate Merk. They both participated in an activity stressing the National Day of Quebec in the Bavarian capital. 
In Dresden, Mr. Lisne met with Minister-President of Saxony, Mr. Stanislaw Tillich, as well as the Minister of Science and Arts, Ms. Sabine von Schorlemer. The minister was also able to talk to the Secretary of External Affairs of Catalonia, Mr. Roger Albinyana, visiting the Saxon capital. 
Germany is Quebec's largest trading partner in Europe. Already First European Customer of Quebec in 2011, this country has since last year its main supplier of products from Europe. 
The minister listed continues his European mission in Brussels and Paris until June 26th. 
