Québec- on its return de mission, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, was satisfied with the visit to the Francophone Film Festival of Angoulême, particularly because of the signing of the declaration of intent between the Government of Quebec and the Government of the French Republic on cooperation in the field of culture. 
"There are between France and Quebec a real sharing of tastes, interests and ideas in culture. France and Quebec see the works of their creators and their creators radiate all over the world, which confirms that these two nations each give an artistic message that finds an indisputable resonance. This Franco-Québécois cultural radiation, through the dissemination of works on common stands, can become a spearhead of the Francophone character in the world and thus enable the conquering new markets, "said Minister Kotto. 
By the signing of this first declaration of intent, the Ministry of Culture and Communications (MCC), the Council for the Arts and Letters of Quebec (CALQ) and the Cultural Business Development Corporation (SODEC) will work with the 'French Institute to enrich the links in all Quebec and French cultural channels. In concrete terms, the MCC and the French Institute desire, among other things, a better flow of information concerning the priorities of each participant, the sharing of knowledge and expertise in all cultural sectors, work in partnership to maximize The visibility of the actions. 
The signatories of the statement, Minister Kotto and the Minister Delegate to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in charge of La Francophonie, Ms Yamina Benguigui, expressed the wish to further develop cultural exchanges, partnerships, co-productions or any other project and To pursue cooperation work in all cultural sectors, exploring innovative initiatives and new approaches, by exchanging good practices and promoting joint projects in Quebec, France or third countries. 
This declaration of intent will be accompanied by an action plan for cultivation. Exchanges will be held between representatives of the MCC, CALQ, SODEC and the French Institute, with a view to the development and implementation of this plan. Among the actions envisaged, mention the facilitation of common actions in the countries of the South, often Francophones, and the development of the circulation of Quebec and French films, particularly in the Francophonie. 
