Paris- As part of its mission in Paris, which is held from 5 to 10 December 2013, the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, participated today The signing of an agreement between the Victoriaville and Palme France Industrial Initiative Corporation (National Association for Environmental Quality and the Sustainable Development of the Territories), to create Palme Québec. The purpose of this partnership initiative is to facilitate the transfer of expertise and experience in the design of environmentally prosperous environmentally friendly industrial parks, economically prosperous and the quality of life of the local population. 
This agreement is in line with the sustainable development efforts undertaken by Quebec many years ago. The city of Victoriaville has worked in recent years with the establishment of an industrial park entirely intended for companies that evolve in the field of sustainable development or that adopt ecological standards. As this is the first industrial park of this kind in Quebec, the city of Victoriaville has been inspired by similar projects already implemented in Europe. "In terms of sustainable development, Victoriaville continues to innovate to meet the needs of its businesses. More than an open door to Europe, the creation of Palme Québec by the Victoriaville Industrial Initiative Corporation allows its companies to benefit from an industrial zone that meets the best practices with regard to the environment and the environment. Sustainable development, "said Mayor of Victoriaville, Mr. Alain Rayes. 
The idea of a partnership to formalize in terms of transfer of experiences was born following the many meetings and assignments between Palme France and the authorities of Victoriaville. Under this agreement, Palme France offers its expertise in the field of ecoparcs and the city of Victoriaville will transfer, in return, its experience in the field of industrial ecology. 
"The city of Victoriaville has always been at the forefront in the field of sustainable development. Its industrial ecoparc and this agreement with France mark the beginning of a new stage in this great approach. We have additional evidence that it is possible to combine economy and environment while respecting the quality of life of the local population. I am convinced that several municipalities of Quebec will testify to a marked interest in this initiative, "said the Minister Blanchet. 
Initiated in 1992, created in 1997, professionalized in 2002, Palme France brings together a hundred members. As early as 2003, interested in the project, European players joined Palme. The association works in the field of ecoparcs and favors three main axes, the sustainable management, the management of the territories and the animation of business spaces. The main mission of the association is to capitalize the experiences of its members and share them with the entire community. 
