Shanghai at the Shanghai stage of its mission in China, the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean-François Lisée, chaired the signature of a series of agreements between Chinese and Quebec partners and Inaugurated Quebec's showcase under green construction in Expansion Québec offices. 
China intends to have a billion square meters of green buildings by 2015 and 30% green buildings by 2020. "Quebec has all the assets to take advantage of the fantastic growth of the building sector Ecological in China. Already, the Green Building Industry of Quebec has established itself as a privileged partner of the cities of Shanghai and Dalian, where pilot projects are already realized. The testimonials of our companies are authentic, in a society where political power is very present in business decisions, Quebec government support is decisive in moving forwarding the files, "said the minister. 
The showcase in green construction was conceptualized by the Quebec firm coachitecture and presents the products and technologies of companies Nordic, Modlex, Soprema, IFCS, Wood DV and American Structures until the end of November. 
Several Quebec companies have benefited from the Minister's visit to accelerate the conclusion of a series of agreements with their Chinese partners: 
American Structures 
Letter of Intent with Beijing Enterprises (Dalian) Investment Group Co. for the construction of a wooden resort of 45000 sq. 
Coarchitecture 
Memorandum of Understanding with Beijing Enterprises (Dalian) Investment Group Co. for design in Dalian of a wooden ecological resort complex 
Modulex International 
Strategic Partnership Agreement with Shanghai Treemanwood Manufacture to market prefabricated houses in manufactured wood frame panels in Quebec. 
IFCS 
Signature of a distribution contract for their building management software solutions in the Shanghai area with Shesentng Information Technology, a Shanghaian high technology company. 
Soprema 
$ 10M contract with Taizhou Pengxin Real Estate Development Company for the sale of sealing membranes for green roofs, the majority of components come from Drummondville. 
DV wood 
In partnership with hardwood DV, HMS Canada, CLT Canada and Jiuyou Capital, an investment of nearly $ 5 million for the creation of a Solid Lamelled Solid Wood Panel Factory (CLT) in Ripon in 2014, followed by 'Implementation of a shaping center of solid wood panels, and the opening of the first second-generation CLT manufacturing plant in North America at the end of 2014. Thirty jobs will be created in Quebec. 
At the beginning of day Thursday, the minister listed offered his support for a Sino-Quebec agreement in the financial field. "The agreement between Finance Montreal and the Shanghai Financial Association arrives at the right time: the Chinese government launches Shanghai a major project for relaxing the rules framing financial transactions and Montreal to become a leader in the transactions surrounding Yuan in America From the North, "said the minister listed. 
In August 2013, the business council approved in August 2013 the creation of a free trade pilot area in Shanghai, a gesture that will propel the city to the world's leading, commercial and logistical centers. The project is the first of this kind in China and is also one of the priorities of the Shanghai government in 2013. 
The day has been concluded with another series of announcements, this time in the context of an organized networking activity in collaboration with the Canadian Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai: 
ATMS (Access Traceability Medium Health) Inc. 
Memorandum of Understanding with the Shanghai Ruidong Hospital that ATMS is committed to integrating its traceability software into the hospital's sterilization department so that it serves as a showcase for other hospitals in the city of Shanghai and possibly from southern China. 
ATMS (Access Traceability Medium Health) Inc. 
Collaborative Agreement with Shenzhen Ftrd Industry Co., Ltd. Aiming to integrate ATMS solutions into the sterilization departments of hospitals in Shenzhen City. 
SiliCycle 
Agreement with Jia Wei on the creation of a joint venture for the establishment and registration of a Chinese silicycle (silicycle-China) entity. 
Alchemic Dream 
Declarations of intent with two Chinese partners with a view to conducting a sales contract for technical services in the field of multimedia. 
Alchemic Dream- Shawinigan City Digital Station 
Collaboration Agreement between the Digital Station of the City of Shawinigan and the Shanghai Multimedia Industry Association with the aim of promoting technology sharing and training, as well as the engagement of companies in the mobile and social video games in the markets Chinese and Quebeckers. 
Jest I.S. 
Announcement of the Strategic Alliance with Lotus CP aimed at integrating new modules into their integrated management systems. 
Logic Orient 
Opening of the Logik Orient China office in Shenzhen to stimulate the export of Quebec high-end agribusiness products in the Chinese market. 
Norduyn 
Agreement worth more than $ 1 million CA with China Southern Airlines for the supply of 350 baby beds to equip the entire air carrier aircraft fleet. The baby cots will be manufactured in the Norduyn plant in Montreal. 
Finance Montreal 
Bipartite agreement with Shanghai Financial Association with the aim of promoting exchanges at internships, training and activities in the field of finance between Montreal and Shanghai. 
