Montréal- The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane de Courcy, today commented on the balance sheet of the last recruitment mission that took place In France and Belgium from June 8th to 11th. A total of 39 Quebec companies, including 21 from outside Montréal, took part in this 8th edition of the Quebec Days to provide for more than 625 positions in the areas of aerospace, accounting, engineering, Finance, the manufacture of electric motors, metallurgy, plastics, restoration, health, information technology and communications, transportation and machinery and machining. 
"The Quebec Days have very positive spin-offs and their popularity continues to grow. In addition to enabling Quebec companies to meet qualified people who meet their needs, these missions abroad allow us to position Quebec as a destination of choice for immigration. When they are recruited, these people arrive in Quebec with a job offer. They are young, Francophones or Francophiles, which allows them to contribute to both the vitality of French and the economic development of our society, "said Minister Diane de Courcy. 
The last edition of the Days Quebec, which took place on June 8 and 9 in Paris and June 11 in Brussels, had a record for more than 12,000 registrants. As for companies, they met nearly 1,300 candidates and carried out more than 2,200 job interviews.  The previous edition of the Days Quebec, carried out in the fall of 2012, in Barcelona and Paris, had resulted in 11,700 registrations and some 216 hires were formalized until now. 
Organized by the Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities since 2008, the Quebec Days are highly appreciated by Quebec companies. The turnkey form gives employers the opportunity to focus entirely on their main activity during the mission, the recruitment of a specialized and experienced workforce. 
This initiative is made possible through the collaboration of Emploi-Québec and the strong partnership that the Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities has established with economic actors in Quebec and Europe, among others, Montreal International, Quebec International , Sherbrooke Innopole, the Economic Development Society of Drummondville as well as International Emploi Center (France). 
Specialized workers recruited during these missions occupy a job as soon as they arrive in Quebec. Nearly 1,000 hires have been made since the beginning of the Quebec Days in 2008. Including family members, more than 2,000 people settled in Quebec. 
"Qualified temporary workers are a solution to the pressing needs of Quebec companies, which can not be filled by the local workforce. Their contribution is important because they contribute to the economic development of the regions in which companies are located, "concluded Minister Diane de Courcy. 
