Quebec- The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs. Marie Malavoy, today unveiled the composition of the group of experts who will be responsible for studying funding, administration, management and governance. School boards. This group will be chaired by Ms. Pauline Champoux-Lesage, who assumed the duties of Deputy Minister for Education from 1996 to 2000 and Protector of the Citizen from 2000 to 2006. 
To support it in his task, Ms. Champoux-Lesage can count on three other members: 
The Group will include the fairness and efficiency of funding as well as the financial position of the school boards and their institutions. The different sources of funding for school boards, their expenses and the recording of government and citizen accountable, will also be analyzed. 
In addition, the Group will focus on the organization and governance of school boards. It will examine the overall functioning of the structures in place, including roles and responsibilities conferred on the various levels (national, regional and local). Finally, he will propose to the government of the organization, governance and financing scenarios of the school system. 
In its analysis and recommendations, the Group of Experts should take into account the elements that, as the case may be, are specific to the situation of English-speaking school boards or special status school boards. It will also take special attention to the government's willingness to clean up public finances without increasing the taxpayer's tax burden. The final group of expert group is expected by the end of May 2014. 
Remember that on October 1, following the meeting with the school boards representatives, the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, and Minister Malavoy had announced the creation of the Panel of Experts. They also announced that school boards should give $ 100 million in school taxes over the next two years. 
The Matonian Matony a Duilleurs Tujourd'Huchi at the National Leeprojet Learmblée 
"By means of what we have other options, which will be presented by the expert group, we take the appropriate means to frame the power of taxation of the school boards for the next two years, without compromising the student services, "concluded the minister. 
