Quebec- The Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean-François Lisée, has signed an agreement on social security between Quebec and India, represented for the occasion of the Federal Minister of Indian Affairs overseas, Vayalar delvi. The mandate minister is to serve the many Indian nationals established abroad: the Indian diaspora is estimated at nearly 25 million people, established in some 110 countries. 
"The agreement signed today is of historical character since it is the first government agreement with Government between Quebec and India, a country of some 1.2 billion inhabitants. It provides Quebec a size comparative advantage to attract Indian companies to its territory and facilitate the mobility of the workforce of our companies in India or eager to do so. In addition to adding to the tools of the foreign trade development plan that will contribute to increasing economic exchanges and the diversification of Quebec exports in India, the conclusion of this agreement is a direct consequence of the exchanges we have had with The Minister Ravi at the last mission of Quebec in India, "said the minister listed. 
On the merits, the agreement facilitates the mobility of workers by coordinating the social security regimes of Quebec and India. In concrete terms, this agreement allows employers and workers to continue to contribute to the revenue regime of their original territory without having to contribute to the applicable regime on the host territory. 
Quebec exports to India increased at an annual average rate of 8.9% between 2003 and 2012. Among Quebec companies present in India we find Bombardier Aerospace, CGI, Exfo, SNC-Lavalin, Fraco, Innovitech and first tech. Similarly, several Indian companies are located in Quebec, including Tata Communication, Tata Steel, Tata Consulting Services, PiraMal Healthcare Ltd, Hexaware Technologies, KBMS-Leadsoft and Arcelor Mittal (Anglo-Indian). 
The signature of this agreement will also have a positive impact for the important Indian community in Quebec: the National Household Survey in 2011 indicates that it has nearly 50,000 people (born abroad, in Quebec, and non-permanent residents), 94% live in the Montreal area. 
Since 1979, Quebec has entered into social security reciprocity agreements with 32 countries. These international agreements are intended to provide nationals from another country in Quebec as well as persons residing in Quebec who will settle in another country the benefits of benefits acquired or in the process of Being under the social security regimes of their state of origin and their reception. 
