Wickham- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the regions of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, is pleased to announce, on behalf From the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, a financial assistance of $ 850,000 to the company Wickham Bois-Franc floors for the modernization of its manufacturing plant. The latter specializes in the manufacture of hardwood slats used for floor covering. 
"The acquisition of new equipment for the modernization of the production chain will allow the company to ensure its competitiveness in a very competitive market. The project is well received in the region and helps consolidate current jobs, in addition to creating four new quality jobs. We are very pleased to be able to accompany the company in its international growth, "said Minister Yves-François Blanchet. 
The project, which total investments of more than $ 4 million in state-of-the-art equipment, consists of acquiring a new sucking boards, a classification and cutting system. (Scanner), two optimized peeling machines and new millures. In addition to a new entry and exit system, the company has acquired a new sandy and related equipment for the optimization of the varnishing line. 
Wickham Bois-Franc floors plans to invest, over the next year, $ 1.5 million in the expansion of its current buildings for a total investment of more than $ 5.5 million. In all, this project will allow significant productivity gains and contribute to both the reduction of lamellae production costs and support the strong sales growth that has been experiencing the business for the last few years. 
The company, which is positioned very advantageously in international markets, already exports more than 15% of its production, particularly in the Middle East, Mexico, Europe and the United States. While it made a modest turnover of $ 200,000 in its infancy, sales have increased significantly in recent years, worth more than $ 25 million annually. 
"The support of the Government of Quebec, through Investissement Québec, will modernize the manufacturing plant and make it more productive, cost-effective and competitive. This funding has also supported our internationalization strategy and strengthen our local offer, "said the president of the company, Mr. Jean-Pierre Nittolo. 
Wickham Bois-Franc floors is a property of the region that employs more than 110 employees. Active since 1989 in the transformation of hardwood, it has its own dryers and processing plant, which includes a finishing chain. The company offers a full range of quality products. Its philosophy focuses on the total satisfaction of all its customers. To achieve this, it relies on qualified, competent employees who are committed to its success. 
