Québec- The Government observes with concern the shift to institutional bilingualism in municipalities, hospitals, Crown corporations, departments and government agencies. "Our institutions must set an example and return to French as normal and usual language. Although we are in favor of individual bilingualism, our institutions must be Francophones first and foremost, "said the Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane de Courcy , at the time of filing his proposed amendment of the Charter of the French language. 
The government considers that municipalities, through their proximity to citizens, are key players in the promotion of French as a language of work and language of public use. It has been found that some municipalities, which have no bilingual status, use practices that generalize bilingualism. This is why the present bill provides that the municipalities designated by the Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language will have to adopt a linguistic policy valuing the employment and the quality of the French language. 
"Institutional bilingualism must become the exception rather than the norm," said Minister Diane de Courcy. Municipalities whose bilingual status is founded can continue to operate in both languages. However, we will be able to ask Francophone municipalities that slipped towards institutional bilingualism to correct the shot. » 
In the health and social services network, health professionals are causing their clinical notes in English, which is problematic for French-speaking patients who want to know their file. As a solution to this problem, the government suggests amending the law so that health institutions or social services provide, as needed and toll-free, a French version of any document filed in the clinical record of a patient. 
Our proposal will have the effect of enhancing the control of the French of some professionals. It also adds the obligation that is quickly communicated in French the content of the documents paid to the file when the situation requires it. 
Since its entry, Minister Diane de Courcy has met nearly 300 groups and people from all walks of life to find out their thoughts against the status of the French language in Quebec. These ideas inspired the bill tabled today. Subject to the support of the deputies of the National Assembly, the Minister now wishes to invite Quebeckers to make their views heard on the means to be taken to give a new impetus to the French language in Quebec. 
To learn more about this bill: spl.gouv.qc.ca/projetdeloi 
