Quebec- The draft amendment of the Charter of the French Language filed today by the Government proposes to enrich the teaching of French in preschool, primary, secondary and college, both on the side of the French-speaking sector and Anglophone . To obtain their diploma, in high school and college, English students will have to pass a French event, as is already the case for Francophones. The rules governing the requirement to master French to access a professional order will also be tightened. 
"The strength of a language is reflected by its status and the use we actually. That's why we're going to make sure that young Quebeckers are coming out of school with an excellent knowledge of French, and throughout their journey, we will accompany them for them. The objective is that learning French is a source of enrichment and pride for all, "said the Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane de Courcy. 
In child care, the new bill adds familiarization activities to the French language to ensure a harmonious transition to school. In addition, the various childcare services will have to demonstrate their ability to communicate in French with parents to obtain or renew their license. "Of course, we will make sure to provide the necessary support, including those responsible for childcare services that do not master French, so that they can perfect their knowledge of French, when necessary," held to clarify Minister Diane de Courcy. 
In addition, the minister has lent an attentive ear to parents who want their children to be bilingual and even acquire knowledge of a third language. "This aspiration is entirely understandable," held the minister. This is why the offer of courses in English will also be rising in Francophone high school and college schools. "Optional courses will be added so that it is possible to perfect the knowledge of English in French-speaking schools," she added. 
Anglophone college educational institutions have been set up in priority to the Anglo-Quebec minority. "However, as I pointed out by the leaders of the English-speaking community, the high demand deprives some young Anglophones from access to their institutions," said Madame de Courcy. For the sake of fairness and to guarantee their rights, English colleges will first have to give priority to English-speaking students. 
The bill tabled today closes the door to the workaround, including the detour by an English school located above Québec and then access the English network from here. 
In the current state of things, non-subsidized private schools allow a non-English-speaking student to circumvent the law subject to having made an "authentic path". "It's quite unacceptable that in Quebec can buy a constitutional right for his children. This is a question that deserves to be treated separately. A bill will be tabled for this purpose during the next parliamentary session, "said Minister Diane de Courcy. 
To learn more about this bill: spl.gouv.qc.ca/projetdeloi 
