Québec-submitted to the National Assembly today, the bill to amend the Charter of the French language strengthens the obligation, for all companies, to offer a customer service in French. All companies with ten employees and more will also need to see well in view of the main language rights of their employees. In addition, companies from 26 to 49 employees will have to make sure that French is the normal and usual language in their workplace. Finally, these companies will have to respect the different requirements of the Charter of the French Language to obtain contracts from the administration, or from the government, Crown corporations, municipal organizations, etc. 
According to the latest studies unveiled by the Quebec Office of the French language, 63% of workers across Quebec and 82% in Montreal use English at work. After progressed until 1989, French at work experienced a slide, which tells the government that it is time to act. 
"Law 101 has given Quebeckers the right to work in French in Quebec, but it is a historic acquis that crumbles. Although it is normal to use other languages in certain circumstances, for example to do business with outside Quebec, it is disturbing that English is used systematically in some workplaces. We all have the responsibility to protect French and I am of the opinion that it is quite appropriate that small and medium-sized enterprises are put to contribute to generalize the use of French in the workplace in Quebec " , affirmed the Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane de Courcy. 
Once this bill is adopted, the targeted employers will have to have francization measures that will be able to draw inspiration from a proposed model, in order to clarify, inter alia, the means to make French the goods and services available. The same goes for the use of French in internal communications, as well as the description of the positions which require the knowledge of another language than French. These companies will also need to inform their employees of the measures put in place. In case of gap, consumers and workers will be able to complain and follow the path of their online complaint. 
The new planned measures promote intelligent regulations by putting forward results and leaving flexibility on the choice of means. The Government will support employers for the implementation of francization measures that they should adopt when necessary and will enhance a flexible approach. Employers can be accompanied in this approach by their sectoral committee of labor or their associations, who are familiar with the particularities of their sector of activity. 
Making French Labor Language in Quebec, it is facilitating the employment integration of immigrant people, supported Minister Diane de Courcy. "The unemployment rate for immigrant persons is a source of concern for the government. To explain their difficulties in the labor market, immigrants entrusted me that the requirement of bilingualism as a hiring criterion hurts them greatly. It must be remembered that we promised these people they would be able to live and work in French in Quebec. It is unacceptable that so many French-speaking newcomers have to take English courses to hope to find decent work. Our position is to say that for most positions, bilingualism should be an asset and not a basic requirement, "the minister explained. 
The bill therefore includes the prohibition for an employer to require a worker the knowledge of another language than French, unless the accomplishment of his task requires it. 
At the same time, even though almost two-thirds of immigrants have a knowledge of French, progress remains to be accomplished in this area. In 2013, the Quebec government will modify the selection grid of skilled workers to give more importance to fluency in French. "We intend to consolidate and expand the network of francization partners abroad. We will also offer all selected people access to our online francization platform. The francization offered in Quebec will also be enhanced by the use of other media, "said Minister Diane de Courcy. 
The services offered abroad will also be involved in sensitizing immigrants to the future prospects of cities and regions other than Montreal. In addition, the Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities and the Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity will be more important, as of 2013, their support for the integration of immigrant people. "For example, the newcomer who ends the one-week training offered by the Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities will be directed on the site by Jobs-Québec in his job search," says Courcy, recalling That the integration of newcomers to Quebec society mainly involves its employment integration and its mastery of the French language. 
To learn more about this bill: spl.gouv.qc.ca/projetdeloi 
