Ottawa- The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltais, strongly reacted as a result of his brief meeting with his counterpart, the Federal Minister of Human Resources and Skills development, Ms. Diane Finley. "Quebec is decided more than ever to continue the struggle for the viability of its thousands of companies, for its workers and the survival of its regions. The Government of Canada refuses to suspend its reform and take the time to measure impacts. This is unacceptable. » 
Minister Maltese pointed out that employment insurance reform, put forward by the federal government, is counterproductive and risks destabilizing whole sections of the Quebec economy, including fisheries, forestry, the Agriculture, construction, culture and tourism. Several speakers in the employer share these concerns and anticipate the very negative impact on a reform that does not take into account the reality of some employers. 
"The stake is far too big to improvise a reform without having measured the consequences beforehand. Following my meeting with Minister Finley, I'm seriously wondering about the federal understanding of the Quebec reality of the job market. It is with determination that we will continue this battle for all these families who do not deserve to be treated as well, "continued Maltais. 
Remember that Quebec has repeatedly asked to be consulted on the amendments to employment insurance before they are made public and enforcement. This position is also shared by other provinces and territories. 
The amendments have been put in place despite the dissatisfaction with, and despite two unanimous motions of the National Assembly on 8 June and on 13 November 2012, asking the federal government to give up its intentions that will have Negative effects in Quebec. 
"The Conservatives are rarely seen. They must suspend this reform to avoid destabilizing the labor market and leading several people in precarious situations, "added the minister. 
Despite the short duration of the meeting, the minister has found the time to reiterate the importance for Quebec to fully exercise his responsibilities for training and labor development, which goes through the renewal. Funding for the Labor Market Agreement Beyond its imminent deadline, by March 31, 2014, and by transfer to Quebec from all amounts for employment integration measures. 
"The Government of Quebec adheres to the principle of bringing workers closer to available jobs. The best way to achieve this is to adopt a pragmatic approach and avoid overlaps. I asked Ms. Finley that negotiations start right now and that a commitment to this effect appears in the next federal budget, "concluded Minister Maltese. 
Consult the Press Releases issued by the Parti Québécois Government on Employment Insurance Reform 
