One of the things I am most proud of in this election campaign, it is the team I present to Quebeckers to form the next government. A strong, competent team from all walks of life and regions. 
Quality candidates are so many from the Parti Québécois that I will not be able to name them here. But let me talk to you about some of them. 
Healthy, we are fortunate to have at our side Dr. Réjean Hébert, candidate in Saint-François and recognized researcher. This is the person designated to help us cope with the aging of the population, one of his favorite subjects. Helping the elderly to aging happy, in their home, with the people they love, while deding the health system and reducing costs, that's what he wants to help us achieve. 
We also discussed this week of essential themes not only for our economy, but also for the environment, those of the exploitation of our natural resources, electrification of transport and energy independence. I am so happy to have Daniel Breton, candidate in Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, by my side. Co-founder of the Green Party of Quebec, he founded the masters movement at home - 21st century in 2005. His in-depth knowledge of energy issues will be a major asset. And how to talk about environment without mentioning Scott McKay, our candidate in Repentigny? With such representatives to the government, we can only be reassured for the green future of Quebec. 
We must not forget education after the stormy spring we have known. I am so proud to have in my ranks Leo Bureau-Blouin, who has defended with intelligence the student cause. Also think about the problems of worrying school dropout and intimidation. Diane de Courcy, President of the Montreal School Board and candidate in Crémazie, as well as Lizabel Corina Nitoi, experience and candidate teacher in the Assumption, know something. 
We talked a lot about our candidate Djemila Benhabib in Trois-Rivières this week. Very deplorable remarks have unfortunately been kept for it. Yet the journey of Djemila is remarkable. It is a headwoven who has at heart the Quebec identity and the fight of the Quebec people to his freedom. And I am proud to count it among us. 
I must emphasize the presence of Nicolas Girard, in Gouin, who has done an extraordinary job to bring the scandal of liberal daycare. I need him to clean up the National Assembly. 
And the newcomers who have decided to join this thunder team to make it even stronger: Pierre Duchesne in Borduas; Jean-François Listed in Rosemont; Generous Bernard, President of the Quebec Federation of Municipalities, in Blainville; Jean Poirier, who proudly defended the workers of Aveos, in Mercier; Pierre Langlois in the Prairie and Alain Therrien in Sanguinet, two renowned economists. 
I would like to not talk about Véronique Hivon, candidate in Joliette, who initiated the Special Commission on the question of dying in dignity, and Alexander Cloutier, in Lac-Saint-Jean. They both strongly defended the rights and freedoms of Quebec citizens during the debate on Bill 78 last spring. 
I could continue for a long time to talk to you about experienced candidates, like Nicolas Marceau, brilliant economist and candidate in Rousseau; Bernard Drainville, proud independence, official opposition spokesperson for Canadian intergovernmental affairs and candidate in Marie-Victorin; Martine Ouellet, who has been spokesperson for the official opposition in mines and shale gas and candidate in Vachon. 
That so many quality candidates have chosen to make the jump in politics and to serve their fellow citizens rejoices me for the health of our democracy and the future of our nation. At the end of this campaign, it is not only the Parti Québécois but all Quebeckers who will come out winners. 
