Dear compatriots, 
My first words go today to Ms. Ladette Lapointe and the family of Prime Minister Jacques Parizeau. I offer you, on behalf of the Quebec Party team, my sincere condolences. 
Mr. Jacques Parizeau is an exceptional man. He was a great servant of the state. He made the choice to devote his life to his fellow citizens and his compatriots. He offered them one of the most beautiful legacies: modernity. Jacques Parizeau is the man of the modernity of Quebec. 
The list of achievements of this great state man is impressive. Think of its participation in this meaningful gesture of national affirmation that the nationalization of electricity companies was. 
As Economic and Financial Advisor from Prime Minister Jean Lesage, it was Jacques Parizeau who has obtained an important loan from US financial institutions, while financial unions on St. James Street and Toronto opposed this nationalization. . 
Thanks to its determination, it offered in Quebec financial emancipation, and the freedom to make its own choices. 
First Quebecers to obtain a PhD from the London School of Economics, Professor of HEC Jacques Parizeau has contributed to the emergence of a new generation of financial and French-speaking economists. 
He initiated or participated in the creation of the largest economic levers of our nation: the Régie des Annuities, the Fund and Investment, the General Financing Corporation, among others. 
As Minister of Finance of Prime Minister René Lévesque, he instituted the Action Savings Plan, promoting Quebec companies in financial literacy. 
Its contribution is also considerable for the creation of the FTQ Solidarity Fund. 
These two institutions add to these development tools that are an integral part of our society. They allowed the state to support businesses by, for almost 50 years. 
I salute, moreover, the initiative of Prime Minister Philippe Couillard to baptize the building with the Fund and Investment, in Montreal, "Jacques Parizeau Building". 
I had the opportunity to spend a few moments with Mr. Parizeau a few years ago. I asked for a meeting, which I obtained with him at his home on the island of Sisters. 
I have with him a discussion around the public service, the public interest and the interest of Quebec. 
It was from that moment that my reflection started on my own political commitment, for the independence of Quebec.  It is a great source of inspiration for me with regard to the political action he has undertaken, but also and especially for the audacity and ambition he has always had for Quebec. The depth of his convictions is no doubt. 
Throughout his life, entirely linked to the development of modern Quebec, Mr. Parizeau deeply believed in Quebeckers to become truly masters of their destiny and their future. 
Great intellectual and renowned economist, Jacques Parizeau led his public life with righteousness, integrity and courage. 
Thanks to him and very rare others, the Quebec nation has crossed the doors of modernity, until the edge of the country of Quebec. 
He has been the ignition candle for Quebeckers, to make us understand that everything was possible for our ambitions, here as elsewhere, on all the stands. 
Each Quebecker is, in a way, part of Jacques Parizeau's legacy. 
The best tribute that can be given to him is to continue. His work is unfinished, but the path is traced. We will follow his steps.  As he said: 
"The quiet revolution has been the work of four ministers, about twenty civil servants and twenty songs, then poets. » 
Thank you, Mr. Parizeau, for being one of those great officials, one of those poets and one of his great citizens. 
You are, forever, a giant of Quebec. Thank you, Mr. Parizeau. 
