Montreal- At the end of the Creative Industries Forum organized by the Metropolitan Montreal Chamber of Commerce (CCMM), which took place today in Montreal, the Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Jean-François Lisée, insists on The importance of contributing to the growth of this strategic sector for the metropolis. A broad consensus emerges as to the need to support, by various means, the economy of creativity, artisans, entrepreneurs and companies in this sector. 
The metropolis has a wide diverse basin of creative industries, a growing sector that includes media areas, including television, movie, video and publishing, arts, architecture, design , advertising and multimedia. The economic weight of these industries in Greater Montréal is considerable, with more than 90,000 jobs and economic benefits of $ 8.6 billion in 2012. 
"The creative industries contribute to urban revitalization and the attractiveness of the metropolis, attracting more talents, more companies and more investors. Quebec's prosperity is, more and more dependent on its ability to innovate and market the product of its creativity; We need to support these industries to help them grow, make them more competitive and get them to develop new markets internationally, "said Minister Jean-François Lisée. 
In this sense, the Employment Priority Economic Priority The Government of Quebec provides for start-up and business development measures and places the creative industries sector among those to support priority. One of the objectives is to help, by accompaniment, the most promising creators and small businesses to be structured and developing an entrepreneurial culture. 
Montreal is a fertile ground for the creative industries with its cultural diversity, its culture "underground" conducive to the emergence of talents, its incubators of innovation and its major knowledge institutions. Montreal talents represent a collective wealth in addition to being an important attraction for foreign companies and investors. Several companies and creators experience unparalleled successes and are, in this sense, Montreal's ambassadors on the world stage. Moreover, studies in this respect confirm that the metropolis is advantageously among international creative centers. 
In the context of global competition and strategic labor mobility, creative talents, which constitute an economically profitable resource, are rare and coveted. The attraction and retention of the best talents are stakes for several sectors of this industry. All agree on the need to maintain concerted actions in this regard. There is also consensus on the efforts to be provided to develop the full potential of these industries, which are characterized by a high proportion of self-employed and very small businesses. It is important to act on skills development, promote innovation and protection of intellectual property, and increase the number of critical companies. The mesh between institutions and businesses, the sharing and transfer of innovative practices are, in this sense, considered indispensable. 
The Creative Industries Forum concluded with a call for mobilization. "Quebec's know-how enjoys a good international recognition, as well as its visual creativity. This is the case in aerospace just as in the performing arts, video game and advertising. The raw material of excellence - talent - is present here. We must go further, go get business partners, convince them to participate in the growth of the knowledge economy, to the marketing of our creative products. Our creative industries have the potential to shine even more, here as elsewhere, "concluded the listed minister. 
This strategic forum, held under the themeles creative industries, levers of development and radiation of the metropolis, brought together at the Montreal Congress Palace nearly 500 participants. Twenty speakers testified from achievements and discussed the challenges and solutions to put forward to promote the marketing and export of creative content. The activity was organized by the Chamber of Commerce of Metropolitan Montreal, in partnership with the Secretariat in the metropolitan area. Creative industries: wealth and radiation catalyst for the metropolis, conducted by the CCMM and launched on December 2, traces a portrait of this sector. 
For more information on the forum, consult the on-site schedule of the Metropolitan Montreal Chamber of Commerce, atwww.ccmm.qc.ca. 
This body, which reports to the Ministry of the Executive Council, advises the Government of Quebec on any question or measure with a significant impact on the Montreal metropolitan area and its development. It ensures the Secretariat of the Ministerial Committee of the Metropolitan Region, chaired by Minister Jean-François Lisée, as Head of the Montreal Region. The Secretariat is working to develop consultation with its various strategic partners to promote the consistency and convergence of all interventions, as well as the growth and dynamism of the metropolitan area. 
