I am very happy to have participated today at the 2012 Rendez-vous - Montreal, Cultural Metropolis. 
We hear things about our metropolis these times: corruption, collusion, construction. It's normal, we are cleaning. But Montreal is not just about that. 
I had before me today the true face of Montreal: a proud city, a city uninhibited, a real cultural metropolis! 
In the 21st century, the fulfillment of the Quebec nation, the vitality of the French language, our economic and political future are in large part on our culture. 
This 2012 appointment allows us to realize that it is much by the creativity that Quebeckers have managed to surpass. Our cultural life is what we need to bet to stand out. And this recognition of the essential role of culture is found in the budget deposited by the Minister of Finance and the economy last week. This budget, we thought the cold head but the warm heart. 
My government will consent considerable efforts to expand the public and to develop demand, and then to ensure that our cultural life is a culture for all. In this respect, we will act on four axes. 
First, I reiterated today my government's commitment to closer the culture and heritage of Montrealers by renewing the Triennial Cultural Development Agreement with the City of Montreal. 
In the same spirit, the second axis of our action for the democratization of cultural practice will support public art, an opportunity for meeting between art and citizens. 
My government will join the efforts of the City of Montreal and the business community with an initiative to increase public art place in external places for urban planning projects, particularly in the Latin neighborhood. 
Another question that has been concerned for me for a long time, it is the availability, for creators, places of production and work. This will be our third axis of intervention. 
The fourth and final axis of our action to support the cultural metropolis concerns the 375th anniversary of Montreal. As we are committed to it during the election campaign, we will participate in the celebrations by focusing on the development of our history. We want to make it an anchor for the future of the metropolitan area. 
But, do not forget, if the arts are what they are today in Quebec, it is also thanks to those who supported them financially. I will soon confirm the creation of an action committee to encourage cultural philanthropy. My government has chosen to build on culture and will continue to support Montreal resolutely as a cultural metropolis. 
By then, I say to the artists: keep creating. Continue inspiring us. In Montreal and everywhere in Quebec, as on all the scenes of the world! 
