Quebec- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, denounces the lack of courage and franchise of the members of the Liberal Party of Quebec (PLQ) and the future coalition Quebec (CAQ) that use a new procedural maneuver to block the program's adoption process 37Visant to introduce a moratorium on certain activities related to the research or exploitation of natural gas in the lowland schist. Saint Laurent. 
The procedure used is unprecedented in the history of the National Assembly: after the adoption, unanimously, the principle of the bill, the opposition parties refused to be sent to parliamentary committee, blocking Thus all the usual process. "Since it was not necessary to know if the stakeholders were heard before or after the adoption of principle, the pretext of the first attempt to block, it had to be against, then for, the Liberals find a way? to be against without admitting it, adding the "double-philippe flop" to their repertoire. It is worrying that the CAQ has been allowed in this game of surroundings that do not even hide the fact that in the background, Philippe Couillard and François Legault are simply against the moratorium required by the population of the Bass-Lands of the St. Laurent, "said Minister Blanchet. 
The minister states that a first obstruction strategy for Bill 37 had been to embrace the adoption of principle. Now, not only has this strategy failed, but it forced the members of the PLQ and the CAQ to reveal in the open big inconsistencies between the respective positions of each party during speeches. Nobody expected the opposition parties to create a precedent by refusing that the bill is sent to the parliamentary committee, or that it is a subsequent motion that determines the list of guests, the time and duration of the Commission, as it is the practice at the National Assembly. 
"I call on the citizens of Lotbinière-Frontenac, represented by the Liberal Laurent Lessard, to those of Arthabaska and Drummond-Bois-Francs, represented by Sylvie Roy and Sébastien Schneberger of the CAQ, but especially to the people of Nicolet- Bécancour, represented by Donald Martel, where the opposition to shale gas is the most lively. These elected officials and Mr. Martel in particular will have to answer their vote that prevents those consultations that they themselves demanded greatly a few days ago. For our part, we will seek a way to advance this bill because it responds to the very consensual will of the citizens of the Vallée du Saint-Laurent and the Montérégie, and because we are committed to it, " concluded the Blanchet minister. 
