Quebec- Minister responsible for democratic institutions and citizen participation, Bernard Drainville, denounces the attitude of the Liberal Party, who refused to give today his consent for the National Assembly to discuss a motion congratulating the Author Djemila Benhabib. Recall that it received, last October in Paris, the international price of Laity 2012. "Ms. Benhabib received a prestigious award that was rejected on all Quebec, but the Liberal Party preferred, again, prioritizing his partisan interests and refused that the National Assembly congratulates it, "deploor the minister. 
Here is the wording of the motion presented today by Bernard Drainville and the speech that was to accompany him: 
That the National Assembly congratulates Ms. Djemila Benhabib, winner of the 2012 International Prize for Laity. 
" Mister President, 
Today this assembly wishes to pay tribute to an exceptional woman: Ms. Djemila Benhabib. It also wishes to congratulate her for the international price of the 2012 laity which was awarded by the Secarity Committee and the Republic last October in Paris. 
Ms. Benhabib, in your speech, at the time of receipt of this prestigious price, you recalled your complex identity. 
It is enough, to convince themselves, to mention that you were born in Ukraine, a Greek Cypriot mother and an Algerian father, and that you later lived in Algeria, France and Quebec. 
This precious and mixed heritage, both North African, European and North American, you located at the outset at the junction of several cultures. It enriches your commitment to equality between women and men, and in favor of the secularism of public institutions. 
This legacy allows you to take a multiple focoyal look at the realities of Western democracies and the challenges of religious fundamentalism in all its forms. 
Your course also allows you to say things that often, very few people dare to affirm with such passion in our societies where sometimes reigns some form of political straightness. 
You remember with a faultless determination, and I resume here your words, that: "The dialogue is nothing where dignity is not. [...] when one will take into account the aspirations of women, laity, linguistic, religious and sexual minorities, the dialogue will become effective. " 
Voices like yours, it is essential to hear to enrich the public debate and help us walk. 
As a minister responsible for democratic institutions and citizen participation, it seems necessary to me and desirable that in a pluralistic society like ours, we led to further reflection to assess how secularism, this structuring value of the Québécoise nation, can be more clearly affirmed and recognized in our right. 
This officially declared value can thus be all the better identified and lived in our society. 
Mr. Chairman, finishing Quebeckers and Quebeckers are proud that Ms. Benhabib chose Quebec in 1997. 
We are also proud that it bears the "beautiful" name of Benhabib. 
We give up our admiration. 
We restore our support. 
We rediser him, especially, that the silent promise she has made itself, never to give up, is not vain. 
Thank you Mr. President. » 
