Quebec- The Minister Delegate to the Social Services and the Protection of Youth and Minister responsible for the dating file in dignity, Ms. Véronique Hivon, presented today, at the National Assembly, the Bill entitleLoi concerning the care of end of life. It is intended to ensure the end-of-life care of the respectful care of their dignity and autonomy, adapted to their needs and their particular circumstances. 
"This bill is an answer to the requests of Quebec society, a society that has conducted a thorough reflection on the end of life and is concerned about acting for the well-being of all. Considering the interest and hope raised by the work of the Special Commission on the question of dying in the dignity and unanimity of its recommendations, we had the responsibility, as a government, to follow up, "said Véronique HIVON. 
The bill is right in line with the unanimous recommendations of the Special Commission, which are derived from a large scale consultation work led by the four courses represented in the National Assembly in eight cities From Quebec, where hundreds of citizens as well as professional orders, dozens of experts and many associations have been heard. It translates into legislation the conclusions of the Special Commission by proposing a global and integrated vision of the care and rights of persons at the end of life as well as the principles that underlie them. 
The bill concerning end-of-life care has two components: 
Palliative care is the answer par excellence to the sufferings of people at the end of life. Considering their importance, the bill is formally recognizing them. Thus, it specifically provides that any person whose state requires the right to receive palliative care. This care can be offered in health facilities, palliative or home care homes. The bill also indicates that institutions must have a policy as well as a clinical end-of-life care program, including palliative care. 
"The bill devotes the importance to be granted to palliative care. It will be a powerful leverage to give them even greater boom, as the government has already committed itself, including significant investments in the previously announced domain, "added Mrs Hivon. 
"Considering that, for a minority of people, palliative care can not relieve all the suffering, our values of compassion and solidarity order us to find avenues to meet the particularly difficult situations lived by them. Medical assistance to die is an additional option in the continuum of care, an exceptional option to respond to these exceptional situations, "said the minister. 
Only a person adapted and major at the end of his life, who expressly demands him freely, informed and repeated and which meets the strict conditions provided for in the bill, including having a serious and incurable illness, to know a Advanced and irreversible decline in its capabilities and to experience constant, unbearable and unpaid suffering, could apply for medical help to die. In addition, medical assistance to die could only be obtained at the end of a rigorous and marked process in which, inter alia, a doctor, whose notice is confirmed by a second doctor, must conclude that the set of conditions are respected. 
The bill on end-of-life care provides for the possibility for a person to make known his wishes in advance in the event that it would become unfit. When the anticipated medical guidelines are in line with the planned terms, the bill provides that they have the same value as the wishes expressed by a person adapted to care. The bill also provides for the establishment of a registry to record advance medical guidelines to facilitate accessibility: "Formally recognizing the binding nature of advance medical guidelines, we send a strong message as to the importance of respecting the care wishes of the person. This is the logical continuation of the reform of the 1994 Civil Code, which devotes the principle of the autonomy of the person, "said Hivon. 
"We hope that the bill on end-of-life care be debated at the National Assembly of Quebec during the fall of 2013. The aim is to provide the Quebec society of a law that meets the needs of people At the end of life, respecting all the complexity of their own situation, in a constant concern of respect, solidarity and compassion. So that everyone can have answers to their sufferings. So that everyone can die in dignity, "the minister concluded. 
For more information on the subject of the bill and its anticipated medical guidelines, visit sectionMour in the dignity of the website of the Ministry of Health and Social Services at HTTTP: //www.msss.gouv.qc.ca/sujets/ ORGANIZATION / DIE-IN THE-DIGNITY /. 
