Quebec- The Chief of the Official Opposition and MP for Chicoutimi, Stéphane Bédard, and the hon. Member for Joliette and Co-author of Law 52, Véronique Hivon, applaud the adoption, today to the National Assembly, the Bill concerning end-of-life care. 
"I look forward to this unprecedented advance for the end-of-life people the adoption of this law, based on respect for autonomy, solidarity and compassion. I would also like to salute the rigorous work done in almost five years by the member for Joliette and the members of the Commission, since the presentation of the motion which created the Special Commission on the question of dying in dignity. 'Adoption of a lawful law for all end-of-life people and their loved ones, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
"This law, progressive and human, will allow each person at the end of life to be accompanied in a way that meets his own needs, in respect of his wishes and his integrity. This is a law quite in the image of Quebec society, an open society, solidarity and capable of innovating for the well-being of all, "added Véronique Hivon. 
The hon. Member for Joliette pointed out that today's vote marks the culmination of an approach that began in 2009 with the establishment of the Special Commission on the issue of dying in dignity, which traveled Quebec. The unanimous report filed in 2012 included 24 recommendations, which directly inspired the bill, presented for a first time in June 2013, and then again on May 22 and adopted today. In recent months, the Health and Social Services Commission has held extensive consultation on the bill, and then proceed with its detailed study. 
"You really have to talk about an exemplary journey, in a spirit beyond partisanship, with a constant concern for the best interests of Quebeckers. The contribution of the hundreds of people and organizations heard and all the deputies involved was essential, and I would like to thank them sincerely. Without their commitment and courage, this vote could not have come to materialize, "said the member. 
Véronique Hivon emphasized the importance of explicit recognition of the end-of-life care that the law bring. These include palliative care and medical assistance to die, this last exceptional option being reserved for exceptional and strictly marked suffering cases. The law also confirms the primacy of the wishes expressed clearly and freely, including the establishment of the anticipated medical guidelines. 
"The new law is based on a global and integrated vision of end-of-life care, which are part of a continuum of care, so that the person has access to care adapted to his personal situation at the ultimate stage of his life. It helps meet the needs of end-of-life people, as well as responding to their sufferings. Quebec today lives a historic moment and the whole society can be proud of it because it is a stakeholder. This is a law of the most progressive, meeting the expectations of Quebeckers, and in line with our values of respect, solidarity and compassion, "concluded the spokesperson. 
