Montreal- "Because it is a single bill and of paramount importance, I undertake to that Laloi concerning the end-of-lived care the first draft law tabled in the National Assembly Immediately after the election of a government of the Parti Québécois. At the same time, I ask the leader of the Liberal Party, Philippe Couillard, to commit to what we can continue the legislative work from the point where we were at the time of the dissolution of the National Assembly, " declared Pauline Marois. 
Indeed, for the National Assembly to resume work on this bill, it takes unanimous consent of the 125 deputies. The Future Quebec Coalition and Quebec Solidarity have already been favorable. We must now know what the Liberal Party has to do. 
"After more than four years of work at the service of sick people and their families, where all political parties have collaborated without partisanship, we should today rejoice in the adoption of the law. Unfortunately, it was not possible to do it. I am proud today to belong to a political formation that is formally committed to continuing the debate and to pass this law that affects all Quebeckers, that of the right to die in dignity, "added Véronique Hivon. 
Remember which government of the Parti Québécois has attempted to pass Bill No.52 before the election trigger, including proposing to extend the hours of debate, which Philippe Couillard refused. 
"Quebeckers want to be reassured. I ask Philippe Couillard to formally commit to what Quebec has a law on end-of-life care before the end of the next parliamentary session, "continued Pauline Marois. 
Remember that this bill is in line with the unanimous recommendations of the Special Commission on the issue of dying in dignity, which come from a major consultation work led by members from the four courses represented at the 'National Assembly, in eight cities of Quebec. This bill reflects the conclusions of the Special Commission by offering a global and integrated vision of the care and rights of persons at the end of life. 
"The bill on end-of-life care is a fundamental, extremely important, which concerns us all. It must be adopted, on behalf of the sick people, their relatives and all those who will have one day lives in this painful situation. For us, it is a question of humanity, simply, "concluded Véronique Hivon. 
Watch press clause. 
