Beauharnois- The Minister of Education, Leisure and Sport and Minister responsible for the Montérégie Region, Mrs Marie Malavoy, and the member for Beauharnois, Mr. Guy Leclair, on behalf of the Minister of Sustainable Development, of the environment, wildlife and parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, the award of financial assistance from $ 27,876,589 to the Intermunicipal Board of Valorization of Beauharnois-Salaberry and Roussillon Organic Materials (Régie ) In the framework of the organic material processing program by biomethanization and composting (PTMOBC). This financial assistance includes a maximum contribution of $ 11,124,840 from the federal government, represented by the Honorable Senator Jean-Guy Dagenais. 
"With the aid granted, the Régie can contribute concretely to collective efforts to improve our management of residual materials, which challenges many actors. And without the support of partners in the field such as the Régie and the two MRCs concerned, the Government does not have the means and assistance required to advance Quebec towards sustainable development, "said Minister Malavoy. 
The Régie can ensure the establishment of biomethanization and composting facilities to enhance all organic residues generated by the population of the RCMs of Beauharnois-Salaberry and Roussillon, or about 225,000 inhabitants. The project involves treating the source organic subjects from the residential sector as well as the sector of institutions and businesses of these two MRCs. The new facilities will process approximately 34,000 metric tons of organic matter per year, which will allow MRCs served to reach a high rate of organic material recovery. 
The processing capacity of the biomethanization facility will be 35,000 tonnes per year, while composting infrastructure will have a capacity of 36,000 tonnes per year. The treatment facility is designed and dimensioned to treat organic materials generated by all two MRCs, taking into account the population growth projected over 20 years. This project will allow a reduction of 8,014 tonnes of greenhouse gases per year. 
"The financial assistance announced today will allow the Régie to implement a major project in the region. As a member of Parliament, it is always a pride in seeing the local expertise and know-how radiate, especially when the benefits will be felt at the Quebec scale, "said the member Leclair. 
"I look forward to seeing that more and more municipalities make the choice to invest in biomethanization and composting initiatives. We have concrete proof that our awareness efforts are fruitful. In a few years, we want to make Quebec a society without wastching, where the only residual material eliminated is the ultimate residue. The 2011-2015 Action Plan of the Government of Quebec, linked to the Residual Materials Management Policy, also for the purpose of recycling 60% of the residual organic matter by the end of 2015. The draft The Régie is one more step in the right direction, "said Minister Blanchet. 
