Quebec- The Minister of Public Security, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, today proceeded to the unveiling of the recipients of Quebec merit of civil security and fire. In total, two merits, three honorary references, a jury's favorite and two tribute prizes were given at this ceremony that took place in the Civil Security and Fire Security Symposium in Quebec City. 
"I warmly congratulate all the winners and winners who, through their exceptional actions, help to increase our resilience and security in the face of disasters. The diversity of applications received this year testifies to the mobilization of the stakeholders and the exemplary work that has been accomplished throughout the year, not only in prevention and in preparation, but also in intervention and in the recovery phase " , said Minister Bergeron. 
A merit has been awarded to the MRC de Charlevoix Eastern and the Organizing Committee of Regional Emergency Measures (COMUR) of Charlevoix-East for the exercise of earthquake preparation, the great shock of Charlevoix. 
Two honorary references were awarded, one in Quebec City for the Colloquium facing and the other at the Montreal Health and Social Services Agency for the 2013 Organic Code Project. 
A jury shot prize was also awarded to the Municipality of Chesterville for its Civil Survey Initiative. 
A merit has been awarded to the City of Lac-Mégantic for its exemplary management of the rail tragedy of July 6, 2013. 
A mention of honor was awarded to the City of Magog for its intervention during the Diluvian rains of September 2nd. 
The Civil Security Tribute Award was awarded to Ms. Hélène Denis, while the very first fire safety tribute was given to Mr. Guy Lafortune. These distinctions aim to emphasize the considerable contribution of a person throughout his career in civil security or fire safety. 
It should be recalled that the Ceremony of Quebec Merit of Civil Security and Fire is an opportunity to recognize the efforts of businesses, organizations, municipalities and citizens who have distinguished themselves in the categories of risk management to claims. For the first time this year, projects and achievements from the fire of the fire were also eligible. In the last 17 editions, no less than 193 recognition prices have been awarded. 
