Montréal- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, announced that the priority of the Government of Quebec is the extension of the Montreal Metro Blue Line by the Adding 5 stations, Saint-Michel to Anjou. For the occasion, it was accompanied by the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport. and Minister responsible for Montérégie, Mrs Marie Malavoy, the Minister of Family and Minister responsible for the Laval Region, Ms. Nicole Léger, as well as the President and CEO of the Transport Metropolitan Agency (AMT), M. Nicolas Girard. 
"By confirming the extension of the blue line today, the government respects its commitment made during the last election campaign. This choice is an important milestone of the large transportation of the electricity electrification launched by the Prime Minister of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois. It will have a major leverage effect for the economic development of eastern metropolis. It will also meet the challenges posed by demographic growth and sustainable mobility in this sector, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
According to the minister listed, "the extension of the blue line will substantially improve the network accessibility in the northeastern Montreal sector, will promote correspondence with the bus fast service of Boulevard Pie-IX and will help better serve the poles of Economic activities already present in the arrondisse of Anjou. » 
"This is the culmination of a project conducted for many years whose impact is major and will infuse a dynamism, a new impetus to the economic and social development of all this sector. The extension of the blue line represents the realization of our government's desire to significantly improve the collective transport service for Eastern Montreal, "rejoices the Minister of the Family and Minister responsible for the region of Laval, Mrs. Nicole Léger. 
According to the studies carried out by the project office, driven by the MTQ and the AMT, the extension of the blue line will result in a daily traffic of more than 80,000 users, a potential addition of more than 12,000 homes and the creation aimed at nearly 9,000 additional jobs. 
An amount of $ 38.8 million will be granted to the AMT for the project office to proceed, inter alia, at the filing of the initial business record for the extension of the blue line. In order to curb land speculation, the Government of Quebec, by the adoption of a decree, made the establishment of land reserves at intersections covered by the extension. 
"We are proud of the work done by the project office since its implementation in 2009," says Nicolas Girard, President and CEO of the AMT. "A report published by the Secor-KPMG Firm on the Governance of Major Projects in 2012 has emphasized the positive nature, the rigorous management and responsible for the approach and structure of the project office established within the framework of the Metro extension project. We are enthusiastic to continue the mandate given to us by the Government of Quebec for the realization of the initial business record for the extension of the blue line. » 
Once the work of the completed blue line extension, the government announces that it will go forward with the extension of the yellow line, in Longueuil. 
"This today's government announcement is a long-awaited answer by the people of the South Shore and by municipal and socio-economic stakeholders. It is a clear message addressed to the current and potential users of the South Shore public transport, faced with major transport challenges, which they have been heard. Studies leading to the future extension of the yellow line will help plan more efficiently the demographic and economic growth of our region, "said Minister of Montérégie and Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy. 
From now on, the draft office will also pursue the studies necessary for the filing of the strategic presentation files for the extension of yellow and orange lines in accordance with the rules established by the governance framework of major public infrastructure projects. 
"I want to emphasize the important consensus that emerges from all municipal partners, transport companies and the organizations concerned. This close collaboration has led to a fundamental principles agreement to guide our choices of production infrastructure. It also allowed the establishment of a long-term vision, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
