Saint-Pierre-de-L'Île-d'Orleans, January 17, 2018 - The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the member for Taschereau and head of the Capitale-Nationale Region, Agnès Maltese, are proud to announce that Nathalie Leclerc will be the candidate of the Quebecois party in the riding of Charlevoix-Côte-de-Beaupré. 
"We are very pleased that Nathalie has decided to solicit the support of the citizens of Charlevoix, the island of Orleans and the Côte-de-Beaupré under the banner of the Parti Québécois. She joins our team because she believes that the state needs to be stronger and truly at the service of Quebeckers, including offering accessible and quality health care in Charlevoix-Côte-de-Beaupré, as well as By investing significantly in culture. I am convinced that this exceptional woman will get the confidence of people by October 1st! Jean François Lisée said. 
"The investiture will also take place on Saturday, January 20, in Baie-Saint-Paul. This is the first investiture of the year; A dozen is planned in the coming weeks, not counting the many recently authorized by the Party National Executive. The Parti Québécois will present candidates and quality candidates in all regions of Quebec. 
"Join Jean-François Lisée and the Quebec Party team is joining the only party who can lead Quebec to his full independence. It is attaching the Party of Pride and Culture Quebec. I am strongly committed to promoting this culture with the Espace Félix Leclerc, a place of songs and souvenirs. Moreover, being a mother of three boys, I understand what families live, their challenges, their challenges. I have already started dialogue with the population; I will pursue it until the elections, and beyond! "Said Nathalie Leclerc on his side. 
"Among the important records we need to monitor, here, include access to health care for our citizens, which must be improved. The Parti Québécois has a strong plan to do this, including giving more responsibilities to health professionals: nurses, psychologists, optometrists, and I pass. I will closely follow the case of the Hospital of Malbaie and that of the presence of a doctor in Isle to the elk. In addition, I will be along with workers to support the forest industry in the face of US surcharge, as well as on employment insurance. The people of Charlevoix-Côte-de-Beaupré can count on me, "she added. 
"We present today the first member of a strong team of candidates who will proudly wear the colors of the Parti Québécois in the Greater Quebec City. Woman of passion and culture, Nathalie lives in the riding of Charlevoix-Côte-de-Beaupré and has worked for many years. We are very happy that it joins us! "Agnès Maltais concluded. 
