Quebec- The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, accompanied by the President of the Quebecois Party, Raymond Archambault, the spokesman of the Parti Québécois in the field of finance, Nicolas Marceau, the President of the National Committee of Young People, Ariane Cayer, and the Paul St-Pierre Plamondon Special Advisor, presented the key measures of the program on economic nationalism. 
"The Parti Québécois has contributed a lot to modernize economic nationalism at each of its power in power. It's our turn to do it. And it presses. Because around us, on this continent, there are not only choir children. And it will have to show muscle, defend our jobs, our market share in the coming years. There is a harmful naivety to the Couillard face the realities of the business world. A refusal to be firm and active, in the common interest of Quebecers. We need to act; Today we present strong, clear, coherent measures, because economic nationalism has a home, the Parti Québécois, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
Our financial levers "There are two major economic tools in Quebec, which we can use more and better. First, the Fund and Investment must find in its law, as early as 2018, the balance between the performance and the economic development of Quebec. We will go further in this direction, giving it an explicit mandate of economic development. And, if she does great projects, she will do them with a Quebec content policy. Then, as depositor of the Fund, the government pays 2 billion per year to the Generation Fund. We will determine how to use some of these payments to accelerate Quebec's sustainable economic growth, while reducing the relative weight of our debt, "he continued. 
Double mandate in Nicolas Marceau "I give two mandates today to Nicolas Marceau. First, to propose, after consultation, the best ways to make some of the sums we pose each year in the Generation Fund to make it an additional engine of economic nationalism. Second, to develop the most robust Quebec purchasing policy for our next government. I am convinced that Nicolas, seconded by the Economic Team of the Parti Québécois, will propose a carrier and coherent measures, "added Jean-François Lisée. 
"To accomplish these mandates, we will consult with economic actors and experts, while studying what is happening elsewhere. The results will be known in time and place; They will allow us to affirm a strong, significant and carrier economic nationalism for all Quebeckers, from all regions. In several sectors of our economy, we see the harmful impacts of liberal inaction; We must get out! This is what the government of the Parti Québécois will do, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
The social seats "economic nationalism, in 2017, it is first recognition of the considerable importance of keeping our head offices at home. This is not true that companies are stateless. Local owners hire and invest more in their community. To act resolutely to keep them, as do several other states around the world, including the United Kingdom and the United States, it is a necessity. Elected in 2018, a government of the Parti Québécois will quickly act so that the retention of the strategic headquarters is part of the mission of the Fund of Deposit and Investissement Québec. We do not want to relive from Rona, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
"The Quebec state is generous in its business support to bring out the champions. We will continue to do so, but more efficiently and more targeted. In particular by giving up the Gazelles program all its means, that is, targeting companies to stronger growth potential and accompanying them to a national success, then international. And the international headquarters of our future gazelles, do you know what? We'll keep them home! ", Launched the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
From conditional aid "with us, it will be finished feeding with tax credits in search of companies that go abroad with, in their paters, patents designed with our money. Our support will be conditional. It's at home, or you reimburse, he continued. And if we came to the Quebec government government, the idea of investing, saying, a billion dollars in Bombardier, do you think for a moment we would forget to require guarantees against relocations? Of course not. When I was talking about the harmful naivety of the Liberal government, this episode is an eloquent example. » 
Increasing Quebec property "When companies will close, our first reflex will be to sit with employees and managers laid down to tell them: And if we saw the factory in cooperative? And if, in your factory, you were masters at home? The property of Quebec's farmland is also an issue of economic nationalism. We are from the generation that must ensure that our lands remain in the hands of Quebec farmers, not between those of foreign or anonymous investment funds. We commit it to it, "continued Jean-François Lisée. 
The Government of SMEs "Economic nationalism is also promoting entrepreneurship in all its forms. And, to start, stop harming. Our small and medium-sized enterprises crumble under a discouraging and counterproductive municipal and federal paperwork. Ensuring the quality of the products, the rights of employees, protect the environment, yes, without compromise. But, in the digital age, how to explain that Quebec and municipalities have not computerized or simplified their relationship with companies? In 2018, we will be like the Government of SMEs again. And one of our first gestures will break the culture of the racketeer at Revenu Québec, several times denounced by the Protecteur du citoyen. No, our entrepreneurs should not be presumed guilty. I, son of entrepreneur, I hear her grumbling, everywhere in Quebec, facing the dubious tactics of Revenu Québec. We will stop it, "he has brought it again. 
The tax havens "economic nationalism is to refuse that Quebec millionaires are hiding their savings in tax havens. It is to stop applying Québec taxation the scandalous tax loopholes invented by Paul Martin and Stephen Harper. Protected privileges, again last fall, by Justin Trudeau, against the unanimous vow of the National Assembly. A government of the Parti Québécois will be intractable; It will make taxable accounts to the Bermuda of our citizens who have shamefully sought to avoid tax. We need the money they need to pay home care, support to our children, healthy schools, CHSLDs where we do not rational care, "illustrated the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
Our fair share "Economic nationalism, today is claiming, as long as we are part of Canada, justice. The fair share. The calculations are net. If we received the Canadian average of productive federal investments in Quebec - not more than average, just our share -, our economy would benefit from an additional annual injection up to 4 billion a year, creating 35,000 good direct jobs, " to further assert Mr. Lisée. 
"The biggest investment in Canada's history is started, he also recalled. One hundred billion dollars for warships. Our share of the invoice to us, the Quebec taxpayers, it is $ 20 billion. But justice has not passed by. Ottawa takes the 20 billion and makes us 600 million to Lévis. It is the greatest economic injustice towards Quebec in history of Canada. I tell you: we will talk again in 150 years! Listen: Nearly 20 billion Québec taxes will be used to create excellent jobs in Vancouver and Halifax. Do you find that the Parti Québécois has succeeded a few years ago by doing a little dark concept of fiscal imbalance a major political issue? You have not seen anything yet. In 2018, our Government will make the injustice of the warship program a central question of the defense of our rights against Ottawa! » 
An international nationalism "Nationalism is not staying at home. It is present in the world, in its own way, defending its interests. Ten years after the free trade agreement with the United States, Quebec companies had, more than all others in Canada, taken market shares south of the border, created jobs in all regions, and this , without melting up our social net. The agreement has "decaniedanized" the Quebec economy. Before, 60% of our North American exports went to English Canada. After, 60% went to the United States, a complete reversal, "he said. 
"For an SME to export, it must invest in its work tool, improve its products and train its employees better. It is a powerful and essential lever to increase productivity. At this time, our global productivity increases by 0.7% per year. To finance our social net sustainably, it would be necessary to double this pace. This is why our main proposal offers innovative measures to significantly increase the number of our exporting companies, and, as a result, our productivity, our solidarity, our national wealth ", has also indicated Jean-François Lisée. 
Buy Québécois Act "The Quebec Nation, which exports out of its borders half of all it produces, must choose the agreements on a case by case, accepting those that are good and reject those that are not. There are people who believe that these agreements prohibit us, everywhere and always, to promote local purchase, Quebec content. The United States signs free trade agreements and, in addition, they have the American Act. The government of the Parti Québécois will introduce, from its election in 2018, a Quebec purchase policy, of Quebec content, wherever possible. Economic nationalism, it also applies to culture. Francophone content and Quebec content must predominate in electronic showcases that are today online cultural stores, "he added. 
Concertation "Concertation must trigger a common action to increase economic nationalism at the higher speed, nationally and local. For example, here in Quebec City, in the 1990s, our capital had arrived at the end of its economic model. Political and economic actors met. They could count on the unifying leadership of a government of the Parti Québécois. All had to heart the development of Quebec, they knew his enormous potential, the talent of his people. The assets were there. Together, they found the way. As a result, Quebec went from "old capital" to "capital of innovation". A creative and prosperous city, recognized around the world for its vitality, culture, beauty, dynamism, for its quality of life and full employment. The example of Quebec is all the more inspiring as the assets that have made its success are present in all our regions: talent and creativity. With us, the consultation will be back, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
