Montréal - the head of the official opposition, Jean François Lisée, and the spokesman of the Party of Quebec in saline lifestyle, recreation and sports, Sylvain Pagé, presented the bold measures that a government of the Quebecois will take in order to make the Quebec nation one of the most fit in the world. 
The leader of the Parti Québécois believes that the statistics of the National Institute of Public Health of Quebec are alarming. For example, from 1981 to 2013, the rate of obesity among young Quebeckers increased from 1.8% to 9.4%. Adults, one in three (34.6%) suffered from overweight or obesity in 1987; In 2010, this proportion had increased to one in two (50.5%). According to the National Institute of Public Health, obesity today costs nearly $ 3 billion a year in health care, drugs and disability in Quebec. "Despite this, the Liberal government is slow to act. He had quite hand in hand to quickly present a national sport, leisure and physical activity, thanks to the work of Sylvain Pagé. The Liberals did nothing; Today, it is more than time that they move, "said Jean François Lisée. 
"We have a vision, a projecting project for Quebec and Quebeckers. We will now talk about the "sustainable development of people", a new health approach. The challenge of the nation we are launching today will be one of the most beautiful society projects that can be afforded: that of health! The Québécois party proposes to move Quebeckers, all Quebeckers. Following the next election, we will deposit the most ambitious of the policies ever proposed to improve their health and their lives, which will be accompanied by a plan of action from CPE to CHSLD. Companies will also be used. The goal is to taste Quebeckers to move, allowing them to do it more easily, on a daily basis, in accessible and safe places, "continued the official opposition. 
Challenge of the Quebec party nation launches a challenge to the Quebec nation: move more, for better health, at any age. To do this, the national sport, leisure and physical activity policy will adopt a government of the Parti Québécois will propose, among other things: 
In order to ensure the establishment of best practices and the efficiency of innovative approaches for each age group of our company, and to measure impacts, a research mandate will be entrusted to researchers and experts. 
Sports events, mentoring and valorization Our policy will further support international sporting events. Increased support will also be awarded to our athletes, as soon as they enter the "Hope" category. In return, these will be associated with a primary or secondary school to present their career and value physical activity. In addition, a promotional campaign will be deployed to share the many benefits of physical activity and encourage Quebeckers to move. 
Support the development of sports and recreation facilities to encourage Quebeckers to move, the Parti Québécois wishes, through its policy: 
In addition, in accordance with our main proposal filed last week, we will, together with the municipalities, ensure the development of a safe and efficient bike and pedestrian network, promoting active transport. "It is now clear that the development of living environments can greatly contribute to improving the health of the population, especially when promoting active modes of travel. The new policy that a government of the Parti Québécois for a form in the form will be adopted, alongside a national policy of land use and urban planning, "add the members. 
Finally, a government of the Parti Québécois will provide Quebec from a recreation policy of the 21st century, in order to respond to the new societal realities. This policy will provide training, supervision and valuation of hundreds of thousands of essential volunteers. 
"The benefits of physical activity are numerous: better academic success, reduction of absenteeism, increased productivity at work, prevention of many diseases ... it is the whole society that wins," concluded Sylvain Pagé . 
