Quebec- While in the Energy East Oillation Project file, the Quebec government filed an injunction request to respected Quebec laws, the spokesperson for the Quebec's Party for Sustainable Development, Environment and Wrestling Against climate change, Mathieu Traversy, notes that the Minister of the Environment, David Heurtel, is again at the trailer of the environmental groups and citizens who have tabled two weeks ago an identical request before the courts. 
The member notes the total inconsistency of the Minister of the Environment. "In its letter of December 2, 2014 sent to TransCanada, the minister said to the company that" the analysis of [his] file will only start at the receipt of all the documents forming the impact study of the Quebec portion of the East energy oil production project ". However, despite TransCanada's refusal to provide the required documents on June 8, 2015, David Heurtel decided to mandate a truncated BAPE, in violation of Quebec law, based on incomplete information and without any decision-making power. Then, this morning, the Minister filed an injunction request. Its position is, to say the least, difficult to follow; Obviously, David Heurtel was getting out of the legal recourse to citizens, "said Mathieu Traversy. 
In light of the remarks that the minister held this morning in a press brief, the Parti Québécois also notes that the Minister of the Environment maintains the current mandate of the BAPE. In concrete terms, there is still no overall assessment of the impact of the project on greenhouse gas emissions, no studies or emergency response plan in the event of a spill in the St. Lawrence River or the rivers From Quebec, no assessment of economic impacts or gas supply, no place for First Nations consultation. "We are in favor of a BAPE on the Energy project, but we want a real BAPE! David Heurtel must require all relevant documents to be filed, otherwise the current BAPE will prove completely useless. The injunction request is a beautiful political show, but does not change anything in fact. The minister triggered a BAPE in violation of the law, "added the member for Terrebonne. 
Finally, remember that, moreover, to contravene its own law since June 2015, two weeks ago, David Heurtel voted against a motion of the Quebecois party that requires respect for Quebec laws. "If the minister really intends to enforce Quebec laws, why did he vote against our motion? The truth is that the Couillard government has a prejudice favorable to the Energy project is. He simply made his hand force by the citizens who claim their government the defense of their interests, starting with the application of the law, "concluded Mathieu Traversy. 
