Baie-Comeau - Minister Delegate for Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Zakaïb, accompanied by the member for René-Lévesque, Chief Government Whip and Head of the North Shore, Marjolain Dufour Region , announced the assignment of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 400,000 to Nova-Pro Development inc. From Havre-Saint-Pierre, specialized in research and development in terms of energy. 
The company's project is to develop a new type of turbine for converting industrial vapor releases into electricity, and can thus help reduce greenhouse gas emissions, depending on the initial energy source. Financial assistance will be used to complete the approaches to the protection of intellectual property, plan and evaluate the commercial potential of the project as well as to optimize the system through the production of companies in an experimental prototype. 
"Quebec derives its strength from the presence of dynamic and efficient businesses, which focuses on innovation to prosper in the context of sustainable development," said Élain Zakaïb. "Nova-Pro Development is part of these promising companies that carry out research and development activities to develop clean technologies. Thanks to its turbine project, the company contributes to the influence of a Quebec turned towards the future. » 
"Nova-Pro Development's innovative and structuring project will increase the energy efficiency of North Shore, and from across Quebec," added Marjolan Dufour. "This project will also ensure the competitiveness of the company in the global market, while bearer of significant economic benefits for our region. » 
Nova-Pro Development is a research and development company specializing in the manufacture of engines, turbines and power transmission equipment. It develops innovative products in the energy field. 
"Thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec, we will be able to improve our turbine prototype by conducting business tests," said Nova-Pro Development President and CEO, Mr. Bobby Boucher. "We will also be able to file patent applications that will help protect our technology and distinguish us into international markets. » 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
