Quebec- The Quebec Party spokesman for sustainable development, environment and climate change, Mathieu Traversy, requires the Minister of the Environment, David Heurtel, which he will be consistent with the approach judicial he has undertaken in the energy folder is. 
"The Minister of the Environment must ensure that Quebec laws are respected. It should be noted that in its request for injunction filed yesterday, it specifies that TransCanada is in the process of obtaining a 7th certificate of authorization to carry out seismic surveys in the Outaouais River. David Heurtel must, in addition to resuming the process of the beginning BAPE, suspend the analysis of TransCanada's request until the company files the essential documents for the work of BAPE, "said Mathieu Traversy. 
In fact, in the letter of December 2, 2014 that he sent to TransCanada, the minister said to the company that "the analysis of [his] file will only start upon receipt of all the documents forming the study of the study. 'Impact of the Quebec portion of the Energy Energy Oillation project. "The minister must now stop granting rights to TransCanada. It must have a complete file in the hands that will allow BAPE to conduct an exhaustive environmental assessment. Quebec laws apply in the same way for all, "added the spokesman. 
The Parti Québécois therefore requires two immediate actions by the Minister: 
First, David Heurtel must resume the BAPE process of the beginning, giving it a new mandate that respects Quebec law in an integral way. The current mandate of BAPE violates Quebec law, being based on incomplete information and only giving the Government of Quebec any decision-making power. 
Remember that yesterday, the Union of Quebec municipalities also asked the Minister Hauttel to suspend the work of Energy BAPE is as long as TransCanada has not filed a project notice and an impact study. Environmental and citizen groups also filed an order for injunction. Finally, the Montreal metropolitan community emphasized that BAPE would not be in possession of all the required documents at the beginning of the hearings. 
