Quebec- The hon. Member for Taschereau, parliamentary leader of the official opposition and spokesperson on secularism, Agnès Maltese, asks the government to act quickly and concretely with regard to the religious neutrality of the state, of the equality between men and women as well as religious fundamentalism. 
"The government has all the elements in hand to act now, including the Bouchard-Taylor report of 2008, the Report Ouimet and the proposals of the former Fatima Houda-Pepin. All opinion surveys also show that Quebeckers want measures to be taken immediately to combat the rise of fundamentalism and to prevent radicalization. It is desirable for the Quebec population that at the end of their caucus, the Liberals finally present a clear position and an accurate timetable concerning the neutrality of the state, equality between men and women as well as religious fundamentalism " , said Agnès Maltais. 
Recall that during ministers' swearing, in April 2014, the Prime Minister first entrusted to the Minister of Justice, Stephanie Valley, the responsibility of presenting a report on the religious neutrality of the State, the Framing of accommodations and the fight against fundamentalism. During the opening speech, he also announced a bill on these three aspects. A week ago, Minister Stephanie Valley said he wanted to act by the end of the session. Then, the Prime Minister pushed back the deadline; We could have to wait for the end of the mandate. Finally, the question of religious fundamentalism is now under the responsibility of the Minister of Immigration, Diversity and Inclusion, Kathleen Weil. 
"It is more time to clarify responsibilities and deadlines. Is the last statement of the Prime Minister the right? Is it Minister Kathleen Weil who will deal with religious fundamentalism? Who will deposit a bill for the religious neutrality of the state and equality between men and women? When will this minister do it? The government must quickly bring answers to Quebeckers, "Agnès Maltais concluded. 
