Montréal - The Government of Quebec welcomes the conclusion of an agreement in principle with the consolidation of the adult residential resources of Quebec (resaq-CSD). The SENSAQ-CSD has 2818 member resources in its ranks, making it the association that represents the most resources in Quebec. 
"I welcome the culmination of significant work and negotiation efforts that have completed an agreement in principle that will help to ensure the quality of services rendered by thousands of resources in Quebec," rejoices. The Minister Delegate to Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Véronique Hivon. 
The minister recalled that the negotiated principle agreement testifies to the recognition of the government towards resources and improves their conditions of practice. "Adult residential resources share their own living environment with network users. With this agreement in principle, these self-employed workers obtain access to various retirement, maternity and workplace protection schemes and a bonus of retribution, "added Véronique Hivon. 
The Minister of Health and Social Services, Réjean Hébert, says he also satisfied that this important step is crossed. With this last agreement in principle, the government has managed to agree with all associations representing resources subject to the Resource Representation Act. 
The Government of Quebec wishes to salute the work of Mr. Normand Gauthier, who has been an important player in the outcome of this negotiation. As a mediator and facilitator appointed by the Ministry of Labor, he led the parties to conclude an agreement in principle to the satisfaction of all parties. 
Quebec has nearly 8,825 intermediate resources (RIs) and family-type resources (RTF). These are essential partners of the health and social services network. They offer cottage, covered, support and assistance services to some 36,000 network users, generally young people in difficulty, seniors who are losing autonomy or people with physical, intellectual disabilities or with mental health problems. 
