Quebec - On the eve of the appearance in the Parliamentary Committee of Quebec Bargaining Pierre Marc Johnson, the Parti Québécois asks the Liberal government to demonstrate that Quebeckers will win the future of the future economic agreement between Canada and the European Union. 
"The Parti Québécois is generally favorable to free trade agreements, but still need to have access to the text and that negotiations are open and transparent so that we can make an informed judgment. The Liberal government gives no guarantee on the gains and losses that Quebec could register in these negotiations, "said the member for Lac-Saint-Jean and the official opposition for international relations and Francophonie, Alexandre Cloutier. 
"Since the beginning of the negotiations in May 2009, it is impossible to access the mandate and instructions given to the Quebec Negotiator by the Council of Ministers. There is no parliamentary consultation process and no parliamentary committee is planned prior to ratification of the Agreement, "Alexander Cloutier lamented. 
The agreement currently in negotiations will have important consequences in the lives of Quebecers, for the government, businesses and our regions. The Parti Québécois recalls that in order to convince Europeans to negotiate this agreement, the provinces and the Government of Canada agreed to put on the table access to provincial public procure markets, municipalities, school boards and hospitals. After two and a half years of negotiations, the Charest government still refuses to say that Crown corporations will be excluded from the agreement, particularly Hydro-Québec. 
This agreement raises many questions that remain unanswered, including: 
-Is Quebec will continue to promote local purchase and Quebec economic development and to focus on social companies in the granting of public contracts?  -Is that access to the dairy market, protected under the supply management system, will be sacrificed to promote the export of albertan oxen or maritime fishery products?  -When matter of culture, what is the nature of the discussions on the scope of the cultural exception that the European Commission wants to undertake? Does the wider definition of Quebec from the exemption from culture, which excludes this area of international trade negotiations, is called into question? 
"The Quebec Level Report in Canada has been considerably weakened by the Liberal government of Quebec. The actions posted recently by the Harper Government are an eloquent testimony, whether by its contempt for Quebec consensus in the issues of young offenders and the firearms registry, or by the fact that the Quebec maritime projects do not will not receive a dollar of the 33 billion that the federal government will devote to the purchase of ships. Prime Minister Charest embarked Quebec in this great trade negotiation with Europe, but today it is the federal government that will decide, based on Canadian national interests, which will be conceded or not to Europeans " , Nicolas Marceau, MP for Rousseau and official opposition spokesman on finance and economic development. 
"Let us remember that at the time of the negotiations of the Free Trade Agreement between Canada and the United States, in the 1980s, the Federal Government of Brian Mulroney negotiated with much more transparency than today today . The Government of Quebec and the Deputies of the National Assembly were informed and had access to the documents. Why does the Harper government do not agree to negotiate with more transparency? I am particularly concerned about the situation, because the Charest government has shown that it is unable to influence the decisions of the Harper government in our favor, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
"How can the Charest government guarantee that the arbitrations and compromises that the federal bargain will do will not promote some Canadian provinces at the expense of Quebec? In this context, we demand that all the parliamentarians of the National Assembly immediately have access to the draft agreement as well as the impact studies of this project on the Quebec economy, "said the member Marceau. 
