Quebec- The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, is pleased that the negotiators of the Government of Quebec and the Atikamekw Nation have rejected to parapha, last night, the agreement concerning the management and development of natural resources and the territory. 
"For the first time in Quebec's history, an Aboriginal nation has the opportunity to conclude a bilateral agreement with the Government of Quebec in the field of territory and natural resources. Given the slow overall territorial negotiations with the federal government, I am very proud that we have achieved this avant-garde agreement that allows for many progress, "said the Prime Minister. 
The agreement aims, in particular, to allow better access to natural resources for the Atikamekw, to promote the sharing of royalties or socio-economic benefits, and to establish a co-management formula on an agreed territory. 
Last December, during DuSommet on the territories and resources organized by the Assembly of First Nations of Quebec and Labrador, the Prime Minister had made a commitment to pursue negotiations and sign a final agreement with the Atikamekw. 
"I greet today the work done by the Minister Aboriginal Affairs Minister Elizabeth Larouche, the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, Chefs Atikamekw and the negotiators. Just as the peace of the brave people, this agreement will perfectly illustrate the nation-nation relationship that is the basis of the vision of our government in Aboriginal matters. We can now look together to the future to promote the economic and social development of the Atikamekw, in addition to allowing harmonious cohabitation in the territory, "concluded the Prime Minister. 
Recall that since 1979, the Atikamekw are negotiating a treaty that would settle their demands with the governments of Canada and Quebec. These negotiations, however, have not yet yielded tangible results and were suspended until recently. Bilateral negotiations between Quebec and the Atikamekw were therefore kept pending the conclusion of a possible treaty. The two parties had gone until October 21 to agree on a final agreement. This agreement, which has just been initialed, will soon be the subject of an endeavor for an official signature. 
