Quebec- The member for Verchères and spokesman for Quebec's Quebec-Canada relations, Stéphane Bergeron, reiterated the historical position of the Parti Québécois with respect to the position of Lieutenant Governor: he's purely and simply. 'abolition. However, aware that it is currently impossible to abolish the position of Lieutenant-Governor, because of the provisions of the amendment formulated in Constitutional LaloiQui, which was imposed in Quebec in 1982, it claims that the federal government now appoints. Holder of the position of Lieutenant Governor The personality that the National Assembly herself has designated democratically. 
The member for Verchères pointed out that the Parti Québécois, in doing so, is part of the wake of the motion adopted by the National Assembly on 20 November 1996. "The function of Lieutenant-Governor is archaic and essentially symbolic; This is a remainder of the colonial past of Quebec and Canada. It must disappear because it is completely unsuitable for modern reality. It is no longer than the vestige of a revolving era, "he said. 
"Unfortunately, the signature of the Lieutenant-Governor appointed by Ottawa remains necessary for the implementation of the laws adopted by the National Assembly of Quebec. It would therefore be the least of the things that this person is chosen by our National Assembly. It is perfectly incomprehensible that the Liberal government is at this obsequious point with the federal bonding bonding that the Lieutenant-Governor in Post in Quebec is appointed by the Canadian Prime Minister, "continued Stéphane Bergeron. 
The official opposition spokeswoman for Quebec-Canada Relations also criticized the Liberal position as for another odious facet of this file. "While the Couillard Government, obscilized by austerity, cuts in the services and attacks families, students in difficulty, patients in hospitals, regions and middle class, all for to be able to offer tax cuts to the best on the eve of the elections, it continues to maintain the budgets granted to the Lieutenant-Governor, who can therefore continue to hold social receptions, to serve small ovens and hitting medals to his effigy . With this Liberal government, it is austerity for the most vulnerable, but not for the representative of His Majesty! To conclude Stéphane Bergeron. 
