Québec- Following the publication of a citizen's protector's investigation report, in which disturbing facts that have been held at the Harricana accommodation center in Amos, the hon. Member for Richelieu and Spokesperson of the Quebecois Party for Seniors, Sylvain Rochon, and the member for Taillon and Spokesperson for Health, Diane Lamarre, arrest the Minister responsible for seniors, Francine Charbonneau, as well as the Minister of Health and Social Services, Gaétan Barrette, so that they finally demonstrate leadership to ensure the well-being of the elders of Quebec. 
"Again, unfortunately, the citizen's protector has highlighted cases patent negligence towards seniors and vulnerable. How is it an employee of the center may have, for so long, do rules and act as he is using methods contrary to all good practices? In a society that we say and we want progressive, this idea is revolting, "said Sylvain Rochon. 
The member for Taillon emphasizes that the report directly points to the reform of the structures initiated by the Minister Barrette. "The report makes it clear:" The administrative reorganization launched by the adoption of Bill 10 has contributed to weakening the management leadership exercised in the center, "she said. 
"Elders are completely abandoned by the government. The Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, a nice game: He is waiting for the complaints one after the other, asks for individual investigations and is in the media. When will it realize that its obsession for structures does not improve the daily life of our elders? Currently, it does nothing to detect and prevention globally from such dramas. The network is emburred in the management of a centralizing reform that moves away from the ground, while a good Minister of Health would focus on getting closer to people, especially the most vulnerable, "continued Diane Lamarre. 
The hon. Member for Richelieu launched a call to his liberal vis-à-vis Francine Charbonneau. "With the departure of Marguerite Blais, the elders of Quebec no longer have a voice within the government of Philippe Couillard. The Minister responsible for seniors must act, and ensure that parliamentarians begin the next stage of the CHSLD's mandate, which provides for visits to institutions. This mandate, I recall, has been taken up on our request. For the well-being of our elders, you have to take the situation of the Harricana accommodation center very seriously and, more broadly, to lead a profound collective reflection on their living conditions, "he concluded. 
