The pronounced version is authentic. 
What a nice end of the week we had! 
Two days I saw you as I know you, Party activists. 
I saw you studious, animated by this curiosity that characterizes you. I saw you eager to learn more, to discuss your ideas. I saw you passionate. This passion is the passion of Quebec! 
Yes, we have Quebec's passion. We love it so much, this immense territory, we love so many people who live there, we caress for them a very big dream. We want Quebec to be a free and independent country! 
René Lévesque said that we would see soon a new country appear on the map. 
In fact, if Quebec was a country, it would be the largest of the world. It would always be endowed with a territory rich in resources and a population among the most educated and the most creative in the world. 
... 
Eleven days ago, on October 30, it was the 18th anniversary of the 1995 referendum. Eighteen years since Quebeckers could have said yes. 
You saw him yesterday with Marcel Leblanc's presentation. Quebec further has the means to become a country today than in 1995. 
In short, we are collectively richer. 
And you have probably noticed that most of these advances have occurred under a government of the Parti Québécois. 
That's what strengthen Quebec to make a country! 
... 
If Quebec was a country, it will be 19th rank of the OECD in the gross domestic product per capita. It is a UNIVEREAU UNITED KINGDOM, FRANCE OR JAPAN. 
We would be 9 years as for the proportion of our population that occupies a job. 
Listen, it's not just me who DIS.JEAN CHAREST also recognized in Paris, in 2006: Quebec has the means to become a sovereign! 
I go further. I am convinced that Quebec would have much more means if it were independent. 
You are probably many here to read the book "a government of too much", from Stéphane Gobeil. In his book, he tests careful analysis of the public accounts of Canada, to check if Quebec has it for its money in the Federation. His answer is that it costs us badly, to stay in Canada. 
Staying in Canada, it means continuing to finance a state that spends more among our neighbor and principal competitor than in all other provinces. Indeed, it is in Ontario that the federal government concentrates its ministries, agencies and research centers. All organizations that spend in wages, goods and services. 
When Ottawa invests 10 billion for the auto industry, there are 2 billion coming from Quebec. When Ottawa gives $ 25 billion contracts for the construction of ships in Halifax, 5 billion come from home. 
I say we would better keep our taxes in Quebec and make our own choices, according to our priorities! 
... 
I sometimes hear people say that it's risky to do sovereignty. Me, I think it's staying in Canada risky. It is risky to be submitted to the decisions of Ottawa. It is risky to remain in a country that evolves in an opposite direction to ours. 
It's not just a question of money. It's a question of values. The examples are numerous. 
... 
I sometimes hear people say that sovereigntists speak too much constitution and do not deal with enough economy. You want me to talk to you about the economy? You want me to talk about the Federal Will to create a securities commission? You want me to talk to you about the deletion effect decisions in terms of job insurance on the economy of our regions? 
When the federal government is reappropriated training of the workforce, it concerns the economy. When the federal is dragging its feet to replace the Champlain Bridge, main access to our metropolis, it concerns the economy. 
When we talk about constitution, we talk about economy! 
Quebec's freedom is another thing that disturbs the federal government. What right does it interfere with our own choices? It even benefits a judicial action which aims to deny the right of the Quebec nation to have its future. 
Yet everyone agrees on that, in Quebec. Democracy is 50% + 1 !!! 
... 
I would like all the leaders of Quebec to be so supportive when it comes time to defend our values. 
At the National Assembly, there is only the Québécois party that defends the interests of Quebec! 
Yes, we will defend Quebec. 
With Alexandre Cloutier, your Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs and Sovereign Governance, we are at the offensive. We act on all fronts. 
Earlier this year, we have created the National Employment Insurance Review Board. 
We do not hesitate either, when it serves our mutual interests, to consult with the other provinces, as we did in terms of transport safety and in the workforce. 
We also seen that Stephen Harper chose to appoint a federal court judge, rather than a judge from Quebec's prices. 
We will use all the remedies we have to defend our prerogatives. 
... 
The federal government is heated to activate in the Champlain Bridge. 
This is the busiest bridge in Canada and has been overlooked too long by Ottawa. 
We will continue to require it to be designed to receive our lightweight rail transportation system, an innovative electric mobility solution. 
And, above all, we refuse the federal government to pay in Quebec the price of its own inaction. Ottawa should be fair to Quebeckers. 
We will not accept that the federal government imposes a toll on the new bridge! 
... 
You see, the conflicts between Ottawa and Quebec, they are very numerous and cost us expensive. Not only in silver, in energy too. 
Since the Confederation, how long have we lost in constitutional rounds, in federal-provincial meetings, in officials' meetings? 
My friends, the day there will be no more conflicts between Canada and Quebec, we may not see it with our lifetime. Unless you make the necessary choice. If we choose to finish with the baffle and turn to the future. 
I have always been convinced that the Quebec and Canadian nations would get better if they were two friendly countries rather than two rival governments. 
The only solution to the Quebec-Ottawa conflicts is to choose to give yourself a country! 
It's our vision, the Parti Québécois. This is the project that bases our political commitment. 
I am very conscious that we have the work left to convince our fellow citizens to choose sovereignty. We work every day. 
But there is another thing I'm sure I'm sure. There are many more people in Quebec who recognize themselves in our sovereignist project than in the unconditional federalism of Philippe Couillard! 
Philippe Couillard adopted Jean Charest's constitutional strategy. A strategy that ensures that Quebec never can answer no, to any of its requests. This strategy is simple: it consists of never asking anything! 
It's passive federalism. It is the federalism of the waiver. 
When the federal government attacks the workers' funds, Philippe Couillard is silent. On the reform of the Senate, he is hiding. He even agrees with the idea of allowing the perception of our federal taxes, as much as Quebec who manages the form. 
It's soft ... of a radical softness! 
... 
We, our only loyalty, she is known. She goes to the people of Quebec. 
The project we offer it is to 
Yes, my friends, it's the road we walk. That of audacity. 
We have the means to do it. 
We can do all that, with a condition. That of telling us yes! 
That's what we are dedicated to the government every day. 
When we arrived in power, we had to repair Quebec. Now we strengthen Quebec to give confidence to Quebecers. We give ourselves the means of our ambitions. 
With your work, with the whole team of the Parti Québécois government, we will get there. At the next electoral appointment, we will be the majority! 
And, at that time, we will see it finally appear, the country of Quebec. 
This country will be ours. 
A more free country. A more welcoming country. A more proud country. An independent country. 
Thank you! 
