Here is Pauline Marois' speech, Prime Minister of Quebec, on the occasion of the opening of the 40Egissioniture of the National Assembly. 
" Mister President, 
"Allow me to wish you, from the outset, a lot of success in your very important functions for the smooth running of our work. For this purpose, you can count on my entire collaboration and that of the entire government team. 
"I take this opportunity to congratulate each and every member of Parliament for their election. I have a special thought for our dean, the Deputy Prime Minister, who was elected MP for Abitibi West for a tenth consecutive time: bravo! 
"We also have among us the youngest elected MP in the history of the National Assembly, my hon. Youth deputy, the member for Laval-des-Rapides. 
"Quebec must bet on his youth, listen to him, accompany him, to open doors. We must also rely on our elders, experience and wisdom. The election of our dean and that of the youngest hon. Member of history have for us symbol: that of an alliance between generations. 
"There is a strong signal: the government I direct will be open, listening and will build on what brings together all Quebeckers, all the origins and generations. 
"We are going to govern for all. 
"I also take this opportunity to greet and congratulate the new Leader of the Official Opposition, the member for Saint-Laurent, and all his team. 
"I also welcome the head of the second opposition group, the member for the Assumption, as well as his entire team. 
"Finally, I greet and congratulate the two elected representatives of Quebec Solidaire, MP and Gouin members. 
"We are therefore gathered to start the work of the 40th Parliament of the National Assembly. We have the privilege and responsibility to serve Quebecers. The result of the elections produced a minority government. This gives us a special responsibility. To the government as well as the opposition, we have the responsibility to act according to the general interest. 
"On our side, we will present the program of our government, but rest assured that we will receive with a lot of openness the constructive proposals of the opposition. We must seek, for any occasion, the ways of passage that will allow us to move forward, to build a more integral Quebec, more prosperous, more supportive and more proud of its identity. 
"We share this responsibility collectively and we will be judged according to our ability to hear us for results. Quebeckers rely on us all: act responsibly. 
"Mr. Speaker, through you, I will go directly to Quebeckers who are listening to us today. 
"In the last few years, I have traveled Quebec off and I went to meet you wherever you were. You told me your disappointment, your disarray and your feeling of helplessness before the great disorder that seemed to reign at the top of the state. 
"Last spring events have highlighted the limits of some way to govern. Lack of listening, division policy and the feeling that the state was no longer at the service of all Quebeckers. 
"Then, in the last election, you have chosen the change in a large majority. We heard all this. The mission that the new government is given for the duration of this mandate consists of recovery and build a Quebec for all. 
"As I had the opportunity to mention it, the new government is based on four pillars: integrity, prosperity, solidarity and identity. 
"In coherence with these four pillars, government action will be deployed according to four clear priorities: 
"That's our task. That's how we will put the state back to the service of all Quebeckers! 
"In the world, the most successful states are those who can count on a solid and integrity public service. To apply our ambitious program, we have the chance to be able to rely on a strong and dedicated public service to the public interest. 
"Integrity must cross all government action. First of all, we need to break corruption. This scourge has settled in darkness and silence. So you had to start with light. 
"With thousands of Quebeckers, we fought against the former government to get a commission of inquiry. Our fight will not have been vain: the Charbonneau commission undertook its work, the law of silence is broken and corruption already declined. 
"We will carefully follow the work of the Commission and welcome its recommendations with a lot of seriousness. By then, we must act, without waiting. 
"I pledge today before you mobilize the entire government to make a great cleaning, from the bottom, to the end. In front of corruption, from now on, it will be tolerance zero! 
"You tomorrow, the government will table Law 1 promoting public contract integrity. 
"Every year, billions of dollars are allocated to such contracts. The government must act so that Quebec taxpayers are assured that their money is not diverted by dishonest practices. That's what we are determined to do. From now on, companies that will want government contracts, cities or public bodies will have to be probity and integrity. With this law, there will be no escape. 
"I ask all the elected officials, of all parties, to make it adopted before the holidays. 
"The elected officials, but also political parties, must be exemplary in terms of integrity. The government will quickly table a bill establishing primarily public funding for political parties. 
"I tend his hand to all elected officials: Ladies, Gentlemen, are inspiring from René Lévesque and let's get out of the influence of politics money once and for all. Let's adopt this bill before the December adjournment. 
"I must say here that the vast majority of municipal elected representatives is perfectly incorporated and worthy of our trust. Unfortunately, some of them who lack integrity tarnish the reputation of all others and provoke the justified anger of citizens. 
"The government is therefore in search of a legislative way to ensure that the municipal elected officials involved in justice in criminal cases in relation to their office are recorded. 
"My government is also actively studying ways to clean up political funding practices in municipalities. 
"Finally, Law 1 will also promote integrity in the granting of municipal contracts. 
"In the field of transport, many troubling facts have been brought to our attention over the years and we will act there too. The Department of Transport will focus on planning, planning and major policies. 
"A bill on the creation of a transport agency will be deposited. This agency will be responsible for operational functions. Let us understand: the creation of an agency aims to strengthen the know-how of the state in this area. It will be able to recruit experience engineers and thus to acquire the know-how necessary for the control of the works. It will be more transparent and more attributable. 
"This reform will allow us to handle more vigilance public funds invested in transport. 
"All levels of government have the duty to contribute to this vast corruption undertaking. 
"That's why I'm asking the federal government to fully collaborate on this offensive in all areas where its responsibility will be involved. 
"Integrity, it also concerns democracy. The date of elections must be determined according to the public interest. This is how the government will table before the holidays a bill introducing fixed date elections. We want this bill to be adopted unanimously. 
"When we arrived in power, we discovered that the portrait of the public finances mentioned by the previous government was far from reality. This lack of transparency mines the confidence of the population, nourishes cynicism and undermines the quality of the democratic debate. You have to put an end. 
"By knowing the election date in advance, we will be able to publish a month before their trigger an impartial portrait of public finances. 
"Always with a view to renewing our democratic system, my government will propose to limit the duration of the Prime Minister's mandates or the Quebec Prime Minister. 
"We will also discuss with the municipal elected officials and with the opposition parties of the possibility of limiting the mandates of the mayors of more than 5000 inhabitants. 
"I conclude on integrity by emphasizing the fact that Quebeckers form a fundamentally honest people. I know that the vast majority of political elected officials, state employees, entrepreneurs and citizens of Quebec is perfectly integrged. 
"This is an extra reason to combat individuals and organizations that have tarnished our reputation. Obviously, no society is safe from crime. Corruption is not a Quebec phenomenon. Proposal is an endless combat, a requirement that we must constantly renew. 
"After this spring that has divided us so much, let us unite to make the autumn of 2012 an important moment in our history. Let us make our collective indignation transforms into action and that Quebec become one of the most honest and transparent nations in the world. That's what our aspiration should be. 
"A house in order, it goes through finances in order. This is the primary condition of this sustainable prosperity that constitutes the second pillar of our government. But we had bad surprises in the aftermath of September 4th. 
"First, the management of major infrastructure projects has been deficient. By opening the books, we realized that about twenty priority infrastructure projects in Quebec currently record cost overruns of the order of 80%! 
"It's completely unacceptable. We will strengthen the rules of management. We are currently carrying out a systematic review of investments in some projects. I have already pointed out: we need to maintain our infrastructure and build new ones. However, it must be done correctly. The exam in which we will make it possible to identify exactly the current problems and to correct them, which will allow us to control the costs, without calling into question or delay the work and projects in progress. 
"Similarly, by deciding to declare the Gentilly-2 nuclear power plant, we will save billions of dollars. 
"These measures, however, will not be enough to give our finances in order, because the former government has not respected the budget framework that it had set itself. For the current fiscal year, the expenditure control effort is already well engaged in all departments, which are in constant connection with the Treasury Board. This work is done carefully in order not to affect the services to Quebecers. 
"For the coming years, the gap between income and expenses expands quickly and will become unsustainable if we do not act now. The government will have to make other decisions in the coming weeks. If we are waiting to act, the situation will only deteriorate and within a few years, we will be obliged to make painful compressions in our public services. 
"To ensure responsible and prudent management, I asked the Minister of Finance to evaluate all the options available to us. 
"Whether it's a ministerial statement, a budget statement and, if necessary, the preparation of a budget from the fall. 
"Rigor is the only way possible if we want to protect our collective capacity to act. This is the only way to achieve budget balance in 2014 and reduce the ratio of our debt to GDP. By putting our finances in order quickly, we will be able to consider the future with a lot of confidence. 
"Our government has given rise to accelerate growth and benefit all Quebeckers. It's a priority for us. I want the message to be clear, that it is heard with force. 
"We want modern, sustainable, responsible and unifying development. Fair and equitable economic development, which meets the requirements of the 21stière and not to those of profit at all costs and in short. There is no question of doing as the former government and creating illusory growth by increasing public expenditures and debt. 
"As a result, we immediately put the Ministerial Action Group for the implementation of private investment projects, which I will chair. 
"It will be composed of the Minister of Finance and the Economy, the Minister of Natural Resources, the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Minister Delegated to Industrial Policy and Economic Development Bank, as well as CEOs of Hydro-Québec and Investissement Québec. 
"This action group will be mandated to ensure that investment projects quickly meet all the conditions defined by our laws and regulations. 
"To lay the foundation for a sustainable and solid economy, our government will act on three fronts: 
"The exploitation of natural resources contributes to the Quebec economy for a very long time. These immense riches, we must exploit them responsibly. 
"In the early 2000s, the government of the Parti Québécois had designed a Northern Integrated Development Plan. This development is complex, the immense territory and the unique Nordic reality. 
"The coordination of the entire government apparatus is essential and to ensure consistency, I announce the creation of a secretariat for Nordic development. 
"Northern development is a tremendous potential for wealth creation for all. We intend to put in place a new mining royalty regime that will further enrich Quebecers who belong to the resources. My government also wants to encourage businesses to transform much more from us the resources that belong to us. 
"Finally, we want to make sure that the best environmental practices are applied. 
"All these changes will be in consultation with Aboriginal nations, Nordic populations and businesses. This will enable Québec to register among the nations that have taken the turn of sustainable development, respectful of the environment and communities. This is a real northern development plan: the north for all. 
"Among our natural resources, there is one who requires a strong reflection if we want to start from the right foot. I am talking about the petroleum potential of Quebec. We are determined to exploit it, but from the highest practices for the protection of the environment, social acceptability. When we produce oil, it will be to enrich all Quebeckers, including the next generations. When we produce oil, it will be to enrich all Quebeckers. 
"And then, there is the Quebec forest, this jewel that delights us and lives hundreds of communities. We are talking about a renewable resource that has a beautiful future before it, as long as we decide to highlight it. 
"We will first finalize the implementation of the new forest regime whose entry into force is scheduled for 1EAVRIL 2013. 
"We will better plan silvicultural work so that they start on time. The government will promote the use of wood in value-added products. 
"To do this, we will quickly adopt a timber chart that will engage the various partners to promote the use of the wood resource in all its forms. 
"It's time, for example, to promote the construction of six-storey wooden buildings as elsewhere in the world. We will ask the building management to act accordingly by allowing the wood construction of such buildings. I hope the message is clear. The government is committed to boosting the forest industry. 
"For the future, we need to focus on innovation and entrepreneurship. The government has set the goal of increasing public and private investment in research and development at 3% of GDP. 
"To achieve this, the government is preparing a national research and innovation policy. A policy that will generate the adhesion of all the components of the company: educational institutions, scientific community, businesses and citizens. This must become a concern of the Government and Society Quebec in all areas. 
"We must also support our entrepreneurs, those who invest to create wealth and jobs with us and to export our know-how. The government will help them by submitting a bill creating the Quebec Economic Development Bank. 
"With the local development centers as privileged partners, the Bank will simplify the granting of financial assistance to businesses in each region, including those working in the field of the social economy. 
"We must also project us away in the future and imagine what the economy of Quebec will be in 2020 or 2030. 
"In the 1990s, the governments of the Quebecois party put such a vision of the front. It still benefits us today in the fields of life sciences, multimedia and transport. It's the same vision that guides us at the beginning of our new mandate. It is also the memory of René Lévesque and Jean Lesage which, 50 years ago this year, nationalized electricity and created three years later the Fund of Deposit and Investment of Quebec. 
"My government will invite all Quebec to a new project that will take the basics of the Quebec economy of the 21stière by launching an industrial strategy for the development of transport and clean energies. 
"We already manufacture buses, trains, metro cars, electric vehicle batteries and several other components. We are also investing significantly in collective transportation: bus, suburban trains, Montreal metro extension. 
"Quebec is full of promising companies in environmental technologies and has abundant sources of clean energy that can be substituted for imported oil. 
"Reduce our oil imports by replacing them with electricity and we will get rich. Manufacturing, inventing techniques to electrify our transport, build a Quebec know-how that we can then export anywhere in the world. Let's use our clean energy to attract value-added investments. 
"This enrichment strategy will allow us to reach our 25% reduction goal of our greenhouse gas emissions. The protection of the environment is not an obstacle to economic development. In the 21st century, it is a factor of enrichment for all. 
"To give us a long-term perspective, we will start consultations and analyzes to establish an energy independence policy. 
"The third forehead we want to act will be that of trade. The Quebec economy is played by a trade deficit of $ 22 billion a year. Nearly half is explained by growth in crude oil imports. Thus, between 2002 and 2011, the invoice of our international imports of petroleum products has increased by $ 10 billion. 
"The reflex of some would be to close on ourselves, to curb trade. We will do exactly the opposite. 
"In France, I invited the leaders of European companies to invest in Quebec, stressing that we were the ideal gateway for the entire North American market. 
"From the beginning of his term, the government has confirmed its support for free trade and participates in the smooth running of the Canada-European Union Agreement. Thanks to this agreement, we have the opportunity to have better access to a 500 million people market. We are also working on a foreign trade development plan. 
"In short, we want to attract international investments and deploy in foreign markets by relaunching our exports. 
"Important sectors of our economy will be involved in boosting growth. The agricultural sector provides tens of thousands of jobs in all regions of Quebec. It is too often forgotten, but the agri-food sector is the largest manufacturing employer in Quebec. 
"My government intends to give a new breath to agriculture and in particular family farming in Quebec. We will support producers by paying special attention to succession. While food sovereignty will be at the heart of our policy. It will allow us to create jobs, support our businesses and always put more products from home on our plate. 
"The government will also build on tourism, an industry that attracts valuable capital into our economy, deploying an ambitious development plan. 
"And then, it is an often underestimated sector that, however, strongly contributes to our prosperity and it is the social economy. We believe in the social economy and our government intends to introduce a framework law to recognize it, promote it and develop. 
"Exploit our natural resources in a respectful way; revive private investment; bet on entrepreneurship and innovation to lay the groundwork for the economy of the future; and rebalance our trade balance by relaunching our exports. We have all the assets to make Quebec one of the most prosperous places in the Americas. A prosperity based on sustainable development; A prosperity put at the service of all. 
"Solidarity, the third pillar of our government, represents a great strength for the Quebec nation. 
"The prosperity and development of nations, as people, are primarily about knowledge and education. Solidarity calls for everyone equal opportunities and therefore access to education. Last spring, the sharp rise in tuition fees at the university provoked a serious social crisis. By the time it was necessary to hear the generation that will draw our future, a gap between young people and their elders were dug. 
"As soon as our election, we have chosen the path of a crisis exit in accordance with our commitments: the annulment of the expected increase and the repeal of the provisions that unduly restricted freedom of expression. 
"Today, it is necessary to renew the dialogue between the generations. We must agree together, in respect of our expectations and constraints, the future of our institutions of higher education and their essential role in the development of an educated and innovative Quebec society. 
"In the coming weeks, the government will invite partners to this reflection that will culminate at a higher education summit. At the end of this meeting, we will have asked the milestones of a real knowledge society for all. 
"Education and the fight against school dropout, it starts from early childhood. This is why Quebec child care has an educational vocation. They allow children to adapt more easily to school, learning and social relations. They also make it possible to intervene early with children likely to win later. Custody services also allowed thousands of women to return to the labor market. 
"The CPE network is a very profitable investment for Quebec society. It is inadmissible that families who need them have no place for their child. 
"My government will announce very soon the unlocking of thousands of places that will begin to be available in the coming months. 
"From the beginning of next year, we will launch a call for projects to fill the places that will finally allow to complete the network. So that within four years, it will be: a child, a place. 
"Beyond the statistical makeup orchestrated by the previous government, we must agree that our efforts to reduce school dropout have not brought all the expected fruits. One of the problems we have is that families from disadvantaged circles do not benefit sufficient child care and children arrive at school with catch-up. 
"In addition to continuing its efforts to welcome more of these children in CEPs, the government will go forward with four-year-olds in disadvantaged circles by multiplying projects. 
"The Government makes its objective launched by the Superior Council for Education for only 90% of the 4-year-olds attend state-supported education services. 
"The education of our children is in large part on the shoulders of teachers. I want to honor them and tell them how much their contribution to our society is valuable and appreciated. In primary schools, you can count on several hundred more professionals to help you. 
"The government will continue to promote vocational training and will continue literacy efforts. The fight against school dropout is thus launched with force. But the action of the government will not suffice: the education of our young people concerns us all and requires an effort of the whole of society. 
"At this point, you will allow me to link education and health by telling you some sports and leisure. The habit of physical activity is developing from an early age. It is time to modernize the national sport and leisure policy and make it one of the founding stones of our education system, from CPE to university, and extend it to CHSLDs. 
"Why not give us the goal that within 10 years, the Quebec population becomes one of the most in the form of the world? This is a challenge to our measure. 
"Healthy, prevention remains by far the best cost-benefit investment for both the state and for people. It is in this spirit that I announce the deposit, next spring, a green paper on a national health prevention policy. 
"In the immediate future, government priority is to facilitate early access to the first line. In this area, there is no magic solution. 
"Thus, the government will act on several fronts: 
"The goal of the government is that within two years of 750,000 Quebeckers have access to a family doctor. 
"At the same time, we must better take care of our elders and adults in loss of autonomy. These people want to stay at home, near their loved ones, rather than end up in a health facility. That's why the government will launch a national care and home service policy. 
"This major reform will begin this fall with a working group on the creation of autonomy insurance. In the meantime, we will focus on home care for our elders and other adults in loss of autonomy. 
"Such a policy will respond to people's desire, clear beds to disengorge the emergency, will relieve close caregivers and will allow us to control health costs. 
"I want you to know one thing: in addition to matching people's desires, home care cost four times cheaper than care in the hospital. It is more time to move forward. 
"Solidarity also involves the support we offer the most vulnerable young people in our society. Our government will make every effort to provide young people in distress the support they need to find hope and participate fully in our society. 
"In terms of women's condition, the new government has decided to tackle violence against women. A government action plan to counter spousal violence will be made public within a few weeks. We will attack us very resolutely to this scourge. 
"We have a responsibility for solidarity towards the least fortunate of us. Having decent housing at a reasonable cost is a fundamental need. It is for this reason that we will accelerate the realization of social housing in order to make them available as quickly as possible. In the long term, we aim for 3,000 social housing units, affordable or cooperative, more per year. 
"Upstream, we must also deal with people who live the tragedy of roaming, a phenomenon that presents several faces and only limited to urban areas. These men, these women and sometimes these children suffer from living conditions that can be miserable and it is the government's duty to help them. We will do so by deploying a government policy on homelessness. 
"We will also launch, by next spring, the second mental health action plan, as well as the action plan for the fight against cancer. 
"Finally, my government did the intention of implementing the recommendations of the Special Commission's report on the issue of dying with a palliative care policy and then submitting a bill in the next year. . 
"We can do it by inspiring it to the member for Joliette who, with his colleagues from the Commission, realized on this issue an absolutely remarkable work, marked with the seal of great human sensibility. 
"Solidarity must remain an important value of our society and must have a meaning for each of us. I think in particular to those of you who work hard, who raise your children and who pay your taxes. 
"The government's action in solidarity will also focus on restoring equilibrium for families. This is why by changing the health tax, we will relieve three million Quebecers - including many seniors - by transferring a tax burden of less rich to the most fortunate. 
"The effort our government plans to do to help families do not stop there. The decision to freeze custody rates until the network is completed will save a further increase to young families. Similarly, the cancellation of the rise in tuition fees will give oxygen to thousands of others. Families in the middle class will be able to better breathe financially, one way or another. We will be your government, that of Quebec families. 
"In recent years, many of our fellow citizens have worried about our justice system. We will ensure that justice is more at the heart of government concerns. It will first and foremost make sure that our system is much more accessible. At the moment, to have access to the courts, it must be very rich or very poor so as to benefit from legal aid. 
"The government will therefore increase thresholds for the middle class to have access to it. We will gradually do it, to the extent of our means. Our justice system will also need to be less heavy, faster and call on new ways, such as family mediation. 
"We must also get closer to people, for example with local justice centers. To bring citizens closer together and make it more accessible, we will install more local justice centers. We will also see to help and further support victims of criminal acts. 
"Finally, we will attack the multirécidivists of drinking alcohol. 
"Solidarity, it also means a system of justice for all. 
"In order for the appearance of justice to be ensured when police officers are involved, my Government will table a bill to institute the Office of Independent Investigations for the conduct of all the minister's investigations. It will be composed and led by civilians, as well as by experience investigators. This is a reform that will be to the advantage of both police and citizens. 
"The police, precisely, are at the forefront when competing events related to public safety. For years, they have been told that the gun registry is an essential tool for prevention, in their survey work and during their interventions. To ensure their safety and that of the population, my government intends to introduce a bill with a view to the creation of a Quebec register of firearms without restriction. This register will be put in place when we get the Quebec data contained in the Canadian Firearms Registry. 
"The government is committed to punishing criminals and recidivists severely, while focusing on the rehabilitation, especially young people. This approach has succeeded very well, since Quebec is the least violent place in the Americas. 
"Let's take advantage of to emphasize the work of largest forgotten state, correctional employees, who deserve our respect for the difficult work they do day after day. 
"Solidarity and justice, it also concerns the workers and their retirement, as well as taxpayers called to grip certain public scales. In this regard, the issue of workers' pension plans, both the private sector and municipalities, represents a major issue of our time and not just in Quebec. 
"The government is preparing to receive the report of the Committee of Experts chaired by Mr. D'Amours. 
"We must act on this forehead, without precipitation, but with speed. I am convinced that all together we will find solutions. 
"The reference of the workforce in the construction industry has made a lot of ink. The former government had chosen the confrontation and closed the communication channels with important actors in the industry. We have restored bridges and we will soon present a new regulatory framework on this subject. 
"The objectives are clear: contribute to ensuring social peace in Quebec and the right of workers to practice their business around the territory. 
"Finally, solidarity is also the one that must exist between all the regions of Quebec. We have all interest to the metropolis, the National Capital and each region of Quebec are strong. 
"For Montreal, the government will emphasize four priorities: 
"More specifically, the government will continue its investments, especially in transport and culture. 
"For our national capital, the government will propose an ambitious and imaginative vision by having to strengthen its identity, to enhance its innovation capacities, to improve its international character and, above all, to support the consultation efforts of the whole. his actors. 
"The government will continue to support important projects for Quebec, such as the amphitheater, the Samuel-de Champlain promenade or Robert Lepage's diamond. 
"With regard to the sources of funding for municipalities, we will soon be undertaking discussions for the renewal of a tax and financial partnership. 
"My government is also very sensitive to the regions. Being a member of the beautiful region of Charlevoix, resident of the Montreal area and working in Quebec City, I am well aware of the very different realities lived in the four corners of our territory. 
"Our government recognizes the importance of having public policies adapted to the realities of all regions of Quebec. 
"We will therefore present to Quebeckers a framework law on decentralization to enable local decision-makers to make the best choices adapted to their reality. 
"Gaspésie will receive special attention from me, while the ministerial committee of Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine, which I chair, develop a development plan for the region. 
"In 2001, a government of the Parti Québécois set up the national rural policy, which recognized the contribution of the rural world to a prosperous and dynamic Quebec. This policy matures in 2014. I announce today that it will be renewed. 
"Nowadays, it is difficult to imagine the development of communities without high speed internet access. My government will accelerate investments in this area so that this essential service is made available throughout the country. The new government wants to develop all Quebec. 
"Quebec remains the place in North America where wealth is the best shared and where the level of violence is the lowest. We have a tradition of mutual aid that goes back 400 years back and which has served us very well. We must be proud of these achievements and continue on this path, that of our solidarity. 
"The minority status of the government must not stop us as a people, while we come out of nine years of torpor. My government will focus on promoting our identity and the defense of our interests as a nation. 
"At the international level, we have just succeeded significant progress. Quebec has taken an active part at the Summit of Francophonie held in Kinshasa. A first official visit was made in France. This visit and the first meeting with the new president have made it possible to restore the traditional support of France with the future choices of Quebeckers, whatever they are. 
"We will continue our efforts to well position the interests of Quebec on the international scene. In the coming months, I will meet American decision-makers to promote our interests, mainly economic. 
"In matters of identity, we will act on the fronts of language, culture and citizenship. The data of the last census on the language follow a series of studies that all point in the same direction, a decline in the place of French, particularly in Montreal and in the Outaouais. Quebec can not continue like that without reacting. 
"A majority of us agrees to defend and promote the place of French in our society, with respect to the English-speaking community. We do not all agree on the means and scope of gestures to ask, but we know that we must act. 
"The government will go as far as possible in promoting our language by filing a new charter of the French language. Preserve the place of French as a common public language, it is in the earliest interest of the Quebec nation. I'm counting on all the parliamentarians, all parties, to work in a constructive spirit and to advance on this neuralgic issue for our people. 
"With the French language, culture defines us as a people. Our creators are at the source of this culture and they will be able to count on unwavering support from the government. Through granting agencies, funding for creation will be increased gradually. 
"Similarly, to support our authors, publishers and booksellers, we will put in place a parliamentary committee on the relevance of a single price of the book and its impacts. 
"We want to be able to better support the export of Quebec works and cultural products to enable our creators to continue their international career and promote the influence of Quebec around the world. This radiation contributes powerfully to our brand image, an image of creativity, innovation and modernism. 
"In this regard, the Government insists that the protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions be included in the possible European Union Free Trade Agreement. 
"We will go forward with the idea of creating a local and regional web platform in Télé-Québec, including cultural matters. This initiative will offer Quebeckers from all regions information richer and diversified. 
"We will support the creation and circulation of works and artists, including in the school network, throughout Quebec. 
"Similarly, we will continue our support for cultural equipment projects in order to better support the creation and dissemination of the arts. 
"Finally, we will hire talks with the federal government to repatriate budgets and cultural programs. 
"Québec culture and identity take their source in our history, a facet of our identity that is not sufficiently valued. It is more time to strengthen the teaching of our history and that is what we gradually do, from primary to research chairs in universities. 
"This story teaches us that other peoples have preceded us on this beautiful territory we share. I have to emphasize the entry of play that my government intends to establish nation-nation relations with Aboriginal people and to give them a new breath. 
"I announce two appointments illustrating our approach. I will meet soon Ghislain Picard, Head of the Assembly of First Nations of Quebec and Labrador, and I will attend the summit on the territory and the resources. 
"I will also meet in the coming days the grand leader of the Cree Cree, Matthew Coon Come. 
"I want to continue in the direction drawn by the peace of the brave. It is in a spirit of openness and mutual respect that we are considering our relations with First Nations and Inuit. 
"This story also teaches us that the English-speaking community is an important part of what we are. My government will continue to protect the rights of the members of this community that is part of the Quebec nation. 
"And then the story of our people is also a history of immigration. We have a duty to receive and integrate newcomers to the Quebec nation and the government will emphase into employment integration. 
"In the area of citizenship, our company has never settled the issues that are argued as a result of the reasonable accommodation crisis. To remedy this, we proposed the adoption of a charter of secularism, as well as a law on Quebec citizenship. These fundamental proposals must benefit from the adhesion of the greatest number. The government has therefore decided to launch consultations to reach a balance point that will allow us to advance on these issues. 
"In front of the federal government, we decided to adopt a constructive but firm approach. The government in place in Ottawa affirms Quebec as a nation and is eager to respect the fields of competence of each. 
"My Government will ensure that the division of powers recorded in the Canadian Constitution is respected in all areas. We will hardly defend our interests, including federal transfers for health and social services. 
"I will do it for any occasion, for example by going to the next meeting of the Federation Council. 
"Quebeckers remain shared on the national question, but the idea that Quebec stands up and defends its interests brings together a vast majority of us. 
"As you know, we form a sovereignist government. We consider that Quebec has everything to gain to become a country. It is true in legal matters, where our belonging to the Canadian whole comes with the imposition of a constitution ever signed by Quebec. This limits our ability to define our linguistic laws, the regulatory regime of our telecommunications, our citizenship or our criminal laws. 
"Quebec has everything to gain also to control all taxes and taxes. For example, think of the billions of dollars of our taxes that helped the auto industry in Ontario or the Maritime projects in Nova Scotia, while our wood industry and our manufacturing sector are left behind by Ottawa. . 
"Let's think of substantial savings that sovereignty will allow us to do in bureaucratic expenses by eliminating all administrative duplicates. Quebec gains nothing to fund two ministries of transport, the environment, finance, two income agencies, two Treasury Boards or even two parliaments and a Senate. 
"Let's think about our priorities as a nation. What do we want to do with our taxes: finance the celebration of the war of 1812 and royalty or finance our culture and our education? 
"Quebec has everything to gain to talk about its own voice in the world, to be present in international forums where our future is emerging and implementing its own foreign policy, according to our interests and values. 
"In short, the members of the government and I will continue to promote this idea that the only future worthy of the name for the Quebec nation is to regain its freedom by founding a new country. A country that looks like us: a country for all! 
"Our government program is clear. We will complete a battle of all moments against corruption: the entire government is mobilized. 
"My government will quickly put our public finances into order. We will revive the economy by starting with private investments and ensuring that Quebec finds the path of sustainable prosperity, which will benefit everyone. 
"We will improve the fate of families in all areas, while rigorously controlling our expenses, and we will act as a nation, proud of its identity and determined to defend its interests. 
"We have a lot to do. Let's get on what brings us together for results for all. 
"Mr. President, in accordance with Article 45 of the Regulation of the National Assembly, I invite this Chamber to adopt the following motion: 
" Thank you. » 
