Here is the address of Pauline Marois, Prime Minister of Quebec, on the occasion of the presentation of the new Council of Ministers: 
"On September 4, Quebeckers chose to turn the page and open a new chapter in Quebec's history. The desire for change expressed strongly, while 75% of our fellow citizens exercised their right to vote. Quebeckers chose the change and they chose to do so with a government of the Parti Québécois. 
"On several issues of disagreements persist, which is quite normal in democracy, but on many other issues we can rely on a large majority. 
"The former government has focused a lot on division policy. On the contrary, the new government will support what unites us. We will make the change by taking the path of listening, dialogue and action. 
"It's not the only government that will change what needs to be. They are all Quebeckers who have to put the shoulder at the wheel. The Quebec people must emerge from its obstacles and restart. I want to see eight million people take up the head, regain confidence and find their common pride to belong to this people who know how big is. 
"The action of the new government will rest on four pillars: integrity, prosperity, identity and solidarity. The most urgent change to revolve around the notions of trust and integrity. The confidence of the population to the government and the Quebec state is paramount. This state, the only controlled by the Quebec nation, is the most powerful of all our collective tools. To restore this confidence, the new government will require the highest requirements. 
"As the prime minister, I will be uncompromising in terms of integrity. Integrity will mark all government action: it will be our first pillar. This will initially result in rapid reforms, where we can find common ground with opposition. 
"It will then be necessary to examine and implement the recommendations of the Charbonneau Commission when the latter has filed them. 
"It also means that the government will work with the public service for the state to regain the necessary expertise for the smooth running of business and to find its place among the most effective. It means managing Quebeckers' money with a lot of rigor. Finally, it means to remain faithful to our convictions. 
"The second pillar of government action will be to find the path of sustainable prosperity for all Quebeckers. It will be necessary to act in the context of a worrying global economic situation and from public finances whose state remains fragile. 
"We will have to overcome the gigantic wall of a $ 25 billion trade deficit. These are $ 66 million that come out every day to create jobs and wealth abroad. Quebec therefore has considerable challenges, but we must not discourage. 
"In the 1990s, the governments of the Parti Québécois managed to redress public finances and to give Quebec on the road to prosperity based on Quebeckers, on our strengths and ability to innovate. 
"Our goal should not be to make up for others. Our goal is to go after our possibilities. Nothing opposes that the Quebec people be among the most prosperous on the planet. We have talent, creativity, territory, resources, energy and entrepreneurship that has allowed our predecessors to build this country from almost nothing. 
"Our prosperity must be based on a long-term vision that reports to the whole of society, not just a minority of privileged. 
"In short, we want to put Quebec back on the road to prosperity that will be sustainable. 
"To allow us to reach our destination, we need a very strong person, who will keep the course by all time. 
"As Minister of Finance and the Economy, I used Nicolas Marceau. 
"You will chair the Departmental Prosperity and Regional Development Committee, which will be the second pillar of government action. Your mandate is to put forward order in our public finances and lay the structural basis for sustainable economic development. 
"You will have to propose the review of the mandate of the Fund and Investment to give it its role in economic development, and to maintain strategic decision-making centers at home. 
"You will need to restore tax justice and, to the extent of our means, give oxygen to the families of the middle class. 
"You will finally see to defend with great firmness the economic and financial interests of Quebec vis-à-vis Ottawa. 
"In terms of economic development there is a lot of work to do. 
"I chose to entrust the position of Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank in Élain Zakaïb. 
"I ask you to create the Quebec Economic Development Bank and make it a one-stop shop to facilitate the lives of entrepreneurs and companies in the classical and social economy. 
"You will prepare a stimulus plan for our manufacturing industry by focusing on the transport and energies sector. 
"I also ask you to propose and implement a strategy to significantly increase the productivity of Quebec companies. 
"And then, if there is a neuralgic industry in virtually all regions of Quebec, it is tourism. It is a very important economic engine that can allow us to reduce our commercial deficit by attracting foreign visitors to home. 
"It is with this goal that I have appointed, as Minister Delegate to Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, Pascal Bérubé. 
"I ask you to go around our regions and, with the actors concerned, you will propose a development strategy for this economic sector. 
"I'm counting on you for concrete results in all regions as quickly as possible. 
"Contribute to Quebec a destination of choice for tourists around the world. 
"Nowadays, there can not be sustainable prosperity by opposing economic development and the protection of the environment. Both go hand in hand. 
"It is in this spirit that I appointed, as Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Daniel Breton. 
"Your mandate is to ensure that Quebec's development is conjugated with the constant improvement of our environment. More specifically, you will be in charge of the Quebec contribution to the fight against climate change and prepare Quebec for these changes. 
"I'm asking you to support innovation in environmental technologies, transportation and clean energies and contribute to making niches of excellence and prosperity for Quebec. 
"Many Quebeckers share a great ambition: that of seeing Quebec becoming an example, an environmental leader in the world. I ask you to trace the path of a country that we want green and blue. 
"To assist you in this task, as a parliamentary assistant for wildlife and parks, I mandated Scott McKay. 
"These two files are very important. Our parks make the joy of millions of Quebeckers and visitors. They are a source of pride. Take care on behalf of us all. 
"Since always, the prosperity of peoples is based on knowledge. Compulsory school, innovation and research are the foundation of the prosperity that the most advanced companies have known for a few centuries. 
"What was true yesterday is still today for Quebec, which already stands out and must stand out even more by its spirit of innovation and advancement of knowledge. 
"Knowledge remains the way par excellence of individual enrichment and social mobility. 
"To assume this strategic task as the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology and Minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec region, I mandated Pierre Duchesne. 
"I ask you to cancel the increase in tuition fees planned by the former government and to organize a higher education summit. 
"You will need to forge a consensus that will ensure access to higher education to Quebeckers who have desire and capacity, while maximizing the debt of our young people. 
"You also have the mandate to propose measures that will bring Quebec in the world's leading platoon where private and public research and development investments are among the highest. 
"Let's drive us on the path of knowledge and innovation. 
"Quebec is rich in its territory and natural resources there. This wealth belongs to all Quebeckers and must benefit everyone, including upcoming generations. Operated smartly, mineral, energy and forest resources that are ours can be a prosperity factor. 
"To highlight them in a spirit of sustainable development as Minister of Natural Resources, I chose Martine Ouellet. 
"You have the mandate to propose a new fair share of mineral royalties that the real owners must receive, Quebeckers. 
"You are also asked to maximize the transformation of our resources to create quality jobs at home, while providing Nordic development based on a local approach to local populations and aboriginal nations. 
"You will have the task of redefining Quebec's energy policy to increase our independence in this area. 
"The goal is to reduce oil imports that swell the trade deficit and replace them with Quebec energy. 
"You will have the responsibility of the Gentilly-2 nuclear power plant. 
"Let's take advantage of that the expertise developed in the field of reclassification of nuclear power plants become an exportable niche of excellence. 
"I also ask you to support the recovery of the forest sector, a renewable, abundant and irreplaceable resource for the prosperity of hundreds of our communities. 
"Make the wealth of which we are the owners take advantage of all Quebeckers today and tomorrow. 
"To assist you, as Parliamentary Assistant to Nordic Affairs, I appealed to Luc Ferland. 
"To help you as a parliamentary assistant for forest files, I mandated the designated person, Denis Trottier. 
"Food is at the very foundations of our lives and it is so obvious that we sometimes forget the importance of agriculture and fisheries. Our agricultural producers are asked to produce a healthy and affordable diet, to develop the territory, to take care of the environment and to treat our landscapes. 
"To our fishermen, we ask to bring back sea products sometimes at the risk of their lives, while providing resources. We ask them very much, but the support is not always at the rendezvous. 
"To remedy it as a Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and Minister responsible for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region, I appealed to François Gendron. 
"Like deputy prime minister, you will be our wise. We count on your long experience of Dean of the National Assembly. 
"As a minister, your priority term will revise programs to better support our farmers and fishermen and foster an absolutely needed agricultural success in Quebec. 
"Your second term is equally important: propose and implement a policy of food sovereignty. This means creating jobs in production and processing; increasing private investments in all our regions; And the pride of consuming products from home, such as Charlevoix's lamb. 
"Help us make the agribusiness and Quebec fisheries a source of enrichment and pride capable of bringing each other with each of his craftsmen. 
"To assist you as a parliamentary assistant in the fisheries records, I chose Jeannine Richard. 
"Since always, land use planning and transportation infrastructures play a key role in the prosperity and quality of life of human beings. In a concern for coherence and efficiency, I decided to consolidate very important responsibilities within the same portfolio. 
"As Minister of Transport, Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, I used Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"You will first try to clean up the transport. 
"You will then have to fly a very important reform by transforming the ministry into an agency, so as to ensure integrity, transparency and efficiency. 
"I ask you to take every means necessary for Quebec taxpayers to have their money. 
"You have the mandate to propose an integrated transport policy that will aim for the following objectives: 
"As Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Territory Occupation, you will need to help municipal elected officials. 
"I also ask you to support the construction of social housing and continue to develop the social economy in all our regions. 
"You will present a framework law on the occupation of the territory and decentralization. 
"You will have all my support and the Council of Ministers to ensure that transportation in Quebec cease to be a problem and become a solution. 
"Our immense territory and the various realities that Quebeckers live in each region require special attention. 
"This will be the task of the Minister Delegate to the Regions, responsible for the national rural policy and minister responsible for the Gaspésie-de-la-Madeleine region, Gaétan Lelièvre. 
"I ask you to take care of the national policy of rurality, so important for our villages and for the occupation of our immense territory. We count on you. 
"To support Mr. Gaudreault as a parliamentary assistant on municipal affairs, I mandated André Villeneuve. 
"We form a society open to the world, both in terms of trade and culture or international cooperation. 
"To broaden this opening as a Minister of International Relations and Foreign Trade, Minister responsible for the metropolitan area, I chose, Jean-François Lisée. 
"You will have the task of promoting Quebec's interests on the international scene. 
"You will accompany our entrepreneurs in international markets to develop our exports and promote Quebec as land of foreign investment. 
"You will also need to promote Quebec culture abroad by allowing our creators and our cultural products to radiate maximum. 
"Finally, I ask you to advance our interests and our bonds of friendship, with a particular emphasis within the Francophonie. 
"What I ask is to open all the doors of the world on Quebec. 
"You will also be minister responsible for the metropolis. As such, I ask you to create an organic link between decision-makers and citizens of the Montreal region, and the entire government. Among these citizens, there are Quebeckers from the English-speaking community, many of which resident in Montreal itself. 
"I ask you to weave with themselves close relations, in the respect of their rights. 
"Make them feel that they are a wealth for us all and that they are full members of the Quebec nation. 
"To assist you as a parliamentary assistant for foreign trade, you can count on Alain Therrien. 
"The state must regain the esteem of Quebeckers and it begins with the recognition of the excellence of our public service. This requires effective management of public funds. 
"This responsibility will be shared by all ministers and state employees. 
"The management will be given by the Minister responsible for the Government Administration, President of the Treasury Board, a parliamentary leader and minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region, Stéphane Bédard. 
"You will have the mandate to get rid of the sources of inefficiency and waste, to eliminate them so that you want to use the public money that comes from the pocket of our fellow citizens. 
"I ask you to release the employees of the state of administrative rigidities as much as possible. 
"You will have to ensure a supervision of subcontracting, maintain and develop the necessary expertise that will allow the state and therefore to Quebeckers to have their money. 
"You will have to keep the cords of the scholarship very tight to limit the growth of public expenditure. 
"You will have a sometimes ungrateful role, but I ask you, when it will have it: Tell us" No "! 
"Quebeckers form a right nation whose identity has been forged throughout its more than 400 years of history. 
"My government is sovereignist. We have the belief that the future of Quebec is that of a sovereign country. Moreover, it appears to remain a province of Canada is an unacceptable risk for Quebec. 
"My government is therefore the task of sharing this believer with Quebeckers. 
"From here to the achievement of this objective, it is imperative to advance our interests and promote our identity, not as a province, but as a nation. 
"To do this, Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs and Sovereign Governance, and Minister responsible for the North Shore and North-du-Québec Region, is entrusted to Alexandre Cloutier. 
"You have the mandate to take all necessary means to defend the interests of Quebec and allow it to occupy all the possible space in the areas of its identity and economy, including by demanding new powers. 
"I ask you to support you on existing consensus within the National Assembly or the Quebec population and to forge new ones. 
"Let us move towards always more freedom. 
"Over the centuries, our nation has forged an identity well to it. We are neither better neither worse than others we are different. Of this difference that makes the diversity and richness of the world. 
"We must be proud of what we are, cherish our history, ensure respect for our values and the place of French as a common public language. 
"We also have a duty to welcome and integrate newcomers into our nation. 
"This important responsibility will be that of the Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Diane de Courcy. 
"I ask you to welcome and integrate newcomers into our nation by mobilizing Quebec society. 
"You are also mandated to propose a new law 101. 
"Your priority between all: to ensure that French will resume its place as an official language and use everywhere in Quebec. 
"To assist you, as a parliamentary assistant for integration files, I named Suzanne Proulx. 
"Culture is an essential foundation of Quebec identity. It makes us proud, allows us to flourish, to entertain us and represents an inexhaustible source of wealth. 
"She is also at the source of many innovations and intermingles more and more on other economic sectors with the future like multimedia. 
"To focus on this vital aspect of our existence as a people, as Minister of Culture and Communications, I have appointed, Maka Kotto. 
"You have the mandate to support the maximum of our means the dissemination and influence of our culture. 
"As such, you will need to support those who are at the base of our cultural abundance: creators. 
"Cultural dissemination and production are so crucial for the future of our people that I give you the express mandate to repatriate the federal powers and budgets in the field of culture and communications. 
"If there is a field to subscribe to all Quebec political parties, that's it. 
"I ask you: make sure that we became masters at home in terms of culture. 
"Democracy is not limited to elections for four years.  Quebeckers are rendered further and want to exercise their citizenship on a daily basis. 
"To meet this new requirement, as Minister responsible for democratic institutions and citizen participation and minister responsible for Mauricie, I mandated Bernard Drainville. 
"You have the mandate to propose a charter of secularism and a bill on identity. 
"You will therefore chair the Ministerial Committee on Identity. 
"I ask you to change the parties' method of financing to eliminate the influence of money in politics. 
"You will propose a law that will introduce fixed elections and the limitation of elected mandates. 
"I ask you to propose mechanisms to increase citizen participation. 
"Finally, I give you the mandate to open a new building site so that we can innovate in the way government services adapting to the realities of each region. 
"Allow citizens to take initiatives is probably the best way to get out of the administrative carcans that prevent us from serving Quebeckers. 
"In short, I'm asking you to slaughter the" wall wall ".  Your goal: to give the citizen to the heart of our concerns. 
"If prosperity and identity are fundamental for a people, the same is true of solidarity. 
"Quebec would never have become what it is if our ancestors had not helped. We are never as strong as when we are in solidarity. 
"This is a fundamental value of our people and the state not only allows to redistribute wealth, but also to ensure equal opportunities. 
"Solidarity will therefore be the fourth pillar of government action. 
"To pilot it as a Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, as well as Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Capital-Nationale and the Chaudière-Appalaches Region, J 'decided to appeal to Agnès Maltais. 
"You will chair the ministerial committee of solidarity. 
"I ask you to help ensure social peace in Quebec in terms of labor relations. 
"You also have the mandate to accelerate the training of workers to enable them to prosper and bridge the significant specialized labor shortage that is emerging and hinders the enrichment of persons such as the community. 
"You will be in charge of our policy of fighting poverty. 
"As the Minister of Status of Women, I ask you to continue the work of the previous government to ensure that equality between women and men becomes a concrete reality as quickly as possible. 
"Make Quebec more than ever a land of solidarity. 
"To help you, you will be able to count as a parliamentary assistant for the work on Gilles Chapadeau. 
"And as a parliamentary assistant for the files relating to the female condition, I mandated Diane Gadoury-Hamelin. 
"Health remains one of the major priorities of Quebecers and the government. We aim for two main objectives: 
"Give access to front-line care and a family doctor to all Quebeckers;  Take care with humanity from our elders.  All of this must be done in the context of the aging of the population. 
"To meet these challenges, as Minister of Health, Social Services and Head of Elders and Minister responsible for the Estrie Region, I chose Réjean Hébert. 
"You have three mandates that combine. 
"First, you will see to implement a national home care policy for our seniors by creating an autonomy insurance plan. This more humane policy for our elders will help unclog a part of the front-line network and reduce waiting time. 
"Second, you will need to mobilize all health professionals so that they contribute to the provision of care. 
"The goal is that Quebeckers cease to be expected unduly for front-line care. 
"Third, you have the mandate to offer in four years a family doctor to every Quebecer. 
"Your task is ambitious, but be assured of my unwavering support. We're gonna succed! 
"In the longer term, we know that politics by far the most effective and cheapest in terms of costs / benefits, it is public health and its corollary: prevention. 
"This is a priority of the new government that must be implemented as a Minister of Public Health and the Protection of Youth and Minister responsible for the Lanaudière region, Véronique Hivon. 
"Your mandate is very important. 
"Public health is undoubtedly with education one of the most powerful levers we have to improve the quality of life of Quebeckers in the long term. 
"You will need to communicate effectively with the public with transparency, so that people have the right time and reassured to the extent possible. 
"I ask you to develop an ambitious policy of prevention and healthy lifestyle habits. 
"I also ask you to supervise social services with regard to the most vulnerable people in our society, starting with children, through your responsibilities in the issue of youth protection. 
"Make sure that the care we pay to the most vulnerable are in your image, characterized by this integrity and the humanity you play. 
"At the base of our life in society, there is education. 
"This is probably the most profitable investment that a company can do, a family or a person. 
"For the new government, education will be a high priority. 
"It will be the role of the Minister of Education, Leisure and Sport and Minister responsible for the Montérégie Region, Marie Malavoy. 
"You will have as a priority mandate to respond to the call of teachers and parents who are asking for help in classes. 
"To reduce the dropout, I ask you to introduce kindergarten to four years for children from disadvantaged circles. 
"You are asked, neither more nor less, to take care of the future of Quebec: you will get there by working with parents and teachers. 
"For sports and recreation files, Sylvain Pagé will assist you as a parliamentary assistant. 
"You know, families are at the center of many of our commitments. For concrete results, there was a family minister and minister responsible for the regions of Laval and the Laurentians, Nicole Léger. 
"I'll hang you up for just four years, every family who requests airtue place in custody. 
"You also have the mandate, in connection with the Minister of Finance, to bring the tax credits for the artistic and sports activities of children. 
"Make each Quebec child finds his place and that parents blow a bit. 
"In a law society, the integrity of justice must be flawless. 
"As Minister of Justice, I decided to appeal to Bertrand St-Arnaud. 
"I'm asking you to administer justice with this rigor that characterizes you. 
"I also ask you to make the justice system more accessible to citizens and more humane for victims. 
"You will also have the mandate to consider with your colleagues, and where appropriate, with the federal government, sanctions and sentences incurred by recidivists, especially for drinking alcohol. 
"Do not hesitate to show severity. Be firm, be human, be fair. 
"All human beings want to live safely. This is a fundamental need for all companies. 
"Quebeckers can rejoice in living within one of the most peaceful and safe jurisdictions of the Americas. 
"We must not be aimed at fulfilling prisons. However, we have the duty to ensure the safety of people and property. 
"To accomplish this task, as Minister of Public Safety and Minister responsible for the Outaouais Region, I named Stéphane Bergeron. 
"I ask you, with the Minister of Justice, to continue the work undertaken by the previous government to repatriate the data of the Federal Firearms Registry in Quebec. 
"Contribute to Quebec one of the most integral and safest societies. 
"For more than 400 years, the Quebec nation cohabits on the immense territory that is ours with First Nations. 
"Our relationships have sometimes been difficult, but often fruitful. 
"The golden rule for harmonious relations between our nations is simple and is summed up in one word: respect. 
"The person who will embody that spirit as Minister Aboriginal Affairs will be Elizabeth Larouche. 
"Under my direction, you will have the mandate to accompany Quebec's Aboriginal nations in their economic, social and cultural development. 
"With you, I will make sure that our relationships are at the only possible level: from nation to nations. 
"For my part, as it should, I will chair the Executive Board and the Strategic Directions Committee. 
"I will be responsible for the file of Canadian intergovernmental affairs and sovereign governance, so that the delegated minister will relate directly to me. 
"As I have made a commitment to the Gaspéisians, I will assume responsibility for government action for the development of this region by chairing the Departmental Committee the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region. 
"The Minister Delegate to the Regions will be the Vice-President. 
"With all our team, we will make a real difference in the development of this beautiful occupied area by this warm population. 
"Finally, a question that is very important to me is that of youth. So I decided to take this file under my wing. 
"In the last few months, a ditch could appear between the generations and it would be a shame to stay there. 
"To fill this gap, as a parliamentary assistant for the first minister for the youth issues, I naturally appealed to Leo Bureau-Blouin. 
"Together, we will make sure to gather generations to forge a new alliance in which Quebec youth will take the whole place that comes back to it. 
"Finally, the responsibility of the chief government whip will be assumed by Yves-François Blanchet. 
"To direct the work of the members as President of the Government Caucus, I appealed to Marjolan Dufour. 
"Dear friends, we have a great responsibility.  That of making the changes desired by Quebecers. 
"Our action is based on four pillars who are tags that will guide us: integrity, prosperity, identity and solidarity. 
"We need to rely on what people do daily and forge consensus. 
"Let's be flexible in the means, but remain firm on the objectives.  In closing, I remember that we form a sovereignist government. 
"We have this intimate conviction that the future of Quebec is to become a sovereign country. 
"A normal country that makes all his laws, who himself decides the use of all his taxes and who speaks of his own voice in the world. What we will do in the context of a minority government is to protect each parcel of sovereignty already in our hands and acquire new ones. 
"On September 4, a new chapter in Quebec's history opened. The Quebec people put back on its own pace. 
"The destination chosen by the government team is that of sovereignty. Others will offer cross roads or pause so as to regain strength. The important thing for our people is to move forward. Beyond the destination, beyond the paths we will have to borrow or not, always keep the course on the fundamental and historical aim of our people. 
"This aim that must all guide us, gather, exceed us: that of freedom. 
" Thank you. 
