The pronounced address is authentic 
Do you find it better in Quebec? 
I think so too. 
I had a very hurry to meet you. I could not wait for your first year to the government. That we remember how easy to get Quebec forward. Apply the program that we had imagined together. 
We can not wait to have a sovereignist government in Quebec City! 
We quickly saw that we had to repair broken pots first. Do you remember where Quebec was, in the aftermath of our election? 
It was necessary to make difficult decisions and put brave gestures. What we did? - We have taken over the public finance. Unsommet was held on higher education, we have agreed on the future of our universities. Financing Political PartiesSet in the Granting of Contracts.- We gave orders in the big house of Quebec! 
... 
We were a new team. We sometimes needed to adjust a little ... But we have always kept the course on our commitments.- We have released Quebec asbestos and the health tax on the least rich families. allowed young people to go on campuses. It has been reinvested in homeownership. It has been adopted with wood, developed in Gaspésie, started a novelogue with First Nations. We sent the message that corruption would no longer be tolerated. 
After one year to the government, I do not hesitate to say it: with the Parti Québécois, Quebec is better! 
Not bad better than with the Liberals, anyway. 
But if we do politics, it's certainly not to compare ourselves to the Liberals. 
Anyway, the only thing that can be compared to Jean Charest's Liberals, it's the Liberals of Philippe Couillard! 
... 
We, to the Parti Québécois, we want to go much further. We do not want to be the government of a province. We want to be the government of a country! 
That's why we work. That's why after spending a year with Repair Quebec, we can not wait to approach a new step. This fall, we are there. 
We are on all fronts. 
The party is healthy. 
We do the impression of sovereignty.  And we will be there, in Viau, for the partial election. 
We will all be behind Tania Longpré! 
... 
To the government too, we work strong .- We strengthen Quebec, - we strengthen our identity, - we strengthen our solidarity, - we strengthen our economy .- We strengthen, to build a freer québec! 
The first of our projects to strengthen Quebec is that of identity. 
At the Parti Québécois, we have always been a duty to defend with pride which distinguishes us as people. 
This people, he has a singular collective story. He teaches us that the greatest conquest of our history is to have understood that it is by making our own choices that we can surpass ourselves. 
For all young people to Quebec to be able to support our rich past to build a bright future, we act. The teaching of history will be strengthened September 2014! 
... 
In Quebec, too, we have values. Values that are dear to us. Values that are universal, but which, illuminated by our particular journey, take a well-known color. 
There is the protection of our language and culture, the religious neutrality of the state and equality between men and women. These values, we hold them with those who have built Quebec and we want to transmit them to those who will follow us and those who will join us. 
Our nation, it is rich in its diversity and this will go growing up. We therefore think that it is necessary to give oneself rules to live in harmony. Rules for the future. 
For this reason, we will adopt a escharte of secularism! 
We promised to act during the last campaign. We kept word. We made proposals to Quebecers, we consulted them and we heard them. 
And, on this subject, I want to greet the extraordinary work of a member of our team. He has been from all forums, he listened to all the opinions calmly, he has shown courage. Bernard Drainville, I am proud of the bill we filed! 
Our proposal is now before the National Assembly. At the parliamentary committee, citizens and groups will be able to express themselves again. I hope the opposition parties will be responsible and that they will agree to chat in a serene and constructive way. 
Note, however, that I do not have a lot of expectations at the Liberals ... with them, it's always the same at the same time. 
When it's time for Quebec to assert itself, the Liberals are absent subscribers. 
In 1977, they voted against Law 101. In 2010, they folded before the Supreme Court in the record of gateways schools. Today, they oppose the strengthening of law 101. Whether with Jean Charest or Philippe Couillard, the more it changes, the like the same. The Liberals prefer the constitution of Pierre Elliott Trudeau at the Charter of Camille Laurin! 
... 
With secularism, it's the same thing. The Liberals are completely isolated on this issue. They go less far than the Bouchard-Taylor report, which proposed to demand the religious neutrality of people with a situation of authority. In short, Philippe Couillard is for the neutrality of the state, as long as it does not like anything! 
Yes, the position of the Liberals is radical. It is radically soft! 
... 
We will go forward. 
We will proceed with openness, we will proceed in a responsible manner. 
And, one day, as we do now with law 101, we will talk about our charter of secularism as a great gesture to better live together. 
We will live together, in a more proud country! 
The second of our projects to make Quebec stronger, it is solidarity. That too, it's part of our identity. This solidarity is that of our ancestors who have shook the elbows to cross the longest winters. It is the fraternity of the great social struggles, those of the defense of the workers or the rights of women. 
She still manifested himself in the pain felt by all Quebeckers when a crazy train struck the heart of Lac-Mégantic. 
This solidarity, we received it as an inheritance. She brought me into politics. 
I know what I mean. It is thanks to the Quebec Solidarity Model, thanks to access to studies, which I stand before you today. 
And that I can tell you that, under my government, we will continue to take care of our world! 
Solidarity has always been at the heart of our party's great history. We have given Quebec some of its most avant-garde policies, such as the Labor Health and Safety Act, the Pay Equity Act or Drug Insurance. 
Sous some stage thereal alle-so-labeled beal. Même d'octroi in garderies in garderies grapes é commale in forever of mixter les enclish. 
Even today, do you know a single proposal by Philippe Couillard to improve the lives of Quebec families? Can you name me a single idea, only one? He never talks about it! 
Nothing has changed to the Liberal Party. With Charest or Couillard, the only family that matters is the liberal family! 
Despite a difficult fiscal context, we acted. It was done by continuing to manage with rigor, because the health of our public finances is essential to protect our services. That's it, being responsible. 
I am very proud of the policy we have just introduced: "Solidarity, a wealth for Quebec" it will be supported considerable resources, or 2.9 billion by 2017. 
Many of your ministers worked very hard on it. I want to salute the one who played the role of conductor of this team. Agnès Maltese, you did a great job! 
With this policy, we help the most vulnerable, help those who help them and we are preparing for the future.- We will increase social security benefits for single people and we will fight against prejudices at the most deprived location. .- We will better support community groups, too. They do a great job to help young people, elders, vulnerable people. We will help them too. We will increase their financing, we will give them resources to improve their premises and offer better conditions to their employees. 
... 
We will also give more resources to new Quebecers so that they can integrate. With Diane de Courcy, we will help them to learn French and find a job! 
And we do not stop there. Réjean Hébert also works on a new health prevention policy. His big project, autonomy insurance, advance. We will offer seniors the choice to grow old at home! 
... 
Animated by the same willingness to allow Quebeckers to live long and health, Sylvain Pagé prepares our leisure, sport and physical activity policy. It is supported by Marie Malavoy, who announced the development of the first national policy to fight school dropout. 
... 
Earlier, this fall, we made, with Sylvain Gaudreault, the first framework law on the social economy. 
Bertrand St-Arnaud, for its part, is working to increase access to legal aid. 
There is also the bill to die in the dignity that is rendered in parliamentary committee. It relies on a very broad consensus in the Quebec population is worn, with a very great humanity, by Véronique Hivon! 
... 
In a completely different kind of ideas, you know how much it is important to offer the best start to our little ones. I greet Nicole Léger, who is in the process of decreasing 28,000 new custody places, including 3500 in disadvantaged. 
... 
These initiatives will make the lives of Quebeckers better. These are ideas that come from citizen activists, ideas that are dear to us. Because at the Québécois party, we think that solidarity is not an expense. 
Solidarity is a wealth for Quebec! 
To have the means of our ambitions, we must of course work on Quebec's prosperity. 
This is the third project of our government this fall. 
I told you earlier about the efforts we had to do to regain control of our public finances. Nicolas Marceau and Stéphane Bédard have made a remarkable job. While Philippe Couillard proposes to increase consumer taxes, we, we control our expenses. Not only do we respect our targets of rising public spending, but, in addition, we do better. The Liberals, they have never managed to do it. 
I am proud to tell you: My government is the first ten-year government that controls its expenses! It's demanding, it requires an effort every moment. 
Especially since we find that growth is not as strong as we have anticipated it ... it's like that in Ontario, it's like that in the rest of Canada, it's like that United Nice. We begin to see encouraging signs, however. We feel that trust comes back. 
Decision-makers see that in Quebec City a government that deals with the economy, a government that has a vision.- and, in fact, in October, our economy has created more than 34,000 jobs! - Meanwhile, the rest of Canada has lost 20,000.- For 2013, if we compare with the same period of 2012, it gives us 53 more jobs for Quebeckers. 
I know these numbers do not enjoy the Liberals. Failure to have an economic team, they have no choice but to denigrate the economy of Quebec and to sow concern. 
With their campaign of fear and their alarmist remarks, they create uncertainty and they hurt Quebec families. For Philippe Couillard, the partisan interest passes before Quebec interest. Tax anxiety is a liberal problem! 
In the government, we will keep the course. We will remain rigorous in controlling our expenses. We will also act resolutely to stimulate the economy in the short term and develop it in the long term. Our plan is the job. Even more pay jobs, for Quebeckers in all regions! 
... 
We have already acted to stimulate our economy. 
We recognized the agri-food industry as a sector of the future. An area that grows jobs and grows pride. Thanks to François Gendron and his policy of food sovereignty, we will put more from Quebec in our plates! 
The regions are supported, too. For more than ten years, the national rural policy has recognized the diversity of the territories of Quebec. It was a realization of a government of the Parti Québécois. This fall, we announced Phase 3 of this policy.With Gaétan Lelièvre, it's a $ 470 million over ten years that we will invest to support our regions. 
We also recognize the importance of the forest for our economy, our territory and our identity. In order for this renewable resource to remain a flagship of our economy, we will hold, in two weeks, a great forum on the future of Quebec Forestier. It will be chaired by Denis Trottier and will take place in the most forest region of Quebec. It will take place in Saint-Félicien, in the riding of Roberval! 
But we aim much wider. We have a very ambitious vision.This vision is the economic priority policy! It is deployed around four axes- to create manufacturing jobs, it first includes uspolitical industrial. With Élain Zakaïb, we will help our businesses to become more productive and greener. "We also introduced the national research and innovation. Thanks to the work of Pierre Duchesne, Quebec will become a champion of the knowledge economy! - We also have UNPLAN of foreign trade development, under the responsibility of Jean-François Lisée. We will use our diplomacy all over the world to create jobs everywhere in our regions! - I also want to talk to you about a project that is very important to me. With Daniel Breton, we vafaire du Québec a world leader in transport electrification! It is a pride project, a project likely to unite Quebeckers from all walks of life. Chambers of commerce to environmental groups, from our metropolis to our regions, our transport electrification strategy has been hailed by all stakeholders. Almost all, in fact ... 
You can imagine well, the Liberals are against this economic development project. At the Liberal Party, they prefer asphalt contracts! 
This project, I believe it. It inspires me. As with aeronautics or multimedia, Quebec has everything needed to become a leader in the transport of the future. It will allow us to develop our economy and create advanced jobs. We will do it, while getting closer to our ambitious targets to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. 
This project leads us to energy independence and, thus, towards political independence! 
... 
Yes, we have a vision to implement.A program we have designed together. Ideas that we announced in election campaign. Commitments that bind us to Quebecers. 
Unfortunately, we meet obstacles to apply them. Opposition parties block priority bills, projects that are dear to Quebeckers. 
They do it by pure partisanship. There is : 
... 
Again this week, the moratorium on shale gas was blocked by the opposition parties. Do you notice? A project that almost unanimous in Quebec. A gesture necessary to reassure the citizens of the Lowlands of the St. Lawrence. 
Even Quebec Solidarity abstained on the moratorium. They did it too for the bill on mines. So, Quebec Solidaire fought to have its place in the National Assembly and is the time coming ... It's not to understand anything! 
I speak to opposition parties. My government has been responsible. Be it too! The bills you blocked are expected by Quebeckers. Stop blocking the government. Stop blocking the development of Quebec! 
... 
Dear militants, dear militants, I know you're looking forward to getting to the end of our ideas. I can not wait too. For now, we will continue to govern Quebec in a responsible way. 
I am very proud of what we have achieved so far. We worked hard. Look where we are. 
Our ideas are clear. We know where we go away.  We build a stronger Quebec.  A more proud people.  A more solidarity society.  A richer nation. 
Yes, since the election of the Parti Québécois, Quebec is better. Already, Quebec is stronger! 
Imagine now what we can do when we are the majority. Imagine what we will do when we have our country! 
Thank you!!!  Good National Council! 
Watch Pauline Maroisau 'sDiscours National Thematic Council "Let us make Quebec a rich country". 
