Here is Pauline Marois' speech, Prime Minister of Quebec, on the occasion of a business dinner organized by the Business Group: 
The pronounced version is authentic. 
"I am very happy to be with you today to tell you about the vision of our government for the Quebec economy. This is mainly based on resources. Our natural resources, of course, but also and especially on an inexhaustible resource. 
"I'm talking about Quebeckers themselves, their creativity, their sense of innovation and their taste for excellence! 
"Before elaborating on this ambitious vision for our economy, let me come back very briefly over the last few months. 
"Since our election on September 4th, we have focused on integrity and finances. Balanced public finances is the freedom to invest in our future, rather than paying for the past. By aiming for financial excellence, Quebec will give a very important comparative advantage. While our neighbors are still reducing their deficit, we will be able to invest in the future 
"For Quebec, financial rigor, it is an act of freedom! 
"We also made the fight against corruption a priority. The continuation of excellence, it also applies to integrity. We want Quebec to become an example of integrity in the world. We have already been and we will become again! 
"Quebec was also needed to stop focusing on public investment to stimulate the economy. By depositing its budget in the fall, Nicolas Marceau has given the mandate to accelerate economic growth by focusing on private investment. 
"So far, Quebec is doing very well. In the first five months of our government, it has been created more than 50,000 jobs, mainly in the private sector. 
"It is not a question of attributing the merit. What I want to emphasize is that it demonstrates the trust of employers to our economy. It must be said that to accelerate economic growth, we have asked important gestures. 
"We have created ten-year tax holidays for strategic investments of more than $ 300 million. This measure will begin to bear fruit in the coming months. 
"In the way, private investors I met in New York, Davos and London has assured me of their intention to consolidate and even increase their investments in Quebec. 
"We have also put in place important levers. I mention four investment funds: 
"These funds are levers to attract private investments from several billion dollars. But, most importantly, they are tools that are made available to our entrepreneurs. They are the ones who create wealth and jobs in Quebec. They can count on their government. 
"This spring, we will deposit the bill creating the Quebec Economic Development Bank. It will be present in all regions and entrepreneurs will know which door to hit. We want to support businesses from home. Help small businesses grow, and the averages to become the future admiral vessels of our economy. 
"Redressing finances, bringing integrity and focus more on private investment; These are sites that we must complete. But we must also prepare the economic future of Quebec in the long term. This future is largely based on creativity and innovation. It is by putting on these forces that Quebec may stand out in the world. 
"And we must have ambition. Mine is to put in place the conditions that will allow Quebec to become one of the most prosperous places in the Americas. It's not about putting us in catch-up mode from others. We must target excellence. 
"What I want is that the others try to catch up with Quebec. We are able. 
"In the past, we have managed to do Quebec, especially Montreal, one of the world's cores in the aerospace industry. If someone had announced this goal at first, there would have been voices to reduce this ambition. 
"Yet we did it and we continue to support this flagship of the Quebec economy. 
"We also managed to make Quebec a strong place of life sciences. This sector has had difficulty in recent years, but we have acted quickly. 
"The budget has enhanced tax credits for biopharmaceutical research, which now reach 27.5%. We also created a $ 125 million matching fund to support pharmaceutical research projects. 
"Despite the slippage of Montreal's megahospital projects, the MUHC and the CHUM, we have to rejoice to have these two great research tools. With two major academic hospitals, we have a strong basis for ensuring not only consolidation, but also the development of this economic pole. 
"Montreal owes more than ever to assert himself as a North American metropolis of life sciences. 
"In the 1990s, under the leadership of Bernard Landry, the Parti Québécois government has put in place the conditions to create, from almost nothing a multimedia industry in Quebec. 
"We have succeeded: Quebec has become a pole in the creation of video games, but also in a series of domains of the digital economy. 
"In London, I announced the business of Framestore in Montreal, which will create 200 more jobs in multimedia. I discussed with the leaders of this company that creates special effects for big budget films in Hollywood. Among the reasons that prompted them to settle here, there were government programs, but especially the creativity of Quebecers in this area. 
"All that to say that we are able to create economic poles. We did it in the past. We will redo it in the future. We continue to support sectors of excellence. We also intend to create new ones by launching a large construction site. A project that will mobilize all Quebec for many years. 
"The electrification of our transport is what, for me, must become the 21st century project for Quebec. This project offers extraordinary potential for all Quebec. 
"First, you have to know that our trade deficit is very high. We import crude oil for a value of $ 30 million each day, mainly for our transport. This money comes out of Quebec, while it could be invested with us. 
"Imagine if, instead of using this imported fuel, our transport used a form of clean energy in Quebec: electricity. It means billions of dollars more invested with us every year. 
"Ultimately, for Quebeckers, for our businesses, it means very important savings, with electricity being much less expensive than gasoline. 
"Electrifying our transport, it means betting on companies here, which already manufacture trains, metros, buses or batteries for electric vehicles. It also means creating new businesses. 
"We will have to invent new technologies, innovate in our ways to do, in urban planning, the energy. 
"Electrifying our transport will allow us to significantly reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, so air pollution. 
"Our quality of life will be improved and our cities will gain in attractiveness. And then, you know, Quebec is found today with significant energy surpluses. We can make these surpluses an economic advantage. We will use them to stimulate investment and job creation in all our regions. 
"We have created a $ 200 million fund for clean transport. This financial leverage will be available soon. The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy, Élaine Zakaïb, has the responsibility. 
"The ministers of sustainable development, natural resources, transport and municipal affairs, the Minister responsible for the metropolis, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Science and Technology are also concerned. 
"In fact, that's all the government I will mobilize in the coming months. 
"Rather than importing oil, we will be able to export our know-how, our technologies, our equipment and our electrical transport components. We have energy, we have the will, we have the vision. 
"For my government it's clear: the 21st century project for Quebec is the electrification of our transport. 
"Obviously, it will not happen overnight. In the meantime, it will be necessary to continue to use the hydrocarbons. 
"Also, my government is committed to exploiting Quebec oil potential. But we will do it correctly, with the best environmental practices and respecting people. And, above all, petroleum production will have to enrich all Quebeckers. 
"In addition to the petroleum potential, Quebec has a very important pool of natural resources. We will exploit it but again, we want to do it properly, for the benefit of all, including upcoming generations. The new law on mines and the new royalty regime will soon be presented. 
"In addition to the resources, the government must act on other fronts, deploying overall policies and strategies. Pascal Bérubé, our Minister Delegate to Tourism, is deploying the development plan for the Quebec tourism industry. This industry is very important for Quebec, especially in Montreal. It allows the entrance of new money in our economy. We have a very dynamic minister and I can assure you that we will maximize our tourist potential. 
"The government is also finalizing a foreign trade development plan to boost exports and attract international investments. We rely on openness to trade. This is the case for example of the agreement between Canada and the European Union, which will give us greater access to a market of 500 million people. 
"To help our SMEs on the external markets, we put at their disposal the Expansion Québec offices. Companies will be able to rent a space time to explore new markets and they will be able to use on-site specialists. They are now available to our companies. In five years, Quebec will add 15 new offices for a total network of 42. 
"We want to conquer the world. 
"We have several of our Quebec delegates in the room abroad. I invite you to meet them: do not hesitate to appeal to them, they work for you. 
"We notice more and more when one travels the world: Quebec is associated with creativity. 
"I told you about the coming of the Framestore business in Montreal, a decision that has a lot to do with the creativity of Quebecers. 
"Cirque du Soleil has a business model based on creativity. 
"We are recognized for our great festivals, for our suckling dance troops, for our music scene, which echoes around the world. 
"Our large aeronautical companies - Bombardier, CAE, Pratt & Whitney, Héroux Devtek - make our expertise shine around the world. What to say of moment Factory, who makes our pride at the scale of the planet. There is also Sid Lee that radiates more and more. And this Quebec company, Beyond The Rack, who is becoming a major player in the Internet economy. 
"We must bet on it. This creativity, we want to make the signature of Quebec in the world. We want people everywhere automatically associate Quebec with creativity, innovation, invention, modernity! 
"Creativity and innovation are at the heart of our economic vision. It is the keystone of a truly lasting prosperity for Quebec. And all that rests first and foremost on education. 
"Which brings us to higher education, CEGEPs and universities. There, there should be no doubt. I tell you and I also tell all Quebeckers: our universities are one of our greatest collective riches, a valuable property that we need to support. 
"If there is an instrument in our history that allowed Quebeckers to surpass, it is access to higher education. This aspiration should not divide us, it must unite us. That's why we opened the dialogue and summoned. 
"Of course there are debates, especially around the student's contribution. But this debate on tuition fees must not hide everything else. There are big questions about which there is a large agreement. 
"For example, that higher education is one of the essential engines of our development as a society: we all get along that. 
"In the regions, it's a palpable evidence. In Rimouski, Trois-Rivières, Sherbrooke, Abitibi or Chicoutimi, universities are real cultural, economic and intellectual lungs. These universities are essential jewels. 
"In Quebec City, Laval University has been at the center of a diversification that has allowed the region to develop an extremely dynamic economy. And if Quebec is a pole in the field of insurance, it is largely due to the excellence of its actuarial department. 
"As for Montreal, no Canadian city has all degrees. We have an extraordinary concentration of universities and two major university hospitals. 
"I recently read that a British firm had classified Montreal in the 10th of the world's best university cities. 
"It is indeed the social, economic and cultural heart of our metropolis. Montreal is one of the major academic metropolises of the continent. And I can assure you: she will stay it! 
"So these institutions that are essential for us, with Pierre Duchesne, we will do what they are moving forward and they remain accessible to all. It means we will finance our universities adequately, durable and predictable. 
"We could debate indefinitely the height of the funding of universities. I propose rather that we would focus on what meets us: we agree that the funding of universities is a very profitable investment for the Quebec nation. On this too, we all get along! 
"I make a commitment to you today: In the coming years, the government will reinvest heavily in our universities. 
"We expect a 3.3% increase in 2014, 8.5% in 2015 and so on, so that in 2018, government subsidies to universities will be higher than $ 800 million compared to this. year. It's $ 200 million more than what was planned by the former government. 
"I repeat it and I'm committed to it: In 2018, our universities will have $ 800 million more per year. 
"I can not imagine a clearer signal from the government to illustrate how much we are committed to the success of our higher education institutions. 
"On the student side, we have always stated that we were guided by two principles: 
"By canceling the exaggerated rise in tuition fees - an increase of 82% - we have reached a part of our goals. Quebec will remain the place in North America where higher education is the most accessible. Our young people will remain the least indebted students from the continent. 
"We are determined to increase accessibility and reduce debt. Universities, students and all Quebec will win. 
"Rather than looking for what divides us, let's work from what unites us. 
"It's time for everyone to compromise and after the summit, we move on to another stage, that we go ahead together. Let's raise to the pursuit of excellence, creativity, the fulfillment of each of our young people. 
"Balanced finances, a decline indebtedness. 
"A significant increase in private investment. Responsible exploitation of our natural resources. 
"The support of our SMEs and our entrepreneurs in all regions. 
"A great project for the 21st century: that of the electrification of our transport. 
"A brand image in the world relies on creativity. 
"And major investments in higher education, research and innovation. 
"We have a very ambitious vision for Quebec. We aim for excellence in all areas. We want Quebec to become one of the most prosperous places in the Americas. 
Thank you. » 
