By reading this post, ask yourself the following questions, and keep in mind: Is this the role of a government to help those who tear the most? Is it a role that it can be unleashed, that it can take lightly? 
At the Québécois Party, our answer is simple: solidarity must be at the heart of all our actions. At all times. 
The Parti Québécois has endowed Quebec with a national anti-roaming control. She was claimed in vain for 8 years and the Liberals turned a deaf ear. The message is clear: In Quebec, there will be no left behind. Before poverty and misery, we must make a common front. Support the poorest. Do not give up anyone. Act for everyone to eat at their hunger, sleep warm, live in dignity. 
The national homelessness policy, presented by Véronique Hivon - the minister who has accustomed us to a human face policy -, will deploy according to five priority axes of action: housing; health services and social services; Income; education, social integration and socio-professional integration; as well as social cohabitation and issues related to judicialization. 
In short, all aspects that may curb the integration of homeless people are taken into account. 
That's why we planned, in Lebudget 2014-2015, investing for the construction of 3250 social housing units, 500 of which will be reserved for people with homelessness. We want to give a home to people who do not have any more, and give them the chance to fully reinstate our society. But, for that, it takes more than housing. 
As a result, we will develop and enhance local services, mainly in health and social services and community support, through an investment of $ 6 million. 
In addition, among the measures announced last fall in the Solidarity document: a wealth for Quebec, $ 120 million over 3 years have been awarded to support the overall mission of community health and social services. 
Of course, all roaming issues will not be settled in one year, but our government will continue to work tirelessly for everyone to have the chance to live in dignity. Solidarity, it is not only words that are displayed on a sign for five weeks; It is gestures that we ask everyday with a strong will and a clear vision. 
Pauline Marois and his team are determined to improve the living conditions of all Quebeckers. Fighting roaming, it's also that, enrich Quebec. 
