This moment, many of us have been waiting for it for a long time. After you soon ten years of Liberal government and four years of preparation for this election, here is finally time for citizens to choose, the possibility for Quebeckers to change government, change direction and change countries! 
I can not wait to be in the countryside, to meet Quebeckers. I have already talked about the summer context in which these elections will take place. We urged a few more weeks to enjoy this exceptional Quebec summer. I must confess at the same time as it will be very nice to meet you under the sun, in a good mood. I will not hesitate to go everywhere to meet Quebeckers. I will even make a duty, a pride. 
As soon as the elections triggered yesterday, the Prime Minister showed his true colors. I must admit that I am surprised to see with what anger and what aggression Mr. Charest begins this campaign. It is true that we expected it. The famous Liberal Slide and the Advertisements of the Beginning of Summer have made it clear: Jean Charest's strategy to maintain power relies mainly on the denigration. 
That he has mentioned the chaos that would depend on him the election of the Parti Québécois still left me perplexed: if he already adopts this tone at the beginning of the campaign, what will he be at the Watch of the vote? In all cases, Mr. Charest confirmed yesterday the scenario that he, however, described ignoble and grotesque last spring: the spring conflict of spring will be served as a pretext to trigger elections during the summer. 
It is said that Mr. Charest leads a very framed campaign, under strong police supervision, and has little contact with the public. Personally, I was very happy to walk today in the metro, at the Atwater market and on St. Catherine Street, unhindered, going to meet Quebeckers. This is the idea that I make an election campaign. 
If the leader of the Liberal Party wants to lead a revived and aggressive campaign, on my side, I will not fall into this game and I refuse this premise. I am convinced that it is not the kind of campaign that Quebeckers want. 
Obviously, we will discuss the ideas of our opponents, but first and foremost I can not explain our vision, the great project we propose as part of this election: an honest government and a Quebec that does not hesitate Not to assert itself, get rich and help each other. This is the choice we offer to Quebeckers. 
Good campaign! 
