Granby- The Quebec Prime Minister and Head of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, is committed to providing Quebec with a real national health prevention policy. 
Passage to Granby, she was accompanied by the candidate of the Parti Québécois in the riding of Saint-François, Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, the candidate in Joliette and Minister Delegate Social, Véronique Hivon, the candidate in Blainville, Gyslaine Desrosiers, the candidate in Taillon, Diane Lamarre, and the candidate in Granby, Joanne Lalumière. 
"We will contribute all stakeholders to achieve this great objective: to make Quebec one of the most fit nations in the world. Health is an individual and collective resource essential to the full development of Quebec society because it allows for prosperity and social justice. This flagship commitment of the Parti Québécois will be a determining lever to improve the quality of life and health of the population and to reduce social inequalities, "said Pauline Marois. 
"In recent decades, the state of health and life expectancy of Quebecers has improved considerably. Yet the prevalence of certain chronic diseases, such as diabetes or respiratory diseases, is progressing. Similarly, mental health issues continue to be an important issue for our community and require better management. Some disadvantaged groups of our society know more health problems than others. To build a more just, stronger and more welcoming Quebec for everyone, it is important to make a turn to health prevention, "added the Prime Minister. 
The policy will establish five general health objectives: 
Prevention represents a profitable investment for the government and society. For example, one year after the adoption of the Tobacco Act, 1998, the percentage of smokers aged 15 and over increased from 24 to 18%. The total savings for the system were then $ 240 million. By adding the indirect costs, the benefits for Quebec society amount to some $ 500 million. 
"Take care of his health, it's a good way for a person to lead a stimulating and satisfying life. As a community, it is also a great project to which we need to devote significant efforts. This is a way to reduce our health invoice, strengthen our mobilization and cohesion. We will soon be able to say, as I wished, becoming prime minister, that Quebeckers form one of the most fit nations in the world, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
We have a plan and the team to succeed. Today, it's time to give us the means to go further. 
