In the first place, I want to thank the citizen party activists who gave me their confidence on May 15. I am honored. I pledge to work tirelessly and stay at your disposal. 
We share the same goal, that of making Quebec a country, and I am convinced that we have everything we need to succeed and finally take the place that comes back to the concert of nations. 
Thanks to the volunteers who worked with a lot of energy throughout this campaign. You are several hundred everywhere in Quebec. Your dedication and your commitment allowed me to win this race and get a clear and strong mandate. Thank you. 
Thank you from the bottom of the heart to my country team, who have kept pace and give the best of themselves during this long campaign. A special thanks to my campaign organizer, Alain Lupien, as well as the whole team he has been able to recruit. 
Thanks to my sweet Julie and my adorable children who support me in this great adventure. 
Also, I would like to congratulate Alexander and Martine again, as well as Bernard and Pierre for their entire loyalty for our common goal, give us a country. 
In closing, I share the speech I made as a result of the unveiling of the results: 
Quebec, May 15, 2015 - Speaking Notes from the member for Saint-Jérôme, Pierre Karl Péladeau 
The speech made is authentic. 
On May 20, 1980, 35 years ago almost day for day today, I made the most important and fundamental duty of the citizen. I was barely 18 years old and I voted for the first time in my life. 
On May 20, 1980, I voted yes for the future of our nation; I voted yes for our society; I voted yes for our history; I voted yes for our opening on the world; I voted yes for our pride and our courage; I voted yes in Quebec. 
I would never have thought to be so proud on May 15, 2015, this day that makes the path on which I had engaged in a path that I will follow, in my turn, in the greatest respect for my predecessors, as much Leaders of the Parti Québécois that hundreds of ministers, tens of thousands of activists, hundreds of thousands of sympathizers and the millions of Quebeckers who said yes in Quebec. 
This huge trusted brand that you have just been encouraging me, inspires me and impose on me to devote me entirely to the last state of affirmation of our beautiful and great nation, from our Quebec of modernity, of our Quebec of freedom. 
Tonight, we start something ... tonight, we start the big gathering of the Parti Québécois. Tonight, we start the great gathering of sovereignist forces. 
Those gathered here in Quebec City, those in front of their little screen, those who exercised their right to vote for this crucial moment of our future, you, activists and activists, who form the unalterable base of our grand party, thank you Very sincerely and expresses my deep gratitude. 
Throughout this campaign, I learned to know each of my classmates. Thanks to you, our party illustrates our opening and our courage again. 
Jean-François and Pierre, thank you, gentlemen. 
Jean-François, for your work at the parliamentary wing, but also for your singular lighting on several questions. 
Peter, for your perspective that enriches our appreciation of social issues. 
Particular attention for our colleague Bernard: Bernard, you led an admirable campaign, showing your exceptional tribular qualities. You have chosen a few weeks ago to launch the big gathering signal and I can only congratulate you. 
Dear Martine, you who have and will always have this conviction power to defend your ideas. Unwavering woman of character, our challenges are numerous and our union can only bring us to succeed in the project that brings us together and wears our hope. We will gather, we will work and we will convince. 
Alexander, what a beautiful campaign! With Véronique, with all those who you have gathered, we have to say that you have become a great unifying. You know it, Alexander, our task is to add up our strengths and build the greatest gathering of sovereignists, all trends, which has long been seen in Quebec. 
We all count on you. You managed the attention of young people. We all know it, there can be no question of making a country without a massive support of young people. And that's why we will continue to meet them to demonstrate that this Quebec country will enrich them and provide them with all the opportunities for which they are entitled to expect. 
My friends, all gathered, we have the strength to succeed! 
It's been a long time since we had such a solid confidence in our option. 
Dear party members, you told me a strong and clear mandate: making Quebec a country! This is an ambitious, demanding, and salutary goal. To independence, it is not the task of a single man or one woman, we all know. Succeed independence, it will always be a teamwork. 
To succeed, we need each and every one, we need all of us. The political consolidation of all Quebec independence is necessary. 
If we form the opposition today, if we leave to others to govern the country, if the Liberal Party of Quebec is in power now, it is to admit that the holders of the federalism and the partisans of the status quo take advantage of our divisions. 
It is in our interest to everyone to put an end to it and place the best interest of Quebec before our personal ambitions. 
Independence will not be on the right or left; She must be done, point at the line! 
In the coming weeks, the coming months, I invite you to dialogue and this openness to plan for things. The great coalition for independence must be reborn! 
I would like to say hundreds of thousands of sovereignists and nationalists who have left our party that all societal projects will be feasible when we have one state and that we will be entirely masters of our destiny. 
Tonight begins our trip to a next electoral appointment. 
And, as Gaston Miron said so well: "We arrived where it starts. » 
For this, our political training must be modernized, open to ideas and welcome proposals with new opening. 
I want Quebec, with the Parti Québécois, remains at the forefront and that it persists in its progressing in which it has always been engaged. 
I have a thought tonight, for our founder René Lévesque, this man who was not afraid to make strong gestures of national affirmation. A thought also for all the leaders who followed one another at the head of our party. 
Look at everything we've done together. We can be proud of the path traveled. This collective pride must bring us even further, today and always: to be masters of our destiny and free of our democratic choices. 
That's what we need to offer Quebeckers from all origins. It is the main commitment I take before you tonight: to defend and respect the democratic will of the Quebec people. 
I would never impose Quebec choices that they did not do. Conversely, I would never accept that we have imposed on the choice of choices that have been made by others and whose consequences are harmful to our fellow citizens. 
We will not accept a negotiated constitution behind closed doors. No more than we will agree to abandon our model - the Quebec model - which has allowed us to climb us in the top and most equitable nations. 
We will not accept our collective jewels like Hydro-Québec to satisfy some neoliberal economists and ideologues. We will not accept to see the social seats of our florets at small doses. We will not accept passively at the decline of French. We will not accept a government that Quebec is a province like the others. We will not accept as little ambition. 
Transparency, honesty, respect and integrity, here are values that are dear and fundamental to me. You can count on me to defend them to the National Assembly, just as you can count on my firm willingness to fight cynicism. 
Quebeckers know me and know exactly why I got into politics. They know the values that have been inculsed to me: work, perseverance, courage and victory. 
They also know love and respect I wear in Julie and my children. Those who were my first supports in this race. 
Honey, my cocos, I thank you a lot of being there with me and love me. 
Serve our fellow citizens with the same values, it's essential. I will require the same commitment of all members of our party. 
I would also like to address our English speaking compatriots, Canadians and all North Americans. 
As the new leader of the Parti Québécois, I would like to say to all of our friends in North America and in the world, after all those decades and centuries, always in full respect for democracy and the rule of law, that we want to have and enjoy our own country, position our people with the greatest opportunities and live happy and peacefully. 
Our project is not against anyone or anything. 
It’s not against Canada, it’s for the people of Québec, it’s for all citizens who believe in our capacity to live according to our best interest, to protect our culture and to flourish in this new world of the Twenty-first century. 
I want all to be part of this great and legitimate objective. 
"There are no limits to our ambition, except for those we give ourselves and those that others give us. I think everything is possible to dream, dares, works and never abandon. » 
These inspiring words are not mine; They are a young filmmaker of the name of Xavier Dolan. But they could have been your parents, grandparents or all those who, after more than 400 spring and so many struggles, bequeathed us their sense of duty, solidarity and their courage. 
Independence is more alive than ever. Alive here in Quebec with Quebeckers, but also alive in many other places on the planet where peoples and nations want to give themselves a country, while so many others have been one for the last 50 years. 
Let's continue in the footsteps of our grand Quebecers: Jean Lesage, René Lévesque, Jacques Parizeau, Lise Payette, Bernard Landry, to name only those. 
Do we also inspire Quebeckers from immigrant backgrounds who have been a lifetime here and who have succeeded, who have become proud Patriot Quebec, like Maka Kotto. 
Inspiration from our artists who radiate around the world, our entrepreneurs who have conquered the world's markets, our scientists who are involved in great discoveries and our world-speaking sportsmen. 
Do we inspire all those who have been said that it was impossible, but who did not accept, who persisted, who fought and who have succeeded. 
There is no more legitimate and powerful project for a nation than to give themselves the tools to defend its interests, than to give themselves the means to protect its language and culture, than to give oneself the full Powers in order to make its own laws and define its own values, to give oneself a country to fulfill its ambitions. 
On May 20, 1980, a flag rose in me and I said yes. 
There, now, May 15, 2015, you have just told me yes! 
So, tonight, I have the heart in the flag and answer you: yes, I will do everything to unite, gather so that all together we meet our forces, our will, our conviction and our love to our nation for Saying, proud and legitimate, in the face of the world, yes, we want to make Quebec a country, our country. 
