Quebec, on January 14, 2017 -The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, and his lieutenant for the French language, Maka Kotto, propose bold measures and a pragmatic approach to advance the French language in Quebec, as part of the Unveiling of the main proposal to members of the Parti Québécois. 
Chapter 4.1 of the main proposal, consolidate the status of French as the official and common language of Quebec, aims to affirm French as a common language, including as a language of work. "For French, we will show a new audacity. Never before we have proposed to claim a real knowledge of 100% of newcomers. We have never proposed a serious, operational, mandatory French examination, to obtain CEGEP and Anglophone University degrees. Refall bilingualism in the workplace, it is also reducing the number of English-speaking unilinguals in Quebec within each cohort of college and academic students. We never had the audacity to do it. Today we have it. 
To overthrow the decline of French on the island of Montreal, overturning the vapor, there is an indispensable condition: a net majority of Francophones living in the island of Montreal. We are on the eve of the day when less than 50% of the inhabitants on the island will have French as a language of use at home, as a language of transmission. If we go down the course, how do you want to correctly integrate newcomers for which French is not the first language? The Parti Québécois must have the audacity to assert that the maintenance of a clear majority of Francophones on the island of Montreal is a legitimate and indispensable national goal. This objective necessarily involves the retention of families; We will give them the conditions to stay in Montreal. 
"We have a strengthened determination to extend Law 101 and make it mandatory to medium-sized enterprises as well as businesses under federal jurisdiction, and turn your back on institutional bilingualism. The combined effect of these measures will allow us to stop the decline of French and to powerfully prolong the wide range of law 101. And if it was done on purpose, together, to choose the fighting that are both the most effective for the Progress of French and the most unifying? If we tried that, for once? With a Quebec party government in 2018, we will have victories for French, "JeanFrançois launched the activists gathered at the National Council. 
"The teaching of French must be valued and strengthened at every stage of the academic path, for young people who attend Francophone or Anglophone networks. The teaching hours of French will be increased. In the same spirit, we must make Francophone Cégeps more attractive, allowing students of Francophone CEGEPs who wish and demonstrate a mastery of sufficient French to follow an enriched English course that may have a session in an English CEGEP. It should also be ensured that every end of a Quebec, Francophone or English-speaking university, can succeed in the Francophone labor market. We will therefore be a dialogue with the academic institutions so that the knowledge of French is a condition of graduation, "added Maka Kotto. 
Here are all the proposals filed to consolidate the status of French as the official and common language of Quebec, as well as to achieve the objective of Francization 100%: 
4.1. Consolidate the status of French as the official and common language of Quebec 
Our state will always need to promote our official and common language. With independence, Quebec will finally have any room for maneuver it needs to set up a structuring and coherent linguistic policy. By then, it can nevertheless act so as to strengthen the French where it has been weakened by years of inaction. 
1) Trust the language of the state, municipalities and other bodies of the public administration: - enshrine to a Quebec constitution the status of French as official and common language; - enshrine in the Charter of Rights and Freedoms of the Quebec person a right to live and work in French in Quebec, as well as a right to francization; - strengthen the application of the law and duty of employees of the public and parapublic sectors to work in French; - Resolutely apply a policy of actively providing services, information as well as French citizens, particularly those from immigrant backgrounds. 
2) Deploy policies to maintain a clear majority of Francophones on the island of Montreal, including an active and ambitious families retention policy on the island, by applying the recommendations developed in 2013 -2014 in the Montreal = Families report, but abandoned by the Liberal government. 
3) Strengthen French as a language of instruction: 
The teaching of French must be valued and strengthened at every stage of the academic path, for young people who attend Francophone or English networks. 
In primary and secondary education, in: 
Collegiate: 
The choice of English-speaking Cegeps by too much proportion of allophone pupils must be reversed by robust action to make Francophone Cégeps more attractive on all plans, including in their linguistic offer, by: 
at. Allowing students of Francophone CEGEPs who wish and demonstrate a mastery of sufficient French to follow at CEGEP an enriched English course that may include a session in an English-speaking CEGEP; 
Thus, allophone and francophone students who today choose an English-speaking Cégep in order to gain a better knowledge of English will be able to achieve the same objective, legitimate, but choosing to get the Cégep Francophone. 
Similarly, an additional effort must be undertaken to ensure a good knowledge of French graduates of English-speaking colleges, including: 
b. Introducing a uniform French event in all CEGEPs, including English-language CEGEPs; 
vs. Highly encouraged English-speaking students to follow an enriched French course with an entire session in a Francophone CEGEP. 
Deploy policies to maintain, on the island of Montreal, a clear majority of Francophones, including an active and ambitious families retention policy on the island, by applying the recommendations developed in 2013-2014 In the Montreal = Families report, but abandoned by the Liberal government. 
At the university level, by: 
The Quebec academic network is one of the great successes of modern Quebec. The fact that there are Francophone and Anglophone institutions of great renown is an asset and no one calls into question the possibility for each student to choose the university studies of his choice. 
However, it is necessary to ensure that the graves of all our universities, including anglophones, have the skills required to succeed in a Francophone labor market. Similarly, it would be normal for limited or contingent sectors to be offered to students in a proportion close to linguistic composition, so needs, from Quebec. 
Finally, it is necessary to concretely take into account the imbalance between the ability of English-speaking universities to attract foreign students and that of Quebec universities, and to overcome this imbalance. 
This can be done in: 
Entaming with English universities a dialogue for their students from Quebec to maintain or improve their French throughout their curriculum and that their knowledge of French is a condition of obtaining their diploma; that initiation to French is part of the curriculum of their students from outside Quebec; 
Identifier, in areas where university studies are limited by a lack of space, equipment or personnel, or contingent in consultation with the professional orders, a strategy aimed at a more respectful linguistic distribution of the weight of French and English in Quebec; 
Limiting the exemptions of tuition fees in bilateral agreements with foreign governments only students following French training in a French-speaking university institution. This policy should be revised if English-speaking universities proved unable to recruit a proportion of foreign students at least equivalent to the demographic weight of Anglophones in Quebec; 
Favoring French language of research, including ensuring that granting funds further encourage researchers who favor the publication of their work in French. 
1) Strengthen French language of work: 
2) Promote French as a language of business and commerce: 
3) Shooting French in the world: 
The Quebec government has done a lot for the promotion of French, Francophonie and Cultural Diversity outside its borders. He must continue this work, in: 
at. Communicating only in French with foreign governments with French as official language, as well as in international organizations; 
b. Encouraging the multiplication of agreements between Quebec and French educational institutions; 
vs. Promoting the adoption of an international convention on linguistic diversity; 
d. Encouraging French in scientific circles, trade relations and the virtual universe, including electronic commerce. 
4.4. Ensure the success of each immigrant 
(...) 
1) Reach the objective of Francization 100%: 
