Quebec, August 22, 2016 -The hon. Member for Richelieu, Sylvain Rochon, as well as his colleague deputy of Berthier and spokesman for the Quebecois in agriculture, André Villeneuve, sound once again the alarm about the trouble Farmers experienced farmers in the riding of Richelieu, including those whose lands are located on the edge of the Bay of Lavallière, in a fragile natural environment. Following a visit to the Family Farm Paul de Saint Anne de-Sorel, who faces the most dramatic situation, Sylvain Rochon lost patience. 
"I have offered, upon my entry, my full and complete collaboration to the government so that solutions are found for these farmers whose lands drain hard due to a combination of environmental factors. By then, they must also be compensated. Yet, despite some positive signals on different occasions, nothing has been successful. I ask the Minister of Agriculture, Pierre Paradis, to put his fist on the table and to demand from his government to act now. The Paul family no longer has the means to wait! "Insisted the hon. Member for Richelieu. 
André Villeneuve evidently endorses the cry of the heart of his colleague. "Of those who are most affected, the Paul family lives hell everyday. Helpless, she sees adding, year after year, disastrous performance losses. The economic consequences are such that they jeopardize the very survival of the farm established for seven generations. Comes a time when the government has to show judgment and a minimum of humanity, and it has come, this time. Minister Paradis must sound reason to his colleagues from the Council of Ministers so that solutions are found and that the Paul family is compensated, "he continued. 
"One of the problems all identifying is the obstruction of the tributaries. However, the maintenance of these tributaries requires the authorization of several ministries, whose results of analyzes contradict each other and who engage in wars of jurisdiction. For months, the government has in the hands a hydrogeological study that can guide its action. Enough is enough! After more than two and a half years of procrastination, the Liberal government must deal with this case immediately, "concluded Sylvain Rochon. 
