Quebec- The Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food, Mr. Gerry Ritz, and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, announce the implementation the animal welfare support program with slaughter. Funded through the Bilateral Agreement Growing the Future 2, this program will facilitate the adaptation of the target companies with respect to the requirements for the restraint of animals during slaughter activities, so as to eliminate the suffering of These animals and to consider the concerns of the population with regard to animal welfare. The program will benefit from a budget envelope of $ 450,000 spread over a period of three years, from 2013 to 2016. 
"Canada has a strong balance sheet for the application of best practices in the slaughter industry. We are pleased to have a partnership with Quebec to further encourage the establishment of animal welfare practices, "said Gerry Ritz. 
"The implementation of this new program is an excellent news and demonstrates that the Government of Quebec continues, on the well-being of animals. As I have already mentioned, we do not spare any effort to ensure that animals are treated with respect and that they have the best possible conditions, until slaughter. Today, we concretely support slaughterhouses in their investment project, "said Francois Gendron. 
It should be noted that institutions with a Category A provincial license, under permanent inspection, play a significant role in setting up and developing short marketing circuits, particularly for bovine, swine, sheep and goat sectors. The establishment of such a program will promote the sustainability of these companies. 
In the spring of 2013, the federal, provincial and territorial governments have signed the Framework Agreement Grow the Future 2. In the wake, the governments of Canada and Quebec have entered into a bilateral agreement that includes $ 293 million funding. over a period of 5 years. This important measure aims to support, both for the benefit of the agricultural sector and the benefit of the food processing sector, the implementation of strategic initiatives concerning innovation, competitiveness and market development. 
Flaughter establishments with a Category A provincial license are invited to avail the program for the realization of their investment project related to the acquisition and installation of appropriate contention equipment for the species Animal slaughtered. These institutions may apply by consulting the websitewww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/pabaa. 
In addition, for more information on the Government of Quebec's food sovereignt policy, interested persons may regularly consult the blog devoted to it (www.politiquesa.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the Ministry's website Agriculture, fisheries and food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa). It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
