Montreal- The Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, and the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb, announced the Award of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 1.5 million to WB Montreal Games inc. 
This private investment project, estimated at $ 63 million over five years, aims to enlarge the company's video game studio in Montreal and to provide the latter with new computer equipment. It also aims to create a hundred jobs specializing in the interactive video game industry. 
"Thanks to its dynamic and innovative companies, such as Games WB Montreal, Quebec is a major technological showcase for the video game industry, at the international level, mentioned Pauline Marois. My government is proud to support these flagships of our economy, which are real creators of wealth and jobs for Quebec. We have the privilege of having one of the world's largest video game production companies. The WB Montreal Game Investment Project will contribute to the economic vitality of our metropolis, including the creation of quality jobs. » 
The government has announced the allocation of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 1.5 million to Games WB Montreal Inc. // (c) François Gilbert. 
"The video game industry is currently experiencing a significant transition period towards a new market, online games," said Nicolas Marceau. In order to maintain the Quebec leader position in this constantly evolving industry, our government recently announced a change to the multimedia stock tax credit, which will allow the eligibility of new positions related to the operation. games. This measure also aims to abolish the maximum eligibility period of production work. Announced bonuses will be accessible to all businesses and will certainly enjoy the WB Montreal Game Studio. » 
"By supporting this investment project, we are strengthening the positioning of Quebec and its metropolis as an interactive video game development center among the world's most competitive, added Élain Zakaïb. The WB Montreal Games project is part of our government's guidance to encourage the growth of our expertise in this growing sector. » 
Founded in 2010, the Game Studio WB Montreal inc. specializes in the development of interactive video game products and digital entertainment products. The company, which is a subsidiary of American company Warner Bros. Home Entertainment, currently has 325 permanent employees. 
"In just three years, our Montreal studio has quickly imposed on the group by the quality of its productions," said Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment, Martin Tremblay. Having a studio in Montreal, able to cope with the challenges of the industry, is a major asset for us. » 
"Thanks to the know-how and talent of our employees, our Montreal studio has quickly made its place within the Warner Bros Group. Interactive Entertainment and the video game industry, supported the Vice President and Game Studio Officer WB Montreal Inc., Martin Carrier. Support of the Government of Quebec will allow us to consolidate our position of excellence in the interactive entertainment sector, including the expansion of our studios and by the purchase of new computer equipment, to accommodate even more employees talented and continue to deliver games that meet our high quality standards. The creation of a center of excellence in location, on the sidelines of the project, will ensure that our facilities will have a must for our colleagues around the world. » 
The 2013-9 newsletter describes in detail the changes made to the tax credit for the production of multimedia securities. It can be consulted on the website of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, atwww.finances.gouv.qc.ca. 
