Quebec, October 4, 2019 -When an interpellation, the member of the Madeleine Islands and spokespersons of the Quebecois French Language Party, Joël Arseneau, was forced to see the refusal of the new responsible minister From the French language, Simon Jolin-Barrette, to clarify his intentions and commit to implementing concrete measures to strengthen the use of the French language in Quebec and ensure its sustainability. 
IN SHORT 
"It has been said and repeated: to the Parti Québécois, French, it's a priority. However, this week, in the OQLF 2018-2019 Annual Management Report, it was learned that the number of Quebec companies of 50 employees and more who have obtained their francization certificate was down. This report also confirmed that the equivalent of 4.7 full-time positions were cut into the organization. Me, all that worries me. The targets are no longer reached, the resources are decreasing, we look at the train. For a year, the government has been thinking and postponing deadlines. Faced with the declines of French in Quebec, the time is however for action! It is a matter of political will, essentially, and I ask the minister to act promptly, "first launched Joël Arseneau. 
For the French to be raised again in Quebec, the Parti Québécois identified three measures that can be quickly and easily implemented. "We must first ensure the application of the law, in particular Article 1 of Law 104, which states that the State must only communicate in French with legal persons. It has never been put into effect! Then we need to expand the field of action of Law 101 to companies from 25 to 49 employees; Indeed, why distinguish SMEs from large companies? "Detailed the member. 
Mr. Arseneau then recalled the relevance of Bill 991, filed by the Quebecois Party in 2017. "This bill clarifies Article 46 of Law 101, that is to say the circumstances in which circumstances in which An employer may require, for access to a position, the knowledge of a language other than French. Quebec would have an advantage to see it being tabled again, and adopted, "he continued. 
"Tell us. Affirmed that in Quebec, it's in French that it happens. I ask the government to show will and courage. Quebeckers expect strong gestures from this fall; We have an appointment with history, "concluded Joël Arseneau. 
