Bécancour- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, and the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the regions of Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec, Yves-François Blanchet, confirmed the participation of the Government of Quebec at the Partnership Agreement between RER Hydro, Boeing and Hydro-Québec aimed at continuing the development of the Industrial Hydroleans sector in Quebec and whose cost is estimated at $ 130 million. 
As part of this agreement, the Government of Quebec is committed to contributing financially for a maximum amount of $ 85 million in the form of fairness and loans. The Government's participation in the realization of this project could eventually implant in Bécancour a commercial hydro-tree manufacturing plant that can produce about 500 units per year and allowing the creation of some 600 direct and indirect jobs. 
"My Government is actively contributing to the rise of new charts that are promising for the economic future of Quebec, as we have recently demonstrated with the presentation of Transportation Electrification, Remembered Pauline Marois. Now, our participation in this partnership agreement will promote the development of the Industrial Hydrolean sector, which has a great economic potential for Quebec, including due to important export opportunities. In addition to enabling us to produce renewable energy from innovative technology, this sector will generate the creation of sustainable jobs and major benefits for Quebec, among others for the municipality of Bécancour and the Center Region. of Quebec. » 
The hydroleum is a technology of the future that stands out for its performance and technical efficiency. It has global market potential in addition to being an alternative for the electricity supply of isolated environments, such as the autonomous networks of northern Quebec. 
"Using the strength of the current to produce electricity, RER Hydro makes every effort to provide clean, reliable and renewable energy. Thanks to its hydroleas, RER Hydro will replace the fuel oil in unconnected networks where there are rivers. I am proud that this project has received financial support for the innovation of the Ministry of Natural Resources. Quebec is a world leader in green energies and we need more than ever to bet on our expertise and know-how, "said Martine Ouellet. 
The Premier, Pauline Marois, takes note of the model of the Hydrolian RER. // (c) Thierry St-Cyr 
"When closing the Gentilly-2 nuclear power plant, we were committed to revitalizing the economy of the Regions of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie, and that is what we did by highlighting a strategy Concerted economic diversification for these regions, "said Yves-François Blanchet. 
"Quebec is the cradle of hydroelectricity and a particular know-how has been developed, mentioned Mr. Imad Hamad, President and CEO of RER Hydro. The hydroleum is an alternator turbine group that does not require any dam. This new industrial sector will help to further transform Quebec's natural resources for the benefit of Quebeckers. » 
"My government's priority is to preserve and create quality jobs that will contribute to the dynamism and growth of all regions of Quebec. Economic lapolitics Priority employment is, for this purpose, a powerful leverage for all Quebec. It will create 43,000 sustainable jobs and generate more than $ 7 billion in investments by 2017. Our participation in this partnership agreement between RER Hydro, Boeing and Hydro-Québec represents one step further towards the Achievement of our prosperity goals for all Quebeckers, "concluded the Prime Minister. 
To learn more about the Employment Priority Economic Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueEconomique. 
The first phase of the investment project has already been successfully completed by the RER Hydro company, which specializes in the design and manufacture of hydroleums in the river-producing electricity. RER Hydro currently employs 35 people at its Montreal headquarters. This first phase concerned the experimentation of a first-generation hydroleum prototype (Tréc-I) which was installed in 2010 in the St. Lawrence River, near the Concorde Bridge, and which works continuously since . Investments of $ 23 million, of which $ 3 million attributed by the Government of Quebec were necessary to carry out this phase of the project. 
The second phase of the project is estimated at $ 51.5 million, of which $ 25 million will be allocated by the Quebec government in the form of fairness and loans with interest. It consists in implanting a technological showcase composed of six second-generation hydroleas (Tréc-II), with a total capacity of 0.75 MW, in the St. Lawrence River, always near the Concorde Bridge. This technology showcase will allow the Boeing company, with whom RER Hydro has partnered with the completion of this project, to complete technical tests. The implementation of this technology showcase will occur over a three-year period and will create 15 direct jobs at the Hydro Hydro Hydro Manufacturing Factory in Bécancour and 10 others in the Montreal area. 
The third phase will begin in 2016 if the results of the second phase are conclusive. This portion of the project, estimated at $ 81 million and a maximum amount of 60 million will come from the Government of Quebec in the form of fee loans, aims at the establishment of a demonstration fleet composed of some 40 hydroleans. a total capacity of 9 MW. This park will support the international marketing efforts of the Hydrolian Industrial Sector in Quebec by demonstrating potential buyers the operation of this new technology on a commercial scale. This phase will consolidate 50 jobs at RER Hydro, in addition to creating 40 direct jobs and 80 indirect jobs at different suppliers. 
Note that as part of the partnership agreement announced today, Hydro-Québec will purchase electricity produced by RER Hydro or one of its subsidiaries, if any. In addition, the TM4 division of the company will provide subsets for the manufacture of the alternator. 
