Montreal - "This is a program of real change with a long-term vision. This vision, for Quebeckers, is more integrity, more identity, more ownership of our natural resources and more freedom. Quebec needs a serious stroke of bar and that's what we propose. " 
It is in these terms that the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, launched the new program of his party today in Montreal. For the occasion, it was accompanied by the President of the National Executive Board of the Quebecois, Raymond Archambault, and several members of Parliament and members of the Parti Québécois. 
The new program revolves around four major themes, integrity, Quebec identity, ownership of our natural resources and freedom. It involves several measures that will allow a possible government of the Parti Québécois to put Quebec on the rails, to offer a long-term vision. 
To restore integrity and confidence in political institutions, Pauline Marois engages among other things to create a commission of inquiry in the first 100 days of its mandate. "For Quebec to change and go ahead, it is imperative to have the housework. We have gained certainty that organized crime had infiltrated the construction industry. It will take courage, it will not be easy, but we will clean up, "said the leader of the Quebecois party. 
The Québécois party wants a government to stand up to promote and defend the Quebec identity and the French language, especially by eliminating in the first 100 days the gateways schools. "We have very strong proposals to overthrow the weakening of French in the public space, to give back all its place to culture and history and to clearly establish Quebec citizenship. The reasonable accommodation crisis has never been settled, the Parti Québécois will resolve it. We have the courage you need, "said Pauline Marois. 
The new Parti Québécois program also contains a series of proposals to restore to Quebecers the control of their natural wealth. Among these proposals for a richer Quebec, a Marois government, in the first 100 days of its mandate, will establish a royalty regime that will truly bring Quebeckers. It also maintains its commitment to impose a real moratorium on shale gas exploration. 
"This policy of" masters at us "is part of a long-term vision inspired by the new generations. There is no question of ransacking our territory and jostling Quebecers at home. There is no question of exploiting our resources without making it up the next generations. Exploiting our resources, yes, but not no matter how nor at any price, "added Pauline Marois. 
Article 1 of the program which constitutes the very reason of the Parti Québécois remains the realization of the sovereignty of Quebec. More clearly, it is registered that 
"It's the primary goal that lives me. This is the reason for being of my political commitment. Sovereignty is the most important change we have to offer, it is profoundly transforming Quebec by building a country, "continued Pauline Marois. 
In the coming weeks and the coming months, the Parti Québécois will decline its proposals to Quebecers. They touch and affect all aspects of Quebec collective life as health, education, wealth creation, the environment, agriculture and care services in particular. 
"We will expose our proposals for a real change to Quebecers. People will realize that they are dealing with a new Quebecois party, with new ideas, a new approach, a new team, a new program inspired by the new generations that have joined us, "concluded the Leader of the Parti Québécois . 
Watch the press conference. 
