Quebec- Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François GENDRON, "said Quebec Food Marketing Program (PACAQ) today, who will benefit from a $ 1.5 million budget envelope spread over a 3-year period (from 2013 to 2016). 
The purpose of this new program is to facilitate the access of Quebec bioalimentary companies to the various internal market marketing networks. In particular, it aims to support the efforts of all supply chain players with a view to providing and identifying more Quebec foods. 
"We are committed to increasing the place of products in both the Table of Quebec families and in restaurants, hotels, large retail chains and public institutions and parabullics. The policy of food sovereignty emanates from this determination, because give a greater place to the food produced and transformed with us in our purchases, is investing in our economy and it is creating wealth in all regions From Quebec, "said Francois Gendron. 
? The PACAQ will support initiatives to publicize Quebec's bioalimentary offer to buyers of the province's various distribution networks, including the creation and consolidation of business relationships. The program is also expected to support strategic skills development and improve business intervention capacity for marketing. 
"It is essential to facilitate the access of Quebec companies to retail, hotel, restaurant and public institutions marketing networks. The benefits generated by the increased presence of foods by the domestic market can result in new jobs or by better paid jobs or by investments to create competitiveness gains in companies, "concluded the Minister . 
The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (MAPAQ) invites associations, non-profit organizations, cooperatives, public institutions and parapublic to avail the PACAQ; The invitation also addresses the various business combinations or institutions in the bioalimentary sector. To learn more about this new program, simply go to the website www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/pacaq. 
In parallel with the implementation of the new program, the MAPAQ continues its actions with regard to the general public in the context of the deployment of the "Food of Quebec: always the right choice! " It should be remembered that it is intended to increase the purchases of bioalimentary products on the internal market. Specifically, the goal pursued this year is to convince consumers to develop the reflex to always make the right choice, that is to opt for Quebec foods. 
In addition, for further information on the Government of Quebec's Food Sovereignt Policy, the blogwww.politicalsa.gouv.qc.caou pagewww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesadu website of the Ministry. It is also possible to follow this one on Twitter, at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
