Quebec- with representatives of the regrouping of disability organizations in the region 03, the member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care and prevention , Jean-François Lisée, denounced this morning the new cuts in the services offered by the Institute of Rehabilitation in Québec Physical Disabilities (IRDPQ). 
"For a year, the Liberal government tries to make Quebec believe that its compressions will have" no impact "on services to citizens. The reality, especially at the IRDPQ, is very different. This morning, it was learned that in addition to having to wipe cups of $ 3 million and the abolition of 21 positions, as announced last week, the IRDPQ will have to deal with the removal in the coming weeks , of 14 other positions. Not administrative positions, not executive positions: rehabilitation assistants, beneficiary agents, nurses, employees at the childcare service, and I pass, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
"In total, there will be 35 people less to meet the needs of 14,000 citizens of the Greater Quebec City region that arise at the Institute to overcome their motor, visual, hearing or language disabilities. These professionals, however, give direct services to children and adults with disabilities, people who really need them to improve their quality of life, "he added. 
The member is formal: if there are fewer professionals, the services will necessarily be diminished, and the waiting lists will grow. "A stretcher post was cut off, while he helped patients go to the bathroom at the IRDPQ; They are now asked to wear a layer. In addition, 851 applications are still waiting for the IRDPQ, and that the longest deadlines affect people with language disabilities. Yet, posts of speech therapists and specialized educators are suppressed. The minister must recognize the serious impacts of what he calls "reorganization". We ask him to back down, as he did for CHSLD rates, and to respect his commitment not to cut off the services. He must announce the recovery of the 35 abolished positions, "required the member for Rosemont. 
