Québec- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, invites pharmacists to continue negotiations to quickly find common ground for financing their new professional activities. 
"The negotiations will certainly keep faster on the public square. I am convinced that we can reach the signing of an agreement in the coming days and thus avoid that the population be taken hostage, "said Minister Hébert. 
The Minister also recalled that the Quebec Association of Proprietary Pharmacists (AQPP) has known since its signature of a letter of understanding with the ministry, August 17, 2012, the ministerial position on the financing of new activities. This position has also been clearly explained at the first meeting of the Joint Committee uniting the representatives of the Ministry and the Association on February 6, 2013. 
"I have already mentioned the hypothesis of coverage of new activities by the Quebec Health Insurance Régie for all Quebeckers. But after a thorough analysis, it is, however, preferable to respect the mix of our public-private system, especially since many legislative amendments would be necessary to regulate the entire private sector, "has also reported the Minister Hébert. 
Since the Universal Drug Insurance Plan in Quebec is mixed, and that the public scheme covers about 40% of the population, the private sector must also necessarily be solicited to provide their insured coverage of new services if they wish. 
Remember that the new pharmaciea was adopted unanimously at the National Assembly on December 8, 2011, and that it aims, in particular, to enable pharmacists to extend or adjust a prescription and prescribe drugs for the treatment of minor conditions or without diagnosis. Like the progress made recently in the activities of other health professionals, and for several without the increase in their remuneration, these changes aim to promote better complementarity between the different fields of practice in order to equip Quebec with a First line of care stronger and more accessible. 
Many of the new activities are in fact tools made available to pharmacists to gain autonomy and more easily resolve existing clinical situations that are at the heart of the exercise of the pharmacy for a long time. Note that drug therapy monitoring is an activity reserved for pharmacists and that this reality is well before the recent legislative changes that will allow pharmacists to carry out new activities. The clinical situations faced by the pharmacist are the same, only the means put at his disposal now differ. 
Some of the new laws planned by law have been added at the same request from pharmacists, in order to facilitate their work, increase their autonomy and achieve productivity gains. For example, pharmacists could already adjust a prescription, but had the obligation to obtain the doctor's authorization, which they will no longer have to do. 
In fact, only three acts constitute an additional burden for pharmacists and justify an increase in remuneration. These three acts contribute to promoting accessibility to front-line care and services. 
In addition, clinical situations that can be resolved through new activities are already taken into account in the fee paid to the pharmacist for the execution of an order. 
