Montréal-Mr Pierre Duchesne, Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, and Mrs. Maryse Lassonde, Scientific Director of the Quebec Research Fund - Nature and Technologies (FRQNT), salute the launch of the Interdisciplinary Research Center for Sustainable Development Operationalization (CIRROD), a new strategic group established with Polytechnique Montréal. Gathering more than 70 researchers from 11 universities, three CEGEPs and a technology transfer center, this group aims to become the catalyst for research on sustainable development, a highly strategic sector for Quebec. The CIRROD will benefit from the financial support of the FRQNT ($ 2.46M) and the Quebec Research Fund - Society and Culture ($ 420 K $) until 2019. This initiative is part of the new national research and research policy. Innovation, unveiled last month by Minister Duchene, who makes sustainable development one of Quebec's three priority areas. 
Pierre Duchesne greets the launch of the Interdisciplinary Research Center for Sustainable Development Operationalization (CIRROD). // (c) Polytechnique 
Minister Duchene welcomes this initiative. "National Lapolitics of Research and Innovation (NPO) identifies sustainable development as one of the priority areas that Quebec faces. CIRROD research will result from knowledge, processes and techniques that will enable the creation of sustainable goods and services, thus contributing to the achievement of Quebec's objectives in this area, "the minister supports.
For Mrs. Lassonde, the Cirodd and the many scientific expertise it will bring together will carry out innovative and intersectoral research that will actually be used to operationalize sustainable development in Quebec. "A very interesting aspect of this new grouping will be to combine technological innovation and social innovation, which will help businesses and Quebec society to be traveled to a greener economy," says Lassonde enthusiastically. 
At the back: Pr Daoud Aït-Kadi, Laval University; Richard Hurteau, Director of Administration of Polytechnic; Valérie Becaert, Executive Director of the CIRROD; Claude Pinel, Quebec Research Fund - Nature and Technologies; Pr Corinne Gendron, uqàm.à L'Front: Pr Louise Millette, Polytechnique; Michèle Thibodeau-Deguire, President of the Board of Directors of Polytechnique; Pierre Duchesne, Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology; Pr Réjean Samson, general manager of the CIRROD; Maryse Lassonde, Quebec Research Fund - Nature and Technologies. // (c) Polytechnique 
Led by Mr. Réjean Samson, professor in the Department of Polytechnic Chemical Engineering Montreal, the CIRROD will also be a transdisciplinary training environment for 450 students who will participate in the research projects of the consolidation and will become the future Quebec experts in sustainable development. 
Le Lefonds for Quebec Research - Nature and TechnologiesA for financial support and promote academic and collegiate research, the training of highly qualified personnel and the mobilization of knowledge in the fields of natural sciences, mathematical sciences and engineering. Through its mission, it contributes to scientific development and innovation, as well as economic prosperity and the sustainable development of Quebec. 
