Baie-Saint-Paul- The Prime Minister of Quebec and MP from Charlevoix-Côte-de-Beaupré, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert, today announced that The Charlevoix Health and Social Services Center is authorized to make the selection of professionals and the development of the final business record for its construction project for the new Baie-Saint-Paul hospital, in a mode. realization "turnkey". 
With the exception of a $ 20 million contribution from regional asset maintenance and minor functional renovation envelopes, this project estimated at $ 376,267,000 will be fully funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services, in virtue of the next Quebec Infrastructure Plan. 
"The construction of a new hospital in Baie-Saint-Paul is necessary to ensure the safety of staff and patients. At the same time, it is a promising project for the socio-economic development of the region and Quebec. That's why we privilege as part of the Quebec Infrastructure Program, for which our government has made a commitment to make responsible choices, to the real benefit of all Quebeckers and all Quebeckers, "said the Prime Minister . 
For its part, Minister Hébert has indicated that "the in-depth analysis of the project has made it possible to develop an optimal scenario that includes the most advantageous solutions, both geographically and technical and financial. Since the studies show that the current building is technically and economically not rehabilitated by enhancement work, and given the costs associated with a partial or total offshoring of the hospital's activities during the completion of the work, we are pleased to be able to confirm Today the population of Charlevoix it will benefit from a new safe and functional hospital towards the end of 2018 ". 
Note that the two sub-projects associated with the construction of the new hospital, the expansion and redevelopment of the Pierre-Dupré accommodation center and the reconstruction of the residence with continuous assistance, will be carried out according to the "traditional mode" ", Which consists in completing the detailed plans and specifications before proceeding with the public tender, unlike the" turnkey "mode, which simultaneously entrusts the plans and quotes and the construction of the project to the same company or to the same business group. 
The new Baie-Saint-Paul hospital will have an emergency, an operating room with two operating rooms, external clinics with 16 rooms, a short-term geriatric unit and an intensive functional rehabilitation unit totaling 12 beds. It will also have 7 mental health beds, 28 short-term care beds in medicine and surgery, and 103 beds in long-term care hosting. 
At the technical level, the project provides for the construction of a new building of 34,676 m2, an enlargement of 1,555 m2 and a redevelopment of 2,475 m2 at the Pierre-Dupre accommodation center to provide services related to CLSC, as well as the relocation of the residence with continuous assistance, with an area of 610 m2. 
Finally, in addition to soil consolidation, building the new building and demolition of the current hospital, the overall amount of this project estimated at $ 376,267,000 includes furniture costs, equipment. specialized medical and technology infrastructure, as well as all administrative costs and inherent financing fees. 
