Montreal - The member and candidate of the Parti Québécois in the constituency of Marie-Victorin, Bernard Drainville, worries about the revelations of the newspaper the press this morning on the F. Catania Foundation. "While the Liberals claimed that it was a wet firecracker, we learn rather that our revelations of Monday seem to be the tip of the iceberg of another scandal involving friends of the Liberal Party. An important part of the sums of the sale of a field acquired from the Riverside School Board by F. Catania Foundation would have found themselves in the pockets of the leaders of Catania. » 
According to the press this morning, at the end of the fiscal year ending July 31, 2011, $ 85,537 were paid in donations by the Foundation, while $ 370,290 was advanced to a close to the foundation. 
"Michelle Courchesne and the Liberal Party have repeated for two days that the money of the Foundation has been given to works of charity. But what is learned in the press is that the Foundation's money would have served relatives rather than charity. The Liberals still seek to manipulate public opinion, "said Bernard Drainville. 
In addition, the Parti Québécois is questioned on the company that has decontaminated the ground. "The Liberals must tell the population who has decontaminated the ground. Is it necessary to remember that decontamination has been at the heart of the misaliginal scandal that directly involved Catania's company and some of its leaders? The citizens of Brossard and Quebecers have the right to know, "added Bernard Drainville. 
"Instead of threatening me with a gagging suit to silence, the Liberal candidate of the Pinière, Fatima Houda-Pepin, should rather explain his links with Paolo Catania. Has he played a role in his 2008 fundraising campaign? It must explain the financing of the Liberal Party by several members of Catania and the F. Catania Foundation and by people involved in the resale of the land, which paid a total of over $ 40,000 in 2008 . At the Liberal Party, when it comes to integrity, it is always threats and intimidation to those who ask questions, "said Quebec's candidate in Marie-Victorin. 
"The central issue of this case remains unanswered. Why did the Government of Jean Charest allowed Foundation F. Catania to sell the ground while the community center project was abandoned? Why the Liberals and Fatima Houda-Pepin left their friends get rich at the expense of the community? Bernard Drainville concluded. 
