Quebec- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet announces the issuance of a certificate authorizing the city of Saint-Tite to make its project Emergency construction of a new intake in Lake Eric, with large batteries. 
"Given the situation, it was necessary to subtract the environmental impact assessment and review procedure for the City of Saint-Tite project and issuing a certificate of authorization. Emergency work will increase the reliability of the City's water supply system, in addition to improving the quality of water at source, "said Minister Blanchet. 
Indeed, drinking water and fire safety of the city of Saint-Tite is in a shallow area of ​​Lake Eric, with large batteries. For several years, the level of water of the lake during the tilt period reaches extremely low thresholds that limit the contribution of quality water to the water intake of the city. During the summer of 2013, the levels reached even forced the city to install a temporary pump in a deeper lake area. However, this system is not viable in the medium term, among other things, because its reliability leaves something to be desired and that it is not suitable for functioning in winter conditions. Autumn rainfall has allowed sufficient increase in the lake's water level to restore the city's water. However, the water level remains critical of the arrival of the winter and the city of Saint-Tite maintains its fear of a breakdown of water supply, which could cause a major health or public safety problem. . 
The installation of the new intake of water but also the possible construction of a new drinking water treatment plant that the city of Saint-Tite must do will make it possible to sustainably improve the problem of the quality of the water for residents. 
The decree concerning the issuance of the certificate of authorization and the environmental analysis report can be consulted on the website of the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks. 
