Montréal- The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane de Courcy, wants to take stock of the interventions on the new immigration rules and procedures that will help to promote harmonious and french professional integration of immigrant people. 
"Some people wanted to suggest that the new rules that apply to investor candidates and candidates would have returned to selecting these people using a lottery. This is absolutely not the case. On the contrary, it is a question of putting in place a fair and equitable way of determining which requests will be processed by the department. Subsequently, all these requests will be analyzed for the selection of candidates to be done with the same rigor as usual, "said the minister. Indeed, among all the requests received from 1 to 16 August 2013, the Ministry will proceed to a draw to determine which ones will be processed to reach the ceiling set at 1750 new applications for a selection certificate in this category. The demands thus analyzed will not all be accepted, but rather examined according to the rules in force. This way of doing things also helps to avoid coh and jostling that the "first come first served" formula had created in the past. This new approach has been hailed by the active financial intermediaries in this immigration program. It should also be noted that immigrant investors who demonstrate an advanced intermediate-level French knowledge will be able to file an application even if the annual ceiling has been reached. 
"The opposition wanted to make believe that we had proposed these new measures in soft, as if we had something to hide. I want to remember that I'm talking about the improvements to the immigration system since last December 5th, while I presented Bill 14 at the National Assembly. I also had the opportunity to talk about it during my visits from the regions last spring and in many meetings I had with the partners. We also stimulated that immigration candidates know the details of the changes immediately the signed ministerial decrees. Immigrant investors seem to have it well understood. Already, after the first day of the entry into force of the amendments, our Hong Kong office had received some 380 applications in accordance with the new deposit rules, "said the minister. The new immigration rules and procedures can be found on the Ministry's website since last July 8th. 
The minister also corrected the information conveyed on the Immigrant Investor Program. "The Immigrant Investor Program is not intended to present projects but rather to generate investments whose revenues make it possible to finance programs that help immigrants and Quebec SMEs. I believe that the member for Jeanne-Mance-Viger probably wanted to talk about the program of immigrant entrepreneurs when she referred to projects. I will have the opportunity to present the important improvements we want to provide, in the coming months, the program of immigrant entrepreneurs in particular to better meet the needs of the regions, "said the minister. 
Madame de Courcy has stimulated that the new rules entered into force on 1 August represent a new stage that leads to strengthening government action to promote the integration of immigrant people. Other measures, including integration and francization, will be announced at the end of August. "We are convinced that the stowage of the selection of immigrant persons with the needs of the Quebec labor market is a guarantee of harmonious integration, both in relation to the control of French and compared to professional skills. » 
For all the details on the new immigration rules and procedures, visit the Ministry's website atwww.immigration-quebec.gouv.qc.ca/regles-procedes-immigration. 
