Québec- The Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, is proud to announce today that the government has renewed its privileged partnership with the Mauritius Tanguay Foundation for a seventh consecutive year. Thus, the Tanguay house will be designed according to the requirements of the new energy efficiency program 2.0 for the next three years. 
"The Tanguay Novoclimat 2.0 house enforces higher energy efficiency requirements. In addition to improving the comfort and quality of construction, Novoclimat 2.0 certified homes allow occupants to save up to 20% of their energy bill, in addition to improving air quality. We are very proud to be a partner in this project that helps children with disabilities and their families, "said Martine Ouellet. 
With the Novoclimat 2.0 program, the owners will be able to achieve savings of 20% on energy costs, according to current regulations. The program is for entrepreneurs and owners who want to certify a residential building. Assessments will be conducted at different stages of construction to ensure compliance with the technical requirements of the program. Owners will be able to benefit from $ 1,000 financial assistance. 
Entrepreneurs certified by the Quebec Standards Office will be able to rely on quality training in energy-efficient construction, on technical support for the design of plans and quotes as well as accompaniment on the construction site. $ 1,000 financial assistance will be paid for each Novoclimat approved home. 
Since 1999, more than $ 46 million has been awarded financial assignment to more than 22,000 homeowners who have been built according to standards. This program has also approved more than 16,000 units of housing. This represents a reduction of 85 400 TEC (carbon equivalent tonnes [CO2]). In addition, more than 1,700 construction companies have been certified Novoclimat. 
Quebec wants to establish as a leader in energy efficiency. More than $ 665 million has been announced lately to support new energy efficiency programs, either ecoperformance and technoclimat, renoclimate, green, econologis, Novoclimat 2.0 and the residual forest biomass program. 
"Investments as important in energy efficiency, it is never seen! These actions testify to our deep desire to contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, "said Martine Ouellet. 
