Quebec- On the occasion of the homeless night, the official head of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, as well as many of his colleagues will take part in various activities organized to raise awareness of the reality of people in situations. 'roaming. The hon. Member for Taschereau, Agnès Maltese, the member for Hochelaga? Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, the member for Joliette, Véronique Hivon, the member for Terrebonne, Mathieu Traversy, the hon. Member for Richelieu, Sylvain Rochon, the member for Bertrand, Claude Cousineau , and the hon. Member for Rimouski, Harold Lebel, in particular, will be number, in their respective regions. 
"We take part, tonight at the night of the homeless. It should be an opportunity to appreciate the path traveled to get out of thousands of owners of homelessness. Unfortunately, this time, it's the declines that will have to be measured. The cups of the Liberal government, combined with its refusal to adequately fund community organizations, have disastrous impacts on the ground. And it is not counting the effects of the signature by Charlebois, an agreement with Ottawa, the strategy of roaming partnerships, which now deprives funding from the hundreds of organizations from all regions. From Quebec, "denounced the chief and the deputies. 
Split and liberal austerity: concrete impacts in the regions 
The Parti Québécois again arrested the Government to the National Assembly to raise awareness of the consequences of the austerity and its lack of leadership facing the Federal as to the SPLI. "In Valleyfield, for example, Community Food Service will close. Why? Because the Liberal government has signed an agreement with the federal government that diverted the funds necessary for its survival. In Granby, the agreement reduced the number of beds available from the third party to the passer-by. In Montreal, layoffs had to be carried out at the Magdalen Auberge and the works of Saint-Jacques. In addition, one-third of Montreal roaming projects have seen funding to be fully cut. The list is long. The Liberal government recognizes? It is the extent of the damage it has caused by signing with the Harper government this unacceptable agreement? What will he do to restore organizational budgets? Asked the member for Rosemont and the Quebec party speech on social services, Jean-François Lisée. 
A constant commitment, despite the cuts 
The elected officials also wanted to welcome the efforts of the groups which, despite the liberal austerity and the cuts, continue to mobilize to accompany the daily thousands of people among the most vulnerable. "Community organizations carry out the most important work, and we enjoise them to continue in this direction. Their action and commitment have a concrete effect among those who live a homelessness, and they are valuable partners to fight the phenomenon, "added members. 
Finally, the Leader of the Official Opposition has stressed the fact that Véronique Hivon will receive the 2015 Gold Pompon Award, awarded by the Organizing Committee of the Night Holiday Night of Joliette. "I am pleased that the outstanding commitment and leadership of Véronique to combat roaming are recognized today. It should be remembered that it has, among other things, brought the very first national homelessness policy. This honor is greatly deserved and I congratulate her, on behalf of the entire Quebec party team, "concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
