Terrebonne-like moving reports broadcast last week regarding the lamentable conditions in which young children are found in the middle of family custody, the member for Charlevoix and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pauline Marois, and the hon. Member for Iberville and family spokesperson, Marie Bouillé, today presented concrete proposals so that parents and children have access to quality care services across Quebec. 
"If the number of day care places was sufficient, situations like those described in the media would not exist," Pauline Marois said. This is because parents are unable to find a place in the childcare network that children find themselves in an inappropriate environment. It is for this reason that the Parti Québécois makes the firm commitment to offer a reduced contribution place in early childhood and family centers for each child. " 
A citizen party government is committed to ensuring that the child care network can accommodate a total of 250,000 children. This is a commitment to create some 30,000 places with reduced contribution. "At the end of the first mandate of a Quebec government government, each child will have his place," said Pauline Marois insistence. 
Entering a child on a waiting list to get a small contribution room is a real puzzle for many parents because they are not all subsidized child care services participating in centralized regional counters. "To facilitate the lives of parents, under a Quebec party government, all subsidized custody environments will have the obligation to register for centralized waiting lists in each region," said Marie Bouillé. 
"It is high time that we put an end to this situation that causes confusion, waste of time and frustration for all the parents of Quebec. Finished the Dames and endless steps to register his child, only one call will be necessary to put the name of his child on the waiting list that will cover all the subsidized places in the region, "said Marois. 
Families must return to the center of the concerns of the Government of Quebec. Create a network of adequate child care that meets the needs of parents and children is not an expense, but an investment. According to a study produced by the University of Sherbrooke Tax and Financial Research Chair, every dollar invested in these services reports $ 1.05 to the Quebec government and $ 0.45 in the federal government. 
"Families have always been a priority for the Parti Québécois and they will continue to be at the heart of our action," concluded Pauline Marois. 
