Quebec - The member for Berthier and the official opposition for the regional development and occupation of the territory, André Villeneuve, tabled Bill 499 on the dynamic occupation of the territory and decentralization. This bill will bring public departments and agencies to account for land tenure and decentralization. 
"That demonstrates in good way that the Parti Québécois is the Party of the Regions. Having been mayor and prefect, I consider that one of the best ways to promote the occupation of the territory is to distribute the services equitably in the territory and to give local and regional actors the tools needed to promote development. That's exactly what this bill on decentralization! "Said André Villeneuve. 
This bill sets out the main principles that will guide our action: 
-The right to basic services accessible in the vital fields for the occupation of the territory (education, health, food, etc.) for any person residing in a rural municipality;  - mandatory modulation of government programs according to local and regional specificities;  - Financial or tax transfers when transfers of competence;  -The tax authority of municipalities;  -The subsidiarity;  -The promotion of local and regional identities;  -The rights of indigenous nations. 
"To ensure that the right to basic services in rural municipalities is respected, we propose that they are warned when the last establishment offering a service on its territory thinking about abolishing it. In this way, with the support of the government if necessary, the municipality will have the opportunity to undertake an approach to avoid the abolition of the service or propose an alternative, "said André Villeneuve. 
"By requiring departments and agencies to modulate their programs, we crop an important step to end the" wall wall "which, too often, does not correspond to the realities of the environment. This is a matter of respect for regions that each have their realities, their colors and identity, "added the member for Berthier. 
The bill also specifies that any transfer of powers will be accompanied by a transfer of resources equivalent to those devoted to them previously by the State. "When we know that the legitimate fear of" billage of invoices "in the court of the municipalities is sometimes an obstacle to decentralization, we understand the importance of ensuring the transfer of financial resources," he said. 
The Parti Québécois has always had the regions with heart. For 35 years, it has changed the faces of the regions by its achievements and its avant-garde reforms: 
-Creation of regional county municipalities (MRCs),  -Loi on planning and urban planning,  -Recognition of indigenous nations,  -Paix of brave,  -Nationality nationality of rurality,  -Political support for local and regional development and  -Creation of local development centers (CLD). 
"By depositing this bill today, we ask another concrete gesture. This approach aims to give new tools to elected officials and middle actors to optimize their resources. In doing so, they will be able to go further in terms of dynamism and prosperity, "concluded André Villeneuve, inviting the government to call Bill 499. 
