Baie-Saint-Paul- In the stride of the launch of the Food Sovereignty Policy, the Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron, Announce a series of actions to preserve the agricultural area. 
More specifically, these actions will aim to ensure the integrity of the agricultural territory for future generations, to ensure land accessibility to agricultural and succession companies as well as to promote optimal and sustainable use of the territory and resources. Resources . 
"Our intention is to maintain and, above all, to strengthen our agricultural land protection regime set up by the Quebecois party already 35 years. The food sovereignty policy we have just adopted proclaims high and loud that the agricultural zone is a collective heritage to be protected. It bears the imprint of our traditions, our history and our identity. It's our duty to preserve it and make sure our children and grandchildren can enjoy and make it prosper in turn, "said the premier. 
By June, the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food intends to submit two bills amending the Act respecting the acquisition of agricultural land by non-residents and the Law on the Protection of the Territory and the agricultural activities. These amendments, if they are endorsed by the opposition parties, will strengthen the access criteria and to protect against possible land price increases that could cause applications for agricultural land by foreign interests. . Other modifications could also better protect agricultural lands of urban sprawl, promote their development and simplify certain aspects of administrative order. 
In addition to the proposed legislative amendments, the Government wishes to expand the implementation of the agricultural area development plans (PDZA) to all the MRCs to promote optimal and sustainable use of the territory. The best way to preserve the collective heritage that the agricultural territory constitutes is indeed to use it at its full potential. 
"Although the phenomenon of speculation and land grabbing remains marginal still today, we can not afford to remain inactive before the interest shown by investors for this resource. Our agricultural zone covers only 4% of the territory and only half of this zone is conducive to agriculture; We must therefore take all the necessary means to ensure that we remain owners of our land. Since our approach involves legislative changes, we must now hope that we can count on the support of opposition parties, "said François Gendron. 
For more information on food sovereignty policy, we invite you to regularly consult the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa), or Still following the ministry on Twitter (https://twitter.com/mapaquebec). 
Consult the Communications of Press at the unveiling of the Food Sovereignty Policy. 
