Quebec- The member for Joliette and sentence of the official opposition in the field of culture and communications, Véronique Hivon, denounces the blind cuts of 20% of the tax credits in the arts and culture. Cinema and television, dubbing, shows and editing will go to the cutter. 
"Culture constitutes, with our language and our history, the cement of Quebec identity and the works of our craftsmen are sources of great pride for all Quebeckers. It is to protect it that we negotiated international agreements that exclude her from trade obligations, mentioned Véronique Hivon. By giving us competitive advantages such as tax credits, we allow the production and dissemination of our culture. » 
The Minister of Culture and Communications has been satisfied with the Leitão budget, emphasizing a meager investment of $ 2.3 million and the realization of the digital strategy, a project prepared by the Parti Québécois government and amputated 40 m $ by the Liberals. For its part, the Minister of Finance has minimized the consequences of the cuts, while recognizing that he had not carried out impact study before registering them in his budget. 
"The announced cuts will have an effect on all sectors of culture, but the example of television and cinematographic production is convincing: $ 75 million less in this environment where every dollar counts, it is indeed a disaster! Added the door? In all, $ 85 million disappearing from the culture environment, and the minister responds to this by an additional $ 2.3 million investment? The account is not there! » 
The tax credits in question have allowed, among other things, Xavier Dolan's films, celebrated in Cannes, or Daniel Roby, including Lelouis Cyra shattered forks at the counter, but also television series commeunity 9ettoute the truth, or Youth programming like1, 2, 3 ... giant. 
"These productions radiate, both by their quality and their popularity, and make our pride. They are an integral part of the lives of millions of Quebeckers, who are worried about their potential disappearance. The Minister of Culture and Communications, however, declared at the beginning of the mandate that she wanted to be overlooking culture, fighting for money and producers. Where did this swing go? How can the minister? She endorses his government's decision? ", Concluded the member for Joliette. 
