Quebec, August 18, 2016 -Sales that almost all of Bill 110 concerns the Labor Code, the hon. Member for Richelieu and spokesman for the Quebecois Labor Party, Sylvain Rochon, as well as his colleague deputy of René - Municipal business spokespersque and spokesperson, Martin Ouellet, find the absence of the Minister of Labor, Dominique Vien, the work of the Commission. They also note the support by the Minister of Municipal Affairs and the Occupation of the Territory, Martin Coiteous, the bargaining system of labor relations within municipalities. "This is the clear demonstration that the Minister of Labor has been dismissed from his file by the Prime Minister, who prefers to rely on the Minister of Municipal Affairs," they said. 
"Several workers' associations have been denouncing the fact that the bill proposes the care of the Labor Code by the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the occupation of the territory. It must be reminded of the Coiteous Minister that labor relations are the responsibility of his colleague, and that his role is to support the administration and development of municipalities, regions, the national capital and the Quebec metropolis? Labor relations is the job of the Minister of Labor! Where is Dominique Vien when complete sides of his law are modified? Then asked Sylvain Rochon. 
"Obviously, the Ministry of Labor has an opinion on the bill: it produced opinions, as well as a memoir, on the subject. Minister Vien remains stubbornly and completely mute, but can she at least make the documents from her ministry so we can have the right time? Still, it is completely foolish to modify the labor code without being able to hear the officials of the Ministry of Labor and their minister, "added Martin Ouellet. 
"The claim of the Minister of Municipal Affairs is to" modernize "working relations in the municipal world, but it does the opposite. Martin Cloupeux turns his back to the history of his party and the evolution of labor relations in Quebec, "concluded the hon. Member for Richelieu. 
