Quebec, October 14, 2020- Gathered in special caucus with their new chief, Paul St-Pierre Plamondon, the members of the Quebecois party announced on Wednesday that the main parliamentary officers would keep their duties. 
IN SHORT 
The member for Matane-Matapédia, Pascal Bérubé, will continue to act as parliamentarian leader. The member for René-Lévesque, Martin Ouellet, retains his position as a parliamentary leader. The member for Rimouski, Harold Lebel, remains president of the caucus and whip 
For two years, in a context not always easy, the officers held the fort. The chief is of the opinion that we do not have to change a formula that works, he reiterated his confidence in them. "We are pleased to continue the work that has been started since the return to the House, and more widely since the fall of 2018", first declared the hon. Member for Rimouski, who is also very satisfied with the respectful approach. and reasoned by Mr. St-Pierre Plamondon. 
"Our team is seasoned, its reflexes are well sharpened, and I do not doubt that we will continue to successfully relay the parties' positions and the questions posed by the population, to promote our ideas and proposals, and thus, to arouse Membership ", has indicated Martin Ouellet. 
Thoroughly thanking his new chief, Pascal Bérubé on his assured side that the team of the Parti Québécois deputies would continue to assert his nationalist values with the same ardor, in addition to playing his role of opposition and supervision. "We wish more transparency from the government as to its management of the pandemic. We want real actions to better protect the environment. We also wish to show Quebecers all the benefits of independence. We have a new direction, certainly, but what we are not changed, "he mentioned. 
As for other parliamentary responsibilities and spokespersons, they will be known later. "Paul intends to take the time to seize the priorities of the caucus and the stakes that are important to him before taking any decision whatsoever. Of course, we will keep you informed, "promised the parliamentary leader. 
