Saint-Jean-de-Matha- Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, announces financial support from $ 457,000 to Louis-Cyr's Companions for the development of the Louis-Cyr House projecting an investment $ 1,139,614. 
Financial assistance confirms the grant of $ 304,000, in the form of a loan, as part of the development support program for the tourist attractions (PADAT). In addition to this amount, $ 100,000, in the form of a grant, arising from the Lanaudière Tourism Offering Development Fund (FDOTL) and $ 53,000 from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and The occupation of the territory (Mamrot). 
"Cultural tourism is a carrier product for all regions of Quebec. To this end, the support given to the organization the companions of Louis-Cyr will help to improve the offer of cultural tourist attractions of the Lanaudière region. I take this opportunity to invite the entrepreneurs of the Quebec tourism industry to present their development project and thus, check the possibilities offered by the Padat. It is by initiatives like this one that Quebec will stand out both nationally and on the international scene, "said Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé. 
For his part, the member for Berthier, Mr. André Villeneuve, welcomed this announcement for his region. "As Parliamentary Assistant in Mamrot, I am pleased that a substantial amount of $ 53,000 has been consented to support this innovative project for the region. Its concretization will constitute a major interior cultural attraction. There are few biographical museums in Quebec and the creation of an exhibition on the legacy of Louis-Cyr is therefore original and will arouse, I am convinced, a craze for the destination of Lanaudière ". 
MP Villeneuve also took the opportunity to put the certificate of designation from the famous strong man who was named historical character on his 150th birthday, on October 10th. The Minister of Culture and Communications, Mr. Maka Kotto, then made this announcement under the Cultural Heritage Act. 
For its part, Ms. Evangeline Richard, President of Tourisme Lanaudière, wanted to salute the work done by the Companions of Louis-Cyr. "Louis Cyr is the strong man of Lanaudière. A national hero who is now taking over the place that comes up; A museum on its behalf, in its own house. The FDOTL partners, are proud to support this project that is dedicated to a great success. I am convinced that it will arouse a great deal of interest from the tourist clientele, for the benefit of the entire regional tourism industry. " 
Finally, the President of the organization the Companions of Louis-Cyr, Mr. Jérôme Landry, wanted to add that "this financial support will make it possible to realize our objective which is to" bring Louis Cyr at home ". In addition to benefiting from the people of the MTRC Matawinie, we are convinced that this project will shine the entire Lanaudière region and will attract visitors from the four corners of Quebec. With the collaboration of the Lanaudière Museum network and other regional players in Lanaudière, we can have a significant impact on the tourist offer of the region. " 
The project consists of renovating and highlighting the house, located in Saint-Jean-de-Matha, in which the famous Louis Cyr lived with his family and set up an interactive permanent exhibition on the character of Louis-Cyr. In addition, the museum will include a space for temporary exhibitions on topics such as the marking personalities of the Lanaudière region and the whole Quebec. 
Recall that launched in March 2013 by the Prime Minister of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, the Padat aims to offer Quebec tourism companies with flexible financial solutions adapted to the realities of the tourism industry, by granting a term loan or loan guarantee. Coming from the 2012-2020 Tourism Industry Development Plan, the PADAT has an envelope of $ 85 million also spread over five years. This envelope is available for existing tourist businesses, mature or growing, in the form of a loan or loan guarantee. Financial interventions are between $ 150,000 and $ 2 million. Initiated by Tourisme Québec, the PADAT is managed and administered by Investissement Québec, through its new tourism division. 
