Québec- The Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, announces that the Government of Quebec has adopted the Regulation concerning a block of 450 MW of wind energy. This regulation follows the announcement of May 10, where the Government indicated the continued development of the wind industry in Quebec with the allocation of 800 MW for new projects. The minister indicated that conditions guiding the awarding of this block of wind energy will promote projects involving the production of strategic components in Quebec. 
"The Quebec government makes the necessary decisions to strengthen the Quebec's wind industry. By supporting the manufacture of strategic components in Quebec, we create quality jobs in the regions. This is all the more true as these strategic components are even more likely to be exported than traditional components, "said Martine Ouellet. 
To concretize the government's willingness to pursue wind development, a draft regulation was published on August 28 in the Gazette of Quebec. Following the comments received, the government has enacted a modified regulation. 
Thus, as part of the call for tenders which will be launched by Hydro-Québec Distribution, 100 MW will have to be delivered no later than 1 December 2016 and 350 MW will have to be at the latest on December 1, 2017. As for the Price of electricity supply, it can not exceed 9.0 ¢ / kWh, excluding the cost of balancing. 
The regulation also provides that all projects developed in the context of this call for tenders must include a local participation of 50% of the control of these projects. 
The Government has also adopted, for the Energy Région, a decree of economic, social and environmental concerns with respect to the wind energy block that will be the subject of a call for tenders. In summary : 
The government wants to promote projects involving the production of strategic components whose added value surpasses that of currently machined wind turbines in Quebec. This includes converters, generators, control systems, braking systems as well as speed multipliers. 
450 MW assigned by call for tenders, 300 MW will have to come from projects from the Bas-Saint-Laurent regions and the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine and 150 MW will have to come from projects from the As a whole of Quebec. In addition to this block of 450 MW, a block of 150 MW is provided for a Mi'gmawei Mawiomi grouping project, the three Mi'gmaq communities of Listuguj, Gasgapegiag and Gaspeg. Finally, another block of 200 MW will be carried out by Hydro-Québec Production. 
On the occasion of this announcement, the Quebec government reiterates its commitment and support for the wind manufacturing industry. It recalls its desire to propose a clear development horizon until 2025, year from which the renewal of the current park will begin. 
