Saint-Charles-Garnier - Minister Delegate to Tourism and Minister Responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, on behalf of the Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, announces the development of the Community wind project Mitis in the Bas-Saint-Laurent area. 
With a total power of 24.6 MW, this wind farm will have 12 Repower wind turbines of 2.05 MW each and provide clean energy to 3,350 homes in the region. The realization of this park, estimated at $ 70 million, should generate 70 jobs in the construction phase and will be commissioned in December 2014. 
"As Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, I look forward to this project. Wind energy is an important economic development lever for our region and for the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine. In addition to the MRC of Mitis, which is a stakeholder in the project, three well-established companies in Gaspésie participate in the project as wind turbine component providers, "said Pascal Bérubé. 
Coming from the third tender of 500 MW of wind energy launched in 2009 by Hydro-Québec Distribution, the wind farm The Mitis results from a partnership between the MRC of Mitis and EDF in Canada. The Renewable Energy Partnership of the Mitis, which was created by this partnership, evaluates that a minimum of $ 42 million would be invested in Quebec, including $ 14.7 million in the Gaspésie and MRC region of Matane only. 
The renewable energy of the MITIS also provides that in the operating phase, 30% of the profits generated by the operation of the wind farm will return to the municipality and the MRC. In addition, an annual voluntary contribution of $ 61,500 will be paid to the Community by the proponent during the 20 years of operation of the park. Finally, a $ 200,000 contribution, granted when commissioning the park will be used to create a socio-economic development fund. 
"The wind energy in Quebec makes it possible to consolidate nearly 2,000 jobs in the manufacturing sector, especially in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Gaspésie. In addition, the complementarity of our hydroelectric and wind energy is a major asset for Quebec, "said Martine Ouellet. 
