Carleton- The Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, announces the publication of a draft regulation concerning a block of 450 MW of wind energy. This draft regulation is published in the official Gazette du Québec for comments. It follows the annonce of May 10, 2013, where the Government indicated the continued development of the wind industry in Quebec with the allocation of 800 megawatts (MW) for new projects. 
"We maintain in the long term the manufacturing industry and its 800 jobs for the economic development of Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie. In Quebec, more than 150 companies provide services or components of wind turbines and generate more than 2000 direct jobs. The wind and hydropower, it is the best possible complementarity of green energy. By combining diversification of energy sources and energy efficiency, we prepare the Energy Future of Quebec, "said Martine Ouellet. 
The wind energy block that will be the subject of a call for tenders by Hydro-Québec Distribution will consist of 300 MW from projects from the regions of Bas-Saint-Laurent or the Gaspé-Îles-de-la -Madeleine and 150 MW from projects from all of Quebec. Of this total, 225 MW will have to be delivered no later than December 1, 2017 and the other block of 225 MW, no later than December 1, 2018. Note that the price of the supply of electricity, including the balancing service and complementary power, can not exceed 9.5 ¢ / kWh in 2014 dollars indexed to the consumer price index for the energy block. In addition, the local environment will hold a participation of more than 50% of project control. 
"We want to support the manufacturing industry of wind turbine components in Quebec while also allowing the export of their products. The rhythm of implantation presented in the draft regulation will achieve this objective. In addition, we added a ceiling of 9.5 ¢ / kWh to avoid excesses in recent years, "said Martine Ouellet. 
The wind industry lives several hundred families in Quebec and offers multiple economic benefits for manufacturers and service providers. The Quebec government is working to strengthen the industry and maximize regional economic benefits by working on medium and long-term predictability to attract strategic components in Quebec. 
The Government of Quebec confirms its commitment and support for the wind industry with the allocation of 800 MW. In addition, he ensures that the industrial sector remains very long-term and, in this respect, the 2024 horizon is decisive. Indeed, from 2025, the renewal of the current wind farm will begin. 
