Quebec- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as the member for Terrebonne and the Quebec's Word of the Party for Sustainable Development, Environment and Fighting Climate Change, Mathieu Traversy, required the Government The holding of a real BAPE evaluating global GHG emissions and the economic benefits of the Energy Eastern project. 
"Yesterday, we proposed a motion to demand that an energy and economic justification of the energy project is either submitted to BAPE, and the government rejected it. Yet, in response to a civil remedy that asked for respect for the law, the Liberal government had finally decided to announce the holding of a complete BAPE. However, a complete BAPE should measure global GHG emissions and focus on economic benefits, which is not currently the case. It looks like the government does everything so as not to know and worse, so that the people can not know. Why does it refuse to hold a real BAPE and give it the mandate to assess the economic benefits of the Energy project? Asked Sylvain Gaudreault. 
To illustrate its remarks, the official opposition leader spoke of the short period of 6 weeks (42 days) granted to TransCanada to develop its impact study. General rule, on average, this period is 31 weeks (220 days). Moreover, the company has already stated that "the reasonable and realistic schedule" for this stage would be 9 months (270 days). "Does David Heurtel tries to promote unduly TransCanada? A sloppy impact study will reduce the scope, rigor and transparency of environmental assessment. To hear all the groups and citizens concerned, the deadline must be elongated. It's a matter of minimal respect for Quebeckers, "he continued. 
In addition, the Parti Québécois questions the arrangements between the Government of Quebec, the NEB and TransCanada. The agreement concludes on April 22, 2016 between the Minister of the Environment and TransCanada unduly favors the oil made by adjusting to the NEB calendar shortly after, on April 26, 2016. "What was the agreed Behind closed doors between Quebec, TransCanada and the NEB to accelerate the oil project? Quebeckers have the right to know if the Liberal government has chosen to promote TransCanada's particular interests to the detriment of the public interest. Minister David Heurtel must make public all documents relating to the details of this agreement, whether from the Ministry of the Environment, TransCanada or NEB, "added Mathieu Traversy. 
The member for Terrebonne insists: she wants it or not, TransCanada needs the approval of Quebec to build its energy pipeline is on the territory of Quebec. "It's non-negotiable. The Environmental Quality Act is very clear: No one can undertake the construction of a pipeline without following the Quebec environmental assessment and review procedure and obtain a certificate of authorization from the Government . David Heurtel became a master in the art of double speeches: he suggested that his government has the last word, but refuses to support our motion that wants to assert it. When it does not comply with the law, it is the environmental groups that force it to comply with it. We will remain vigilant: the Liberal government will have to be firmly faced with the pressure of the rest of Canada and TransCanada when it comes time to make a decision on energy is, "he concluded. 
