Quebec- As last night, the first BAPE hearings concerning the Energy East project, the official opposition officer and deputy of Saint-Jérôme, Pierre Karl Péladeau, lamented that Prime Minister Philippe Couillard persisted not to Defend the interests and laws of Quebec. 
Mr. Péladeau recalls that even though the Prime Minister recognizes that TransCanada does not comply with Quebec's laws, his government has extended environmental authorizations so that the company can achieve seismic surveys in the river. However, strangely, this extension was granted the day before the filing of the transcanada injunction application. "How can the Prime Minister explain that, with one hand, he gives authorizations and that on the other, he filed injunction applications for the same company, for the same project? He asked. 
Let us add that despite the judicial approaches inscribed to enforce the Quebec law, TransCanada has submitted to hearings by invoking only federal laws. "Absolutely nothing has been mentioned as to the laws and regulations that should be established here in Quebec. It should not be surprised at the attitude of the company, which argues that it was the agreement that it had negotiated with the Minister of the Environment in the spring of 2015: the holding of a facade baped, for Save appearances. The Prime Minister shall quickly clarify the situation, since his Government, on the one hand, filed an application for an injunction before the courts and, on the other hand, accepted that this BAPE will be held outside the requirements set by the Law, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"Was a project notice filed by the company? The answer is no. Have impact studies have been produced? Does this BAPE lead to government authorization? The answer is always no. The Prime Minister, leaving this facade bupe continued, overnight at his own cause. Why does Philippe Couillard do not require the company to respect our laws? Why does not he start a real BAPE? The evidence is made that what is currently taking place is only a public relations exercise of the Government and TransCanada, which is forced to deposit or plan of emergency measures, or notice of project, nor study of impact. Philippe Couillard must require the company to provide all the information, to enlighten Quebeckers, "insisted the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
