Quebec- Following the publication of the Final Report of the Ontario Energy Board on the Impacts of the Eastern Energy Pipeline, the member for Marie-Victorin and official opposition spokesman energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, as well as the member for Jonquière and Spokesperson for Sustainable Development and Environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, exhort the Prime Minister Philippe Couillard to defend the interests of Quebec in S opposing the ambitions of TransCanada. 
"The leader of the NDP is wrong when he says the energy project may be winning. It's wrong! Energy is harmful for Quebeckers. The report of the Ontario Energy Board strengthens our position: it confirms that there is a blatant imbalance between the economic, modest, and environmental risks, "said Bernard Drainville. 
"A real BAPE must be set up. Quebeckers must have decision-making power; We can not content ourselves with a simple role as a stakeholder at the National Energy Board. The assessment of the overall impact of the energy project is on climate change has been the subject of a unanimous motion of the National Assembly. The government can not do it and need to change the mandate of the BAPE. The Ontario report also indicates that any spill in the Outaouais River or in the St. Lawrence River, especially if it is important, must be given special attention in terms of drinking water supply, " Added Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"The Ontario Energy Board also corroborates the severe judgment rendered by the Energy Régie in its Report on the Energy Project: its realization would have a negative impact on the supply of natural gas and would result in a Increase in consumer prices, "pursued Bernard Drainville. 
The Parti Québécois recalls that Ontario has spent 15 months reviewing the project. "On the side of the Government of Philippe Couillard, only four small months have been granted to BAPE to carry out the exercise. In addition, it will not have any comprehensive impact study from the promoter at the beginning of public hearings. By supporting the Energy Pipeline project, the CCP, the NDP, the PLC and the Quebec Liberal Party put Alberta and Canadian interests in Quebeckers, "concluded Sylvain Gaudreault. 
