Quebec- The hon. Member for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, and the member for Jonquière and spokesperson for sustainable development and environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, are very concerned about the provisions of the union of professional and Government of Quebec professionals, who today asserts in the media that the employees of the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment and the Fight Against Climate Change fear for their careers, following the FIASCO in the management of the file. TransCanada. 
"While the Prime Minister closes the forum on the fight against bullying, David Heurtel lets an unmanageable situation for his department. Intimidation must stop. This law of silence and this lack of transparency are worrying for the public service and the population, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"The Prime Minister must now take the situation in his hand and to scrape his minister who continues to refuse an independent investigation into the process of granting the Certificate of Authorization to TransCanada. What we see from this government is very worrying for the future; Ministers intimidate managers and want to "put them pitch". In order to put an end to this climate of fear, the Liberal government should commit to introducing a bill to protect whistleblowers, "continued Stéphane Bédard. 
The president of the union has indeed made very disturbing comments for the public service in the newspaper of Quebec: "There is a lot of nervousness in the air. People are afraid for their jobs. Nobody dares to speak. It is an Omerta, the law of silence. He even added: "The one who is bracking pays the price. Whoever acted in the sense of political interest is rewarded. This is the cancer that eats our public service. » 
"We asked for an independent investigation and was refused by the government. What is learned today is added to the important grass given by the Superior Court to David Heurtel. He must hear right and trigger this investigation. We must go deeply things and know what happened. The minister must stop being the TransCanada minister to become that of Quebecers, "concluded Sylvain Gaudreault. 
