Quebec, April 13, 2021 -The MEP of the Madeleine Islands and spokespersons of the Quebecois Health Party, Joël Arseneau, is concerned about the negative effects of the OPTILAB project, which centralize laboratory analyzes; The fears expressed for years materialize and, in some cases, the situation is even worse than we apprehended. 
IN SHORT 
- the centralization of laboratory analyzes driven by the OPTILAB project has adverse, even dangerous consequences for many patients, including those of the IUCPQ .- The Minister of Health must be open and restore to the IUCPQ. Autonomy, to avoid the relocation of analyzes and reduce delays. In general, the government must review the in-depth OPTILab project; It is useless to get to work a bad idea. 
The OPTILAB project, introduced in 2017 by the Liberal government, aimed at centralizing laboratory analyzes. At that time, apart from the PLQ, no one wanted. Not even the CAQ that, twice, went so far as to ask for a moratorium. "Patients, institutions, health professionals and opposition parties feared, inter alia, to see the deadlines longer because of a bureaucratic heaviness; It was unfortunately proven, and the situation is even even worse than the worst scenarios envisaged, "said the member. 
Recently, the Academic Institute of Cardiology and Pneumology in Quebec City (IUCPQ) claimed that the autonomy of its laboratories. "The minister responded that IUCPQ specialists should" live with "Optilab, even refusing to meet with his representatives. In other words, the minister is of the opinion that the IUCPQ must compose with an elongation of response times, the loss of blood samples, a delay in the care of the patients, an elongation of the time of treatment or adjustment. Therapeutic and, ultimately, with an increase in the patient's mortality rate. All this, while the IUCPQ, a national flagship, has all the expertise needed to make its own laboratory tests! , "Said Joël Arseneau. 
The member deplores that the minister has thus cut off the exchange and any negotiation. "His argument that one must not create from above, does not hold the road; The Sainte-Justine CHU, he found the autonomy of his laboratories, just like the Montreal Cardiology Institute. It's stubbornly, purely and simply. The CAQ has chosen to perpetuate the liberal heritage, which is in this case dangerously ineffective for many Quebec patients, "he considers. 
The Parti Québécois asks the Government to listen to experts, to restore the IUCPQ the agility and decision-making autonomy required to meet the specific and evolving needs of its patients, and to undertake, for the future, an analysis in-depth Optilab's operating mode. 
- 30 - 
SOURCE : 
Laura Chouinard-Thuly 
Press Officer 
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois 
514 880-9594 
Laura.c After i's -t care liquid @as is NAT. Second. Wipe 
