Quebec- The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, now gives the kick-off of the 125th National Agricultural Order Contest (ONMA) . Also invite farmers and farmers in the Abitibi-Témiscamingue-Nord-du-Québec, Lower St. Lawrence, Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine, Saguenay-lake. Saint-Jean and the North Shore to register by 1 May 2014 to take part in this major activity where the Government of Quebec recognizes their commitment, their determination and their know-how. 
"This prestigious activity has a special character in 2014, since it is the 125th year that the department pays tribute to women and men who embody our agriculture in what it has noblem. These people have been working for years, sometimes even generations, to offer us original products and quality we can all be proud of. A contest like that of the National Order of Agricultural Merit highlights not only their talent, but also the extent of their contribution to the prosperity of the bioalimentary sector, "said Francois Gendron. 
During the next summer, teams of experienced judges appointed by the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food will present themselves on the very scene of agricultural enterprises listed in the contest to carry out an assessment. For farmers and farmers who wish to further progress and improve, the contest also represents a unique opportunity to open the doors of their business and to submit their work to a team of experts to draw a clear wearing . 
The Federated Coop and the Promutuel Group, loyal partners, also contribute to the success of the ONMA, particularly by awarding special rewards. 
"The Prize La Coop Federated Agri-Environment highlights the creativity and passion of agricultural producers from here that endeavor to adopt good agri-environment practices in the management of their exploitation," said Denis Richard, President of the Coop. federated. 
"Promutuel is proud to maintain - for 23 years already! - its partnership with the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. The support of the National Order of Agricultural Merit allows us to lead the projectors on the remarkable work of Farmers and Farmers of Quebec. Again this year, to highlight the importance that promotes grants to farm security, we will give the promutorial merit of prevention to farmers who have been particularly distinguished in terms of prevention in their daily activities, "has Classified by Omer Bouchard, Chairman of the Promutuel Group Board of Directors. 
Also mention the participation in the contest of two sponsors and a partner, namely Saputo and the land of us as well as the Saint-Hyacinthe Agriculture Fair. 
Note that the winners of the 125th ONMA contest, at the regional level and nationally, will be honored during the Galas to be held next fall. In addition, national winners will be decorated on the occasion of a ceremony that will take place in the Hotel's Legislative Board of Parliament, Quebec City. 
In order to register, farmers and farmers of Abitibi-Témiscamingue-Nord-du-Québec, from the Bas-Saint-Laurent, Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine, Saguenay-Lac-Saint- Jean and the North Shore must own one or more agricultural enterprises. As of May 1, 2014, they must carry out activities in their field or have led it in the previous five years. 
For more information, please contact your Agricultural Advisor or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food at www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/onma. 
