Quebec - the title deputy of Drummond and sentence of the official opposition in immigration and language, Yves-François Blanchet, asks the Government of Canada not to expel Paola Ortiz. The Government of Canada refuses refugee status to this Quebecist from Mexico, married to a Quebecker and mother of two children born in Quebec, occupying a job in Montreal, despite the violence suffered in the hands of his ex-spouse. Mexico. "Once again, are we dealing with an extreme ideological position of the Conservatives in Ottawa? ", Questioned the member.
The Parti Québécois recognizes that requests for refugee status are still a federal jurisdiction, but as Quebec issued a Certificate of Selection of Quebec to Ms. Ortiz, Yves-François Blanchet insists: "It would be the least of the things the Canadian government. Incils and suspends his approach of eviction. We can be from right and a little human! "," Said Yves-François Blanchet.
The official opposition is concerned about the silence of the Minister of Immigration, Kathleen Weil, who seems resigned to passively watching Ms. Ortiz returned to the plane, under the eyes of his impotent children and many groups of civil society. "Ms. Weil's weakness is manifest. This eviction is contrary to all the values ​​it should defend: gender equality, since this woman was a victim of domestic violence, the meeting of families, since we have the odious to divide a family already well integrated into Quebec However, a feeding submission to the federal authority and a mere inconsistency in the face of the expressed desire to receive immigrants whose integration involves work within the host society. I implore the minister to intervene energetically. "
"I invite the citizens of Quebec to make their voices heard, concluded the hon. Blanchet. Thousands of e-mails, social media messages, open letters, open lines, everything must be deployed. We will do it at the National Assembly. Ms. Ortiz has the right to live his new life in Quebec with his family and we hope that thousands of new Quebeckers can do the same. " 
