Laval- Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is pleased to have taken part in the regional gala for the awards of the National Order Competition Agricultural merit (ONMA), which was held today at the Sheraton Laval Hotel. During this traditional celebration, he wished to highlight the exceptional know-how of farmers and farmers in the regions of Laurentians, Montreal-Laval-Lanaudière and the Outaouais, regions that formed the territory referred to in the 124th edition of the contest. 
"I'm happy to be here, among women and passionate men, and it is with pride that I pay tribute to their remarkable work and, above all, to their ability to innovate. Because it's mostly thanks to these engaged and dynamic people that our Quebec bioalimentary industry is also flourishing and represents a powerful engine of Quebec's economy, "said Francois Gendron. 
This year, 82 competing groups have applied for: 40 came from the Laurentides, 19 of Montreal-Laval-Lanaudière and 23 of the Outaouais. Of this number, nine have been crowned great national winners. Bronze, silver and gold medals, corresponding respectively to the knight, officer and commander decorations, were awarded. The Minister also attributed special references in the categories of female succession, agrotourism and agricultural training of the succession. 
"The diversity of applications received this year illustrates the wealth and vitality of our agriculture. The work you make on a daily basis allows Quebeckers to feed on fresh food, good for health and coming from here. Our government has launched the policy of food sovereignty, last May, to allow you to occupy the place that comes back to you on the Quebec market, but also abroad. We have also announced concrete measures concerning agricultural succession, serrol production, the protection of our agricultural land and the access of Quebec food products to major distribution networks, "added the minister. 
In addition to the department, other contest partners emphasized the excellence of participants. The Promutuel Group has acknowledged the promutorial merit of prevention to members of the group competitor the Montairview Gaznières Ltd., which have distinguished themselves through their efforts in prevention and safety at the farm. The Federated Coop has, for its part, awarded the price La Coop Fédérée to the agri-environment to the owner of the Herbalisterie the key of the Champs inc., For the respect of the environment which it shows in the conduct of its activities . 
Other partners have allowed the success of this 124th edition of the National Agricultural Order Competition, as collaborators, Saputo, the land of our home and Hydro-Québec and, as a partner, The Fair of Agriculture. 
Recall that the National Order of Agricultural Merit is a real institution in the middle of Quebec agriculture. Since 1890, he has recognized the work of women and men who shape the Quebec's bioalimentary industry. For the purposes of the competition, Quebec, because of its extent, has been divided into five territories of one or more regions and each of the territories welcomes the competition, so every five years. This alternation not only makes it possible to judge the competitors within a reasonable period of time, but also to give them equal opportunities by preventing the advantages of climatic conditions or the particularities of the soils of a given area does not distort the results. 
On November 1, national winners will be invited to receive, from the hands of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron, decorations and prices on the occasion of A ceremony that will take place at the Legislative Council Room of Parliament, Quebec City. 
Let us mention that the official photographs of the awards and the rankings of the participating agricultural enterprises will be published in the Ministry's website, atwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/onma, in the coming days. 
To learn more about the policy of food sovereignty, the blogwww.politicalsa.gouv.qc.caou page www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesadu site of the department. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the addresssetwitter.com / Mapaquebec. 
