Quebec- This morning in a press briefing, the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the Quebec's social services, Jean-François Lisée, the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, and the member for René-Lévesque, Martin Ouellet, shot the alarm bells about the lack of funding that threatens the sustainability of oxygen homes, a help resource for men in difficulty with children. MEPs were accompanied by Mr. Manuel Prats, President of the Oxygen Houses Network, as well as General Managers of Oxygen Houses in several regions of Quebec. 
"Thanks to the work of dozens of people who bear oxygen homes at the end of the arms, resources that help people in difficulty with children, fathers have been able to resume their lives in hand. Unfortunately, by refusing to support them, as it does for homes aimed at women, the Liberal government abandons them. Consequence: the survival of the oxygen houses is at risk, and the 300 fathers they accompanied in 2015 find themselves without support, "denounced Jean-François Lisée. 
MPs remind a single oxygen home out of the eleven network the network is recognized and funded. Some houses were supported by the Crés, and others will see their funding to end in 2019, whereas the collective future child support project will end. 
"Oxygen homes, like heart hostels, support men in difficulty with children to avoid themselves on the street, promote the resolution of family conflicts and reintegration into the family of men. Breaking, or helping men recreate significant links that can stimulate them to invest in a life project. The financial instability that affects it is a brake on the maintenance of current resources and their potential development; We must remedy it, "said Carole Poirier for his part. 
"The Oxygen House of Baie-Comeau, just like many in Quebec, is currently in danger. Others have already had to close or reduce their services. This is a serious problem in our region. There are families who need support, fathers in distress that must be accompanied in difficult situations. These people are entitled not only to services, but to local services, located in their living environment, "he insisted Martin Ouellet. 
"The community community can count on the support of the Parti Québécois. Oxygen homes must be able to benefit from PSOC and, in order to do this, the program must be enhanced, as the Liberal Party is asked by voting in favor of a motion in this direction, in May 2013, "have concluded members. 
