Quebec- The member for Lac-Saint-Jean and spokesman for the Parti Quebec in education, research and school perseverance, Alexandre Cloutier, takes note of the Volte-face of the Minister of Education, François Blais, In the file of the fight against the dropout, and asks him to quickly implement his commitment to save the entire network of regional consultation bodies (IRCs) on school perseverance and educational success. 
"The Minister of Education returns to reason and makes the commitment, at the National Assembly, to save" the whole network "of 20 regional organizations that fight against school dropout in Quebec. Although I greet this volte-face, time is pressing. At the moment when we speak, nearly half of the organizations have already closed their doors, while the others have made significant reductions in their workforce. The school year begins, and services are no longer offered to students or their parents. The minister must act quickly, "said Alexander Cloutier. 
The member for Lac-Saint-Jean recalled that many partners - the youth secretariat, elected regional conferences, regional youth forums, school boards, CEGEPs, universities, etc. - participated in the financing of IRCs before being abolished or victims of the liberal government cuts. "The Minister of Education must unlock the amounts needed to replace these contributions if he wishes to preserve the entire network and respect his commitment," he said. 
The Québécois party, however, deplores improvisation that disrupted all the actors of academic success in Quebec in recent months. "It was necessary to denounce the situation so that the government act. It was not until the closure of several organizations, the disengagement of dozens of employees and the official opposition intervention so that the government finally makes it pulled in the foot by cutting in the fight against stall. If the Minister of Education had listened to more people on the ground from the outset, we would not be there, "concluded Alexander Cloutier. 
