Montréal - The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, and his Special Adviser Paul St-Pierre Plamondon, have unveiled the 156 recommendations from the consultationosez rethink the PQQui was held from November 2016 until April 2017. 
This report is intended to continue the renewal of the Quebecois party, already on the move since the arrival of the new Chief: "We had bet that openness and transparency would recruit members under 40 years of age. Since December 2016, it has been 4,003 young people who have joined the Parti Québécois, moving their total from 12,680 to 16,683, an increase of 31% in less than six months. With our proposals, we are confident that we will continue in this direction, "said Paul St-Pierre Plamondon Special Adviser. 
In the last few months, the Parti Québécois has formulated several constructive and uncomfortable proposals to better integrate populations from diversity to Quebec society.Sead rethink also the mandate to find ways to better integrate diversity in not only The company, but also within the Parti Québécois. "The 20 measures for the integration we launched on February 6 are important for Quebec and we are not the only ones to think as several measures have been not different stakeholders. The report proposes to confirm this position with the establishment of the Permanent Monitoring Committee on the integration and the fight against discrimination and racism, so as to ensure a firm follow-up. The Parti Québécois is categorical in its commitment to diversity, "added Jean-François Lisée. 
The report also proposes essential measures to support entrepreneurs, including more support and support for businesses to ensure a successful launch, but also for easier growth through lighter bureaucracy and more efficient transitions. SMEs are the spine of our economy. The SME priority team, a trio of entrepreneurs deputies, aims at promoting these initiatives and contribute to making Quebec companies emerging from major players in the Quebec and global economy. 
The renewal of the Parti Québécois in brief: 
To download the PDF, Consultpq.org/osez 
