Montreal- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, and the President and CEO of Investissement Québec, Mr. Mario Albert, are proud to announce the opening of a Investment Office Québec in Seoul, South Korea, whose economic growth suggests a fruitful collaboration for Quebec. 
"For the last 20 years, South Korea has experienced economic growth among the most dynamic players in today's global economy," said Minister Zakaib. "Korean companies are likely to achieve many expansion projects in Quebec because of the competitive advantages we can offer. The opening of this office in Seoul will allow investment Québec to attract quality investments in key sectors and thus contribute to Quebec's prosperity. » 
The President and Chief Executive Officer of Investissement Québec today met in Montreal the Consul General of the Republic of Korea, Mr. Donghwan Choi, and they threw together the basis for a collaboration that promises diversified and promising. 
"We see an ever-growing number of Quebeckers who are interested in the Republic of Korea and who wish to do business with us," Choi said, who is also ambassador and permanent representative to the Council of the Organization of the international civil aviation. "I see very much productive links to weave in key areas where we share sharp skills, such as the sectors of the mining industry, aerospace, land transport, information technology, biotechnology and Pharmaceutical industry. Quebec expertise and the offer of Quebec in these sectors are very attractive to the industrialists and investors of my country. » 
"We find in South Korea several global industrial groups of all sizes, which we will target and discover that Quebec has the assets needed to contribute to their success in North America," said Albert. 
Mr. Dongho Lee was chosen as head of the Quebec Investment Office in Seoul, which is installed on the premises of the Quebec Antenna in Seoul. Native of this great city, Mr. Lee graduated from the University of Georgetown and has many years of experience on Wall Street and in large Korean companies, including Samsung and LG. 
Investissement Québec's mission is to promote investment growth in Quebec, thus contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The company puts companies with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity capital investment, in order to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, it is responsible for the administration of tax measures and prospecting investments abroad. 
