Quebec- The member for Vachon and the official opposition spokesman for transport, transportation and maritime strategy, Martine Ouellet, the member for Verchères and Spokesperson for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, and the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the metropolis, Jean-François Lisée, find the inability of the Minister of Transport, Robert Poëti, to defend the interests of Quebecers in the toll file on the new Champlain Bridge. 
Last Monday, the Conservative Minister Denis Lebel opened the door to a toll not only on the Champlain Bridge, but also on the bridges Jacques-Cartier and Mercier. However, a Secret Steer Davies Gleave study, as well as a report by the Parliamentary Director of the Canada Budget demonstrate the impact of the transfer of users on other bridges with, as an announced result, a monster traffic on those -this. 
"By opening the door to a toll on the three federal bridges of the South Shore, Ottawa has gone from an uncompromising position about the toll on the Champlain Bridge to an arrogant position towards the South Shore workers. Meanwhile, the one who is supposed to be on the front line to defend the interests of Quebec, the Minister poeti, in all his casualty, does not even deign to read the toll studies. This blind governance is troubling, "said Martine Ouellet. 
"The minister poeti himself said that they do not need to read the toll studies, while they would give him ammunition to defend us. A responsible minister would not only have required the federal government to make all the documents, but also would also order a study on the impact of a toll on the three federal bridges to reinforce the position of Quebec, "added Jean-François Lisée . 
"The Minister Poeti said against the imposition of a toll on the Champlain Bridge, but it is obviously not speech to the acts! For him, the relations with the federal government summarize to take beautiful photos with his counterpart and to broadcast them on Facebook. Meanwhile, the Federal The Nargue considering tolls on two other bridges! Obviously, "the liberal effect", which seems to take place of the only strategy for the minister against Ottawa, not only does not have the expected results, but we can even talk about extremely harmful impacts for the great metropolitan area. We therefore ask the Minister Poeti to recover and get the tools that will allow him to adequately defend Quebec, "concluded Stéphane Bergeron. 
