Québec- The official opposition spokespersons for transport, Martine Ouellet, and for the metropolis, Jean-François Lisée, want to reaffirm that Stephen Harper must change position and retreat on the question of the toll on the future bridge Champlain. They thus join their voices to those of the Mayor of Montreal, Denis Coderre, and the population of the metropolitan area. 
The Parti Québécois also calls on the Couillard Government to clearly display the priority for Quebec the absence of a unilateral federal toll on the Champlain Bridge. 
"Minister Robert Poëti said another 4 years to find a solution. It is unacceptable that the government will wait so long and lets pass the political opportunity that will be next year. It is now that he must act to support the coalition of local and regional partners and mayors as well as to build a consequent balance of force, "said Martine Ouellet. The toll on the Future Champlain Bridge would have too much negative impacts so that we can afford to take the situation lightly. » 
The Liberal government must explain how it plans to defend the regional consensus and how it intends to make the reason for the federal government. If he actually shares the position opposing the toll, the Minister Poeti must defend it energetically and now. 
Before and since their election, the Liberals claimed that they could advance the Champlain Bridge's record thanks to their "particular affinity" with the federal government, they said. However, they received the same purpose of non-reception that all other speakers before them. 
"Courtesy meetings with Minister Lebel will not suffice," said Jean-François Lisée. The Couillard Government should indicate quickly that in the absence of a change in Ottawa Cap on this issue, it will toll a priority issue for Quebec during the federal election next year. » 
"The Champlain Bridge is a major transport infrastructure for the economy and GDP of all Quebec. To impose a toll would mark all other arteries of access to Montreal. The disadvantages are numerous; Everyone agrees on that. The Liberal government must defend this consensus and act without delay, "said members. 
