Québec, the 20th of April 2020 - the member for Bonaventure and spokespersons of the Parti Québécois in higher education, Sylvain Roy, asks the Government of Quebec to put in place as soon as possible support measures for students. Students from higher education institutions who live difficulties and who do not have access to aid measures. 
IN SHORT 
For students, the CVIV-19 crisis is particularly strong. "In addition to living uncertainty as to their academic success or diploma, thousands of them are not eligible for the financial assistance measures announced by governments. However, financial precariousness and indebtedness are not paths that lead to peace of mind, "first mentioned the hon. Member for Bonaventure. 
This is all the more concerned that many students live special situations, which can come further increase their level of stress. "Some are parents; others, researchers or trainees. Many come from other countries, or have academic difficulties. In addition, the student reality varies greatly from one region to another, even from one institution to another. Far from major centers, resources are sometimes hardly accessible, and there is often a gap between what is offered to private students compared to what is public students. All this causes anxiety; We must intervene, "he continued. 
Anxious to reassure and support students in this period of crisis, the Parti Québécois asks the Government to quickly put in place the following actions, as identified by the student associations: 
For Sylvain Roy, no effort should be made to reduce uncertainty and anxiety in the student community, which was already facing mental health issues before the CVIV-19 crisis. "We need to be flexible enough to prevent students from abandoning their classes, and assure them that they will have access to cash to get through the crisis. And you have to do it with total clarity. If nothing is done, we will go straight to the financial precariation of thousands of promising young people, and to recording rates of stall; This would ultimately have disastrous consequences for all of Quebec society. I therefore ask the Minister of Education and Higher Education to put in place the measures we propose; He will ensure, thus, to support students in their academic career, so as to lead them on the other side of the crisis, "concluded the hon. Member for Bonaventure. 
