Quebec, on the name of the deputies of his political formation, the parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois, Pascal Bérubé, gives his support to the decision announced today by the Government of Quebec to prohibit any non-essential circulation between the peripheral regions and large centers. It also calls for all citizens of Quebec: this important record must be respected. 
IN SHORT 
"The opinion of our regional public health directors is clear: the main threat, for peripheral regions, now comes from those more densely populated, where there is now a community transmission of the disease. In the interest of living citizens further from major urban centers, it is necessary to apply this new directive, "said the parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois immediately. 
Pascal Bérubé points out that in terms of medical staff and equipment, peripheral regions do not have the same resources as Montreal and Quebec. "In the regions like mine, the Bas-Saint-Laurent, we must compose every day with this reality; As a result, in the current context, we must do everything possible to limit the number of additional patients to our hospitals and clinics. Restrict traffic will help reduce the number of cases in the region, therefore to achieve this goal, "he added. 
The hon. Member, however, wants to be reassuring: "Do not worry; Essential displacements will remain permits. We will ensure that the airlines, maritime, rail and roads are maintained for the transportation of goods that are necessary and people are not covered by the prohibition. On this subject, by the way, the service interruptions recently announced by certain carriers, including Air Canada and Keolis, concern to Mr. Bérubé: "We are in constant communication with the government so that solutions are found," ensures. -he. 
Finally, the members of the Parti Québécois are reminiscent of citizens that the state of status and up-to-date guidelines are available forbec.ca / coronavirus. "Thank you to each of you for all the efforts you make, and for all the sacrifices to which you consent in the name of the common good. Let's continue to help us, stay strong and united to adversity. And, above all, thank you for respecting the instructions of public health, "concluded Pascal Bérubé. 
