Québec- Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP), Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, wishes to inform the population that it follows very closely the record of the nuisances attributed to companies. Heavy Prairie Industrial Park to ensure environmental compliance with activities that take place there. 
"I am aware of the disadvantages that citizens can suffer and the complex nature of this problem for municipalities. We will not re-write the story of this situation, but we do everything to limit negative impacts. Upon the opening of this file, it appeared to us that it was necessary to adopt a global approach affecting both the types of disadvantages and the relationship between issuers and citizens. That's what I had then engaged publicly. We therefore adopt a particular approach and continue to ensure a constant follow-up so that the quality of life of all residents living near the industrial park is adequate, "said Minister Yves-François Blanchet. 
Recall that, carried out near residential neighborhoods, the activities of this industrial park generate complaints from residents of the sector. In addition to responding to complaints of its jurisdiction, Minister Blanchet ensures that systematic business inspections continue to be carried out to verify and enforce the conditions for issuing authorization certificates issued. 
In addition, the Minister emphasizes that, as part of the entry into force of LALOI amending the Environmental Quality Act to strengthen the respect, the Department has effective means of intervention for Fast facing situations that have an impact on the environment. The main legislative changes plan: 
The Blanchet minister does not exclude any means at his disposal to ensure effective and enhanced environmental protection in these sectors, if any. Several actions are in progress. A business verification tour is an example, as well as the dust sampling program made during the summer to assess the extent of nuisance. In addition, the Department soon plans to carry out noise measures to verify compliance with the standards imposed in this area. If exceedances are noted, the department will use the remedies available to enforce the Environmental Quality Act. The Ministry will encourage special measures that go beyond the legal and regulatory requirements that can further improve the quality of life of residents nearby and to promote new ways of doing things. 
Minister Yves-François Blanchet ensures that all actions are undertaken to reduce all the disadvantages caused by the activities of Candiac and Prairie industrial parks. 
