Quebec-the member for Richelieu and the official opposition spokesman for pension plans, Sylvain Simard, is very difficult to explain the statements by the Minister of Finance, Raymond Bachand, who confirmed at the meeting of the Ministers of Finance. Victoria His interest in Quebec's participation in the new Federal Collective Approved Pension Plan announced less than a month ago by the Conservative government. 
"This position of Raymond Bachand comes completely discredit the work of the committee chaired by the former President of the Desjardins Movement, Alban d'Amours, and formed less than a month ago by his colleague and Minister responsible for the Régie des annuities, Julie Boulet. This committee has just received the mandate to advise the Government on the possibilities of improving the retirement savings of Quebeckers. Why discredit the work of this committee? "Said Sylvain Simard. 
"Several possibilities have been advanced and deserve to be studied seriously. The Minister of Finance does not have to impose Quebec's accession to the Conservative Certificate Authorized Pension Plan that completely evacuates the issue of employers' participation and nature, on a voluntary or mandatory basis, that the new regime could take Québécois retirement savings, "continued the member. 
"In the face of such an important issue concerning at this moment a million Quebeckers who spare nothing more than the obligatory contributions to the Pension Plan and who may find themselves in high poverty in retirement, the Minister of Finance should Shooting more reserve, "he added. 
The hon. Member for Richelieu also recalls that the Quebecois Party was very interested in the formation of an automatic Québécois retirement savings plan with the right to withdrawal. "The formation of an automatic retirement savings plan with the right of withdrawal has demonstrated its effectiveness in several countries of the world. This option, which partly resumes that advanced by Claude Castonguay, like other scenarios advanced by trade union power plants, must be seriously studied. I invite the Minister of Finance to leave the Love Committee the opportunity to hear the interested groups and complement his work before making a rushed decision, "concluded Sylvain Simard. 
