Montreal, November 13, 2017-It was in a most user-friendly atmosphere that last November 13, at the Lionel-Groulx Foundation headquarters, the launch of the returitile else 150e; The story behind the birthday, arising from the operation of the same nomimagined by the leader of the Quebecois party, Jean-François Lisée, and animated by a group of emeritus historians, including co-directors of the book, Michel Sarra- Bournet and Gilles Laporte, the idea being to take advantage of this year of commemoration of the Canadian Federation to promote our national history, declined in 150 facts and events that have occurred since the years surrounding the entry into force of the Act from North America British. The two co-spokesman else 150E, Marie Imalta Pierre Lys and Rod The Stod were present and participated in the animation of the evening. 
Help the Lionel-Groulx Foundation in its mission to promote history 
The Managing Director of Foundation Lionel-Groulx, the host of the evening, Pierre Graveline, after welcoming the many people who have moved for the occasion, emphasized his pride in seeing the initiative associated with the launch of this book. "By our mission centered on the promotion of the history, the language and culture of the Quebec nation, it was very natural for me to associate myself with the launch of this book of the richest by its content, its Images, his memories, "he said. 
One way of perpetuatelso 150E 
The Editing HouseBec America, having noted the seriousness and the reputation of this operation then excessively on social networks, has seized the potential that the other 150EET has expressed the wish to collect texts, images and references for the purpose. to publish it in a book. "Considerable work has been done to reach the success that everyone knows today, thanks to people not only motivated, but above all devoted to the success of a very large project", d 'Add the publishing house representative, Éric St-Pierre. 
The fruit of the rigorous work of dedicated collaborators 
The Verchères and responsible for the other 150th, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, aensuit warmly thanked the many associated collaborators closely or far away. "We left a nice idea, but with little means. We knew that we could not make the weight facing the colossal resources that would be invested by the federal government for the celebrations of the "'Confederation' 'and that we could only rely on a good dose of arm oil and of the Good will.The other150EA nevertheless experienced an indisputable success that we owe to the rigor and dedication of many people, to which I expresses my greatest gratitude. I would particularly like to thank the two co-directors of the book, Michel Sarra-Bournet and Gilles Laporte, who have not spared their efforts so that this book is born and who had the generosity, moreover, of Renouncing any remuneration for the benefit of the Lionel-Groulx Foundation, "declare Stéphane Bergeron. 
Expand the range of the other 150th 
Incidentally, Sarra-Bournet and Laporte Messrs have subsequently pronounced a few words. "We must salute the outstanding contribution of all these people to the success of the project and especially that of the personsantpris leaves to events and capsules.Secouncing collaborations, we have not been Would never have been able to deliver a product with a content of such a high quality, that the one that has been unveiled throughout the year and that takes shape in these pages, "said Mr. Laporte. "This project has allowed, not only, to restore, with objectivity, the veracity of the facts and historical events, but also and above all, I hope, revive the historical and national consciousness of Quebeckers through our various platforms. In particular via the accountstwitter, Facebook, YouTubeou again the website, which will remain online after 2017. It will therefore always be possible to consult the capsules ", chain Michel Sarra-Bournet. 
Take a look at the past to understand the present and project themselves towards the future 
"I wish for a game to highlight the titanic work that has been shot down by this very small team. The results obtained are so far phenomenal, taking into account the lersourcesources available for the implementation and deployment of this project. Despite all the challenges met, the committee has maintained the course and showing a great rigor in the delivery of these 150 facts and events, all remaining remaining stuck on the facts, sometimes in a humorous tone, but always in the goal. to better discover, know and appreciate our national history. Now that the 150Etire to an end, we ask this fundamental question compared to our collective future: do we really want to sign another 150-year-old lease with Canada? To conclude Jean-François Lisée. 
