Québec- "Our participation in the IVEUXSAVoir.com Open project clearly demonstrates the will of our government to promote transparency in the management of public money. This decision clearly reflects our ambition to equip Quebec with a real open government. It is in these terms that the minister responsible for democratic institutions and citizen participation, Mr. Bernard Drainville, announced the payment of $ 10,000 to the North Organization, for the development of a Website for citizens who will make requests for online access to public bodies. These requests for access as well as the documents obtained under the Access to Information Law will be accessible to the entire population, by their dissemination on the sitejeveuxSavory.org. 
Under the coordination of the Secretariat to democratic institutions and citizen participation (SIDPC), the pilot project jewelsavoir.org will apply to five public bodies, from October 2013 to March 2014. The ministries which Will participate are: the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Health and Social Services, the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, the Ministry of Culture and Communications as well as the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks. 
"By facilitating and strengthening access to information from public bodies, our government allows citizens to further exercise their childcare dog role in the management of public money. They will be able to take a greater part in the fight against corruption and the collusion, the fight in which our government has been engaged since its election, "said Bernard Drainville. 
"The culture of the public administration must change. We will continue our efforts to always be more transparent, honesty and integrity in the public administration. Quebecers and Quebeckers ask, we are committed to it and we will continue to deliver the goods. More transparency equals more confidence. And more equal confidence a stronger democracy, "the minister concluded. 
