Montreal- The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, and the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élaine Zakaïb, today announced the launch of the partnership project for Personalized medicine in Quebec cancer (PMPC). Investments over $ 21 million is planned for this project, of which $ 11 million will come from private partners and $ 10 million from the Government of Quebec. 
"This partnership hiks Quebec among precursors in the field of personalized medical research, said Minister Marceau. This project will create a pole of international attraction encouraging the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry to be carried out in Quebec its clinical research as well as the design of diagnostic solutions and innovative drugs. By supporting this project, our government is working to give a competitive advantage in Quebec in this sector of the future that is personalized medicine and to strengthen alliances and cooperation between industry players, the research community and the research and universities. This project will also help Quebec to stimulate job creation in the life sciences. » 
"The PMPC will enable us to address significant challenges, such as the efficient integration of new technologies into the health system and the health improvement of cancer people," said Minister Zakaïb. In addition, this project will consolidate Quebec's position in the niche of the fight against cancer, where needs remain important. Thanks to the mobilization of project partners, Quebec has the potential to become, in the coming years, a leader in personalized medicine. » 
The PMPC will propose an integrated approach to the development, validation and implementation of clinical biomarkers to provide better targeted and efficient cancer health care. Biomarkers are indicators that help diagnose a disease, monitor its evolution and predict the action of a medicine or treatment. Project partners will integrate clinical research on advanced technology platforms and numerical solutions, in order to accelerate the validation, marketing and implementation of cancer biomarkers. The project targets several cancers among the most frequent, including lung, colon and breast cancers. 
The PMPC will bring together the strong forces of the Quebec research community, as well as important actors in the private life sciences sector: Pfizer Canada, Sanofi-Aventis Canada, Oncozyme Pharma, TELUS Health Solutions, as well as Caprion Proteoma, A Quebec society recognized worldwide in the development of biomarkers and personalized medicine, which will be entrusted with the follow-up of the implementation of the PMPC project. 
"Personalized medicine will be at the heart of the challenges of the coming decades in the field of health," said Caprion Proteoma President Martin Leblanc. "Thanks to the biomarkers that help predict the probability of therapeutic response, the personalized medicine allows a more precise diagnosis and offers the tools needed to prescribe the most effective drug or treatment for cancer patients. In addition to improving the practice of cancer medicine and treatment, the Cancer Personalized Medicine Partnership will allow Quebec to establish an important cluster of expertise for the development and clinical validation of diagnostic biomarkers. » 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and Economy Saving Component, register for the following RSS feed: www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
