Quebec- The Parliamentary Assistant to the Premier (Transport Electrification Component), Daniel Breton, participated in the 7th edition of Laconference Verdexchange, was held in Los Angeles, from 26 to 28 January. This major event intended for the promotion of green technologies and economy is a preferred forum to make known Quebec expertise and to strengthen relations between Quebec and major players in the industry. 
In a speech in front of some 200 representatives of companies, policy makers and experts, Breton presented the departure of the Government of Quebec's transportation strategy. The parliamentary assistant was also accompanied by Chantal Guimont, Director of Transport Electrification at Hydro-Québec and Jonathan Carley, Vice-President at CO2 Solutions who presented the latest Quebec advanced on green vehicles and techniques. Capture of carbon dioxide. 
In Main Plenary, Mr. Breton recalled that Quebec is the leading market for electric vehicles in Canada with more than 40% of total sales, a position that should remain, among other things, thanks to the incentives offered to consumers and the various initiatives included. in the transport electrification strategy. "We establish rules, introduce policies, develop programs and promising projects, constituting an engine for our businesses to be innovative, imagination and audacity." He argued that Quebec ranks among the most successful States in North America in terms of greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction, including its caps of ceiling and exchange of emissions. Recently harmonized with that of California, and by the fact that hydroelectricity and wind is 98% of its energy source. 
On the sidelines of the conference, Mr. Breton spoke with the Chair of California Air Resources Board (CARB), Mary Nichols, with whom he argued the will of Quebec to work closely with California to promote vehicles. Greens, just as it does in the carbon market file. He also had the opportunity to exchange with the Californian Senate Candidate Robert Hertzberg, as well as with representatives of the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) to explore collaborative tracks in electromobility. 
During his stay, the hon. Member informed about best practices abroad, regulatory frameworks governing electric and autonomous vehicles elsewhere in the world, as well as recent technological breakthroughs. Mr. Breton has encouraged all policy makers to join their efforts with a successful collaboration in transport electrification. "By promoting research initiatives and promoting the rapid integration and marketing of technology, it is the entire international community, economic and sustainable development. ", did he declare. He invited all the high bodies encountered in Montreal in 2016, to take part in the 29th Electric Vehicle Symposium, the largest international forum linked to this industry. 
Remember that the Quebec government has unveiled on November 1, 2013, 2013-2017 Transport Electrification. Transportation electrification is one of the pillars of Quebec's economic policy. Quebec relies on transportation electrification to create jobs, attract investment and generate wealth. 
