Quebec- The member for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, asked the Liberal Prime Minister Philippe Couillard, what requirements he will put to the federal government for the Government of Quebec to agree to the Trans-Pacific Partnership, particularly in this which relates to full compensation for affected agricultural producers. 
"Unfortunately, the fears of our agricultural producers have materialized. Additional imports have been granted in our sectors under supply management, mainly dairy products, but also eggs and poultry. Concern is palpable on the side of the producers affected by these changes. In Quebec, there are 14,000 workers and entrepreneurs who are waiting to see what's the concrete effects of these breaches made in our agricultural model. Would we have been able to do otherwise, to diversify our export markets, to allow US subsidized producers to compete with our entrepreneurs? We will never know it because we are confined to the role of spectators, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
The Leader of the Official Opposition adds that Liberal Prime Minister Philippe Couillard must maintain a balance of power to ensure that Quebec kinds of this agreement. "When an agreement in principle had been announced with Europe, the Government of the Parti Québécois indicated that our final approval was conditional on a satisfactory compensation mechanism for the affected farmers. We are in favor of free trade, but can the Prime Minister give the same insurance to our producers, and indicate that it will approve the agreement only when we have the certainty that the clearing mechanism will be adequate For Quebec and its agricultural producers? , "He continued. 
Quebec standards must be respected 
Pierre Karl Péladeau further recalled that several questions remain, among other things, quality standards that will be applied to imports. "Can the Prime Minister tell us whether, to sell dairy products in Quebec, American producers will have to respect all the standards we impose on our own producers and who are used to guarantee the quality of our products to Quebeckers? Will customs control be applied more strictly? We have no control on that. Will the compensations promised by the federal government be adapted to the reality of our producers? For now, the Prime Minister is unable to answer these questions. It must therefore commit to providing satisfactory answers to Quebecers, before endorsing the transpacific partnership, "he concluded. 
