Montreal - The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, accompanied by the member for Joliette and responsible for mission for relations with civil society, citizen participation and convergence, Véronique Hivon, the president of the Parti Québécois, Raymond Archambault, Raymond Archambault, As well as the President of the Executive of Gouin, François Roberge, presented the decision taken by political formation, or not to submit a candidate for the partial election to come in the riding of Gouin. 
"We could have made a beautiful battle in Gouin, which has long been represented by the Parti Québécois," said Mr. Lisée. But we have to see further than a single partial and make decisions based on more important objectives for Quebec: replace the Liberals in 2018 by a government serving the common good, and prepare Quebec to an appointment with the Independence in 2022. To get there, we must add up our strengths, learn to work together, in the respect of our differences. Presenting a candidate in Gouin, it would be mobilizing the squatal and solidarity activists of the island of Montreal against each other, at the very moment when we reflect, each on our side, to the principle of convergence. It would be counterproductive. » 
The president of the Parti Québécois, Raymond Archambault, indicated that the decision was made last Friday by the national executive of the party. "The 15 regional presidents had been consulted on Thursday and had given a unanimously favorable opinion, then the members of the executive wanted to send, unanimously, a clear signal that the Parti Québécois wishes convergence by doing a strong gesture, "he insisted. 
The hon. Member for Joliette, Véronique Hivon, for her part, said that "today, we spend speech on acts and we make an important gesture, which demonstrates the seriousness of our commitment to convergence. It is a gesture of openness and hope for all those who demand this collaboration. We put aside our purely supportan interests to provide the general interests of progressives and independentists, now and en route to 2018. " 
François Roberge, President of the Executive of the Québécois Party of Gouin, expressed the unanimous support of his executive to the approach. "We were in the preparation of an election and we had an electoral team and quality candidates who could have wearing the colors of the Parti Québécois in Gouin. But we have been convinced that there is an opportunity to make politics otherwise and to go into dialogue mode, "he concluded. 
