Quebec- The member for Berthier and spokesman for the Quebecois party in agriculture, food, SME, entrepreneurship and innovation, André Villeneuve, denounces the important concessions made by the federal government on the management of The offer to reach the transpacific partnership. The agreement, announced this morning, represents a loss of 3.25% of the economic activity for Quebec dairy producers. It will also result in a decline of about 2% for other sectors governed by supply management. 
"Once again, despite some benefits that the federal government will highlight, Quebec is overall weakened by this negotiation that will focus on other agricultural sectors in Canada. These include Quebec's family farms that will be the great losers of the negotiations. With the concessions made by Ottawa, other countries will benefit from the stability of our market, while their governments are subsidizing their industries with billions. These are our 7200 farms of the sectors under the management of the offer that will undergo the consequences. This is what happens when another nation is negotiating in our place business agreements. In addition, we are worried about financial compensation. How will their payments be guaranteed? We will have to wait for the details of the agreement on this subject and make it a thorough analysis. An independent Quebec would have been able to dictate its priorities in these negotiations, "said André Villeneuve. 
Given the absence of Quebec at the negotiating table, the government had to just send it to the Ministers of Agriculture and Economy at the last minute, Pierre Paradis and Jacques Daoust. 
"If we defend our producers was so important for the Liberal government, why did you wait for the ultimate round of negotiations to go on the spot? In previous tricks, remember, Minister Paradis considered that was enough to send letters to Ottawa. The result of its inaction, it is seen today. Significant concessions have been made at the expense of our farmers. Moreover, the Ministers Paradis and Daoust had not even taken note of the agreement before entering the Council of Ministers to discuss it. So, not only did their trip to Atlanta did not prevent the federal government from making significant concessions, but they returned without any information on the content of the agreement, "concluded the member. 
