Saguenay- The Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, wishes to congratulate the winners of the azimuth prices, given in the context of the 10th edition of the annual days of tourist home (JAAT). Mr. Bérubé was in Saguenay last night to give prizes to the winners. 
The azimut awards of yesterday has rewarded innovation in the network of reception venues and tourist information. JAAT participants voted to determine the ranking of the winners of the Gold, Silver and Bronze Azimuths in addition to crowning the person making the most influential tourist personality title in the last ten years. 
The Azimutora rewarded the Quebec Tourist Office for the redeployment of their reception and tourist information. This transformation aimed to bring tourist information to the visitor proactively while offering him a quality welcome. The bold change that has chosen to adopt the Quebec Tourist Office will continue to evolve in a continual way. 
The Azimutargenta was promoted Saguenay for the establishment of a memorable host formula at the Saguenay International Cruise Cruise Quay. Being a young stopover in the international cruise industry, the organization found an original way to put forward local authenticity. The reception of cruise lines is done by the volunteers of the fabulous history of a kingdom. Saguenay has also been awarded the prestigious "Best Port Welcome" price at the 2012 Cruise Insight Awards. 
The awarded Azimutbronzea was awarded to the destination Sherbrooke for the receiving program set up prior to the 2013 Canada Games. The organization has orchestrated a vast training campaign where more than 2000 people in 137 companies and organizations have been trained and sensitized to the importance of their role in tourism reception. 
To emphasize the 10th anniversary of JAAT, a competition to recognize the most influential tourist personality of the last ten years in the network of reception and tourist information has been set up. A consultation throughout the network has identified Ms. Nicole Desrochers as a big winner. This one has led the Quebec Tourist Call Center and chaired the Provincial Hospitality and Tourist Information Committee. 
"I salute the winners and all the names in the running for a prize that, by their passion and determination, help to update the network of reception venues and tourist information and to shine it. The quality of the projects presented this year testifies to the dynamism of the individuals working in the environment, "said Minister Bérubé. 
JAAT stems from a Quebec tourism initiative, in collaboration with the Provincial Hospitality and Tourist Information (CPLART) committee. 
For more information on JAATs: www.tourisme.gouv.qc.ca/activites/jaat 
