More than a few days of work and I can take a little rest. Finally, here and there, because it seems more and more obvious that the summer will be short! 
I can not wait to find myself with my four children and my two little girls all new ... In short, far from the office, reading five newspapers a day and incessant brouhaha. 
It was the first summer where I could enjoy a little home in Charlevoix. On the menu: family time, gardening and cooking, because some say some, I am very skilful to the pans! 
I think, after the political year that Quebec has just lived, we would all have deserved longer holidays. But you know what? Just like you, I can not wait to fight with the liberals of Jean Charest! 
Indeed, I think the sooner the better. When I spend the last months review, I can only be worried about the future of Quebec. The Liberal government has shaken the people's confidence in our institutions, fueled cynicism towards the political class, dilapidated our natural resources and increased Quebec's debt in a draconian way. You have to change government, and quickly! 
But to deserve the confidence of Quebeckers, you have to do more than criticize others. You have to have a vision to propose. Quebec citizens expect their elected officials to defend their values and interests. That their government ensures healthy management of our economy and greater social justice. Quebeckers want to assert themselves, get rich and help each other. More than just changed government, what it takes is to change direction! 
That's what I want to chat with you here. I want to take the time to explain my ideas, to develop my thoughts, as the media context allows us too little often. Some use social media to attract attention or criticize others. I want to use it to go further in our exchanges. 
In addition, is not it more comfortable to do during the summer, take the time to discuss, redo the world for hours and hours taking advantage of good weather? 
So that's what I propose to you if you want to do some room for your holidays. Because we have to enjoy a little ... 
Exchange, let's discuss. Let's live this summer Quebec. A summer of flavors and colors, certainly, but above all, do it wish, a liberating summer! 
