Quebec - The member for Drummond and sentence of the official opposition in the field of culture and communications, Yves-François Blanchet, requests the pure and simple withdrawal of Bill 82, after reading the revelations of yesterday of the The daily La Presse concerning the proximity between the Ministry of Culture and Communications and the Québec Council of Living Heritage (CQPV) when drafting this bill. 
"Minister Christine St-Pierre categorically rejects any modification to the definition of intangible heritage. As a result, it refutes the arguments of Quebec researchers and scientists. As Quebec Minister of Culture and Communications is to wonder for who works? "Said Yves-François Blanchet. 
The member for Drummond recalls that UNESCO adopted a definition of the concept of "intangible heritage" in 2003, which received the consent of 130 signatory countries of the Convention for the safeguarding of intangible cultural heritage. During the consultations carried out by the Minister St-Pierre for the publication of the Green Paper to lead to the reform of the Cultural Property Act, the Minister adopted the definition of UNESCO. Yet, in the wording of Bill 82, the minister, to the surprise of the scientific community, does Volte-face the benefit of a definition that the scientific community denounce. 
The CQPV was the defense of the bill in parliamentary committee and made intense pressure from the official opposition for this bill to be adopted in its current form. His director even criticized the official opposition not to let the bill pass as a. 
According to departmental documents, the CQPV is the second best-funded heritage organization with $ 52,000 in 2010-2011. The minister, assuming the honor presidency, even sponsored $ 12,000 in the conference held last April. Note that Quebec experts were absent from this symposium. 
The proximity between the ministry and the CQPV does not stop there: several people who have been hired by the department or appointed to the Cultural Property Commission have a very privileged link with the organization. 
"The intervention of relatives and officers of the CQPV is such that it is perceived why do they hold as much to this single version of the bill, a version that is against the expertise Quebec and internationally in this area, supported the member for Drummond. The bill and the legislative process are, so to speak, contaminated since the beginning, at the service of interest not at all clear. Or the minister wakes up in time and decides to end this drift or what needs to be understood is that it certainly endorses uncertain local links between the ministry and the CQPV. For the moment, the interests of Quebec heritage and the public good are not well served with Bill 82. It must be withdrawn, "concluded Yves-François Blanchet. 
