Québec - here is the letter that the official opposition leader and deputy of Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, addressed the member for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Martin Lemay, who announced that he will not be a candidate In the next general election. 
"Montreal, March 2, 2012 
Mr. Martin Lemay  Member of Parliament for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques  576 Sainte-Catherine Street is  Office 200  Montreal (Quebec) H2L 2E1 
Dear Colleague, 
On April 10, it will be six years since the voters of Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques chose for the first time to represent them at the National Assembly. I have the intimate conviction that they never regretted their choice. To have walked several times in your riding and for having met many of your fellow citizens, I can testify to their attachment and admiration. And that, you always rendered them well. You have been, and you are always, a member of his fellow citizens, sensitive to their concerns. 
The citizens of Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques can be proud of you and the work you have accomplished. At the National Assembly and the Caucus of the Quebec Party members, your sense of humor, but especially your tenacity to defend the causes that are dear to you have been greatly appreciated by all. I am thinking, among other things, to your constant human rights defense, mainly those of the gay, lesbian and transgender community. How many times did you repeat us that the legal equality of the community who has won hot struggles now had to transform into an equal fact that it was continually fighting against discrimination. 
Your passion for our metropolis will have left no one indifferent. Montreal could count on you to defend his interests. You constantly remember that the problems of Montreal must be addressed in a particular way. That's why I believe, that you have been so effective in your interventions when it comes to roaming. With our members of Parliament in Montreal, you have delivered a constant battle to get a roaming policy from the government. 
A true story book on two legs, you reminded us daily sometimes forgotten passages from our national history. Quebeckers must be proud of what they have completed for more than 400 years. When you talk to us about the history of our people, you remember in a magisterial and singular way that we have historical baggage to achieve great things for humanity. It is this in-depth knowledge of the story that makes you an effective promoter for Quebec's independence. This cause you have for more than 20 years has been enriched by your political involvement. Now you have made the choice to promote another way. I know I can and that the Quebecois party can always count on you. 
I sincerely thank you with the work you have accomplished and I am convinced that our paths will come together on many occasions. 
The leader of the official opposition, 
Original signed 
Pauline Marois » 
