Québec- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb, will lead an economic and commercial mission to Mexico from 26 to 29 June. A group of business people and leaders from sixty companies and organizations, as well as a dozen representatives of research and higher education, will also take part. 
The main objective of this economic and commercial mission, the first one made by Ms. Marois, is to consolidate and increase economic and institutional exchanges with this Latin American country with excellent business opportunities for Quebec. "Québec's economic vitality and prosperity goes through the strengthening of our relations with leading partners such as Mexico, a member of the North American Free Trade Agreement with which we have multiplied trade in the areas of The economy, education and culture for more than three decades, "said the premier. 
"Mexico is a very interesting market for several Quebec companies in search of new opportunities for their products or services, particularly in the most innovative and high value-added sectors. This mission will be an opportunity for them to initiate discussions with a view to making strategic alliances or establishing new agreements, "said Minister Zakaïb. 
The Quebec delegation will first go to Guadalajara, the capital of Jalisco, a priority state with whom Quebec has signed a cooperation agreement in October 2009. The Prime Minister will eventually head in the capital, Mexico, where it will have interviews with the main political authorities of the federal government. Ms. Marois will also act as a speaker at a conference lunch that will focus on the North American Quebec-Mexico partnership. 
In 2012, Mexico was the 5th World Partner of Quebec and 1st in Latin America; Trade in property between Quebec and Mexico was $ 4.9 billion, up 11.2% from the previous year. The number of Quebec companies that export today to Mexico has almost quadrupled since 2000. 
Consult the [Photo Album] [2] of the Economic Mission of the Prime Minister in Mexico. 
