Montreal- The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, announces the creation of a committee on sovereignty whose vice-presidency will be assumed by the Head of the Bloc Québécois, Daniel Paillé. This reflection group will have the mandate to prepare an action plan to make Quebec a country as soon as possible. 
This announced Pauline Marois when she speaked in front of the students of the Université de Montréal as part of the Week of Sovereignty. "This committee that I will chair will work to develop the strategy of an action plan and the means to be used to carry out the most exciting project for Quebec," she said. 
"To achieve sovereignty, you have to convince and motivate. Every day, the Harper government provides us with tangible evidence that the values that the Conservatives defeat and ours are very different and that only an independent Quebec can fully ensure its economic, social and cultural development. By updating studies on sovereignty, we will be more able to prove it to Quebecers, "said Daniel Paillé. 
At the approach of the election campaign, Pauline Marois launched a call to the unity of all sovereignists. "To make Quebec a country, we have to fulfill two conditions, she said, explaining that we must first win the next election and then build a sovereignist majority. To fulfill these conditions, you have to work together. Like René Lévesque said, you have to go out, speak and convince. The Parti Québécois is the only political formation capable of taking power and to pass the dream country project to reality. " 
Daniel Paillé stressed that the Conservative government of Stephen Harper is the most destructive for Quebec since that of Pierre Elliott Trudeau in the 1980s. "The abolition of the gun registry, the appointment of unilinguals Anglophones to strategic positions, the C-10 law that goes against our values in terms of justice, particularly with regard to young offenders, the reduction of Quebec's weight in the Federation and the abandonment of the Kyoto Protocol are as many actions posed by the Conservatives against Quebec's interests, "he recalled. 
"To defend Quebec, there is on one side the Liberal-Caquist tandem and the other, the Parti Québécois. We are the only political training that promises to fight for Quebec and against the assaults of the Conservative bulldozer. On the other side, Jean Charest and François Legault promise the status quo and do not want any way to undertake the battle against the Stephen Harper government. Together, we can counteract federal policies by giving us a sovereignist government and realize the only real change for Quebec, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
