Québec - Here is the letter that the leader of the official opposition, Pauline Marois, addressed today to the Prime Minister of Canada, Stephen Harper, with respect to the gun register. 
"Montreal, February 17, 2012 
The Right Honorable Stephen Harper  Prime Minister of Canada  80 Wellington Street  Ottawa, Ontario K1A 0A2 
The Prime Minister, 
As you know, it is following the Polytechnic drama in December 1989 that the desire to better control the possession and circulation of firearms has led to the creation of the firearms register. A deficient management has irritated many taxpayers and many hunters. However, the constitution of the data files is now completed and the administrative cost of this control tool has become almost zero. 
The registry is very useful and, according to the police, it allows to save lives. This explains why your government's decision to abolish the firearms register is unanimously dismissed by the elected representatives of the Quebec National Assembly and by a vast majority of Quebec elected representatives of the House of Commons. 
We proposed, and the Quebec government with us, to create a Quebec Firearms Registry. To move forward without having to initiate prohibitive expenses, the elected representatives of the National Assembly asked you to preserve the integrity of the data from Quebec. Unfortunately, your government has announced its intention to destroy these data. 
Quebeckers have disbursed hundreds of millions to build these files that are essential for the creation of a Quebec Firearms Registry and transfer them to Quebec will not cost your government. All we ask your government is to let Quebec act freely. 
The official opposition asked Prime Minister Jean Charest to meet you to plead the cause of Quebec, but he refused. As Leader of the Official Opposition, I am willing to go to Ottawa to meet you on this subject or to welcome you to Montreal or Quebec City. I sincerely wish you will accept this meeting that would demonstrate your respect for the Quebec nation. 
Please accept, Mr. Prime Minister, my best regards. 
The leader of the official opposition, 
Original signed 
Pauline Marois » 
