Paris- At the beginning of his first mission in France, the Prime Minister of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, spoke with the President of the French Republic, François Hollande. At a joint press briefing with the Chairman, the Prime Minister emphasized Quebec's attachment to France as well as his government's desire to further deepen this historical link. 
"I always said that the president would choose his words and this morning he chose his words by telling you that he was always at our side and that this solidarity relationship was going to perpetuate. Quebec is more than ever willing to invest in this exceptional relationship, which belongs to our citizens even more than our governments, "said the premier. 
Ms. Marois traded with President Holland on issues of common interest, such as youth, professional mobility between Quebec and France, and the Global Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union. "We launched the basics of a new stage based on innovation and cultural and economic creativity in order to concretely devote the uniqueness of our relationship," said Pauline Marois. 
The Prime Minister and the President also discussed the conclusions of the XIV Summit of La Francophonie held in Kinshasa, to whom they took part, including those relating to respect for human rights and gender equality. The Prime Minister expressed Quebec's interest in multiplying its bonds of economic cooperation and solidarity with the Francophonie. 
In the afternoon, the premier met with the President of the National Assembly, Claude Bartolone, who was accompanied by other members. On this occasion, she hailed the contribution of parliamentarians to Franco-Quebec exchanges, especially through the France-Quebec friendship group. 
"Assizes of democracy, our parliamentary institutions are privileged witnesses of the major social, political and economic issues that animate our societies. As such, they make a noticeable contribution to the rich dialogue between Quebec and France, "concluded the Prime Minister. 
