Québec - On the occasion of the commemoration of the death of René Lévesque, the official Leader of the official and deputy of Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, is committed to continuing his work. 
"What I remember mainly of the legacy of René Lévesque, it is the consolidation of political manners, the defense of the French language with Law 101 and the nationalization of electricity, but above all, its Combat to make Quebec A country, "said Pauline Marois, by arguing that we must be inspired by the founder of the Parti Québécois to continue our work. 
"In 1976, the first thing Mr. Lévesque wanted to make in power, it was to put an end to the occult financing of political parties. He passed a party financing law that helped to clean political manners. He had hated corruption, trading influence and crony. We will continue his work by reducing donations to political parties at a maximum of $ 100. Quebec must become an example of public ethics in the world, as René Lévesque wanted, "she added. 
"It is under the first government of the Parti Québécois that the Charter of the French language has been adopted. We will continue by adopting a newflow and to which we will add a charter of secularism and a law establishing Quebec citizenship, "continued the leader, recalling that the first party of the Parti Québécois had given a lot of pride. To the Quebec people and we would continue by affirming our identity. 
"We will also continue his work in the field of natural wealth by taking over the control of our business. These riches are to us, all Quebeckers of all generations. It is therefore Quebeckers who must be the first beneficiaries, "she added. 
"We must fight. That's what René Lévesque showed us. From his resignation from the Liberal Party in 1967 to the Quebec Party victory in 1976, he overcame many obstacles, he passed through many setbacks. Many people would have abandoned. Not him. It is an example of courage, perseverance and determination. Quebec must regain its pride. We must fight and advance for this idea of freedom that bases our existence. We will fight until reaching our destination: independence, "she concluded. 
