Québec - Here are excerpts from the speech that the official opposition leader of Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, delivered at the 90th annual foundation of the Union of Quebec municipalities. 
On this occasion, Ms. Marois took the opportunity to reaffirm the position of the Parti Québécois as to the need to set up a commission of inquiry into the construction industry in connection with the financing of political parties and the granting of contracts . 
"Yet today, I think we can see the future with hope because solutions, there are. It starts by triggering the commission of inquiry that all Quebec claims and that you have courageously requested yourself. Moreover, yesterday, your president reiterated the request for the holding of a commission of inquiry. He also deplored that investigations into allegations in municipalities are too slow. That's right and that's you night. 
For me, this commission of inquiry is essential. I personally know the mayors of my riding. I know they are honest. I know that everywhere in Quebec there are municipal elected officials who work with commitment, dedication and honesty! It is time for the government to take responsibility and triggers the commission of inquiry that will identify the faulty people. It will help restore the reputation of all others that are perfectly honest and who have the sole purpose of serving their community. That said, the crisis is such that to rebuild and maintain confidence, it will take more than that. We will have to improve our democracy, including our municipal democracy. " 
Moreover, during his speech, Ms. Marois recalled the proposal of the Parti Québécois which aims to limit the number of consecutive mandates of the elected officials. 
"Especially since citizens and our own militants challenge us about municipal democracy. This is the proposal to limit the number of consecutive mandates of mayors to three, or twelve years, depending on the longest deadline and this without retroactivity, of course. I know this proposal has been welcomed by some of you. That is why we intend to continue the reflection, as provided for in the new program of our political formation that mentions that we will study this proposal. Here too it will therefore take a dialogue, but this time between a future government of the Parti Québécois and the municipal elected officials. " 
