Deschambault-Grondines- Passage to Deschambault to meet the workers of the Alcoa plant, the Premier and Head of the Parti Québécois wanted to remind the agreement agreed between his Government and the company, which employs more than 500 people in the region of the Capitale-Nationale. On this occasion, Ms. Marois was accompanied by the Québécois party candidate in the riding of Portneuf, Hugues Genois. 
"We are determined to make Quebec stronger and more prosperous. Faced with the challenges of Alcoa's factories, the Parti Québécois government has decided to act to consolidate 3,000 jobs. For the city of Deschambault-Grondines, the continuation of the activities of the plant means maintaining 500 direct jobs. This is a major support from my government to these families who see their future insured future. We are in action to stimulate economic growth in all regions, thanks to priority employment, an ambitious economic policy that supports job creation across Quebec, "said the Prime Minister. 
Indeed, the agreement, which guarantees the 3000 Québec workers of Alcoa a job for the next 15 years, also includes investment commitments of $ 250 million, including $ 60 million at the Deschambault plant to improve the Productivity of facilities and reduce production costs. In addition, Alcoa will associate with partners to develop innovative projects in the field of transport electrification. 
Regarding electricity rates, the new formula for Alcoa is adapted to support the competitiveness of the company. It will evolve according to the market conditions and the world price of aluminum. 
Strongly involved in the affairs community in the region, particularly as President of the Saint-Raymond Regional Chamber of Commerce, Hugues Genois has held to salute the agreement concluded by the Parti Québécois government. "We have the prosperity of all Quebeckers. The agreement with Alcoa demonstrates all the strength of this party, which finds solutions and advances Quebec. I am proud to be part of this exceptional team, "concluded the candidate. 
