Montreal- As part of the "Dare to Renborn", Paul St-Pierre Plamondon initiative, Special Advisor to the Leader of the Parti Québécois for renewal, Jean-François Lisée, unveiled to the Militants of the PQ, at the National Council January 14, 2017, the schedule of his tour of the regions of Quebec. 
After carrying out more than 60 consultations and met a thousand citizens in November and December 2016, Paul St-Pierre Plamondon started the year 2017 by starting his tour of the regions of Quebec in the region of the Capitale-Nationale. January. "The year 2016 has been completely crazy for me after a chemsel race and the beginning of the adventure" dare to rethink the pq ". But now I did full of energy during the holidays and I am enthusiastic about getting back to the road to meet Quebeckers and Quebeckers. I know they are looking forward to sharing their proposals to rethink the Quebecois party. " Mr. Plamondon's regional tour will stop in all regions of Quebec so that ideas that will renew the PQ are representative of all the sensitivities of the inhabitants of the territory. "The worst thing we could do is to deprive ourselves of the experiences and solutions of the citizens who live in remote areas of the major centers. They are currently overlooked by the Government of Philippe Couillard, "says Mr. Plamondon. 
"Today, I started my tour in Quebec City, but in the coming weeks and the next few months I will go to Gaspésie, Lac-Saint-Jean, on the North Shore and Abitibi. Paul St-Pierre Plamondon details. The regional tour will end in early April and will lead to recommendations to make concrete changes within the Parti Québécois. The details of the tour are on the website dare to rethink the pqHTTP: //osezrepentenselepq.quebec. 
Tour schedule of Quebec Regions 
"Dare to rethink the PQ" is a citizen consultation where Quebeckers are invited to reflect on a renewal of the Parti Québécois and to identify the ideas that will allow him to become the voice of the succession, diversity and builders of Quebec. Lead by Paul St-Pierre Plamondon, Special Advisor to the Leader of the Parti Québécois, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, "Dare to rethink the PQ will lead to recommendations that will bring concrete changes to review the ways to do, the speech and the Ideas to the Partician Party. 
For details: http: //osezrepenntenlepq.quebec 
