Montreal - "It's time to assert themselves and stand up to enforce our language, our Quebec culture and identity. What will we remain from us as people if we let French back and trample our values? » 
It is the cry of the heart launched today by the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, on the occasion of a press conference that she held in the company of the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesman Secularism, Carole Poirier, and the member for Drummond and speaker on language, Yves François Blanchet. 
"For the last few years, there are significant declines when it comes to enforcing our language and our values. French is losing speed. In companies, the language of work is more and more English and in the posting, Law 101 is less and less respected. Our common values, the primacy of French, gender equality, secularism in public institutions and the valorization of Quebec culture, are constantly violated on behalf of Canadian multiculturalism. This is unacceptable. There are limits to allow our values by a Liberal government that refuses to act in this area, "said Pauline Marois, pointing out that the Parti Québécois is the only political training that has concrete solutions to protect our identity. 
"We propose to adopt a new Quebec Charter of the French language to remedy the damage caused by various judgments of the Supreme Court of Canada. We will expand the law 101 to companies from 11 to 49 employees to advance French in these workplaces, "said Yves-François Blanchet, who recently tabled Bill 591 on the requirement of French as a criterion. hiring in the subsidiaries of Crown corporations. 
"We have common values in Quebec and we must defend them. We can not agree to tolerate the port of the Kirpan, the veil or any other religious sign in our public institutions and at the same time prohibit the Christmas decorations that are part of our traditions. There are limits. We must send a clear signal to enforce our values and cultural traditions, while remaining open, welcoming and proud of the immense wealth of diversity for Quebec, "said the leader of the Parti Québécois, by blaming multiculturalism which hurts the affirmation of our identity. 
"At the Québécois Party, we want a society where women and men are equal and where religion is absent from public institutions. We propose to adopt a charter of secularism following a vast debate that we will have held in parliamentary committee. This charter will affirm that Quebec is a secular, neutral state in relation to the beliefs or non-beliefs of each other in terms of religion. It will also affirm that freedom of religion can not be invoked to infringe the right to equality between women and men, "said Carole Poirier. 
"We have common language and values. We are a proud people and we must affirm it high and strong. We must stand up and not be embarrassed of what we are. Assert itself as a people does not mean to reject the others, on the contrary. Quebec society is rich with all its components and it is all together, as a people with multiple origins, which we will continue to build our country. Only the Parti Québécois has the will and the ability to restore the primacy of French in Quebec and to defend our common values and our identity. The Liberals of Jean Charest have already proven that they are incapable, François Legault demonstrates no will and Quebec solidarity encourages multiculturalism. Quebeckers can count on us! ", Concluded Pauline Marois. 
