Quebec- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, received yesterday the Secretary General of La Francophonie, Abdou Diouf. The discussions focused on the Quebec Square within the Francophonie, the preparations for the next Dakar Summit and the creation of ABDOU-Diouf scholarships, intended for young Quebeckers for the completion of an internship in the organization. International Francophonie (OIF). Each year, three scholarships will be offered to young people to enable them to experience work experience within the OIF and Francophone organizations. 
"The creation of these scholarships reflects the constant commitment and concern of the Secretary-General to youth. It is thanks to young people that the Francophonie will maintain its influence and that the French language will remain alive, "supported Pauline Marois. 
The Prime Minister also welcomed the exceptional honor reserved for the Secretary General, who spoke to the parliamentarians gathered at the Hall of the National Assembly. "The Quebec nation today welcomes a leading politician, a significant figure in Senegal, Africa, Francophonie and, more broadly, from the international scene. At the bar of the Francophonie, you constantly ensured that the status of full board of Quebec be respected and have, on many occasions, shown great confidence. You showed us, Mr. Secretary General, that the fate of French belongs to us. That the destiny of this language is played in the hearts of those who speak it, "she said. 
The adoption of an economic strategy for Africa should be one of the major trade topics of the 15th Francophonie Summit to be held next year in Dakar, Senegal. This will also be an opportunity to adopt the strategic framework that will guide the actions of the Francophonie for the coming years. "This economic Francophonie, this powerful engine of growth and prosperity that now draws the eyes of the world, opens up new promising horizons. Quebec reiterates its willingness to become a partner of the development of African Francophone countries, "concluded the Prime Minister. 
