Quebec- The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, today presented a rigorous and respectful financial framework for the state of public finances. Over the next five years, a government government will invest $ 992 million to finance its commitments, an average of $ 200 million a year. 
This financial framework has been reviewed and judged compatible with respect for the budget balance by two independent public finance experts: Marcelin Joanis and Luc Savard. Professor at the Economic Department of the University of Sherbrooke and researcher at the Interuniversity Center for Research in Analysis of Organizations (CIRANO), Marcelin Joanis has a doctorate in economics from the University of Toronto. Luc Savard is Director of the International Economics and Development Research Group (Gredi) and Professor at the Economic Department of the University of Sherbrooke. He is also Fellow at Cirano. 
The Parti Québécois is the zero deficit party. Pauline Marois is the only Minister of Finance to have made a repayment on the debt in the last 50 years. "This responsible and rigorous management, which is the financial signature of the Parti Québécois, will continue in the coming years. We have the duty and the responsibility of managing our finances with rigor. It is for this reason that our commitments are the least expensive of all parties, "Assured Pauline Marois. 
A government of the Parti Québécois will tackle debt reduction by concrete gestures. At the end of the fiscal year, an amount of $ 5.5 billion will be paid on the debt from the Generation Fund. The additional funds generated by the implementation of a new royalty regime will be allocated to additional payments to the debt. "No other party proposes to act so responsibly for the future of Quebec," she assured. 
"Families will be able to count on the Parti Québécois, who is committed to giving them a strong boost to stop paying more. We will abolish the health tax. More than four and a half million Quebecers will have more than $ 200 dollars in pockets each year, $ 400 per family. This commitment will be done at zero cost for the state. We will ask for additional effort to taxpayers whose income is greater than $ 130,000, "she explained, recalling that young families will also benefit from $ 1,000 per child's repayable tax credits for sports activities and Artistic. 
Pauline Marois has also been committed to finishing the work she had begun by completing the daycare network. "Every family who wants will have a day care for his child by the end of a first term. We have planned $ 224 million to reach our goal. The Parti Québécois is the only one to commit to completing the network, "she mentioned. 
With regard to the health network, the turn to home care proposed by the Parti Québécois will contribute to a balanced budget. "Home care is much cheaper than the state than hospitalization. If we want to keep control of our finances in the context of the aging of the population, we must absolutely have an ambitious policy of home care. If, for seniors, age at home is desirable, for public finances, this turn is essential, "Assured Pauline Marois. 
With respect to revenues, the financial framework of the Québécois party is based on the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance, unlike the CAQ which has overvalued the income of the State by $ 1.2 billion. "These are real income. This financial framework is very responsible. The increase in expenses will be modest. We will make repayments on the debt. The priority is very clearly given to the families of the middle class, our children and our elders. We will give a real boost to millions of Quebecers by putting more contribution to the most fortunate and mining companies. With the Parti Québécois, the population can count on a responsible government with the public finances of Quebec, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
