Repentigny- The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, is committed to that each Quebec family has access to a family doctor and a team of health professionals. "Despite the liberal promises, some two million Quebeckers still do not have access to a family doctor. This situation requires many citizens to use emergency hospital or appointment clinics to have access to a doctor. Result: Quebeckers are now waiting for an hour more than in 2003 at the urgency, while the Liberals had committed to end the waiting once and for all. This situation must be addressed in priority, "she said. 
"If the Liberals have failed to solve health problems after nine years in power, how, in 2012, can François Legault realize to solve everything with a magic baguette with Dr. Gaétan Barrette? We must stop making miracle solutions to Quebecers. We all know that if that existed, it would have been "said Pauline Marois, stating that the Quebecois party will go forward with concrete solutions, rather than embarking on the great vague promises. 
The Parti Québécois offers concrete measures to improve front-line health services. With the national care and home services policy that we will put in place, seniors will be able to receive care at home rather than waiting in emergencies or clinics. 
The development of family medicine groups will allow parents to stop early in the morning before a clinic to treat their child. A government of the Parti Québécois will continue the development of family medicine groups so that each Quebecker has access to a family doctor. 
You must also multiply the super nurses. People can be treated without waiting to see a doctor for hours for problems that could be settled by a nurse. 
All health professionals must be put to contribution. To this end, the Parti Québécois has long proposed that pharmacists can do more. Instead of waiting long hours at emergency room or clinic, people who need to adjust or renew their medication will be able to go to pharmacy. In addition, we will create family physicians from a team of health professionals, including nutritionists and psychosocial stakeholders. 
"The importance of front-line health care is no longer to be demonstrated. The challenge consists of what the team of professionals composing the family medicine group continues the care provided by the doctor. By doing so, we release from time to the doctor so that he can see other patients, "said Quebec's leader. 
Finally, the leader of the Parti Québécois is committed to restoring equity in the health network, especially for citizens of the Lanaudière region who are victims of great injustice. The funding granted by the government is very below the needs of this growing population. A government of the Parti Québécois is committed to increasing the level of health financing to end this injustice. 
"With a Quebec party government, Quebec patients will not only have access to a family doctor, but also to a team of health professionals who will make adequate medical follow-up and very high quality, near them. It is now to Quebeckers to choose between the renounced liberal promises of a worn government, the magical formulas of the Caquists and the Plan responsible for the Parti Québécois, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
