Québec- The Quebec Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, will begin his first mission abroad by participating, from October 12 to 14, in the 14th of October, in the 14th of October of the Francophonie in Kinshasa, in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). It will then be visited to Paris to meet the senior authorities of the French Republic. It will be accompanied by the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Lisée. 
"Our commitment to the Francophonie is undeniably resting on a cultural and emotional connection, that of sharing a language with hundreds of millions of speakers around the world. But it is also for Quebec an international tribune that represents an extraordinary lever to assert its interests, particularly in favor of the development of the French language, democracy and human rights, as well as in matters. sustainable development, "said the premier. 
The XIVE Summit of La Francophonie is: Francophonie, Environmental and Economic Issues in the face of global governance. It is the first to stand in Central Africa, strategic region for the future of the French language because of its demographic change. According to the wish of the host country, the Heads of State and Government will be called upon to exchange on four main themes: Africa in La Francophonie and in global governance, environmental and economic challenges, democratic governance and the rights of the Man and, finally, the French language, cultural diversity and education. 
"In the wake of the holding in Quebec, this summer, the first world-wide World Forum, Quebec is particularly well positioned to advocate for greater commitment from the States and governments of the Francophonie towards the French language , "Said the minister listed. 
From October 15 to 17, Prime Minister Pauline Marois will make a first official visit to France, which is also the first bilaterally. In the company of the minister listed, she will take part in several interviews of a political nature aimed in particular to take stock of the Franco-Quebec relationship. The Prime Minister will also take the floor to members of the International Business Movement (MEDEF) International and the French Institute of International Relations (IFRI). 
"At all times, the Franco-Quebec relationship has generated an exceptional dynamism and commitment on both sides. I am delighted to help further deepen this rich relationship that benefits more than ever to our two companies, "said the premier. 
