Quebec- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, named MM. Pierre Bernier and André Perrault as well as Mrs Francine Roy and Diane Wilhelmy members of a committee on the conditions of employment offered to the holders from outside who access higher employment in the public service. Their mandate will be to make recommendations to the government in the attraction and retention of holders competent to higher-level positions. 
More specifically, the mandate of the Committee will consist of an analysis of the situation of the holders of a higher employment from outside the public service and which are appointed, either contractually or permanently, to the function. public. 
The Committee will review the following aspects: 
The Committee will also have to make the comparative analysis of this situation with those prevailing in other public administrations. The Committee will therefore make recommendations to provide the Government for conditions to recruit and retain competent licensees and ensure that the integration of qualified personnel into the public service meets demanding ethical standards. 
Mr. Pierre Berniera worked at the Ministry of Leisure, Hunting and Fishing for several years, including as Deputy Minister. He was also a state director at the Ministry of the Executive Board. In this department, he served as Secretary-General associated with the Government and Higher Jobs. He is currently a member of the Drafting Committee of the Public Ethics Review and the Telescope Review, and a member of many public or parapublic organizations as well as several interdepartmental committees. Mr. Bernier is also a professor associated with the National School of Public Administration and researcher at the Observatory of Public Administration. 
Mr. André Perraultpossessed has 25 years of consultation experience, including more than a dozen in an international firm, as head of the executive compensation practice for Eastern Canada. Its consulting activities focus on the analysis of the competitiveness of the remuneration of executives and the key personnel, as well as the evaluation and design of profit-sharing regimes promoting retention. It offers consulting services in areas of sectors as varied as natural resources, biotechnology, high technology or financial services. Since 2001, he has been working on the company he founded, Perrault Council inc. He acts regularly as an expert witness in remuneration litigation. 
Ms. Francine Roya held strategic positions in development and human resources in various companies, both in the public sector and in the private sector. It specializes in the mandates related to the organizational model, the evaluation of the organization of work, the management of the change, the consolidation of the work teams. She coordinated several organizational analysis approaches to which she participated. It is a strategic advisor to members of several corporate directorates. Ms. Roy is associated with Optimum Talent Inc. and she is part of the Order of Certified Human Resources Advisors. 
Ms. Diane Wilhelmya held as Secretary General Associated with the Department of the Executive Board, first on the status of women, then to Canadian intergovernmental affairs. It has also been responsible for the Forum Secretariat, the Secretariat of the Summit on Economy and Employment and the Administrative Reform Record. At the Ministry of International Relations, Ms. Wilhelmy was General Delegate of Quebec in New York and Deputy Minister. She has also held management positions in academia, at the University of Quebec and the National School of Public Administration. It is currently consultant in public administration and administrator of public and private companies. 
"I chose people who have a sharp knowledge of the public service and its upper jobs. This committee will bring lighting on the conditions of use of holders in any transparent and fairness. This is another initiative that brings us closer to our objective in terms of integrity, which consists of trusting the population towards its institutions, "concluded the Prime Minister. 
