Quebec - Member of Charlevoix and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pauline Marois, proposes that students can vote in their school institution. Concerned that young people contribute little to the exercise of the right to vote, Pauline Marois asks the Chief Electoral Officer that the voting and review offices are developed in the higher-level school institutions that are CEGEPs and universities at the next general election. 
Accompanied by the member for Chicoutimi and the Parliamentary Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, the member for Terrebonne and Spokesperson for Youth and Student Affairs, Mathieu Traversy, and a dozen young people, the member for Charlevoix invited All political parties, all student associations and all those who want to fight cynicism and promote the vote of young people to join the Parti Québécois to concretely promote the electoral participation of young people. 
"It's the new generations that define the future and will lead Quebec tomorrow. The decisions taken today in terms of debt, environment, economy or family policy will have a direct impact on Quebec of 2020. Less than one young person from 18 to 34 out of two, Voting in 2008. In the circumstances, it is more necessary that any measure aimed at strengthening the target electoral participation that particularly, "said the official opposition. 
The Parti Québécois also believes that students must be allowed outside their constituency to vote by anticipation in their place of study and, if they request, that their vote can be recognized in their constituency. 'origin. 
"In the same way as older voters who have access to voting boxes directly in more than 700 residences or CHSLD, or even at home, and in the same way as the prisoners who vote in prison or displacement voters. From the country that express themselves by mail, no obstacle prevents young people from also having easier access to exercise their right to vote, "added Pauline Marois. 
"For three months, I have met several hundred young Quebecers and, contrary to what we say, these young people are strongly interested in talking about politics, a vision of the future, projects for Quebec. Still need to take the time to listen to them and exchange with them. By allowing students to be able to vote in their school institution, it will have the effect of raising more awareness of the importance of the right to vote, "she concluded. 
