Quebec - Member of Charlevoix and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pauline Marois, proposes to repatriate the Employment Insurance Plan in Quebec. That's what she said today as she took part in a press conference organized by action-unemployment Quebec with the member for Taschereau, Agnès Maltais, and the member for Marie-Victorin, Bernard Drainville . 
"This is a fundamental social program that affects millions of Quebecers, including many in the Capitale-Nationale region, including Charlevoix. Each employees and almost all employers pay employment insurance contributions. It is more time to repatriate it in Quebec to make it a decent, modern and effective program that truly meets our needs, "said Pauline Marois. 
Some great principles should guide the establishment of a Quebec Employment Insurance plan according to Pauline Marois. "It should first be a real insurance for employees. It should be a solution to the shortage of specialized labor. Employers will have to leave winners and finally the Quebec regime should aim for a long-term reduction in employers' and employee contribution rates. " 
"In the current federal regime, several workers pay contributions without being insured. There are seasonal workers, young people and a disproportionate number of women who are currently being left now. Employers, who pay contributions, are also penalized. Employment Insurance will therefore have to become back what it would still have been: insurance, "explained the official opposition. 
The Quebec program will also have to be part of the solution to the problem of specialized labor shortage. "If we were recording all jobs without worker and unemployed workers, we could probably conclude that in theory, Quebec is a full-job company. Obviously, in practice it's different. We will be able, with a Quebec Employment Insurance program, encourage more of our workers to take specialized training for employers. This will have the triple advantage of helping workers, employers and the Quebec economy, "she added. 
The administrative costs of the current program are very high. Just for Quebec, they are $ 485 million in operating costs. By coupling employment-Québec operating services and those of the Employment Insurance Program, we will be able to save millions of dollars that will be used to pay for benefits or reduce contributions. 
"What we propose today is a project of the Future Rally for the workers and employers who will come out winners. It is a vision where Quebec will win to make one's own decisions, "added the official opposition, inviting the representatives of all political parties both in Quebec and Ottawa to unite around From this winning idea for Quebec and to claim the repatriation of the employment insurance plan in the same voice. 
"The Harper government does not miss an opportunity to repeat that its government does not interfere with provincial skills and that it does not believe in the virtues of social programs. It should therefore be happy to get rid of the management of the Employment Insurance Program, "concluded Pauline Marois, by being confident of being able to equip Quebec with a vital tool for its economic and social development. 
