The Pocatière -The Leader of the Official Opposition and MP for Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, proposes to develop a policy of food sovereignty for Quebec. "In 25 years, the proportion of food consumed and from Quebec dropped by 45%. It went from 78% in 1985 to 33% in 2009. We must reverse this trend, "proposed Pauline Marois during his visit today at the Institute of Agri-Food Technology of the Pocatière. On this occasion, she was accompanied by the member for Kamouraska-Témiscouata, André Simard. 
"If every Quebec consumer bought for $ 30 more foods by each year, sales would drive $ 1 billion in five years. In addition, the benefits are many to buy locally. Foods are cooler, they require fewer conservation and packaging agents. The transport costs are reduced and in total, less greenhouse gas effects, "explained the official opposition. 
The political sovereignty policy of the Parti Québécois will aim to increase the proportion of Quebec food from 33% that we consume. The advantages of such a policy are numerous. This allows the creation of several jobs, private private investments in all regions and also the pride of consuming products from home. 
"The Parti Québécois has always supported Québec farmers. We passed the Law on the Protection of the Territory and Agricultural Activities at our first term. We also set up Quebec's agricultural financial financial financial for producers a tool for developing the agricultural production sector. The Parti Québécois intends to continue to support the agricultural world with ardor, "added Pauline Marois. 
"Several of our farmers are rendered at break. They can no longer bear a decline in their income. You have to help them. Since the arrival of the Liberal government, Quebec loses on average 400 farms a year. The Minister of Agriculture even recognized last year than 2500 farms were at risk of bankruptcy as a result of the implementation of government measures. One of the problems is that the Liberal government has perverted the mission of agricultural financial financial, making it a private insurer like the others, "said the member. 
"Once elected, a government of the Parti Québécois will respect the mission of agricultural financial financial for producers. We will adapt agricultural insurance to different realities from the regions of Quebec and we will promote the extension of insurance schemes to innovative productions and participating in the occupation of the territories, "said André Simard. 
"By giving the Board of Directors of Agricultural Financial, a guidance for Québec agriculture a strictly industrial activity and putting aside the social aspects, the Liberal government deeply destructs the entire agricultural sector of Quebec. To the Parti Québécois, we believe that we must first endure the basis of the food of the Quebec people: its agriculture, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
