Longueuil - Passage in the Montérégie region, the Quebec Prime Minister and Head of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, announced the candidatures of Sophie Stanke, in Laporte, and Pierre Langlois, in the Prairie. They therefore join Alain Therrien, elected since September 2012 and again candidate in the riding of Sanguinet. "These are high quality applications. Sophie and Pierre gained experience in various spheres of activity. They are now part of a tremendous team of women and men who want to serve Quebec by my side, "said Pauline Marois. 
Sophie Stanke has a certificate in political science as well as a master's degree in dramatic art. Known of the Quebec cultural landscape, it has great professional experience, especially as a journalist, comedian, facilitator and entrepreneur. 
"I am very proud to be part of the Parti Québécois team, a team determined to work on the interests of the entire population. We propose a solid balance sheet, in addition to a clear vision for the future. The government is serving Quebeckers; We are determined to make Quebec more solidarity, more proud, more prosperous, "said Sophie Stanke. 
For its part, in addition to studies in econometrics and actuarials, Pierre Langlois holds a bachelor's degree and a master's degree in economics. It enjoys extensive professional experience as an economist, especially in the areas of collective transport and real estate. Mr. Langlois is Director of the Minister delegated to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb. 
Thanks to his expertise and experience in this area, Pierre Langlois will be a certain asset in the economic team of the Parti Québécois. "I am happy to offer my experience, my energy and the strength of my convictions to the citizens of the Prairie. I want to work to increase the prosperity of all Quebeckers, "said the new candidate. 
The deputy coming out of Sanguinet, Alain Therrien, rejoiced these two applications. "Our team is the strongest and the most economically competent. It is an honor for me to solicit a second term in order to continue the work started to make Quebec stronger, "he said. 
We have a plan and the team to succeed. Today, it's time to give us the means to go further. 
