Montreal- The member for Charlevoix and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pauline Marois, wanted to address these a few words to the hon. Member for Richelieu, Sylvain Simard, who today announced his decision not to represent in the next general election. 
«Montreal, June 28, 2012 
Mr. Sylvain Simard  Member of Parliament for Richelieu  71 Rue de Ramezay, Office 101  Sorel-Tracy (Quebec) J3P 3Z1 
Dear Colleague, 
It is not without a certain sadness that I welcome your will not to represent you as a member of Parliament for Richelieu for the Parti Québécois. These years we spent together, in the National Assembly, within the Council of Ministers and on the ground with our fellow citizens, will have allowed me to know a remarkable man, a man of combat, anxious to represent with a great Dignity Quebecers. 
If there is a conductive thread in your professional life, it seems to me that it is this deep love of Quebec and your people who always guided you. As Vice-President of the Parti Québécois under our first chief, René Lévesque, then as President of the National Movement of Quebeckers, you will have left a strong footprint that will not be forgotten. 
In 1994, you were elected deputy of Richelieu and from your entrance to the National Assembly, it appeared obvious that you were immediately in your place in this democratic enclosure where the elected representatives of the Quebec nation are gathered. 
I worked with the Council of Ministers under Jacques Parizeau, Lucien Bouchard and Bernard Landry. On every occasion, you have distinguished you by acting as the man of state that you are, always placing the higher interests of your people over any other consideration. Your obsession, which I share, for the effectiveness of the state and your sense of institutions will have remarkably served Quebec. Your vast literary and historical culture, your passion for Quebec's place in the world and your willingness to support the artistic and cultural vitality of Quebeckers will have marked your unique course. 
I know you also gave great importance to your member's work for Richelieu. It is no coincidence that your constituency voters have elected you five consecutive five times, which is not a thin exploit. This voter confidence will have been largely rewarded with the inheritance you leave at any point. 
In recent years, as chef, I have been able to count on your vast experience, your wisdom and your love of the Parti Québécois. The many new members of our elected training in 2007 and 2008 owe you a lot. Today, our team is seasoned, very strong and ready to govern. Know that this force we have hardly acquired in recent years, we owe you some. I will never thank you enough for all this. 
As you know, the next few weeks will be decisive for the future of Quebec. Our task is very important. We need to change government, change direction and change countries. I am confident to see these challenges with success. I know we can count on your support and I appreciate it greatly. 
In closing, I would like to salute the man of state, the enthusiast of Quebec, the ardent sovereignist and the warm road companion that you will have been during all these years and that you will remain in your way, because the fight of Your life is not yet complete. 
On behalf of the Parti Québécois, I'll tell you Sylvain. Thank you for everything you did and especially to be what you are. 
Original signed 
Pauline Marois » 
