Quebec - the member for Lac-Saint-Jean and spokesman for the official employment and social solidarity, Alexandre Cloutier, calls for clear commitments by Minister Julie Boulet so that a parliamentary committee is held in The aim of studying the government response in the opinion of the Advisory Committee for the Fight Against Poverty and Social Exclusion on Income Targets. 
"Julie Boulet must make a commitment to hold a parliamentary committee to study his government's response to the 14 recommendations of the Income Target Committee. The holding of such a forum would make it possible to hear the independent experts who had participated in the drafting of the opinion in 2008 as well as all the organizations that act directly with the poorest of our society. It is important that efforts to respect the spirit of the law aimed at combating poverty and social exclusion, adopted in 2002 by the government of the Quebecois party, can continue and, in this sense, I ask Julie Boulet. To confirm that such a debate will be held in the fall, "said Alexandre Cloutier. 
The member for Lac-Saint-Jean pointed out that the government response arrived with two years late and was tabled in the end of the parliamentary session, which is very disappointing. It also affirms that this way of doing things strangely similar to that used by the Liberal government when the second government action plan for the fight against poverty and social exclusion in June 2010. "The government response is more like more like To a liberal pretense aimed at enumerating the actions posed in the last ten years, ignoring new initiatives to combat poverty and social exclusion. We must be able to continue the debates on these issues at a public forum where all the actors involved will be able to share their thoughts, "added Alexandre Cloutier. 
"The Response of the Liberal government to the 14 recommendations of the committee set up by the Parti Québécois in 2002 is a major disappointment of the unobrucous people's rights groups of our society. We ask the minister to hold a parliamentary committee without delay, as required by law, "concluded Alexander Cloutier. 
