Quebec- The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, today gave the kickoff of the largest construction site in the cultural sector in Quebec, the construction of the Pierre Lassonde Pavilion of the National Museum of Fine Arts of Quebec (Mnbaq ) The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the Minister responsible for the Capitale-National Region, Agnès Maltese, were also present at the event. 
«Wine tongwater like the Concrete, the city of the city of Quebec, the city fabric The Wabvura de Qwebec, the city of Quebec, Dolt Batu Rythm de la Culture, of Histoire E du patrimaine. Jeens in Experimer, Hand Hedding Houses Grace Philanthoes Hike Upstrords a Poisère Ministere Photo: Language, Pauline Marois. 
"This pavilion, worthy of the great creators of the twenty-first century, will be a witness to respect the inheritance of the past at the Quebec avant-gardism in architecture. Witness of the cultural vitality of the Capitale-Nationale region, the museum offers privileged access to the universal artistic heritage. This unifying project will confirm the status of the National Fine Arts Museum as an international-scale institution that will ensure the influence of our cultural vitality, "added the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto. 
"The rise of a capital goes through the development of its institutions and culture. That's why I am very proud that the government respects its commitments and take the means to carry out a project rich in all respects: economic, cultural, tourist and urban ", continued the minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale , Agnès Maltese. 
The expansion of the MNBAQ will allow it to add spaces allocated to temporary exhibitions. Thus, it will be able to intensify its collaborations with partners of the global museum elite and to present large international exhibitions. 
The Quebec government has invested $ 45.1 million for the construction of the Pierre Lassonde pavilion. By 2015-2016, this project will generate the equivalent of 300 new jobs. This contribution is part of the 2013-2023 Infrastructure Québec Duplan framework, released in April. Recall that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 2 billion investments for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebeckers, to measure the associated costs and to make informed choices. 
