Islands-de-la-Madeleine - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron, and his parliamentary assistant (Fisheries component), Ms. Jeannine Richard, participated in the activities marking the beginning of the 138th lobster fishing in the Îles-de-la-Madeleine. 
"I am very proud to participate for the first time in this activity more than 100 years old and to share the feverishness and enthusiasm of fishermen and the population while the new season begins," said the minister. 
The minister took advantage of his passage in the archipelago to take part in the cocktail of the new captains, where he was pleased to give them a commemorative plaque. "I am pleased to meet a dynamic succession that will certainly know to honor those who have built the fishing industry in the islands," said Gendron. The minister recalled the importance of the Quebec government upside down in the catching sector. "It is essential to encourage young people from the maritime regions that are established in the fisheries and will ensure the sustainability of this industry," he said. 
"In the Madeleine Islands, we are aware of the magnitude of the contribution of our sea workers. The activities surrounding the launching of the lobster cages give us the opportunity to pay tribute to them for Their undeniable contribution to the economic vitality of the archipelago, "said Jeannine Richard. 
The day before, the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food has presented to the entire industry its five-year action plan for the commercial fisheries and aquaculture industry. "The plan contains 27 actions that will be realized gradually over the next 5 years. Its implementation is a reflection of our desire to equip Quebec with a first food sovereignty policy, which will miserate on the originality and high quality of our products to make them radiate as they deserve it, "said the Minister . 
Remember that the Fisheries and Trade Aquaculture industry in the Madeleine Islands provides employment to more than 2,000 fishermen, fishermen, aquaculturists and factory workers. The value of fish and seafood landings in the island territory is estimated at about $ 36 million. More than 70% of the lobster caught in Quebec comes from the Madeleine Islands. 
People who want more information on the 2013-2018 Action Plan for Fisheries and Trade Aquaculture are invited to visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www. Mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/pecheaquaculture). It is also possible to follow the activities of the ministry on Twitter (https://twitter.com/mapaquebec). 
