Islands-de-la-Madeleine - the member of the Islands of La-Madeleine, Ms. Jeannine Richard, announced, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, and on behalf of the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the allocation of financial support totaling more than $ 131,000 for the completion of three research projects- Development in the field of fisheries and commercial aquaculture in Gaspésie and the Îles-de-la-Madeleine. 
Thanks to the development support program for strategic sectors and niches, under the interregional niche resources, sciences and marine technologies, and the Innovamer Program of the Government of Quebec, Merinov, the Innovation Center for Aquaculture and Fisheries Quebec may eventually complete three studies for the benefit of the fisheries and aquaculture industry. 
"The implementation of these projects reflects the willingness of the industry to build on the know-how and regional innovation skills to develop the full potential of the fisheries and commercial aquaculture sector. The Department is proud to support these initiatives with the goals of the Food Sovereignty of Food Sovereignty on innovation to improve the competitiveness of the sector, "said Francois Gendron. 
"I am pleased with the announcement of these research and development projects with Merinov, projects that go in line with the Action Plan for Fisheries and Trade Aquaculture and aim to improve the profitability of companies in this sector Nevralgic in the Islands of La-Madeleine, "said Ms. Jeannine Richard. 
A sum of $ 52,372 will be used first to make a project that has the main purpose of determining the passive protection strategy to deploy against the predation of molds by ducks. This financial assistance is allocated equally by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (MAPAQ) and the Ministry of Finance and the Economy (MFEQ). 
In addition, a financial assistance of $ 19,960 from MFEQ will be used in conducting a study to find an alternative for the transport of princessed scallops to large urban centers. It is essentially to maximize the conservation of scallops during their transport by plane to the markets of Quebec and Montreal. It should be noted that the study will be conducted at the Merinov Center of the Madeleine Islands and the Culti-Mer company. 
Finally, an amount of $ 59,274 is awarded to implement a project that will test in commercial fishing conditions, six types of traditional baits optimized for lobster fishing. Indeed, the decrease in catches of species used as baits and rising costs to get them leading industry and Merinov to find a valid substitution option. From this sum, the MAPAQ and the MFEQ grant $ 33,562 and $ 19,382 respectively. 
"Merinov is actively contributing to the competitiveness of the Quebec fisheries, aquaculture and valorization of aquatic biomass, including working with local businesses," said Élaine Zakaïb. "Indeed, here as elsewhere, entrepreneurs are best placed to understand the challenges and challenges related to the economic development of their region and, above all, to provide sustainable solutions." 
Created in 2010 by the Mapaq, the College of Gaspésie and the islands as well as the University of Quebec in Rimouski, Merinov employs nearly 100 employees in 4 centers located in Gaspésie, the Îles-de-la-Madeleine and on the coast -North. The organization supervises research and development, technology transfer, technical assistance and monitoring. 
"Our center was born thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec. We are therefore pleased to continue this partnership that will allow us to conduct our research on the various projects announced today. Collaboration between Merinov and its partners is one of the most important values and we are happy with power together and through such support, advance the fisheries and aquaculture sector to a collective success, "said The Managing Director of Merinov, Mr. Patrice Element. 
This project is part of the objectives of the Agreement (concerted action of regional development cooperation), a government priority aimed at energizing the economy of the regions of Quebec. It relies on the regional forces, on the mobilization and dynamism of business people in the region as well as on the search for excellence in the key business segments of Quebec. This approach aims to build a North American and global competitive regional productive system in each of the regions of Quebec, by the definition and setting up of slopes of excellence that will become the brand image of these regions. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, it is possible to register for the appropriate RSS feed, atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
