Quebec- The member of the Madeleine Islands and Parliamentary Assistant of the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Ms. Jeannine Richard, announced, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, and the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, the award of government assistance from $ 52,944 to Merinov , the Quebec Aquaculture and Fisheries Innovation Center for the realization of an innovative project to test optimized baits for lobster fishing. 
The objective of the Merinov project, which is carried out in collaboration with the Association of Fishermen owners of the Madeleine Islands, is to reduce the quantity of baits used traditionally, either the herring and the whole mackerel. The decrease in the stocks of these two species in the Gulf of St. Lawrence undermines the profitability of lobster fishing companies that need to pay significant amounts to get them. Merinov will compare six baits optimized to the main traditional baits and evaluate their effectiveness in the lobster catches. 
"This is a concrete example of the sector's ability to find innovative solutions to continue its growth by promoting the sustainable development of its activities. This initiative framework with the objectives defined in the Food Sovereignty Policy and with the priorities of the 2013-2018 Action Plan for the Fisheries and Aquaculture Industry, since it opts for sustainable development and that it Attaches the competitiveness of fishing companies, "said Francois Gendron. 
The results of the Merinov project, which will be available to the entire lobster fishing fleet of Quebec, could well be an interesting solution for both to reduce the cost of operating the target companies than to mitigate the pressure of the Species fishing used for baiting.  The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, respectively, $ 33,562 and $ 19,382 for the completion of this project. 
"Our government is pleased to financially support the commercial fishing industry in its desire to innovate and contribute to the economic development of the maritime regions, including the Gaspésie and the Madeleine Islands," said Ms. Élain Zakaïb. 
"This project is a new evidence of the enthusiasm and passion that animate our fishermen and who encourage them to ensure the sustainability of their industry while preserving the marine resources that are so important for the community," concluded Ms. Jeannine Richard. . 
For further information on the policy of food sovereignty, we invite you to regularly consult the blog (www.politicsa.gouv.qc.ca) and the website (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa) of the Ministry of Agriculture, fisheries and food. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
