The official opposition spokesperson for REM, Alain Therrien, asks that the rate for two-mountain train users be reduced, considering the significant service reduction caused by the construction of the REM. "Users lose an important part of their services, but must pay the same invoice. It is rather to the crates of deposit and investment to assume his responsibilities and to offset the citizens, "he supported. 
IN SHORT 
"Normally, when a company decreases the quality of a service, it lowers its rates. Why would it be different in the case of the two-mountain line, for which time the journey will increase considerably? At first, a decrease of 25% would be justified. Later, when the tunnel will be completely closed, this decline should reach 50% to reflect the disadvantages suffered by users. The Minister of Transport must require it, and the fund must pay. This is the least to do for tens of thousands of citizens who already see their upset daily and who will have to deal with even more important service interruptions, "said Alain Therien. 
The spokesperson also considers that it is at the crate of deposit to pay the note. "Without the REM, there would be no disturbances. And, as the REM is a project of the Caisse, it is to offer compensation. This responsibility returns to cities or the regional metropolitan transport authority, or the Government of Quebec. No question this time the fund refuses the invoice to a third with the complicity of the government! And to add, an increase in the 2% rate has been decreed for July, especially for the users of the Deux-Montagnes train. We decrease the service in addition to increasing the rate! Here again, we believe that the Caisse should take over the rise for two-mountain users, "he continued. 
"Do the government and the Caisse are waiting for bulging users to give up public transport to wake up? Or that they do not have a class action? If they believe it can upset the daily life of some 10,000 transit users without consequence, they are mistaken. The current situation is very bad for the rest of things, and must be corrected. Sooner or later, and that they want it or not, the authorities will have to pay, so do not waste time. Obviously, the Caisse is not used to managing a consumer customer service. But, as a REM manager, in this case, it will have to be struck quickly, "concluded Alain Therrien. 
