Québec- The Parti Québécois deplores the loss of 132 quality jobs in the pharmaceutical industry in Montreal, after the announcement of the company Astrazeneca to close its research and development center. 
"These are 132 quality jobs, with a high level of qualification and with significant salaries, which disappear. Factory closures in Quebec continue in 2012, after posting the worst report in Canada in 2011. What is striking this time is that it affects our top sectors like L 'pharmaceutical industry. Liberal negligence is expensive, "denounced the member for Saint John and official opposition spokesperson for employment and social solidarity, Dave Turcotte. 
The observation is crumbling: while Quebec was considered ten years ago as one of the world's favorite places to invest, innovative pharmaceutical companies now make the assessment we are no longer at the time. Thus, when global reorganizations occur, it is Montreal who screens and other jurisdictions, such as Ontario, benefit from new investments. "Quebec is the pawn; Ontario now receives more new investments than Quebec from pharmaceutical companies, "continued the member for Rousseau and the official opposition on the finance and economic development, Nicolas Marceau. 
For him, the destructive of the pharmaceutical sector under the Liberal government concretely illustrates what causes private investment anemia in Quebec. "The Liberal government has attended the writer in the erosion of our manufacturing sector and has abandoned the pharmaceutical sector that had emerged in the Montreal region under the Quebec party government because we had a priority sector," he pointed out. 
The Parti Québécois criticizes the Liberal government to have done nothing to take into account the new global context and to maintain the competitiveness of Quebec. The Liberal government has been informed for years that adjustments must be made, but it preferred to close your eyes. 
Worse still, it should be noted that with the CAQ and François Legault, the situation could get worse because they suggest to abolish purely and simply the BAP-15 years. "It is a radical solution that will further reduce the investment of the pharmaceutical sector in Quebec. Such a gesture will cause other quality job losses. This demonstrates François Legault's lack of credibility who claims to want to double private investment in Montreal only by merging two government aid societies, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
It should be noted that, on this proposal of the CAQ, Montreal International and Investisse Québec have already been arrested for the purposes of foreign investment by Bill 123 in 2010 while Mr. Legault had left the National Assembly. 
