Quebec, December 9, 2019- The MEP for the Islands of La-Madeleine, Joël Arseneau, denounces the deplorable situation that is currently in the area of air services in the region. In recent weeks, Air Canada's customer service has been virtually inaccessible. While the strong traders of the holiday season begins, the situation is already untenable for travelers in the regions, which must be able to count on regular and reliable air services. For some, it is an essential service. 
In short 
Air Canada is currently migrating its system, resulting in failures of the booking platform, whether online, by phone and even at the counter. The discontinuity of the flights - now segmented in several parts, according to the destinations - also complicates the situation, since even agents have difficulty accessing the flight information of the travelers. The hon. Member fears that this situation continues because, according to some, the break-in period could last up to 6 months. 
"Minister François Bonnardel has to challenge Air Canada for the carrier without delaying efficient customer service and a functional booking platform, as travelers are virtually unable to come into contact with anyone, rightly," said Joel. Arseneau. 
These communication problems obviously have unfortunate consequences for travelers, not to mention the fact that flights can be canceled or postponed several times in a row, due to a lack of staff (dashboards, pilots), difficult weather conditions. , damage on devices or, simply, their unavailability. 
In addition, two years after the regional air transport summit, Joël Arseneau noted that the Permanent National Working Group - which is mandated to examine the government measures put in place and to determine the elements that could do the Purpose of Quebec representations with Ottawa - has not been summoned by Minister Bonnardel yet. "It is urgent to gather stakeholders, both to find solutions to this crisis and to lay the foundation for a new government policy for air transport." 
The hon. Member recalls that in 2002, the government of the Parti Québécois had adopted the national airline policy, aimed at improving the services to promote the economic and social development of the regions. "After 17 years, the context has evolved, and it is high that the government puts this policy up to date. This is necessary not only to improve air services, but also to boost regional development, "he insisted. 
