Quebec- The member for Saint-Jean and spokesman for the Parti Québécois in terms of employment, social solidarity, fight against poverty, vocational training, adult education, literacy and youth, Dave Turcotte , deplores the closure, on March 31, from the labor adaptation committee (CAMO) for people with disabilities, a national body whose mission is to promote the access of persons with disabilities to training and employment. Earlier today, he held a press briefing on this subject with CUPE representatives. 
"Once again, the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, François Blais, lack of compassion and vision. With Bill 70, he was already attempting to the most vulnerable and here adds with the closure of an organization working with people with disabilities. The latter loses unique and valuable expertise that has promoted their training, integration and retention in employment over the last 23 years, "said the hon. Member for Saint John. 
Recall that last November, the Labor Market Partner Commission (CPMT) demonstrated its desire to end its agreement with CAMO for people with disabilities. Fifty partners then expressed, through a letter addressed to the Commission, to oppose the closure of the organization. However, the CPMT did not consider their opinion. Let us add that the decision to close the CAMO has been taken as a result of an evaluation process that leaves doubt as to its objectivity. 
"The CPMT has failed in its mission, which" consists of ensuring the development and optimal use of businesses and workers in Quebec by providing them with the opportunity to develop their skills and gain experience in a Perspective of increasing the prosperity of Quebec ". Minister Blais has the duty to ensure that this mission is fulfilled. It must also realize that no other organization has the same expertise as the CAMO at the national level. It's not too late to reverse. Finally, it is unacceptable that the choices of the CPMT affected people with disabilities, while the minister promised to put anyone aside for employment aid, "concluded Dave Turcotte. 
