Quebec, July 21, 2014 - "Always without the spread of the salary increase in physicians, the Prime Minister must adopt to procrastinate and resolve this priority issue for the finance of Quebec. This is what the official opposition leader and hon. Member of Chicoutimi said, Stéphane Bédard. "The file had to be adjusted before the budget, and since then, nothing. Mr. Couillard undergoes a leadership and credibility test to Quebecers and the financial markets. Every day that passes weakened the achievement of budget targets and has a direct effect on the supply of health services. The Prime Minister does not have the means to fail. His recent statements that the government will catch up with the next negotiations demonstrate the amateurism of this government, which prefers to pay rather than act now, "he added. 
For its part, the member for Taillon and the official opposition on the health of health, Diane Lamarre, asks the Prime Minister to withdraw the file to the Minister of Health. "It's clear that Gaétan barrette failed. From the start, we had warned the Prime Minister that Gaétan Barrette was not credible as a negotiator, being himself in a conflict of interest. Philippe Couillard must immediately take things in their hands, "said Diane Lamarre. 
The member for Taillon also highlights the consequences of this failure. "At the end of the line, it's the patients who make the costs; The whole system is waiting for money. Several measures could be put in place and other network players could be involved if the file was settled, as the Liberals were committed, "continued the spokesperson for health. 
The Liberal government is entirely responsible for the drift that is currently taking the matter of the salary of doctors. After the premium scandal granted to Yves Bolduc, the case of the doctors' salary increase is demonstrating the flagrant lack of Philippe Couillard leadership. "The Liberals have granted a hike farmhouse to doctors and must now back to balance public finances. They boasted that with doctors in power, it would be easier to solve this file. They must now prove it, "concluded the leader of the official opposition. 
