Quebec- The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, in the presence of the President and CEO of the Quebec Council for the Arts and Letters (CALQ), Stéphan La Roche, today announced the entry into force of the program Patronage Investments Culture that has been enhanced as a result of the recommendations of the workgroup on cultural philanthropy. 
Indeed, as wanted by the Prime Minister, Pauline Marois, the rules of programmeméménat placements culture have been updated to better meet the financing needs of non-profit organizations in the fields of culture and communications distributed in the Quebec as a whole. 
"The Government of Quebec applies to support cultural organizations, particularly in the development of their expertise in searching for donors. The Patronage Investments Culture program is the tool par excellence to encourage strong philanthropic culture in Quebec, and its bonus makes it more flexible and accessible. I invite business people and the patrons of all regions of Quebec to contribute to the rise of cultural organizations. They thus participate tangibly with the social, identity and economic development of their community, "said Minister Kotto. 
"Patronage Investments Culture is a program widely adopted by the cultural environment. This is its success. Its already very structured effect is expected to increase with the new measures brought by the government. With this new program, cultural organizations will never have been so well equipped to gain financial autonomy while relying on their community, "added the CALQ President and Chief Executive Officer, Stephan La Roche. 
The Patronage Investments Culture program now presents three components that offer a greater choice of pairing options for fundraising. The first component encourages medium and long-term capitalization, the second responds to short-term funding needs, and the third aims to stimulate the dissemination of artistic activities outside Quebec. Note also among the novelties, the simplification of the registration and registration procedure of fundraisers by placing the financial statements at the center of accountability mechanisms. 
Recall that patronage investments culture was created in 2005 to ensure the autonomy and financial security of organizations by encouraging them to diversify their sources of funding. The purpose of this program is to stimulate the commitment of private donors in the arts, culture and communications sectors. Since its inception, it has allowed participating agencies to raise $ 28 million in private sector donations and contributions and build funds totaling more than $ 70 million that has been added to their assets. The new Patronage Investments Culture program is available on the CALQ website, atwww.calq.gouv.qc.ca/mpc/accueil.htm. 
The report of the Working Group on Cultural Philanthropy was released on June 11, 2013 and is available at the Ministry of Culture and Communications Websites (www.mcc.gouv.qc.ca) and the Ministry of Finance and of the economy (www.finances.gouv.qc.ca). 
