Quebec- The member for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, regrets that the Prime Minister did not benefit from Yves Bolduc's departure to correct the shot and offer a government to listen to the Quebec population, Instead of having ministers who lock in caucus to wait for the press lines that he dictates them. 
"When using the same ingredients, we arrive at the same recipe. By replacing Yves Bolduc by François Blais, and by preventing himself from reworking his government, the Prime Minister misses an opportunity to change course, he who has committed in the wrong direction since his election. The fundamental problem of the government is not the individuals who compose it, but the ways of making ministers: they are not listening to the population. Liberal-Caquist austerity attacks families, regional development, the poor. The government does not listen, it is far from the population. Ministers are absent for their respective partners. Philippe Couillard should have enjoyed this reshuffle to change these ways to do and change the attitude of arrogance and contempt that characterizes his government, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
A "Flip-Flops" government 
According to the official head of the official opposition, Yves Bolduc is not the tree that hides the forest. Many ministers committed burst and had to go back. Recently, Minister Kathleen Weil has flown-faced with fundamentalism. Minister Pierre Moreau threatened the cities of Longueuil and Laval, before retreating and assuming his tax pact and tax increases he has shown to municipalities. Minister Jean d'Amour has completely isolated actors from the regions of Bas-Saint-Laurent and the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine; A municipality even asked for his departure. Minister David Heurtel does not defend the interests of the population or the competence of Quebec on the environment. Not to mention the Minister of Transport, who was scrapped by his Prime Minister and who had to reverse on the poetic tax. Let us add the promise of the Minister of Finance to create 250,000 jobs, that Carlos Leitão brought back to the rank of target. Finally, mention the Bourde of Minister Christine St-Pierre, who wandered by talking about the displacement of the member for Rosemont, Jean-François Lisée; She even had to apologize for her. 
The government ends 50 years of regional consultation  "The Government's vision for the regions, it is simple: it is to put an end to 50 years of consultation and development efforts in a draft tote legislation, Bill 28. Regions and the Community Academic is mobilized to tell the government that it is about to commit irreparable mistakes that will harm the regional development. The government has abolished the Crees, shifted the CLDs, cut 80 million in assistance to the regions, even going to slab the assistance to the devitalized territories. All this because Philippe Couillard is convinced of being right, "added Stéphane Bédard. 
A family of the family cut off from his network 
The leader of the official opposition also points out that other ministers could have left their place, while there are multiple problems in several sectors. 
"For example, in an initiative ever seen, the AQPE and the AGPQ asked this week the departure of the Minister of the Family, Francine Charbonneau, which is completely cut off the child care network. The government is demolishing family policy. This morning, a clear signal could have been sent by the Prime Minister to those who offer our toddlers an accessible and quality learning environment. Unfortunately, he missed this opportunity, "added Stéphane Bédard. 
Does Francois Blais undertake not to cut more in Quebec schools?  In addition, the Parti Québécois asks the new Minister of Education, François Blais, to commit to that there are no other sections in the school network or higher education. He also asks him to be transparent in the coming changes in the school boards. 
"What does the new Minister of Education think direct cuts in the services to students remitted by his predecessor? For example, is it in favor of compressions in homework help and buying books? Will he go back? Does he believe that we must raise the teacher-student ratio in elementary and high school classes? Many questions we ask the Minister François Blais, to promote the educational success of all, "concluded the official opposition. 
