Decidedly, Philippe Couillard becomes more and more difficult to follow. Already, this fall, he had surprised us by evoking a return to a budget balance in three or four years, then rectifying the shot and declare that the disappointment of the zero deficit was "essential" for 2014-2015. He had surprised us, too, with his penmultiples on the charter, with or without Chador. And let's not forget that he voted in favor of the tabling of Fatima Houda-Pepin's bill, however, that he came to expel from his caucus because she had a position contrary to his own. 
The budget of the budget, Mr. Couillard stated that Quebec was now in the election campaign because the opposition would bring the government. Then, at his first electoral press point, he opened his speech with a "finally! "Well felt. A few seconds later, he accused the first minister for fled to the election campaign. Difficult to follow. 
Anticosti, same thing. He first accuses the government to play the lottery with the public funds, then declares that it intends to continue the exploration he had just denounced. Cement of Port-Daniel-Gascons, same thing: His troops denounce the project in Quebec City, but presses him when he visits Gaspésie. 
ETSA Constitutional Position, you understand it? He first wants Quebec to sign the ConstitutionD'ICI 2017. Then on March 14, Mr. Couillard suggests his intention to undertake a tour of Canada to recognize Quebec as Company separate by the Governments of Ottawa and the provinces. On March 15, as if by magic, he changed advice and decides to drop. 
As he would say himself, let's talk about real business. Either the leader of the Liberal Party simply has no idea what he does, Silver gets back in his place. Either he does not have a clear project for Quebec, Chiteson Message is unpopular in the high liberal spheres. 
While the Parti Québécois speaks jobs, entrepreneurship, unplan of economic growth, the environment and the homelessness, Philippe Couillard speaks of referendum (he even proposed a referendum question and he said to himself. ready to lead the camp of no!) And constitution. 
Since the beginning of the campaign, the leader of the Liberal Party of Quebec has been spared, despite its incessant volte-face and contradictions. But it can not last indefinitely. When it comes time to choose someone to hold prime minister, trust is a determining element. Now, how to trust Philippe Couillard, this man with ideas also indeterminate Etals Philippe-flops absurd? 
In addition, also read Jean-François Lisée Blog Ticket: "The Canadian Schizophrenia of Philippe Couillard" 
Michel Pepin also arises on his blog: Quebec's formal membership of the Canadian Constitution one of Philippe Couillard's "Read His" State affairs "ticket 
