Quebec- The member for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, lamented the sad economic review of the Liberal government, noting that Prime Minister Philippe Couillard does nothing, he expects the liberal effect, while the Québécois are the costs of his inaction. 
"We had been promised a liberal effect; Since then, the growth forecasts are decreasing. There has even been, the day after the last budget, a downward revision. We had been promised 250,000 new jobs; It has been lost 1100 in 2014. Let's add to this the fact that it has not created any full-time jobs in the last 12 months. Housing starts are at a historically low level because families do not trust. Decidedly, the Prime Minister is the "Scott Gomez" of the economy; He asked for a big contract to Quebecers, but he does not count goals, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
In 24 hours, 600 additional job losses 
Only yesterday, 300 job losses were announced at Bell Helicopter in Mirabel and 300 others at Solutions, on the side of Mauricie. "We lose 600 jobs in one day and the Prime Minister remains determined to do nothing. We lose quality jobs and the prime minister, he is satisfied with the creation of part-time jobs. What does he meet the 600 people who learned that they lost their job yesterday, and who have nothing to give them hope to find one in the short term? , "Added the leader of the official opposition. 
Economic missions without benefits 
Stéphane Bédard also recalls that the Prime Minister led economic missions whose preparation was deficient, and therefore, therefore, more diplomatic odds than economic benefits. 
"With one year of step back, can the Prime Minister explain to Quebeckers why he has not yet presented economic policy, while he was elected with promises to that effect? How does Philippe Couillard explain the 92% drop in foreign investment attracted by his government? I would succeed it's because it practices the total leave and management at the little week, "he concluded. 
Foreign investments made by Investissement Québec and financed by the Economic Development Fund 
