Quebec, July 9, 2014 -The official opposition leader of Chicoutimi, Stéphane Bédard, asks the Prime Minister to get out of his silence and demonstrate a minimum of leadership by recalling his ministers Gaétan Barrette and Yves Bolduc. It is Philippe Couillard to ask his Minister of Education to repay all the premiums received, or $ 215,000, to take care of patients who were on a waiting list. The Prime Minister must also require his health minister that he apologizes inadmissible remarks he has taken a little earlier today. 
"Refund only part of the premiums received for patients who have not been followed within one year is not enough. Since Yves Bolduc was unable to take a long-term commitment to the 1500 patients, the Prime Minister must ask his minister to submit the total amount of bonuses obtained. Beyond legality, it's a matter of ethics and integrity. Philippe Couillard must dictate the rule of ethics that will now be applicable. He loses a lot of time with a situation that normally should have been settled from the start; That he assumes his leadership, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
The member for Taillon and sentence of the official health opposition, Diane Lamarre, recalls that the purpose of these financial incentives is to enable patients to have access to a family doctor, and This, in the long run. "These premiums are added to the doctor's compensation. It is not in question the work done, however, we continue to question the conciliation between the large number of patients enrolled with his demanding work. Now that he can no longer follow up with his patients, he must reimburse the bonuses obtained. As an elegance, it is obliged to show the example and not take advantage of the outrage of the rules he has put in place, "added Diane Lamarre. 
As for the words of the Minister of Health, who tries to divert the True Question Debate, Stéphane Bédard asks Philippe Couillard to demand excuses from his minister. "Mr. Barrette has failed to respect his members of Parliament, to Claude Castonguay and even towards young Quebeckers, who are equally working as the medico-liberal trio who currently leads Quebec," concluded Stéphane Bédard. 
