Quebec- In the perspective of a meeting between the first ministers Harper and Couillard, the member for Verchères and the official opposition spokesperson for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, asks the leader of the Quebec government to show themselves clear, finally, and to present to Quebeckers the applications he will submit to the federal government. 
"The meeting of the Federation Council last week does not reassure anyone, in Quebec, on the intentions of the Liberal government. When will the Prime Minister defend the interests of Quebecers? We want him to tell us what requests he intends to formulate at his meeting with Stephen Harper, "said Stéphane Bergeron. 
Infrastructure financing 
Remember that under the 2007-2008 budget, filed on May 24, 2007, the former liberal finance minister, Monique Jerome-Forget, asked, "In addition, to accelerate investment and reduce the heaviness of the administrative process, For infrastructure are expected to be paid to the provinces through bulk financing "(page D16 of the budget plan). 
"Will the current Liberal government have the courage to ask the same thing, the block transfer of the sums dedicated to infrastructure? However, it does not seem to want to oppose the federal decision firmly not to increase the financing of infrastructure. We therefore ask him to be clear and firm on this issue, "continued the member for Verchères. 
A decline in health transfers 
The Changes proposed by the Conservative government, with respect to federal health transfers, will result in a shortfall of more than $ 9 billion over 10 years for Quebec's finances. "How will the government take it to restore transfers up to the needs that do not diminish, even when the federal government accumulates surpluses, which could also reach $ 7 billion in this year? ? How will the Liberal government overcome this decline in transfers? Will he increase taxes? Conduct even more draconian cups in services to the people? As can be seen, the mutism facing the federal government has a price that is high and that the population will be called to pay well despite it ", sorry Stéphane Bergeron. 
Fiscal imbalance 
The Conference Board said last week that the Canadian provinces and the federal government go to a new fiscal imbalance of nearly $ 300 billion. The aging of the population and health costs, in particular, exert great pressure on the finances of Quebec. "Will the Prime Minister transmit to Stephen Harper a copy of the Conference Board report? Does he agree with this report or with his Minister of Finance, Carlos Leitão, who claimed, on May 7, that there was no fiscal imbalance? , Added the member. 
Liberal membership of the Canadian energy strategy 
The membership of Philippe Couillard to the Canadian energy strategy is also a disturbing sign that the Liberal government for its defense of Quebec's interests, as denounced last week Stéphane Bergeron and the member for Marie- Victorin and spokesperson for energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville. 
"By adhering to this strategy, the Liberal government is ignoring Québec's skills in energy matters. Québec values for the development of our resources must be put forward, not melted in the great all Canadian. We will continue to denounce this abandonment of the skills and specificity of Quebec, "concluded Stéphane Bergeron. 
