Quebec - In response AUCHEF of the official opposition and spokesperson on the French language, Jean-François Lisée, who filed a bill to restore the right of Quebeckers to work in French and to overcome the liberal incusion In the defense of the French language, Prime Minister Philippe Couillard was satisfied with the current situation, while designating the Charter of the French language as a "linguistic cloth". 
IN SHORT 
"The Court of Appeal, last October, has emptied Article 46 of the Charter of the French language. This disarms it completely and calls into question our right to work in French. Now, in a context where, everywhere in Quebec, French as a language of work declines, we can not stay the arms crossed, "said Jean-François Lisée. In fact, this new jurisprudence introduces what could be called the "Clause Clause". In March 2014, Mr. Couillard had indicated that each employee on a mounting chain should know English, in case an English-speaking client wanted to "talk to workers". 
The Leader of the Official Opposition is also the purpose of the Prime Minister in the House, this morning, when there was a question of French at work. "Philippe Couillard applauds the decline of French at work. And it deals with the linguistic issue of "cloth". Decidedly, our head of state is unable to rise, to defend the rights of citizens it is supposed to represent. He has no ambition for Quebec, no column facing the federal government. That's why we're doing the job at his place, "he continued. 
After reviewing job offers in the Montreal area, in November 2012, there were only nearly 6 out of 10 employers demanded, then, a knowledge of English. The total inaction - even the tacit complicity - of the premier Couillard, since the election of 2014, has made sure that this practice has become widespread and that employers, often in good faith, are now allowed not allowed not to Respect the initial spirit of Law 101. 
"We want to introduce rigorous criteria to send a clear message to the employers: the requirement of knowledge of English should not be a general rule, but an exception that must be justified. In Quebec, this is part of corporate social responsibility. Here we work in French, "concluded the member for Bourget and Lieutenant of the official opposition for the French language, Maka Kotto. 
The main provision of the bill reads as follows: 
