Quebec, on December 8, 2016 -The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the spokespersons of the Quebecois Party for Forests and Relations Québec-Canada, Sylvain Roy and Nicolas Marceau, are worried about the Molesel of Prime Minister Philippe Couillard before the timber crisis, which affects hundreds of communities across the regions of Quebec. 
"Faced with the imposition of an import tax against our timber industry, the Couillard Prime Minister must stand up. US complaints are caused by the Western Canada industry, while the Quebec Forest Plan is now in line with international trade standards. Philippe Couillard must require Justin Trudeau negotiates with the United States the exemption for Québec surcharges which, otherwise, will be imposed. This morning, for the Quebec forest industry, I managed to obtain the Prime Minister of Loan Guarantees to cover borrowings of $ 300 million. I want him to know that I will remind him that he replied, "We will be there, at the extent required for the real damage noted," said Jean-François Lisée. 
"After the last forest crisis, Quebec lost one-third of the 90,000 jobs in its forestry sector. It is therefore a weakened industry that faces today, a new timber war. At home, more than 250 communities live from the wood industry, and 120 depend exclusively. The government's inaction puts these in-danger communities. The taxes imposed represent up to $ 300 million annually for the industry, "continued Sylvain Roy. 
"The forest industry has requested federal loan guarantees in order to survive the taxation of the US tax. Whether in bank regulatory records, assistance to the Muskrat Falls, Energy Pipeline, or health transfers, the Couillard government has failed to get gains in Ottawa. The past being guarantor of the future, Quebec is likely to be told no, again, by the Trudeau government. What will Philippe Couillard do to ensure the survival of factories? When will the promised help this morning be available? Remember that the federal government does not propose and the penalties will apply at the end of January, "concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
