Quebec, on February 21, 2017- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesman for the Parti Québécois in the field of finance, Nicolas Marceau, and the spokesperson for economy, Alain Therien, have denounced timidity and the lack of majority of the measures announced today by the Liberal government for the protection of Quebec's headquarters. 
"This morning, Prime Minister Philippe Couillard has presented a plan without substance on head offices. What did he contain, essentially? A tax cut for the 0.1% of Quebec's richest citizens. The Liberals fall by $ 60,000 the tax payable on each $ 1 million gain that will be achieved through the actions of the executive action option. Meanwhile, the Liberals leave seniors in uncertainty - the government has rejected its decision on the cancellation of the tax credit for the most vulnerable seniors - and ignores the impacts of their austerity measures, Who affected students in difficulty, seniors, families, regions, "reacted Jean? François Lisée. 
"What the Liberal government has announced today, it's void. And it is all the more shocking as it has in the hands a more expanded report on the same subject, filed in February 2014 by Claude Séguin and a large number of business figures. It should be remembered that several measures contained in this 2014 report were not retained by the Government, including: confer additional voting rights to long-term shareholders to disadvantage speculative shareholders; Do not allow the author of a hostile purchase offer to vote on his own proposal; and prevent the directors from being dismissed in favor of persons named by the buyer. These are the proactive policies, that the government could have, if he had wanted, to put at the service of companies, "added Nicolas Marceau. 
"For the Liberals, the measures taken by other companies to protect their headquarters is building walls around Quebec, it is" back to the previous century "," Soviet "policies, to quote the Prime Minister and his Minister of Finance. We can only see how long they are disconnected, even international economic consensus of companies that are committed to maintaining their florets on their territory, "has brought Alain Therien. 
"In the 2014 election campaign, the Liberal Party had promised to use the billions of dollars of the Generation Fund to retain headquarters. Three years later, there is nothing, no line there? On it in an insignificant plan. Nothing that could have prevented the sale of Rona, for example. The promise is officially broken, and the Liberals promise to continue in this direction. It is extraordinarily disappointing for Quebeckers, who assist, helpless, the programmed renunciation of the Liberal government as to the retention of our headquarters. In short, what the Government of Philippe Couillard did this morning, this morning is to pose a sign "for sale" on Quebec, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
