Quebec- This morning at a press briefing, the member for Taillon and spokesperson for the Quebecois health and accessibility of care, Diane Lamarre, demanded an intervention of the Prime Minister to maintain independence of the Commissioner for Health and Wellbeing (CSBE). On this occasion, it was accompanied by Mrs Claire Montour, President of the Quebec Health Federation (FSQ-CSQ), and Mr. Billy-Sam Roy, Vice-President of the Federation of Health and Services Trade Unions social (F4S-CSQ). 
"Today at the National Assembly, I filed a petition, initiated by the CSQ and signed by 6439 people, demanding the complete preservation of the autonomy of the Commissioner for Health and Wellbeing. This mobilization must find echo the ears of the government; It's not too late to act. The Minister of Health counted by the 2016-2017 Budget Implementation Bill, abolishing the CSBE. This bill has not yet been filed. It is therefore always time, for the government, to rectify the shot, "said the member. 
"Remember that on April 26, a citizens' initiative led to the creation of the Coalition for the Maintenance of the Commissioner for Health and Wellbeing, rallying nearly a dozen civil society organizations. The government must take note of it, "said the member. 
"After the abolition of the Quebec Association of Health and Social Services establishments, the dramatic decline in the number of complaints commissioners, their remoteness of several places of care, extreme centralization, the minister targets the Commissioner Health and well-being. Obviously, it tries by all means to silence criticism and muzzle the voices that would be able to evaluate its reforms. The CSBE is the only body to still be able to appreciate and measure the performance of our health system neutral and objectively. Today, we call on the Prime Minister to take over the control over his minister omnipotent and keeps the health care dog in place he has created. The CSBE has always fulfilled the role of Sentinel that Philippe Couillard had entrusted to him, "concluded the member. 
