Quebec- The member for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, as well as the member for Taschereau, a parliamentary leader and spokesman in secularism, Agnès Maltese, deplore that the Prime Minister refused to support the definition. of religious fundamentalism of the Bouchard-Taylor Commission, voting against the motion filed today by the official opposition. 
"The malaise of the Prime Minister continues; It is unable to agree on a definition of religious fundamentalism. The Liberal government continues to procrastinate and play with words. In order to fight effectively against a phenomenon, you have to know what we are talking about. The government remains in the fog, while religious fundamentalism has impacts throughout society. One thing is safe, it can not be a personal choice, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
"I tabled this morning a bill on the observer of religious fundamentalism, in order to understand, document and prevent the phenomenon. This observer could, like the citizen's protector, do research, write reports and submit to parliamentarians. We hand over the government to call the bill and that we can discuss it at the National Assembly, "Agnès Maltais concluded. 
The motion rejected by the Liberals was read as follows: 
"That the National Assembly affirms, like the Bouchard-Taylor report, that fundamentalism is a literal and monolithic interpretation of religions, under which the latter acquire an absolute precedence on other social, political, scientific considerations , which leads to rejecting any evolution; 
That it declares that religious fundamentalism is most often expressed by infringement of the fundamental principle of equality between women and men as well as the fundamental rights of homosexual persons; 
That it supports that the practice of religious fundamentalism has impacts on the community and that it can not be reduced to the expression of a personal choice; 
Finally, that it recalls the urgency of documenting this phenomenon by an observatory of religious fundamentalism. » 
