Quebec- The Leader of the official opposition and hon. Member for Saint-Jérôme, Pierre Karl Péladeau, made the following statement at a time of press today in Montreal: 
"Today, I am in front of an absence of alternative that forces me to make a choice between my family and my political project. In these circumstances, you will understand that I chose my family. I announce that, to regret, I immediately leave my duties as leader of the Parti Québécois, leader of the official opposition and deputy of Saint-Jérôme. 
I made this decision for the good of my children. For them, I have to remain an example. 
I deeply like the Parti Québécois, its activists and deputies. It is a great party that carries the fundamental project to make Quebec a country and profound values of defending the interests of Quebeckers. 
I want to thank the team of deputies and members of the party, his activists and his activists, the riding executives of the Parti Québécois, all the employees of the permanence, all the staff of the parliamentary wing and the researchers, for Their trust and for the privilege that was given to lead the Quebecois party. 
I also thank all the citizens and all citizens I had the honor of meeting during my term. 
I also extend a special word to the citizens of Saint-Jérôme, who granted me their confidence on April 7, 2014. I want to tell them thank you, from the bottom of the heart. 
In recent months, we together worked tirelessly for the defense of the interests of the population, for economic development and for the regions of Quebec. We have made significant progress, we have reduced the government. The result of the last partial election in Chicoutimi was a beautiful victory, which demonstrates the strength of our political training. 
We also laid the foundation for the convergence of nationalist forces and sovereignists. It is an important building site; I trust activists and activists to continue it. 
For the future, the members of the National Executive will be summoned quickly to take stock and make the necessary decisions. The Caucus of MPs and Party Parties members will meet this week to determine the modalities for the identification of one or a parliamentary leader. 
I will remain a citizen of the Parti Québécois. I am convinced that the future of Quebec, Quebeckers passes through the independence of our nation. » 
