Rimouski- The member for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, accompanied by the member for Rousseau and spokesperson in finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, the member for Chicoutimi, a parliamentary leader and speech in terms of economics, entrepreneurship, SMEs and exports, Stéphane Bédard, the member for Sanguinet and Spokesperson for Treasury Board, Alain Therrien, and the hon. Member for Rimouski, Harold Lebel, announced that He begins a tour of Quebec's economic decision-makers. 
"In the month last May, I proposed to the Prime Minister to bring together socio-economic actors around the same table to equip Quebec with a real strategy of full employment and meet the economic challenges that arise, such as the protection of Our headquarters, innovation and productivity of our businesses. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister refused hand outstretched, despite the obvious need to act on several fronts to move Quebec forward, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
The leader of the official opposition is therefore a tour of economic decision-makers. It will meet in particular the institutional leaders (Hydro-Québec, Investissement Québec, the Fund and Investment, our universities), the representatives of the workers' funds, the entrepreneurs, several entrepreneurs creators of SMEs, our best researchers, as well as People in the innovation sector. "If the Liberal Prime Minister Philippe Couillard refuses to bring them together, I will go to them, discuss solutions, projects for Quebec. I will subsequently propose Quebeckers and Quebeckers interesting trails for the future, "he added. 
Liberal austerity does not work 
"In the summer, I went to meet the citizens of Quebec. Everywhere, people have shared their fears related to liberal austerity. Austerity is not an economic plan; It's not a vision for Quebec and it's not unifying. Philippe Couillard is locked up in the accounting and doctrian logic of the President of the Treasury Board, who does not hesitate to sacrifice the Quebec model on behalf of an imaginary deficit of $ 7 billion, "continued Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
However, there is urgency to act. Still last Friday, the Ministry of Finance published its financial results for the first two months of the 2015 financial year. It is too early to draw conclusions, but it remains that the budget balance has half a billion deficit after only two months While this year we should find ourselves in a budget balance. 
On the job side, since June, Quebec has lost 11,600 jobs, while it was created in the rest of Canada. There are losses in several sectors, including in the region, in the forest industry, or in the metropolis, in agribusiness and even aeronautics. "The government's action, instead of supporting our regions, harm our economy and is learned. Here, at the bottom of the river, the number of jobs has fallen by 8% since the arrival of the Liberal government; This represents 7000 less jobs. On Monday, the people we met we talked a lot about their disappointment at the Liberal Party; For having heard the promises, they find themselves rather at the time of the cuts, "concluded Harold Lebel. 
Watch the press point with Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
