Quebec- The hon. Member for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, proceeded to the appointment of Pierre Duchesne as director of his cabinet. 
"I am pleased to announce the appointment of Pierre Duchesne as Chief of the Official Opposition Officer. Journalist for 25 years, biographer and minister in the Government of Pauline Marois, Pierre has all the qualities required to successfully occupy this important function. In the coming months, he will see, among other mandates, the deployment of our action, which will be centered on the priorities of Quebeckers and marked by our will to do, with the people, of Quebec a country, "said the head of the official opposition. 
Entered as a trainee journalist on Radio-Canada in 1987, Pierre Duchesne is, in turn, journalist then postpone to the first channel of Radio-Canada (1990-2001), Reporter, Journalist inquiry, Parliamentary correspondent in Quebec and Political Analyst on Radio? Canada (2001? 2012). Elected member of the Parti Québécois in the district of Borduas in 2012, he is Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology of 19 September 2012 to 23 April 2014. In June 2014, he became strategic advisor For the Parti Québécois. 
Recipient of many professional prizes, including the John-Humphrey Journalism Award, awarded by the Canadian Francophone Section of Amnesty International, in 1998 and 1999, Pierre Duchesne is the author of an imposing biography of the former Prime Minister of the Quebec, Jacques Parizeau (Jacques Parizeau - The Crusan 2001, Jacques Parizeau - Le Baronen 2002, Etjacques Parizeau - The Regencen 2004). 
Having assured the acting management of the official head of the official opposition since May 17, Simon Lajoie will resume his duties as Chief of Cabinet of the Parliamentary Leader of the Official Opposition. 
"I would like to thank Simon Lajoie for agreeing to ensure the acting of the Chief of the Official Opposition Cabinet. His long parliamentary experience at the National Assembly will certainly have allowed a harmonious transition and a successful entry to the Blue Show as a result of my arrival as the official opposition leader, "added Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
