Québec- On the occasion of a visit to the Sabsa Solidarity Cooperative, to mark the first anniversary of this local clinic without a doctor, the member for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the member taillon and spokesperson for the health and accessibility of care, Diane Lamarre, and the member for Taschereau and Lieutenant for the Capitale-Nationale, Agnès Maltese, have asked the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, To sustain funding from the organization, since it has demonstrated that it really improves access to health care and health services for patients and patients. 
"I found very important to visit the women and men at the origin of Sabsa. These people work every day to improve the care and access for the people of Quebec, including the most vulnerable citizens. We learn that new cups of hundreds of millions will affect the health sector, already struggling with significant cuts. The Minister of Health has shimmed savings with his reforms, but we are still waiting for them. The Sabsa Clinic is a good example of what we have been saying for a long time to the Parti Québécois: the doctor does not have to be at the center of everything. Health professionals should be involved in improving access to care, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"To improve this access, it seems essential to let a larger place for nurses. This is a first step to increase their autonomy. We think we can also use other health professionals, such as speech therapists or nutritionists. Currently, what does the Minister of Health do, except playing in structures? Gaétan Barrette should be inspired by the model set by Sabsa, rather than creating superclinic that will only drain our health professionals to the private, outside the public network, "added Diane Lamarre. 
"I congratulate the people of Sabsa and the whole community, who has mobilized, has concealed and put forward an innovative solution to better cure citizens of Quebec. The clinic being at risk, I still ask the government to support it financially, on behalf of the thousands of people in my riding who find the basic care they need, "said Agnès Maltais. 
