On the eve of the International Women's Day, I had the great pleasure of presenting several candidates for great competence. I think never, in the history of the Quebecois Party, we have had a team of candidates as strong, as great. 
I am thinking of Martine Desjardins, our candidate in Groulx: a young competent, dynamic, engaged woman who has been the voice of a whole generation during the social crisis of spring 2012, then at the micro large national media. 
I am thinking of Djemila Benhabib, candidate in a thousand islands: recognized around the world for his humanistic and feminist commitment, his inspiring personality and his courage radiate Quebec around the planet. 
I think of Gyslaine Desrosiers, our candidate in Blainville: President and Chief Executive Officer of Quebec Nurses for 20 years and holder, like me, a master's degree in business administration of HEC Montréal. 
I think of Diane Lamarre, candidate in Taillon: pharmacist and president of the Order of Pharmacists of Quebec, she is a remarkable scientist, entrepreneur and professional, who believes nothing is more important in her work than contact with the patient. A new specialist who is in addition to our health team! 
I am also thinking of Evelyne Abitbol, candidate in Acadia: she has focused on women, social justice and crop rapprochement over several forums around the world. Moreover, Evelyne is a laureate of the Arab Women Trophy for its exceptional contribution to Quebec society. 
I am thinking of Yasmina Chouakri, candidate in Anjou-Louis-Riel: Politicologist of training and responsible for the women's component at the bodies' consultation table in the service of refugee and immigrants, President of the Action Network for the Equality of Immigrants and racialized Quebec and researcher associated with the Research Chair on Immigration, Ethnicity and Citizenship of UQÀM. With her, immigrant women as much as the citizens of Anjou-Louis-Riel will have someone attentive who will defend their interests with passion. 
Finally, I think of Leila Mahiut, candidate in Bourassa Sauvé; The list of its fields of competence impresses: finances, health, telecommunications, hydroelectric industry, to name a few. Leila is also a woman of culture involved in her community. For me, it constitutes an inspiring example for all Quebeckers. 
Beyond our partisan preferences, I also wish to greet each of the Quebeckers who has committed as a candidate as part of this campaign, regardless of the party. 
I must say, however, that I am particularly proud of those who have chosen to present themselves with us. 
And men are not left out. It has been a long time since we had a team of candidates as strong. All together, men and women, it gives an exceptional team. 
It gives the best team of candidates that have been seen for a long time in Quebec politics! 
