Montreal - Here is a letter forwarded today by the Director General of the Parti Québécois, Sylvain Tanguay, the Chief Electoral Officer: 
"Montreal, March 4, 2014 
Jacques Drouinle General Manager of Quebec Elections René-Lévesque3460, Rue de la Péradebec, Quebec G1X 3Y5 
Mr. Director General, 
The Parti Québécois wishes to file a complaint about an advertisement published in the edition of March 4, 2014 daily newspapers, the sun, the tribune, the law, the novelist and the daily and which you will find a copy attached. The contents of this one is the same in the six dailies. 
You will see that this advertisement entitled "It is necessary to say the real business" is signed by four individuals, Louis Audet, David Forest, Jan Peeters and Luc Villeneuve and explicitly table on the slogan of the Liberal Party of Quebec for the campaign of 2014 ie "Together, we take care of real business." 
The similarity is at this striking point, all paired with concerted action (publication in six daily on the eve of the possible trigger of general elections), that it is difficult not to conclude that it is a gesture posed for political purposes aimed at promoting the Liberal Party of Quebec. 
Although this advertisement was made outside the election period, its estimated cost to several thousand dollars and its manifest intention to starve the electoral slogan of the Liberal Party ensures that it falls under the influence of Article 88 of the electoral law and must therefore be seen as a contribution made to a political party for political purposes. The electoral law provides for its section 91 that the contributions of electors can not exceed $ 100 for a given political party. Obviously since there are only four signatories to advertising it would be contributions exceeding this amount and consequently illegal contributions. 
For these reasons, we therefore consider that this advertising is contrary to the electoral law, particularly the articles that govern the contributions of voters and we therefore ask you to investigate. 
I beg you, Mr. Director General, to accept my best regards. 
The Director General, 
Original signed 
Sylvain Tanguay » 
