Saint-Basile-le-Grand- The member for Chambly, Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Education, the leisure and the Sport, Mrs. Marie Malavoy, the award of financial assistance of $ 6.5 million to the School Board of the Patriots to enable the expansion of the mosaic school, located in Saint-Basile-le-Grand. This new initiative aims to fill the need for premises in the sector in the coming years. 
"As a member of Parliament for Chambly, I am happy to make this announcement today. This project will allow the addition of fourteen classes, preschool and primary, as well as a child care service. This is an excellent news for students, parents and school staff at the property. Children will be able to receive quality educational services, in a stimulating location and adapted to their needs, "said St-Arnaud. 
"We receive with great joy that announcement that comes to conclude an approach where, all our partners mobilized to coordinate their mutual actions for the benefit of students. I want to emphasize the outstanding work of the Team of the Patriots School Board, which has demonstrated beyond doubt that the mosaic school needs to double its spaces to welcome all students from its sector. ", Commented Mrs. Hélène Roberge, president of the Patriot School Board. 
The contribution of the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport to this project of the School Board is part of the list of new initiatives planned to the extent that adding space for general training and is part of the plan Quebec infrastructure 2013-2023, made public in April. This large plan marks a major shift in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. 
It should be remembered that this decennial plan will eventually lead to investments of $ 8.1 billion for the Education component, including 460 million in addition of space for all regions of Quebec. In particular, it will allow the construction of 23 schools and the enlargement of 46 school buildings. 
"I am very proud that important sums are devoted to the school infrastructures of Quebec. Whether it's addressed, as for the project announced today, maintaining assets or other initiatives, these investments testify to the Government's unshakable will to offer our students from the media conducive to their learning and fulfillment, while ensuring sound management of public funds. We ask both judicious, realistic and responsible gestures, "Malavoy said. 
Thanks to this plan, the government ensures renewing and improving infrastructure in all sectors, including the road network, public transit, health and social services, educational institutions, infrastructure. municipal, cultural equipment, social housing and public safety institutions. 
In the long term, the plan will result in investments of $ 92.3 billion for projects in all regions of Quebec. It will have major economic benefits throughout the territory, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The ten-year-old Duclan Quebec infrastructure Duplan 2013-2023 will be able to assess the needs prospectively, depending on the priorities of Quebecers and Quebeckers, to measure the associated costs, and thus make the right choices for Quebec. This new way of doing things in planning and infrastructure management is based on honesty, integrity and rigor. 
