Quebec- The Head of the Laurentians Region and MP, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is pleased to Announce the allocation of $ 40,000 financial assistance to the Antoine-Labelle Regional County Municipality for the development of its Agricultural Zone Development Plan (PDZA). 
"I am proud not only that a MRC in my area decides to plan its agricultural activities, but also that it benefits from the support of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food for the realization of its projects", said Mr. Pagé. 
"The PDZA is an effective tool for the planning and enhancement of the agricultural zone. I am very happy with today's announcement, especially since it matters with one of the objectives defined in our food sovereignty policy, which consists of promoting the development of a dynamic and prosperous bioalimentary sector He wanted to clarify Mr. François Gendron. 
Recall that more than 30 MRCs have begun or completed the preparation of their agricultural area development plan, which is a planning document aimed at developing the agricultural area of an MRC and promoting the sustainable development of agricultural activities that. 'take place. The PDZA allows regional county municipalities to determine specific actions to stimulate the development of agriculture in their territory in the context of a concerted approach. 
In concrete terms, the MRC of Antoine-Labelle wants the PDZA that it has developed contributes to the recognition of agriculture as a regional economic pillar and that it is the basis of the agricultural chapter of its planning scheme and development. 
For more information on PDZA, it is sufficient to visit the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food website (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/pdza). For further information on the policy of food sovereignty, one can regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.politiquesa.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and the Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politicsa). It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
