Québec- The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announces that it entrusts to the Cultural Heritage Council of Quebec The mandate to hold a public consultation on the project of heritage conservation plan of Trois-Rivières. 
"I hope that citizens and the groups concerned can make their voices heard on the draft conservation plan for the heritage site of Trois-Rivières. This plan proposal highlights the values and patrimonial characteristics of the site, as well as the guidance that will guide me for its preservation, rehabilitation and development. The consultation exercise is a moment of constructive exchanges so that everyone can share their concerns and express themselves on the proposed plan, "said Minister Kotto. 
All the details surrounding the public consultation, the place, the dates and the modalities, will be made public by the Cultural Heritage Council of Quebec. 
According to the Cultural Heritage Act, the Minister must obtain the opinion of the City of Trois-Rivières, which has jurisdiction over the planning of the territory, as well as that of the Cultural Heritage Council of Quebec on the draft conservation plan. . After the surrender of the consultation report, which will be filed by March 31, 2014, and receipt of these opinions, the Ministry will review the Conservation Plan, which will then be approved by the Minister. 
Remember that inside a declared heritage site an authorization from the Minister is necessary before dividing or framing down, to change the development or implantation of a building, to make a construction, to repair or To change the outer appearance of a building, completely or partially demolish a building, excavating the soil, to make a new display or modify, replace or demolish a sign. This authorization of the Minister is required in addition to any license required under municipal regulations. 
The heritage site of Trois-Rivières, decreed in 1964, corresponds to one of the first three nuclei of New France. Located in the heart of the town founded in 1634, it has about fifty buildings including religious institutions such as the Ursuline Monastery and the Heritage Site of Trois-Rivières, as well as bourgeois and workers' dwellings testifying to industrialization. from the city. It is also made up of public spaces, such as the place of arms and Pierre-Boucher Square. 
