Quebec- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec Region and MP Johnson, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is pleased to announce the allocation of $ 40,000 financial assistance to Arthabaska Regional County Municipality (MRC) for The development of its agricultural area development plan (PDZA). 
"When I knew that Arthabaska MRC benefited from financial assistance to prepare his PDZA, I experienced a strong satisfaction. Knowing the important role of agriculture in the Quebec economy, I am proud to say that this MRC will be better equipped to participate in the prosperity of this sector, "said Yves-François Blanchet. 
"The PDZA is an effective tool for the planning and enhancement of the agricultural zone. I am very happy with this announcement since it concurs with one of the objectives defined in our policy of food sovereignty, which consists in promoting the development of a dynamic and prosperous bioalimentary sector, "said Mr. François Gendron. 
Recall that more than 30 MRCs have begun or completed the preparation of their agricultural area development plan, which is a planning document aimed at developing the agricultural area of an MRC and promoting the sustainable development of agricultural activities that. 'take place. The PDZA allows regional county municipalities to determine specific actions to stimulate the development of agriculture in their territory in the context of a concerted approach. 
For more information on PDZA, it is sufficient to visit the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food website (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/pdza). For further information on the policy of food sovereignty, one can regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.politiquesa.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and the Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politicsa). It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
