Quebec- The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, as well as the two ministers responsible for coordinating government intervention on domestic violence, the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister Responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, and the Minister of Justice, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, accompanied by the Minister of Public Safety, Stéphane Bergeron, the Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs, Ms. Elizabeth Larouche, Minister of Health and Social Services, Mr. Réjean Hébert, the Minister of the Family, Ms. Nicole Léger, and the Minister Delegate to Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Ms. Véronique Hivon, have unveiled today The 2012-2017 Government Action Plan for Domestic Violence. 
The government has decided to tackle all forms of violence against women, and more specifically to domestic violence, by investing $ 57 million over the next five years. Nine departments and agencies will coordinate the 135 commitments contained in the Action Plan. 
"To counter violence against women, we must first promote fundamental values, including respect for the physical and psychological integrity of all persons. That's what my government is working to do, and it's a priority for us, "said the Prime Minister. 
The action plan measures focused on strengthening victim assistance, and a quarter of them are specifically addressed to Aboriginal women. Thus, the government testifies to its sensitivity to the particular situation in which these women live, and its desire to respect the values and culture of First Nations as of the Inuit population. For the government, it is essential to provide solutions and means adapted to communities if you want to fight against domestic and family violence effectively. 
Prevent, track, adapt and intervene 
The commitments of the action plan revolve around the four axes of the governmental intervention policy on spousal violence, entitled to prevent, detect and counter domestic violence, adopted in 1995. These axes are, in addition to the prevention and the prevention. Screening, adaptation to particular realities and intervention in psychosocial, police, judicial and correctional. 
"Our action plan will actually help victims and children exposed to domestic violence, as will ensure the supervision of people with violent behavior in a conjugal context. It also takes into account particularly vulnerable people such as seniors, the disabled, immigrants, LGBTs and men victims of spousal violence, "said Minister Agnès Maltese. Moreover, information brochures are specially intended for them will be available through Community Networks in Quebec. 
"We are committed to ensuring that the help and support for victims of criminal acts are among our priorities for justice," said Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud. By struggling to reduce spousal violence and strengthening actions to ensure the safety and protection of victims, the five-year plan of action revealed today is exactly in this direction. » 
"Spugal and family violence is an intolerable phenomenon," said Stéphane Bergeron for his part. Every day, children, women and men are victims. All these people must find a careful ear, be protected and receive all the support that their situation requires. As a company, it is necessary to focus on prevention and remain attentive in order to intervene without delay from the first before-runner sign. In the fight against spousal violence, police and policemen, as well as all other front-line stakeholders play a vital role; With this new action plan, we want to continue to support them in their work, with the aim of ensuring the safety of all citizens, "concluded the minister. 
The 2012-2017 Government Action Plan for Domestic Violence meets the recommendations made following extensive consultation by members of the Interdepartmental Coordination Committee on Domestic, Family and Sexual Violence. More than 75 specialized bodies, including Aboriginal organizations, women's groups and research, as well as health and social services agencies, took part. 
The action plan is available at www.scf.gouv.qc.ca. 
