Quebec- The member for Marie-Victorin and the official opposition on energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, as well as the member for Saint-Jérôme and spokesperson in the field of economy. Entrepreneurship, SMEs and exports, Pierre Karl Péladeau, denounce the lack of solid foundations of the new Northern Liberal government plan. 
"What Northern People need, it's a real political commitment and a real development plan. We all want the development of this territory, but the method used by the government is not good. Unfortunately, the true portrait, beyond the liberal political strategy, is found in the budget of the Minister of Finance of March 26: there is no money planned for the development of the North Plan; We only find zeros for the next five years. The first beneficiaries of a real development strategy must be northern people. If he believed as long as that, the government would invest and concretize the actual commitment of the Quebec state, "said Bernard Drainville. 
Source: Budget 2015-2016 - The Economic Plan of Quebec, page B.185. 
"The North Plan is not a short-term economic stimulus, and the Liberal government can only be satisfied with it. Philippe Couillard has always presented any economic policy, and he wants to make us believe that his new North Plan will be the Savior of our economy. With the numbers found in the budget, we recognize the liberal method: nothing was attached in 2011, and nothing is attached in 2015. Once again, we will let the mining on the territory without guide. , Without a policy, "lamented Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
Bernard Drainville also denounced the place chosen by the Couillard government to announce its new version of the North Plan. "Once again, the Liberals announce Nordic development in the South. Last time it was in Lévis; This time, it's in Montreal. Northern people deserve better than that. If the development is really intended for them, why has the announcement been made in Montreal and not in the territory of the North Plan? , "He concluded. 
