Quebec- Vice-Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, and the Head of Laurentians Region and MP, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, are pleased to announce The allocation of $ 40,000 financial assistance to the Laurentian Regional County Municipality (MRC) for the development of its agricultural area development plan (PDZA). 
"The PDZA is an effective tool for the planning and enhancement of the agricultural zone. I am very happy to make this announcement today. It consists with one of the objectives defined in our food sovereignty policy, which consists of promoting the development of a dynamic and prosperous biofood sector, "said Francois Gendron. 
"I am proud not only that a MRC in my area decides to plan its agricultural activities, but also that it benefits from the support of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food for the realization of its projects", urged Mr. Sylvain Pagé. 
Remember that more than 30 MRCs have undertaken or completed the preparation of their agricultural area development plan, which is a planning document to highlight the agricultural area of an MRC and promoting the sustainable development of agricultural activities. 'take place. The PDZA allows regional county municipalities to determine specific actions to stimulate the development of agriculture in their territory in the context of a concerted approach. 
In concrete terms, the MRC des Laurentians wishes, using the PDZA, better understand the peculiarities of its agricultural zone, mobilize farmers and interested players and make this tool the starting point for the revitalization of this area. Thus, the environment will be able to establish a strategy to support the development of agricultural activities. 
For more information on PDZA, it is sufficient to visit the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food website (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/pdza). For further information on the policy of food sovereignty, one can regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.politiquesa.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and the Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politicsa). It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
