Quebec- The study of Iris published yesterday confirms the fears of the Parti Québécois. "With the Northern Marketing Plan of the Liberal Party, the mining development in northern Quebec will enrich foreign multinationals and impoverish Quebeckers," said the member for Vachon and sentence of the official opposition in terms of mine and shale gas, Martine Ouellet. 
The study of the IRIS specifies that "in its current assembly, the North Plan appears exaggeratedly favorable to private enterprise by bringing the highest risk to Quebec taxpayers in exchange for low returns on their collective investment. Indeed, between what the government will invest over 25 years and what it will get in royalties, the North Plan's deficit amounts to $ 8.45 billion for Quebec taxpayers. » 
"Prime Minister Jean Charest's answer to the study of IRIS is incredible. Answer that he prefers the study of Secor to that of the IRIS is laughable: the study of Secor does not in any way take stock of the inflows and outflows of the deposit of the government related to the marketing plan North. The Secor's study merely calculated additional expenses without assessment of the earnings for the Quebec state. The structured analysis of IRIS demonstrates that the Northern Marketing Plan is not profitable for Quebeckers, "continued Martine Ouellet. 
For the Parti Québécois, it is urgent to straighten the situation. Currently, Quebec loses billions of dollars and value-added jobs in secondary and tertiary processing. "For many months, we have been calling for Quebeckers to get more for their non-renewable resources. We want everything to be implemented to promote transformation in Quebec. The Liberal government does not want. Why does he refuse to enrich Quebeckers? In question the hon. Member for Vachon. 
For its part, the hon. Member for Ungava and Nordic Development Spokesman reproaches the few impacts for local people. "We have been saying it from the beginning: the Northern Marketing Plan will not benefit local and Quebeckers. In the North we lack housing, training centers and services to the population. But Jean Charest only for the mining. Local communities feel forgotten, "said Luc Ferland. 
"Quite curiously, Jean Charest's plan is presented all over the world, but has not yet been to the Nordic populations. It says a lot about its true intentions, "conclusions, concluding Luc Ferland. 
