Quebec- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, and the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault announce that an amount of more than $ 48 million will be invested, as part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan, to complete the modernization of the Fifteen, Angle. 
"The dam of the fifteen is one of the highest flow control works on the Ottawa River watershed. This dam transferred by the federal government in 2007, had major deficiencies. Our government has decided to act to ensure the safety of this book and citizens who live in the surroundings of the dam. We intend to act concretely, quickly and efficiently on this issue, "said Minister Blanchet. 
Following a tendering process, which took place from April to June 2013, EBC Inc. was chosen to carry out construction. This work is aiming, among other things, to modernize the dam flood evacuator so that the level of security of the work is optimal, in addition to putting the standards the deck of the bridge and the road 391 on the dam. At the end of the work, we will obtain a safe work with a useful life that will be extended by 75 years. Remember that other works have already been completed and engaged on the barrage of the fifteen, including the stabilization work of the retaining dikes and an urgent operation of anchoring the dam, carried out from the end of February until the beginning of the April 2013, to secure the work before the passage of the spring flood. 
Since the beginning of interventions, in 2009, the total cost of the project are estimated at $ 79 million. Let us mention that the Ministry of Transport is involved in the development of the project for the portion of the work that affect the deck of the bridge and the road 391 on the dam. In fact, it will at the height of 50% the costs of this work, valued at $ 21 million. 
"The renewal of our road infrastructure is at the heart of the priorities of the Quebec Ministry of Transport. By being designed according to the current standards of the Ministry of Transport, the new apron will better meet the needs of users and will be a very important asset for the Angle and Témiscamingue population, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
"The citizens of the region will certainly be relieved to know that the facilities will be put to standards as soon as possible. I am very pleased since, in addition to ensuring the safety of the population, this work is pledges of job creation in the region, "added the member for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue, Mr. Gilles Chapadeau, who was On the premises today to proceed with the announcement on behalf of the Ministers Blanchet and Gaudreault. 
The contribution of the MDDEFP to this project is part of the 2013-2023 infrastructure plan. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually lead to investments of $ 231.9 million for the Public Barrage component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
