Quebec- Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, reiterated the importance for regional county municipalities (MRC) to have a Development Plan of the Agricultural Zone (PDZA). In this regard, he invited MRCs outside the metropolitan communities to submit a proposal for the development of their PDZA. Already, about 40 MRC started or completed the preparation of their PDZA. 
"With the policy of food sovereignty, we clearly serve our desire to expand the realization of PDZAs. Territorial planning is an opportunity to bring together the actors affected by agriculture around the same table to determine innovative ways to fully and sustainably exploit the agricultural zone. It is a formula that has beneficial and concrete effects and the MRC should be encouraged to bring such a plan, "said the minister. 
For more information on the presentation of a project for the realization of a PDZA, it is sufficient to consult the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc. CA / PDZA). Interested MRCs have until Friday, March 14, 2014 to submit a proposal. Those whose projects will qualify will get financial assistance up to 50% of eligible expenses up to $ 40,000. 
Remember that PDZAs are designed to highlight the MRC agricultural area by promoting the sustainable development of agricultural activities. In concrete terms, it is a question of promoting agricultural enterprises and their products, to increase or diversify productions, to promote the recognition of the multifunctionality of agriculture and to promote the establishment of complementary activities of agriculture. like agrotourism or farm transformation. 
For further information on food sovereignty policy, consult the blog dedicated to it (www.politiquesa.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www .mapaq.gouv.qc.ca / Policya). It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
