Quebec- The member for Rosemont and official opposition spokesperson for social services, protection of youth, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, and the hon. Member for Rimouski and spokesperson struggle to poverty, solidarity and social economy, Harold Lebel, find with disappointment that, although it is continuing with the work done by the Government of the Parti Québécois, the Interdepartmental Plan of Action in Roaming 2015-2020 unveiled yesterday by the Minister delegated to Rehabilitation, the Protection of Youth and Public Health, Lucie Charlebois, has few financial means to achieve the identified objectives. 
"The expectations were great as a result of the launch of the very first national roaming policy, in February, by our government. Unfortunately, despite several interesting measures, the proposed plan does not involve any specific timelines for evaluating the implementation of the measures and the achievement of the objectives set. In addition, the minister has announced the same recurring amount of 4.6 million to realize his plan, or nothing new to prevent and combat homelessness or to put in place measures that are necessary to help people The poorest, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
The hon. Member for Rimouski deplores his side that the plan does not provide for any submission of the support program to community organizations, which, however, intervene directly with people in a daily homelessness. "Several contradictions appear: for example, while the government cuts food for many programs in the region with its austerity measures, particularly in public health, it inscribes in its plan of action the need to prevent homelessness and Continue to support community community, "he illustrated. 
The government almost once again to defend Quebec before Ottawa 
"The liberal government is again flat in front of Ottawa and denies his word. After having voted two times in favor of a motion requiring the respect of Quebec orientations in the fight against homelessness, the Liberal government comes to confuse, by writing black on white in the plan that it will put in place the approach "Housing first", Ottawa's desire to dictate in Quebec how it should fight against homelessness, with one and only approach. It's totally unacceptable! Added Jean-François Lisée. 
Finally, the members have stressed the fact that several aspects of the work begun under the government of the Parti Québécois have been kept, among other things, the concern for access to all to the health insurance card, measures adapted to the various faces. roaming and investment of 42 million for the creation of 500 new social housing. 
