Quebec- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Minister responsible for the Mauricie Region and MP Johnson, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is pleased to announce the allocation of $ 24,570 financial assistance to the Maskinongé Regional County Municipality (MRC) for the development of its agricultural area development plan (PDZA). 
"The announcement of the support of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food for the planning of the Maskinongé MRC agricultural zone makes me very happy. This approach will allow the MRC to highlight the large areas that characterize it, "said Yves-François Blanchet. 
"The PDZA is an effective tool for the planning and enhancement of the agricultural zone. I am very happy with this announcement since it concurs with one of the objectives defined in our policy of food sovereignty, which consists in promoting the development of a dynamic and prosperous bioalimentary sector, "said Mr. François Gendron. 
Recall that more than 30 MRCs have begun or completed the preparation of their agricultural area development plan, which is a planning document aimed at developing the agricultural area of an MRC and promoting the sustainable development of agricultural activities that. 'take place. The PDZA allows regional county municipalities to determine specific actions to stimulate the development of agriculture in their territory in the context of a concerted approach. 
For more information on PDZA, it is sufficient to visit the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food website (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/pdza). For further information on the policy of food sovereignty, one can regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.politiquesa.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and the Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politicsa). It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
