Macamic- Lecenter of Health and Social Services of Aurores-BoreallesPuR will undertake the design phase of its project to redevelop the accommodation and long-term care center (CHSLD) from Macamic. This major redevelopment and functional renovation project is included in the Quebec Infrastructure Plan and will be fully funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services. This is announced today by the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Minister responsible for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region and MP Abitibo, François Gendron, on behalf of the Minister of Health and Social Services, Réjean Hébert. 
"These functional renovations are long awaited. Now that the functional and technical plan is approved, the realization of the concept and preliminary plans and quotes can now begin. For residents and staff of the Macamic CHSLD, as well as loss of autonomy of the region, this announcement is important since the work is about improving the quality, accessibility and efficiency of services , "Said the Deputy Prime Minister. 
The design stage will define the project tags more accurately. For the moment, the project provides for the redevelopment of two floors of the CHSLD, the 2nd third, for a total surface of 4,371 m2, which will allow the layout of 67 long beds. This work will be an opportunity to conform to the current standards the spaces dedicated to the customers in particular by the elimination of multiple bedrooms. The replacement of the 1st floor windows is also part of the project. Subject to the analyzes to be completed, the uploaded to date for the completion of such a project is approximately $ 13 million, which will need to be added temporary financing fees, project management fees as well than indexing. 
"As is the case for similar projects that are carried out in all regions of Quebec, these investments will significantly improve the functionality of the premises, but especially the quality of life of the residents in respect of the" environment "approach of life ". All of this will directly benefit the hosted people as well as relatives who come to visit them, but also to the members of the caregivers. This initiative is part of a broad renovation undertaking, which our government is undertaken to the grandeur of Quebec, the infrastructure of the health and social services network that are sometimes, with the years, in a dilapidated state. "Said Gendron. 
The contribution of the Ministry of Health and Social Services to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure (PQI) framework, which was made public in April. It should be remembered that this decennial plan will eventually lead to investments by nearly $ 19.4 billion for the health and social services component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
This plan marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
