Quebec- The Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Régie des rentes du Québec, Ms. Agnès Maltais, unveiled the content and schedule of his action plan on the future Quebec pension plans. 
"This realistic plan establishes a specific work schedule to ensure the sustainability of pension plans in Quebec. We have chosen to support our approach to negotiation while determining a two-year process and timeline that will lead to results. The plan will unfold within an intense exercise of exchanges and negotiations in respect of all concerned. These are the partners who will find the solutions, "said the minister responsible for the Régie des Pentes du Québec, Ms. Agnès Maltais. 
To this end, the Government stated four major guidelines that will tailor the process, the intergenerational fairness, the ability to pay taxpayers, the protection of retirees' rents and the principle of costs. Costs. 
The return to the viability of the supplementary supplemental retirement regimes is at the heart of the action plan. A restructuring is necessary. 
First of all, to facilitate the restructuring of these plans and the supervisor, desforums of occupational representatives of the employer and the union part will be created for the municipal, academic and private sectors. These forums will have four months to determine the necessary adjustments to the financing of pension plans, the tags that will guide the negotiations and the possible settlement of disputes. Youth representatives and retirees will have to be associated with talks. They will work on government orientations and positions. 
The time itself denégociations will behers later. It will be for a maximum of six months. If employers and participants do not arrive at an agreement at the end of the latter, the process involves the application of a two-stroke dispute delete mechanism: first, the appointment of a conciliator, under the Responsibility of the Ministry of Labor, for a period of six months and then, if necessary, the intervention of the Labor Relations Board, which will make a decision. This will appeal to specialists in the Régie des Anntes du Québec to validate the proposals selected. 
"We introduce a framework and tools that will achieve negotiated agreements with respect to the existing balance in working relationships. This action plan is part of this line. By associating the professionals of the Labor Relations Board and those of the Régie des Pentes du Québec, we rely on the credibility and expertise of these two institutions that have the confidence of the parties, "added Minister Agnès Maltese. 
The adoption of a first bill, in the spring of 2014, will allow the establishment of the restructuring process and will give the powers necessary to the Labor Relations Board and the Specialists of the Régie des Anntes du Québec for the realization of their mandate. 
A second bill, submitted in the fall of 2014, will establish the new funding rules determined by the three forums and will also include the more technical recommendations of the amourse report which have been the subject of a consensus in parliamentary committee. 
As proposed by the Committee of Experts, the Government will mandate the sharing of costs, equally, between employers and active participants (50-50) for future services in public sector regimes. 
The government will go forward with a method of funding based on the concept of improved capitalization for the private sector. The private sector forum will have to agree on the adjustments necessary for this method. For the public sector, the government will retain the current capitalization-based model, but will, however, ask university and municipal forums to address the means that could consolidate this method. 
With regard to the longevity annuity proposed by the Committee of Experts, its establishment will require a thorough analysis of concert with other provinces and territories and the federal government. The Government will also study the enhancement of the Quebec Pension Plan. 
You can view the explanatory document at the following address: http: //www.rrq.gouv.qc.ca/en/services/publications/reform_regimes/pages/regimes_equitables.aspx. 
