Quebec- The Minister responsible for the Government Administration and President of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, today unveiled the Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) 2013-2023. This plan, whose investments reach $ 92.3 billion, offers Quebeckers a true vision of infrastructure planning and management, based on honesty and rigor. 
The government responds to the severe findings of the Secor-KPMG report on the management of public infrastructure under the former Liberal government. This independent report demonstrated that several projects had been deliberately undervalued, which others had been the subject of a hasty advertisement or that they had been realized outside the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. The results are costs: cost overruns of nearly 80%, on average, for about twenty major projects. 
With the PQI, the government ensures renewing and improving infrastructure in all sectors of society. Among the main infrastructure investment sectors, the government will allocate $ 31.6 billion in transportation, $ 19.4 billion, $ 14.2 billion in education and higher education and research, 8.1 G $ in municipal infrastructure as well as $ 2.0 billion in culture. These investments will have major economic benefits throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. 
The Quebec Infrastructure Plan 2013-2023 adopts a ten-year horizon. This will better consider the financial implications of major projects that have a period of completion of more than five years. The government will be able to determine in advance the amounts that will become available in the medium term to undertake new projects. 
In addition, all government-funded investments will be integrated into the new PQI. The plans of previous years accounted for about 80% of government investments. Public investments as a whole will now be submitted to the same rigorous planning and follow-up process. 
The new approach will result in a better prioritization of projects. It will maintain the park of assets in an optimal and safe state while allowing better cost control. To do this, infrastructure projects will now be classified into three categories: the projects under consideration, projects under planning and projects in progress?. The project ranking will be reviewed each year to ensure compliance with the steps depending on the context and priorities that result. 
"This new rigorous approach will allow us to prospectively evaluate the needs according to the priorities of Quebecers and Quebeckers, to measure the associated costs and thus to make informed choices," said Mr. Bédard. 
Finally, we note that the governance rules for the management, approval and monitoring of projects will be strengthened over the next year. A bill for this purpose will be tabled during this parliamentary session. It will also see how to clarify the rules to follow in terms of planning and monitoring. For example, annual investment management plans by departments and agencies will now be filed at the National Assembly, as well as annual expenditure management plans. These plans will, in full transparency, make infrastructure projects that will be carried out by departments. 
"The 2013-2023 PQI is part of the will of the population and our government to ensure sound management of public resources by continuing our struggle without thanks to collusion and corruption. All our action relies on the principle of integrity, which is at the base of democracy. It is on this bond of trust between the state and the citizens we are going to build Quebec tomorrow, "concluded Minister Bédard. 
