Quebec- Federal Minister of Agriculture Gerry Ritz and the hon. Member for Saint-Hyacinthe, Mr. Emilien Pelletier, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron , are pleased to announce financial support by more than $ 28,000 for the Quebec Dairy Case (CQRL), which will thus be able to undertake its draft strategic planning of the Quebec dairy sector (genetic subgroup). Financial assistance is granted under the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, which is linked to Agri-Flexibility Fund for Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada. 
The CQRL project will make strategic planning for the entire Quebec dairy genetic sector. The improvement of current collaborations as well as the more effective use of financial resources for the benefit of Quebec dairy cattle producers and livestock farmers are the main objectives pursued through this project. 
"This federal financial contribution from Canada's Economic Action Plan will help support the Quebec Council of Dairy Breeds in the pursuit of its activities, so that the Quebec dairy industry remains a leader in this area, has indicated the Minister Ritz. The Canadian dairy industry is recognized for the superior genetic quality of its livestock and Quebec producers contribute concretely since a vast majority of herds are enrolled in the various dairy control programs. » 
"Dairy production generates nearly 30% of Quebec's agricultural revenue, so the project of the Quebec Dairy Breed Council is so important to maintain the dynamism of the bioalimentary sector. In addition, the realization of this project will result in the start of many new projects that will benefit not only from producers and dairy cattle farmers, but also to the entire industry. The development of a prosperous bioalimentary sector is one of the objectives defined in the Food Sovereignty Policy of the Government of Quebec, "Emilien Pelletier explained. 
Recall that the governments of Canada and Quebec announced on March 25, 2011 the signing of the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, which includes an investment of $ 16.7 million over a period of 4 years. This program aims to promote both adaptation and the growth of agri-food sectors with regard to a competitive mutation competitive business context. 
For a full description of the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, we can visit the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food website: www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/strategiesectoral. For further information on the policy of food sovereignty, one can regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.politiquesa.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and the Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politicsa). It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
