Québec- As the Liberal government finally decides to present the 2015-2020 mental health action plan, the spokesperson for the Quebecois Health and Accessibility Party, Diane Lamarre, is very disappointed to see What enormous faults remain in accessibility, and that investments are not at the rendezvous. 
"We have been waiting for this plan for 18 months but, obviously, the eagerness of the Minister of Health has increased more to destabilize the health network than to stabilize and develop support for people with mental health problems. Depriving these access and follow-up people in a timely manner causes many responders for them, for their loved ones and even costs for the health system. The Protector of the Citizen, in its latest annual report, has reported several difficulties of worrying access. How can we leave on waiting lists for several weeks of suicidal persons, after they received their holidays from the hospital? Where, in his action plan, does the minister send the order that it takes immediate access for these patients? Asked Diane Lamarre. 
Community organizations play a key role in people with a mental health problem, and the government's underfunding and refusal to enhance the support program budget for community organizations. This time, it's even worse: the Couillard government has canceled the $ 162 million funding from community groups, announced by the Marois government in 2013. 
In addition, while there is a shifting lack of psychologists in the public network, the Liberal government has chosen to cut the retention premium that had been put in place to mitigate the shortage of these professionals. "Doctors can keep their bolduc premium, but not psychologists, because there is nothing left in the Fund for measures that would improve accessibility to mental health care. The lack of mental health investments generates human and social costs that the minister seems unable to estimate. Where he thinks about saving money, he engenders additional suffering and costs, including emergencies, which overflow from patients in crisis left to themselves. What is a plan of action if access to psychotherapy services is restricted due to a lack of psychologists to the public? , Continued the spokesperson. Remember that last June, Alesss published a report on access to psychological services. It recommended that these be covered by the RAMQ, so free. The minister voted against this idea. 
Finally, Gaétan Barrette also said he wanted to make the connection with rehabilitation in dependence. "It's rather contradictory because, because of the liberal reform of social assistance, which passes the service for detoxification of $ 747 to $ 200 per month, dependent intervention centers must close their doors. And people find themselves without services, "concluded Diane Lamarre. 
