Quebec- The member for Rousseau and the official opposition for the finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, and the hon. Member for Richelieu and spokesperson for Treasury Board, Élaine Zakaïb, find that the budget plan presented By the government confirms the abandonment of several promises made by the Liberal Party in the election campaign. 
"The Liberal Party denies many of its commitments. It is the continuity of the recoil operation for the Couillard government. In election campaign, even though he knew the financial situation, he promised more than $ 340 million new expenses that he will not obviously do. This budget is the perfect example of the liberal recipe not to fulfill its promises, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
"Obviously, the Minister of Health and Social Services has failed in his attempt to negotiate an agreement with the physician federations. It is clearly not the right person to do it. Quebeckers do not have the time just in the budget tabled today. This has a major impact on the government and its budget plan, "says Élaine Zakaïb for his part. 
The liberal effect was to be realized by an increase in economic growth and a creation of more jobs in Quebec. Compared to the budget plan presented by the Government of the Parti Québécois last February, the Liberal budget provides lower economic growth than in the financial framework of the party, or 1.8% instead of 2.1%. 
"What about the liberal promise to create 250,000 jobs in 5 years? The budget provides for a creation of 31,300 jobs in 2014-2015. In addition, the Liberals spent months denying job creation under our government, but they confirm in their budget the creation of 47,800 jobs in 2013, "continued the member for Rousseau. 
"We have been asking for two weeks to the government to give up its promise to increase investments in infrastructure by $ 15 billion. Not only does it go back, but it also provides for the decline in investments of $ 500 million over 10 years. As a turnaround of situation, it's quite spectacular, "said the spokesperson. 
"While Philippe Couillard promised, in the field, not to increase taxes and taxes, his government will increase them by $ 232 million next year. In addition, the Quebec Tax Review Board will report $ 650 million in revenue increase from 2015. Liberals do not yet know how they will do, but they know their goal: Piger $ 650 million more by Year in the pocket of taxpayers or businesses, "added Nicolas Marceau. 
"The budget provides $ 3 billion of non-renewal programs, without any trace of transparency promised later than yesterday. We do not know where the government will take this money or programs will not be renewed. Liberal transparency did not last a long time, "said Élain Zakaïb. 
Tax credit cuts will do many sectors of the economy and regions. The liberal effect for the regions population is the $ 2 million cup for resource regions, $ 3.2 million for Gaspésie and $ 1.6 million for the Aluminum Valley. In addition, no additional sum is planned for the forest industry. 
The Liberal government also confirms the reduction in the development of childcare places, halving the number of places developed from next year. In addition, no amount will be paid to community organizations, and all provided for the solidarity pillar are canceled. 
"As we fear, families, regions and the most vulnerable will charge liberal austerity. Nothing that had been mentioned during the election campaign, "said Élain Zakaïb. 
In election campaign, the Future Quebec coalition claimed that the hiring gel in the public service would generate a room for maneuver of $ 500 million from this year and more than $ 1 billion next year. These fictitious amounts allowed François Legault to promise significant tax cuts. However, the hiring gel raises $ 100 million this year, five times less than the CAQ leader promised. 
"Once again, François Legault's accounting is not very rigorous. Promising massive tax cuts in the current economic situation is simply irresponsible, "concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
Nicolas Marceau reacts to the 2014-2015 budget of the Liberal government (video). 
