Quebec- The member for Berthier, Mr. André Villeneuve, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is pleased to announce the assignment of aid. $ 40,000 in the County Regional Municipality (MRC) Matawinie for the development of its agricultural area development plan (PDZA). 
"I am very pleased to announce that Matawinie MRC will benefit from substantial support from the Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food to support it in PDZA planning. We know, agriculture plays an important role in our economy and that is why we are pleased that the constituency of Berthier and the region receive support to participate actively. The MRC Matawinie has a challenge all the more importantly that it has few agricultural land compared to other MRCs in Quebec. Their healthy use is paramount, "said André Villeneuve. 
"The PDZA is an effective tool for the planning and enhancement of the agricultural zone. I am very happy with this announcement since it concurs with one of the objectives defined in our policy of food sovereignty, which consists in promoting the development of a dynamic and prosperous bioalimentary sector, "said Mr. François Gendron. 
Recall that more than 30 MRCs have begun or completed the preparation of their agricultural area development plan, which is a planning document aimed at developing the agricultural area of an MRC and promoting the sustainable development of agricultural activities that. 'take place. The PDZA allows regional county municipalities to determine specific actions to stimulate the development of agriculture in their territory in the context of a concerted approach. 
For more information on PDZA, it is sufficient to visit the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food website (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/pdza). For further information on the policy of food sovereignty, one can regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.politiquesa.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and the Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politicsa). It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
