Quebec - Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs, Mrs. Elizabeth Larouche, participates today and tomorrow of consultations with a view to developing a government action plan to counter racism and discrimination against Aboriginal people. In all, representatives of 26 indigenous communities and 40 organizations who will be able to express themselves on the subject, with the aim of informing the government about the realities facing Aboriginal people in Quebec. 
"On a daily basis, many Aboriginal people have to face prejudice and stereotypes. Whether at work, school or media, Aboriginal people are too often faced with discrimination and harassment behaviors. These situations are unacceptable in our society, "said Minister Larouche. 
These consultations, organized by the Aboriginal Affairs Secretariat, aim to better identify the problem of racism and discrimination against Aboriginal people, as well as to identify ways of solution to rapidly combat ignorance, prejudices and exclusion. Aboriginal people are victims. Important actors in the Aboriginal community as well as representatives of certain human rights organizations have been invited to this essential exercise. 
During the development of the Action Plan, Ms. Elizabeth Larouche assures that she will maintain ongoing collaboration with indigenous communities and organizations: "The development of this project will be in the greatest respect for crops and identity indigenous peoples. In the long term, it is a question of encouraging the taking into account of their aspirations and work to bring together the different indigenous and Quebec cultures, "she said. 
This approach follows the publication, in 2008, a government policy aimed at countering racism and discrimination in Quebec, diversity: added value. The Aboriginal Affairs Secretariat has been mandated to coordinate a similar, specific population action plan. Among the concrete measures already envisaged, the Government will ensure the establishment of a month in the history of Aboriginal people. The launch of the action plan is scheduled for next spring. 
