Québec- In the company of its team of candidates and candidates of the Capitale-Nationale region, the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, made public the electoral platform for the Capitale-Nationale. "We have an ambitious plan to continue the development of the National Capital and make it radiate as a true international capital," announced Pauline Marois. 
"We have a strong plan and team to represent the citizens of Quebec. They are experienced people who are familiar with our institutions, which acted in particular in the affairs community of Quebec, in the cultural industry and in the public sector. They are engaged people, with unshakeable convictions and innovative projects. In short, a team in the image of the Capitale-Nationale, "she supported. 
The Parti Québécois platform for the Capitale-Nationale Region revolves around three main axes: assert itself, get rich, help each other. 
Assert itself 
"We first want the capital-national to assert itself more, has announced the leader of the Parti Québécois. To do this, a government of the Parti Québécois will highlight and protect Quebec's heritage. The military carousel has been neglected by the federal government since the fire of 2008. Its property will be repatriated to Quebec and the National Capital Commission will be mandated to rebuild the building quickly, "said the Party of Quebec. 'Also committing to safeguard the shores of the St. Lawrence and completing the Samuel-de Champlain promenade to the Fall-Montmorency Park. 
"We affirm that we will support Québec in its desire to hold great international meetings, particularly in the sports field," added Pauline Marois, mentioning that the Parti Québécois will support the City of Quebec City to host the Olympic Games. 'winter. The national sport of Quebeckers will also be encouraged by the formation of Quebec hockey teams at World Championships. » 
Enrich oneself 
"The pride of Quebec, it is also its economic dynamism, pursued Pauline Marois. The people of Quebec expect concrete measures and unifying projects. Public transport must be a priority for Quebec's economic development. That's why we will support the Quebec City for the adoption of its sustainable mobility plan. » 
"We want to support research and entrepreneurship in the capital. This is the best way to continue developing and diversifying the economy. To do this, we propose to consolidate resources for research and development. We also want to implement a school of training specialized in the development of entrepreneurship. Stimulating entrepreneurial fiber, it's also wanting to do better in areas where we are already strong. For example, in the Capitale-Nationale region, new infrastructure is partly built with Quebec wood. We will actively support this sector by adopting a charter that will promote wood use in the construction of public and commercial buildings, "added Pauline Marois. 
A government of the Parti Québécois will also encourage the tourism industry of the Greater Quebec City region. In this sense, Pauline Marois reiterates his support for the project of the Charlevoix massif and the Diamond project of Robert Lepage. 
Tarnish 
"The pride emanates from the Quebec City and its economic dynamism, however, should not make us lose sight of the social realities that exist. We must help more vulnerable people. We must help us, "recalled the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
"A government of the Parti Québécois will hold a regional summit to develop a community commitment and solidarity model with access to early childhood centers, the creation of new family medicine groups, home care, Volunteering and sponsorship in the Greater Quebec City region, "said Pauline Marois. 
In terms of education, the Parti Québécois will make the stall fight a priority. We will do Quebec an educational and creative city, by sharing the resources of universities, CEGEPs and schools to combat school dropout and illiteracy. 
"We have a lot of ideas for our capital. We are proud of the balance sheet of the Parti Québécois when it was in power. Our team has a long roadmap testifying to the successes obtained. It is now up to us to support Quebec's vibrant forces to enable it to reach new heights. With the Quebec's team of the Capitale-Nationale Region, citizens can choose to assert themselves, enrich themselves, help each other, has concluded Pauline Marois. 
