Montreal- Partician candidates Bernard Drainville (Marie-Victorin) and Alain Therrien (Sanguinet) reacted today to the unveiling of the CAQ's electoral platform. "Leaving Parliament in 2009, François Legault has obviously forgotten his calculator. The CAQ plans to spend five times the money she says wanting to save. What the CAQ is proposing, it is repetitive deficits and an increase in Quebeckers' indebtedness, "said Bernard Drainville. 
"Earlier in the campaign, the CAQ head announced that it would deliver a balanced financial framework that would quantify its unrealistic promises. Later, he admitted that he would be unable to provide such a financial framework invoking the need to obtain real government figures. Now he tells us that he will present it by the end of the week. After writing on the corner of a table of his campaign buses 40 new proposals, the improvisation surrounding his financial framework is spectacular, "said Alain Therien. 
"François Legault has promised to bring Quebec debt to the average of the Canadian provinces in ten years. To get there, it should refund an amount of $ 81.5 billion. It plans to do so by paying all the royalties collected on non-renewable natural resources, which it does not expect to raise, like Jean Charest by the way. However, mining revenues are estimated at some $ 4 billion over the next decade. It also promises to apply the royalties perceived on hydrocarbons, but these amounts are hypothetical since no oil companies expects to pay fees before 2015. Its improvisation also makes it forget that half of the royalties collected by the Government of Quebec will reduce as much equalization payments. His promise to reduce debt by not gaining royalties is unrealistic. In short, it's hard, "added Alain Therrien. 
The Parti Québécois denounces the irresponsibility of the Calcular Promise to lower taxes of $ 1,000 for winning households less than $ 100,000. "In 2007, François Legault claimed that it would be irresponsible to lower taxes, that the financial situation of Quebec did not allow it. Should François Legault be reminded that Quebec's financial situation has not improved? What he thought irresponsible five years ago is no longer today? Does he promise anything to attract votes? This promise would cost $ 2.5 billion, where would all this money take? Let's stop believing citizens that we can lower taxes, increase the services and repay the debt. It reminds us of Jean Charest in 2003, we see what it gave, "added Bernard Drainville. 
"The cornerstone of the Merger of the ADQ and the CAQ was the introduction of the private in our health system. By proposing a pilot project, the CAQ opens the door to privatize health care. The last thing Quebecers need, it is a two-speed medicine, where we will have to pay more for less services, "said Bernard Drainville. 
"After committing to wanting to repatriate the federal government all the powers on the environment, François Legault has only 15 minutes to change their minds and say that it would not be possible in a first term. Let us add to the long list of amateurism demonstrations of the CAQ that François Legault announced that it would entrust the Energy Efficiency Agency the administration of programs related to the exploration and exploitation of shale gases. It is rather strange on his part since it should know that the energy efficiency agency has been abolished by the Liberal government of Jean Charest. After the ADQ has defended spout and nail the exploitation of shale gas, the CAQ now announces that it would prefer a moratorium, but not quite. Should François Legault believe? Asked Bernard Drainville. 
To prove his new federalist faith, François Legault confirms that he will not do anything to displease Stephen Harper. "If initially the CAQ had to be a coalition gathering sovereignists and federalists, we now know that François Legault will vote not at the next referendum on the independence of Quebec. It will campaign alongside Jean Charest, Stéphane Dion and Stephen Harper to convince Quebeckers they do not deserve to have their country. For someone who claimed a few years ago that Quebec as province was "ungovernable" and that sovereignty was "urgent", this turn is synonymous with a total renunciation of its convictions. What the CAQ proposes is the same as the PLQ: complete absence of force ratio and permanent softness in front of Canada of Stephen Harper ", sorry Bernard Drainville. 
"Today, François Legault is still contradicted. He announces to enable the law 101, but does not want to strengthen it. Worse still, to seduce the English-speaking electorate it enlightened to those who fought Law 101 and who always want to weaken it. François Legault hastened to seek the support of notables for the law 101: William "Bill" Johnson and Robert Libman. How can it be credible? With his new friends, how can we trust François Legault to protect and promote the French language? Bernard Drainville added. 
"For the Parti Québécois, it is clear that the CAQ does not have what it takes to take power in three weeks. François Legault shows us daily that he is not reliable. It improves, contradicted and denies its convictions only to get votes. He promises a lot, he thinks little and do not tell us where he will take the money. It is asking for a blank check to Quebecers. The Quebec party has the team, the program, the skills and the experience to clean up, to assert oneself, enrich and help each other, has concluded Alain Therien. 
