Quebec- The member for Beauharnois, Mr. Guy Leclair, is proud to announce, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, the award of Financial assistance of $ 10,000 to Integrated Integrated Excellence Pole (PELI). This financial support is intended to encourage innovation and research in the field of sustainable development and pesticide reduction and to ensure the accompaniment of market gardeners engaged in this direction. 
"In May last, during my visit to the Napierville Local Development Center, I have seen the efforts of Peli and its partners to promote environmentally friendly agricultural production. I am therefore proud to encourage their work, which contributes to the sustainability of our agriculture, "said François Gendron. 
"Sustainable development is at the heart of our collective concerns. That is why I welcome this financial support from our government to a Montéregian organization that works to improve our agricultural land and the protection of the environment, "added Guy Leclair. 
The Integrated Policing Pole was founded in 2012 by the main players in the market garden. It is missionable to reduce pesticide use through the prevention and use of replacement methods. Based in Montérégie, the main market gardener of Quebec, the organization is a major stakeholder in the problem of the impact of the use of pesticides on health and the environment. 
"By meeting the information and training needs of producers on the use of integrated control tools, the PELI conducts an action that perfectly frames with the policy of food sovereignty, one of which is to promote the use of good. Environmentally friendly practices and modes of production with a view to sustainable development, "said the minister. 
To learn more about the food sovereignty policy, the blog (www.politicsa.gouv.qc.ca) or the website (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa) of the Ministry of Agriculture , fisheries and diet. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
