Quebec- The member for Vachon and official opposition spokesperson for transport, transport and maritime strategy, Martine Ouellet, the member for Verchères, Stéphane Bergeron, as well as the member for Saint-Jean and President of the Caucus of the members of the Quebec's Montérégie Party, Dave Turcotte, are pleased to note that according to the study carried out by Lemay + DAA strategies and e & b data, the establishment of a reluctive logistical hub remains a key choice so that Quebec can maximize the spin-offs related to the projected increase in the transport of goods by sea. 
"In the context of the Canada-Europe Agreement, containerized transportation will take up more and more important in the Quebec economy. In addition, maximizing transportation by train and by boat makes it possible to minimize our carbon footprint. A reluctant logistical pole will have a potential of 3.5 million containers annually, more than 8 times the capacity of the Vaudreuil-Soulanges site. In light of the information contained in this study, we ask the government to be consistent and rigorous, and to reluctantly a flagship element of the next logistical center. Quebec must have advanced infrastructures to be ready to meet the demand, "said Martine Ouellet. 
Today's study confirms that the reluctant site has significant advantages. In fact, it concludes that the project could create more than 24,000 jobs and that potential tax benefits would largely offset the costs of implementation, as they would be $ 249 million. The Cargom industrial cluster had ordered a study at KPMG-Secor, and it concluded that the quality of the port infrastructures was the first competitiveness factor guiding companies when choosing a logistical cluster for their establishment. 
"The reluctant site has characteristics that the government can not ignore: an accessible port 12 months a year, lands in the industrial zone, well-established regional social acceptability and a partner more than major in this type of project, the port of Montreal, which also plans to carry out major expansion work in the coming years, in order to be ready to deal with the challenges that are offered. It should not be a partisan issue for the government; We are talking about an important decision for the entire Quebec economy, "added Stéphane Bergeron. 
"In November 2013, the National Council of the Québécois Party unanimously adopted a resolution supporting the establishment of a modern intermodal pole. Today, this new study shows that the choice of reluctant is logical and that it will have considerable benefits for the region and the whole Quebec ", has concluded Dave Turcotte. 
