Shawinigan, January 25, 2018 -The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the Family Spokesperson, Véronique Hivon, accompanied by the Special Adviser to Child and Family, Camil Bouchard, have Today, unveiled commitments for equal opportunities, the educational success of children and the relief of the financial burden of families. 
"The Quebec party has offered Quebec parents the best family policy in North America. We want to go further in this direction. By abolishing the family tax, either by returning to the single rate, we reiterate our clear commitment to quality educational custody services, at the forefront of early childhood centers, CPEs, a network recognized unanimously for its quality. For us, child care, it is not a business model; It's a way to make our society grow, give our toddle chances, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
IN SHORT 
A government of the Parti Québécois will put in place four measures to facilitate access to educational custody services and to alleviate the tax burden of families: 
Abolition of the family tax 
"The shock caused by the family tax has been felt by many parents of the middle class. By abolishing this tax, it's more than $ 100 million that will return to their pockets. We will restore a single rate at $ 8.05. For a second child, the rate will be at $ 4 a day. From the third child, we will introduce the free. Families have suffered many increases in tariffs of all kinds under the Liberal government; They must be given oxygen. In order to meet the demand, we will also accelerate the development of places in CPE, "added Véronique Hivon. 
"Equal opportunities is essential. Every child must have every chance on his side, regardless of the middle of where he comes. He must have all the tools in hand upon his arrival at school, in order to promote his success. This is the commitment made by the Quebecois party, and that's why I come back to his team: to present the best possible plan for the children and families of Quebec, "concluded Camil Bouchard. 
