The leader and vice-cheft of the Quebecois, Jean-François Lisée and Véronique Hivon, as well as the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier, and the candidate in Verdun, Constantin Fortier, today presented a party commitment Quebecers about food in schools and aimed at giving more time to families. 
IN SHORT 
"We came to Constantine to present this commitment that will give more time to families like his. Because the Parti Québécois is the party of families! These claim that life is facilitated, and that's what our government will do. Free yourself from lunches. Seriously, "said Jean-François Lisée Game entry." Between road congestion, swimming and dancing classes, meals, homework, the day of a family is a race that stops only When putting the head on the pillow. And she immediately resumes when the morning awaken rings! Quebec is ripe for a small lunch revolution; We are rendered there, "added Véronique Hivon, who, like many of his colleagues, know this reality well. 
"We propose a major change: we will establish a medical dinner service in primary schools. The model will not be unique; It will be flexible and determined according to the specific needs of each school and the infrastructures in place. Central kitchens, caterers, on-site kitchen ... Options are not lacking. Meals served with students will be healthy, affordable and made from local products. Of course, parents who want to continue to prepare lunches will be able to do it! "Said Carole Poirier. 
In the long term, this ambitious policy will cost $ 37.9 million at the net. It will be established in schools over the next 4 years, starting with those in disadvantaged. "In total, more than 250,000 children will benefit from this initiative, which is also a great way to introduce them to the healthy lifestyle habits. This is, in addition, a great tool to reduce social inequalities and get the hunger back on school benches, "Constantin Fortier chained. 
Meals will be offered at a cost of $ 1 for low-income families (less than $ 35,000). Those whose revenues are between $ 35,001 and $ 65,000 will have to pay $ 3, while the price will be set at $ 5 for middle-class families whose incomes exceed $ 65,000. "I am very happy to participate in this announcement that will give quality time to the families of Verdun and Quebec, and who, in addition, will promote the social economy and the local purchase in our communities," added the candidate . 
For more information, click here. 
For our explanatory sheet, click here. 
