In 18 months, the government of the Parti Québécois returned from order to the cabin. It's the least we can say. Nine years of Liberal government, it breaks the bond of trust between the population and the government. And the refusal of the Liberals, for two years, to hold a commission of inquiry into corruption was right for Quebeckers to be cynical and disillusioned. 
By arriving in power, we did not drag: Law 1 on the integrity of public contracts, Law 2 on the financing of political parties which limits to 100 the maximum contribution, law 10 to take up a municipal accused of criminal . And that is not to mention that we extended the work of the Charbonneau Commission, eliminated the trade union placement, developed a new contract management action plan at the Ministry of Transport, developed tools to increase access to the information. 
Confidence between elected officials and the population is essential to the health of democracy. Cynicism gives us the excuse for not getting involved, not to inform us, to dislocate us. Cynicism isolates us and prevents us from progressing. By doing integrity, the first priority of his government, Pauline Marois has demonstrated his determination to restore the trusted link to Quebec to move forward. And it was effective. 
An example? Employment. 
Employment Priority Economic Policy has contributed to what employment in Quebec reaches peaks. Four million workers! This is where we are and we continue to make concrete gestures to make it even more: New agreement on the training of the workforce complies with the Quebec approach; Strategy all for employment that contains 27 measures to stimulate participation in the work of under-represented groups, social assistance providers, immigrants, under 25, over 55 and persons with disabilities; And that's not counting all agreements that the government has taken with the private sector to create or maintain jobs. Let's think of Alcoa workers whose jobs are insured for the next 15 years thanks to Pauline Marois's vision and leadership. 
The government is more transparent, Quebec is more prosperous, jobs are created, the economy is returning. Quebec started moving forward again. We are ready for global recovery. 
And while we are acting on the job and the economy of Quebec, Philippe Couillard hid, as long as possible, the people of UPAC visits to his party. 
In all aspects of government action, Pauline Marois has shown that it is determined to defend the interests of Quebec, the head of the Liberals, he prefers the interests of his party. 
