The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, accompanied by candidates Nicolas Marceau (Rousseau), Alain Therrien (Sanguinet), Sylvain Barrette (Jean-Talon), Annie Morin (Charlesbourg) and William Duquette (Vanier-les Rivières), a Advertised concrete measures to combat cartels and, thus, to reduce prices, to put money back into the pockets of Quebeckers. 
IN SHORT 
"Quebeckers do not have to be victims of the Canada Competition Bureau, which allows businesses to abusively increase prices. However, for Quebec households, a simple fall of 2% of current consumer goods prices would be savings of approximately $ 1,000. Examples of collusion or even cartels are numerous; We only have to think of the mysterious pump price increases on Tuesday, in the Greater Montreal area, or at abusive prices for regional flights. There was even a bread cartel! , "Said Jean-François Lisée. 
"To remedy this situation, we will create the Consumer Protection Office of Quebec. It will be mandated to combat harmful business or anti-competitive business practices. We will also give it the responsibility to monitor the state of competition. Its first mandate will be to investigate the prices of gas, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
"The goal is to take control of market surveillance, to overcome the legendary softness and slowness of the federal government. This will increase competition in the Quebec economy. Results: lower prices for consumers, an increase in purchasing power, so greater economic growth, "sued Alain Therrien. 
"What the Parti Québécois offers is to go even further in his willingness to defend Quebeckers. In the same way that Lise Payette, in the first Levesque government, when she piloted the initial adoption of the Consumer Protection Act. We want to take a step further to protect Quebeckers, allow them to have more money in their pockets, while working to stimulate the economy, "concluded the leader of the Quebecois party. : //pq.org/essence/ 
For our explanatory sheet: http: //files.pq.org/envoisgc/comm/fiche_bpcq.pdf 
