Quebec- In the wake of the Food Sovereignty, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, unveiled the main lines of the food positioning strategy this morning. Quebec in the institutional market. It took the opportunity to sign collaborative agreements with two food distributors, Colabor inc. and Gordon Food Service, as well as with the Quebec association of the distribution of fruits and vegetables whose members supply this market. 
"We are well aware that it is sometimes difficult for our SMEs to do business with the institutional market. It is a complex market with legal requirements that often have to discourage the most persevenory of entrepreneurs. That is why, as we were committed to it at the time of the launch of the food sovereignty policy, we quickly put to the task to develop this strategy that offers tools to promote access to this important market " , said the minister. 
In particular, the strategy will increase the place of food in Quebec in public institutions, such as hospitals and schools, such as private institutions funded by the state. Its deployment, which will contribute several ministries and agencies will be supported by a budget envelope of $ 5 million over the next three years. 
"The institutional market are more than $ 1.2 billion annually. It represents interesting business opportunities for Quebec bioalimentary companies and fertile ground for Quebec's economic prosperity. I am very confident that institutions from all regions of Quebec will handle pulp to ensure the success of this strategy, "held adding Mr. Gendron. 
Nineteen means of action are clearly defined in the strategy that deploys according to four main objectives: 
In addition to the signing of collaborative arrangements, the strategy also favors an approach that will take into account the particularities and realities of the 17 regions of Quebec. Thus, by March 31, 2014, in each of the regions of Quebec, consultation organizations will have the mandate to conclude collaborative arrangements with the institutions of their territory. Under these agreements, these bodies will undertake to prepare and deploy action plans that could benefit from financial assistance from MAPAQ. 
"Supply agreements are already in force in Quebec between institutions and agri-food companies, particularly in the Chaudière-Appalaches and Montérégie. We want to inspire us with these examples and multiply them to the grandeur of Quebec. Not only gives us a guarantee of quality, but it is also a tangible way to tend to food sovereignty, "said Francois Gendron. 
In addition, the Government of Quebec will accompany companies to demystify the tendering process and to enable them to access the institutional market more easily. 
"This strategy is in addition to many other measures announced over the past year in the momentum of food sovereignty policy. I think now we have in the hands a winning match plan! Our food in Quebec have everything to meet the expectations of this important market and we are starting today a major shift that, I am convinced, will pay for our bioalimentary industry and for the Quebec economy, "concluded the Minister . 
Recall that with investments of $ 2.3 billion and an annual food demand of nearly $ 34 billion that supports 475,000 jobs, the bioalmic industry is a powerful engine of the Quebec economy. 
For more information on the Government of Quebec's food sovereignty policy, we can visit the blogww.politicsa.gouv.qc.caqui is dedicated to it or go to page www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesadu website of the website Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
