To give more time to the families, the leader and vice-cheese of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée and Véronique Hivon, as well as the candidates Lucie Allard (Nicolet-Bécancour), Jacques Daigle (Arthabaska) and Jacques Tétreault (Johnson) , today announced several bonuses to the Quebec Parental Insurance Plan (RQAP). It is in the house of the Lu-Nid family, in Nicolet, which they explained how the Parti Québécois would allow parents to spend more quality time with their child during the first months of his life. 
IN SHORT 
"Parents know it, and future parents will realize: Children grow too fast! We heard them; They want more time with family, and more flexibility with their holidays. That's why we are proud to announce that with a Quebec party government, parents who take advantage of RQAP will be able to differ up to 20 days of parental leave during the first 5 years of their child, "said From the outset Jean-François Lisée. 
"The RQAP, created under a government of the Parti Québécois, has allowed millions of parents to better reconcile their family and professional responsibilities. Now we give flexibility to parents: the 20 days of leave to differ may be used by both the mother and the father, "said Jacques Tétreault. 
In addition, it is well known: a growing number of fathers want to play a more active role with their child. "We will encourage fathers to take full advantage of the first months of their baby's life, adding 2 weeks to paternity leave. He will pass 5 to 7 weeks, "said Lucie Allard. 
The adoptive parents are also parents! 
The Parti Québécois has also denounced an injustice that has been in Quebec for too long: the fact that adoptive parents have access only part of the leaves offered to biological parents. "The adoptive parents are not second-class parents! We want to correct this regime's iniquity: now, couples who adopt a child will have the same rights as biological parents. They will therefore have 30 weeks off at 70% of their salary, instead of 12 offered at the moment. In the case of a child, whether or not it is adopted, the development of the attachment link is paramount, "has insisted Véronique Hivon on his side. 
"It's a small revolution that we propose: we value paternity, we offer more flexibility with respect to parental leave, and we recognize that adoptive parents should be considered in the same way as biological parents. The Parti Québécois is the party of families. Seriously, "concluded Jacques Daigle. 
Our explanatory sheet, click here. 
