Quebec- In the company of his colleagues Stéphane Bergeron (Verchères), Sylvain Rochon (Richelieu), Guy Leclair (Beauharnois) and André Villeneuve (Berthier), the spokesman of the Quebecois on forest, wildlife and parks, Sylvain Roy , denounced the regulation "Wall wall" of the Liberal government in the bait fish file. Along with several actors in the sector, members held a pressless press, in Montérégie. 
"Once again, the government attacks users of wildlife. Without any transition period for followers and manufacturers, the minister decrees the end of fishing with fish bait summer, and the end of fishing with fish bait live winter, from April 1st. This is unacceptable! Rather than penalizing all fishermen, the minister must take his responsibilities and tighten the control of this type of fishing. Industrialists and followers are open to working with the department to find solutions; The pure and simple abolition of this activity that generates significant economic benefits is not a solution for them, "said Sylvain Roy. 
The members of the Parti Québécois also denounced the fact that the new regulation is not harmonized with those of the border states, which will, they say, negative consequences for the practice of fishing in Quebec. "It's two weights, two measures! For example, on the Outaouais River, Lake Saint-François or Memmphremagog Lake, which are both in Quebec and Ontario or American territory, a Quebec fisherman can not practice his sport with bait fish, unlikely. To Ontario or American citizens. The government changes a settlement without even ensuring that neighboring jurisdictions do the same. What improvisation! » 
Mention that for several years, fishing followers also apprehend customer breakdown, which should happen around 2019. "The change of regulation is a more tile that falls on the fishermen, they already fear that the succession Not at the rendezvous. The minister must sit down with fishermen to find a solution not only to prevent the presence of invasive species, but also to maintain alive the practice of fishing with bait fish, "have concluded members. 
To sign the petition that sponsors Stéphane Bergeron in favor of maintaining the regulations in force with live bait fish, go to the addressHTTPS: //www.assnat.qc.ca/en/exprimez-your- Opinion / Petition / Petition-6499 / Index.htmabant on March 24, 2017. 
