Alma - Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Officer Governance, MP Alexandre Cloutier, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy, announces the allocation of financial assistance of more than $ 2.5 million at the Jean-Gauthier School of Alma for the project to build a new gym that will allow the development of a cafeteria permed. 
At Jean-Gauthier High School, a major problem persists for several years being the double vocation of the gym that turns into a cafeteria at mealtime. In order to remedy this situation, the amount announced today will be used to pay 100% of the construction costs of a new gym adapted to the needs of young people, which will allow the redevelopment of the former gymnasium in permanent cafeteria. 
"Being in fact and very active in different educational projects in high schools in my riding, I am very sensitive to the lived situation at Jean-Gauthier School. Sharing the same place for gym and cafeteria is a real problem. I am very pleased to announce that our government will invest more than $ 2.5 million to develop a permanent cafeteria and allow students to have access to quality sports facilities, in addition to providing the community of equipment responding to to his needs, "said Minister Cloutier. 
This project has been developed in collaboration with young people, staff, management and school board members, the Lac-Saint-Jean School Board and the community partners. The Jean-Gauthier School offers its services to six municipalities in the North sector, the Ascension, Lamarche, Labrecque, Sainte-Monique, Saint-Henri-De-Taillon, Saint-Nazaire and the sectors of Saint-Coeur-de -Marie and Delisle of the city of Alma. 
This announcement is part of the context of a Global Government Action Plan, which aims, in particular, to address air quality issues in some schools in Quebec, unveiled on October 11 by Malavoy. This government approach is based in particular on the Réno-Schools Renovation Program, with an envelope of $ 401.2 million, which is one of the measures of the Employment Priority Policy. 
The global action plan is divided into three components: immediate action against known mold problems, detection and prevention. Anticipated investments include an envelope of $ 46.5 million, intended exclusively to launch an offensive against cases of mold contamination already known in 19 Quebec schools, particularly in Montreal. Some $ 324.7 million will also be allocated to accelerate the improvement, renovation and renovation of schools across Quebec. 
Finally, $ 30 million will be used to conduct a broad operation of detecting potential air quality problems in schools in all regions of Quebec. This operation, which will be driven by a committee made up of representatives of the department and the school system, will have a fair picture of the situation of the entire Quebec school housing stock to determine the suites to give this priority issue. 
"For a year, we have not stopped taking steps to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe and accommodating living environments. We are increasingly incurred on this path by carrying and strong gestures that we posite today, "concluded Malavoy. 
