Saint-Bruno-de-Montarville- As part of the economic lapolitics: employment priority, the minister of education, leisure and sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, today announced a government investment of more than 23.6 million dollars in infrastructure in vocational training of the whole of Quebec. 
"With this investment of $ 23.6 million, we contribute directly to Quebec's prosperity and the vitality of the regions. We must ensure that every student, whatever his age, can go to the end of his abilities, by offering accessible and diversified training routes. A strong and prosperous Quebec needs to rely on women and men we have given every opportunity and support needed to obtain a diploma or qualification, "Ms. Malavoy said. 
During this announcement, the minister announced investments of $ 11.9 million for the implementation of two programs at the Patriotic School Board's Vocational Training Center. In addition, approximately $ 10.5 million will be used to acquire the equipment required for the updating of 9 programs of study, offered in nearly 80 vocational training institutions. 
"Refunding these programs in our professional institutions, we give a significant stroke to ensure our young quality training that will allow them to arrive in the labor market with best practices and knowledge in their field," said the minister. 
Finally, an investment of $ 1.2 million, announced by the Prime Minister last November, made it possible to modernize the flag the peaks of the Charlevoix vocational training center of the Charlevoix School Board. 
It should be noted that these investments are planned in the context of economic lapolitics: employment priority, which aims, in particular, to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, short and medium term. 
In addition to investment in vocational training, economic policy: employment priority provides for some $ 401 million to make educational infrastructure from healthier learning communities and more than $ 130 million allocated to modernization of sports and recreational infrastructure. And what, to the grandeur of Quebec. 
The amounts made public today are added to the investments of $ 24.3 million announced in September 2013 to improve the supply of vocational training. Allocated as part of the 2013-2023 Infrastructure Plan of Infrastructure, these sums aim to achieve various projects aimed at expanding and redeveloping existing vocational training centers and the updating and implementation of programs of study, and in several regions of Quebec. Since the arrival of the Quebecois Party in power, nearly $ 50 million has been invested in vocational training. 
Additional government investment of $ 23.6 million  To improve the job offer in the whole of Quebec, including: 
$ 13.1 million for the completion of 3 major infrastructure and equipment purchasing projects: 
$ 10.5 million for updating 9 curricula  In nearly 80 vocational training institutions 
These investments are added to $ 24.3 million  already announced in September 2013 as part of the five-year capital plans,  Whose: 
$ 8.4 million for the consolidation of 4 vocational training centers for infrastructure and equipment purchases: 
$ 15.6 million for the authorization of new curricula in 7 school boards 
$ 0.3 million for updating 3 curricula  in 15 school boards 
All of the investments announced in 2013-2014, thus totales nearly $ 48 million and will affect more than 85 vocational training institutions. 
