Joliette- On behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, his Parliamentary Assistant and President of the Government Caucus, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, today met the partners of the domains of the leisure, of the Sport and physical activity of the Lanaudière region to hear them about the Green Paper entitled The taste and pleasure of moving: towards a national policy of sport, leisure and physical activity. 
"This day spent in Lanaudière has made me rediscover a region that has managed to develop and showcase its natural resources as well as its magnificent landscapes for the practice of physical and outdoor activities. I quickly noticed the dynamism and determination of its players in leisure and sports. It is an expanded regional position that has been presented, demonstrating the extent of the underlying reflection as well as the tight ties of the Lanaudoises and Lanaudois. I have understood that the region wants a policy that can be modulated to take into account the peculiarities of the different regions of Quebec. I would like to greet all the people who generously gave us their comments on the occasion of this 12th day of regional consultations, "said Mr. Pagé. 
Since June 27, Mr. Pagé crosses the routes of Quebec to meet the many regional partners who help to ensure citizens' access to access to sports, recreational and physical activities. These have the chance to express their concerns and vision about the future national politics of sport, leisure and physical activity. 
Quebeckers were also arrested. Indeed, an online consultation was held on the website of the Ministry of Education, Leisure and Sport on the sidelines of meetings with the partners. It raised, during the months of July and August, the comments of those who wanted to fuel the reflection and enrich the future policy. 
"The points of view that will be shared during these consultations will bring valuable lighting for the development of the new policy. This unifying project must eventually give everyone the taste of moving and practicing physical, recreational and sports activities from early childhood at the middle age. It also aims to implement measures to support our sports elite and help it even more radiate on the international scene, "Malavoy said. 
Note that the Green Paper is essentially a consultation tool that proposes a vision, stakes and guidance on which the discussions rely. To consult it, visitwww.mels.gouv.qc.ca/livrevert. 
