Quebec- As part of National Lapolitics of Research and Innovation (PNRI) that was unveiled on October 16, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Pierre Duchesne, is proud to announce today the payment of a subsidy of $ 2.3 million for the next three years (2014-17) to the innovative territories in social and solidarity economy (TESSESS) to endow the 'social economy of a structure that will promote social innovation in the territories and to support these operations activities. 
"It should be remembered that the government of the Parti Québécois supports the social economy sector from the 1996 Economy and Employment Summit. In February 2013, our government announced a reinvestment of more than $ 26 million to support Research and innovation, some of which is devoted to social innovation, and on October 10, our government passed the Social Economy Act, which ensures the recognition of social economy companies by the whole government departments and agencies. By the investment announced today, our government demonstrates the respect of its commitment and recognizes the contribution of the social economy in the socio-economic development of Quebec, "said Minister Duchesne. 
From left to right: Vincent van Schendel, General Manager of the Innovative Territories in Social and Solidarity Economics (Time), Juan-Luis Klein Director of the Social Innovation Research Center (Crises), Pierre Duchesne, Minister of the Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology and Nancy Neamtan CEO of the Social Economy Site // (c) Joel Bouchard 
Innovative territories in social and solidarity economy is a liaison and transfer body in social innovation. The organization aims to bring together the various actors and researchers of the social and solidarity economy (ESS) to identify, inventory, illuminate and systematize innovations in order to promote the diffusion and appropriation. 
One of the goals of Time is to promote the start of new research projects. To facilitate dissemination and appropriation through environments, three areas are targeted: 
Time has been introduced by the following four partners: the social economy project, the Social Innovation Research Center, the Concordia University Karl Polanyi and the Community Service at the University of Quebec in Montreal . In addition, nearly 45 organizations from academia and social economy are associated with its creation. 
"Through liaison, watch and transfer activities, innovative territories in the social and solidarity economy wants to promote exchanges between practitioners and researchers and thus stimulate the production of new knowledge. We aim to introduce new cooperation practices in the development of territories, working on the construction of public policies and increase the social effectiveness of public and private actions. We seek to combine the economic activity and the social and human development of Quebec communities, "said the general manager of innovative territories in social and solidarity economy, Mr. Vincent van Schendel. 
According to Juan-Luis Klein, Director of the Social Innovation Research Center (Crises), the research carried out in this center have shown that there is a social innovation system in Quebec in which the social economy is a milestone fundamental. As Nancy Neamtan says, President and Executive Director of the Social Economy site, "Quebec is recognized around the world as a place of innovation in social economy, but with the effort, we give ourselves the means to to ensure that innovations that are born all over the regions of Quebec are initially transferred here, in another region, another sector; Time is a bit of a good shots multiplier! " 
The social economy Quebec is composed of about 7,000 companies, cooperatives and non-profit organizations (OSBL), working in 20 economic sectors (Arts and Culture, Agribusiness, Retail, Environment, Collective Real Estate, Leisure and Tourism, Technologies information and communications, media, manufacturing sector, services to people, etc.). It employs more than 150,000 people and generates a turnover of more than $ 17 billion annually, representing about 8% of Quebec GDP. As these statistics demonstrated, Quebec has a major basin of companies, researchers, organizations and experts in the social economy. 
The National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI) is one of four major strategic initiatives around which the Employment Priority Employment Policy is based on the Government of Quebec. In terms of research and innovation, PNRP represents an unprecedented $ 3.7 billion investment that will extend over five years. 
For more information: National Policy for Research and Innovation. 
