Jonquière - On behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, his parliamentary assistant and President of the Government Caucus, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, today met the partners of the leisure areas, of the Sport and physical activity of the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region to hear them about the Green Paper Taste and the pleasure of moving: towards a national sports policy, leisure and physical activity. 
"For this tenth consultation, we went on the edge of the Saguenay River in Jonquière. In this beautiful region, which celebrates this year its 175th anniversary and which saw one of the most beautiful initiatives in physical activity in Quebec, the big challenge Pierre Lavoie, we met with passionate people who proposed us solutions to the questions raised in The Green Paper. I was particularly impressed by the various accomplishments presented, including Cardi-O-Form, which offers a fitness program designed for people experiencing different health problems. I also noted many issues that have important challenges for the region, such as the high cost of transportation for residents of smaller municipalities who want to go to different sports trays, the obsolescence of certain sports and leisure infrastructures. that the important aging of the population, "said Mr. Pagé. 
Since June 27, Mr. Pagé crosses the routes of Quebec to meet the many regional partners who help to ensure citizens' access to access to sports, recreational and physical activities. These have the chance to express their concerns and vision about the future national politics of sport, leisure and physical activity. 
Quebeckers and Quebeckers were also arrested. Indeed, an online consultation was held on the website of the Ministry of Education, Leisure and Sport on the sidelines of meetings with the partners. It raised, during the months of July and August, the comments of those who wanted to fuel the reflection and enrich the future policy. 
"The points of view that will be shared during these consultations will bring valuable lighting for the development of the new policy. This unifying project must eventually give everyone the taste of moving and practicing physical, recreational and sports activities from early childhood at the middle age. It also aims to implement measures to support our sports elite and help it even more radiate on the international scene, "Malavoy said. 
Note that the Green Paper is essentially a consultation tool that proposes a vision, stakes and guidance on which the discussions rely. To view it, visit www.mels.gouv.qc.ca/livrevert. 
