Montreal- The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, today unveiled the Global Government Action Plan to address air quality issues in some schools in Quebec. This plan is divided into three components: immediate action against known mold problems, detection and prevention. 
"Since my entry into office, I have seen the state of obsolescence of some network schools with mold problems, many of whom here in Montreal. In front of this situation quite intolerable and critical, only one observation is needed: it is imperative to act now and forcefully to settle, once and for all, cases of mildews identified and prevent new similar situations. This is what we do by launching this unprecedented plan of action, "said Malavoy Minister. 
The government's approach is based in particular on the renovated plan, with an envelope of $ 401.2 million, which is the heart of one of the flagship measures provided for in the economic priority employment priority. 
This investment includes an envelope of $ 46.5 million intended exclusively to launch a real offensive against cases of mold contamination identified in 19 Quebec schools. These institutions are particularly attached to the Montreal School Board (16), but also to the school boards of the Valley-des-Tisserands (2) and the Summits (1). The largest work carried out as part of this offensive will be conducted at Baril School, the Montreal School Board, which will be completely demolished and rebuilt at a cost of $ 19 million. Fixed and preventive work will be carried out in other establishments, from replacing the plumbing, through the rehabilitation of doors and windows, to that of the outer envelope and the structure of the buildings. 
In addition to the investments related to this offensive against mold, a sum of $ 30 million will be devoted to a broad operation of detecting potential air quality problems in schools in all regions of the Quebec. This operation will be controlled by a committee made up of representatives of the Ministry and the school network. 
"It is essential to have a fair portrait of the situation of the entire Québec School Real Estate Park to establish the follow-up to give this priority issue," supported the minister. 
The government action plan includes an important preventive component. In this connection, the minister announced that the investments of $ 324.7 million by 2017, provided for in the Réno-Schools Plan, would be accelerated in support of repair, improvement or reshaping schools. Across Quebec. 
Other measures have been put in place by the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport to correct air quality issues in schools. The Ministry has, inter alia, produces a reference document for the school boards, bringing together the guidelines or recommendations it has already issued in the past with respect to the management of contaminants or products at risk for health in schools. An expert committee, trained in 2012 with the aim of defining good practices in the prevention, detection and correction of mold problems in schools, should also make its report shortly to the Minister. Finally, school boards are expected to adopt an accountability mechanism to inform the ministry of health and financial situations in terms of health and financial repercussions. 
"For a year, we have not stopped improving things so that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe and accommodated living environments. We are increasingly engaged in this way by the carrying and strong gestures that we ask today, "concluded the minister. 
