Montreal - The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, has previously unveiled, in front of the members of the Quebec Electrical Industry Association, the fourth and final part of the Employment Priority Economic Policy, the Electrification Strategy transport, which represents an investment of $ 516 million. 
"The purpose of the transport electrification strategy is to make Quebec a world leader in electric transport. We want to contribute to the economic development of Quebec by focusing on this sector of the future to create jobs. With this packaging project, we can enrich ourselves while reducing our greenhouse gas emissions to reach our ambitious targets for 2020. Moreover, it brings us closer to energy independence, "said Pauline Marois. 
The government aims to introduce more than 12,500 additional electric vehicles on Quebec roads by 2017. This strategy will include vehicles from individuals, businesses, municipalities and non-profit organizations, as well as taxis and the vehicles of the government fleet. This ambitious strategy puts the uncertainty about the future of the ride electric program, whose purchase discount had to fall by half on January 1st. This program will be rather enhanced by $ 65 million. The $ 8000 grant to purchase an electric vehicle will be extended until December 31, 2016, and the $ 500 grant for the purchase of a conventional hybrid vehicle will be restored for the next three years. 
Other incentives include "Verdir" 525 taxis project will be set up in Montreal and other regions of Quebec. A deployment plan of 5000 recharge terminals accessible to the public and spread over the entire Quebec territory will accompany these measures. 
On the side of the metropolis, the government invests more than $ 150 million for the establishment of a first electric axis on Saint-Michel boulevard, which will be served by trolleybus. The blue line of the Montreal metro will be extended until the Arrondissement Anjou; Five new stations will be added east. In addition, the government will go forward with its light rail system project, incorporated in the Future Champlain Bridge. Finally, $ 15 million will be devoted to the Montreal project, Cité de l'Électromobility, to make the metropolis a showcase of technological development by electric collective transport. 
The strategy also includes an investment of $ 35 million to create the Institute of Electrical Transport. It will be a world-class research and high technology center. Quebec's know-how in the field of electricity is already recognized. The strategy aims to strengthen our genius to innovate and make Quebec a place even more conducive to research and development. A privileged link will be established between the Institute and the Hydro-Québec Research Center, IREQ, recognized as a world leader in battery research as on modes of production, transport and storage electricity. 
In addition, more than $ 220 million will be devoted to Quebec business projects, as well as to attract global actors here in the field of electric transport. The strategy will financially support large-scale, mobilizing and structuring projects, and will help them be more competitive. The objective of this investment is to develop a strong industrial ecosystem, composed of both innovative and well-equipped small businesses to meet the expectations of suppliers, major global commodities and a sufficient number of averages companies able to link between the two. 
With the transport electrification strategy, companies in the sector will be able to rely on a global and integrated service offering, up to their expectations. It will promote not only private investment to ensure the growth and modernization of companies, but also the development, demonstration and the marketing of new technologies and innovative products. In addition, the government intends to accompany Quebec companies to help them export their products and know-how. 
By March 31, 2017, 2000 vehicles in the government fleet will be gradually replaced by electric cars, as well as all vehicles of function of government members. The installation of 1000 recharge terminals will be installed near the government buildings, accessible to state employees as well as other users. 
The Government will create the Secretariat for the electrification of transport, which will be under the direct responsibility of the Prime Minister. This Secretariat will be responsible for coordinating all of the actions undertaken in the electrification of transport. 
Finally, the strategy provides for amendments to the legislative and regulatory framework to facilitate the electrification of transport. Support measures are also planned for municipalities in their transportation efforts. In particular, the Government of Quebec wishes to review the Law on Planning and Urbanism, in order to support urbanization methods that encourage the adoption of sustainable travel habits, and provide financial support for urban planning. 'EcoMobility. 
"The transport electrification strategy is a prominent illustration of Quebec's advance towards electric mobility. We will be a model of awareness and accountability. We will demonstrate that sustainable development goes hand in hand with economic development. Investing in transport electrification is investing throughout Quebec, "concluded the Prime Minister. 
Check out all the details of the Transport Electrification Strategy in Economie.gouv.qc.ca / PoliticsConomic. 
