Chibougamau- Minister of Finance and Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, and the member for Ungava and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (Northern Affairs Component), Mr. Luc Ferland, are pleased to announce today HUI, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, an investment of $ 7.6 million to enable expansion and redevelopment work at the Vocational Training Center. Baie-James as well as acquire and develop a modular and mobile school plant in the field of ore treatment in Chibougamau. 
This announcement is part of the Employment Priority Employment Policy, made public on October 7 and aimed at creating jobs in all regions of Quebec, in the short and medium term. This government policy aims in particular to make improvements to vocational training institutions and invest in the development of Northern Quebec. 
"Communities are at the heart of Nordic development. Thanks to this investment in vocational training in Chibougamau, we support innovative projects and meet the needs and aspirations of the population. Our local partner, the James Bay School Board, will be able, as part of its curricula, to diversify the know-how and the available skills and ensure a skilled workforce in the industry. Investing in Northern Public Infrastructure is an essential gesture to prepare for the future, "said Minister Marceau. 
The first project consists of making multifunctional the premises of the James Bay Professional Training Center, located in Chibougamau, developing a large area of large area (809 m²) which will allow more versatility and flexibility. Depending on the needs of the industry and applications, registration, industrial construction and maintenance programs (5260), welding-mounting (5195), construction machine mechanics (5331) etchapenterie-carpentry ( 5319) may be rotated. Note that the $ 3 million aid allocated as part of the Employment Priority Economic Policy adds to $ 3.08 million granted in October 2012, bringing $ 6.08 million. Government investment in this project. 
The second project, which has a help of $ 4.6 million, will provide advanced training, adapted to reality and requirements related to the mining industry in Quebec. Thanks to the future mobile school factory, which will include four trailers, the lecture program of ore processing machines (5274) may be offered directly on the site's mineral projects and even in other mining regions. in partnership with companies. 
"This announcement demonstrates that the Government of Quebec, by Northern Development, wants to enable communities to take full advantage of the benefits of the various projects carried out on their territory. With these major investments, our government makes the necessary infrastructure available to meet the needs of students and businesses. We contribute to the creation of jobs and wealth for the north and all Quebec, "said Ferland. 
In addition to the awarded government investment, the financing of the two projects is supplemented by a contribution from the James Bay School Board, from the establishment of energy saving measures as well as by the partial repayment of taxes in vigor. 
"I am very proud of this announcement, because vocational training is an essential asset in the development of skills in Quebec. Educate and qualify young people, it is first and foremost give them the tools they need to flourish and express their talents. It is also to offer them the means to take care of the development of their community and its radiation. Projects in Chibougamau are very promising in this regard, "Ms. Malavoy said. 
