Jonquière - Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, today announced, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Leisure and Sport, Mrs. Marie Malavoy, that the government will make investments of $ 2,575,000 in schools located in Jonquière to provide healthier media students. These investments will make projects improve improvement, renovation and renovation in four institutions, including rehabilitating buildings and prevent possible air quality issues. 
"In view of the air quality issues that some schools have known, the government has chosen the only way possible: action. We needed to make every effort to resolve the most pressing needs and act upstream to improve existing infrastructure. This is what we do with these massive investments in our school heritage, "said Malavoy Minister. 
These amounts will make a variety of fixes, such as replacing the plumbing and ventilation and rehabilitation of roofs, doors and windows as well as the outer envelope and structure of the buildings. This preventive work will ensure a safe environment for students, teachers and school staff. 
"I am very happy for Jonquiérois. These investments are added to the other sums announced last spring for the repair of other schools from the Jonquière School Board and for the construction of a Gymnasium at Sainte-Cécile School, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
This announcement is part of the context of a Global Government Action Plan to address air quality issues in some schools in Quebec, unveiled on October 11 by Malavoy. This government approach is based in particular on the Réno-Schools Renovation Program, with an envelope of $ 401.2 million, which is one of the measures of the Employment Priority Policy. 
The global action plan is divided into three components: immediate action against known mold problems, detection and prevention. Anticipated investments include an envelope of $ 46.5 million for offensive against cases of mold contamination already known in 19 Quebec schools, particularly in Montreal. Some $ 324.7 million will also be allocated to accelerate the improvement, renovation and renovation of schools, across Quebec. 
Finally, $ 30 million will be used to conduct a broad operation of detecting potential air quality problems in schools in all regions of Quebec. This operation, which will be driven by a committee made up of representatives of the Ministry and the school system, will allow a fair picture of the situation of the entire Quebec school housing stock to determine the next actions to be carried out in this priority issue. 
"For a year, we have not stopped taking steps to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe and accommodating living environments. We are increasingly incurred on this path by carrying and strong gestures that we posite today, "concluded Malavoy. 
