Montréal- As part of the economic lapolitics: employment priority, the Minister of Family and MP from Pointe-aux-Trembles, Ms. Nicole Léger, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, Today announced that the government would make investments of $ 28,005,000 in school board of the Point-de-Île School Board to provide healthier media students to learn. These investments will make projects improve improvement, renovation and renovation in 35 schools to prevent potential air quality issues. 
"In view of the air quality problems that some schools have known, the government has chosen the only way possible: action. We had to make every effort to meet the most pressing needs and act upstream on existing infrastructures. This is what we do with these massive investments, "Malavoy said. 
Thanks to the announced sums, various fixes will be carried out, replacing the plumbing, through the repair of roofs, doors and windows, to that of the outer envelope and the structure of the buildings. This preventive work will ensure a secure environment for students, teachers and school staff. 
"These investments are likely to improve for a long time the state of the buildings and the quality of life of those who frequent them on a daily basis. I am happy to announce it today. We ask another concrete gesture for improving the quality of life of the Eastern Montreal population. Young families can come up with us knowing that their children will go to healthy schools, "Ms. Léger said. 
This announcement is part of the context of a Global Government Action Plan to address air quality issues in some schools in Quebec, unveiled on October 11 by Malavoy. This government approach relies in particular on the Réno-Schools Renovation Program, with an envelope of $ 401.2 million, which is one of the measures of economic policy: priority employment. 
The global action plan is divided into three components: immediate action against known mold problems, detection and prevention. Anticipated investments include an envelope of $ 46.5 million for offensive against cases of mold contamination already known in 19 Quebec schools, particularly in Montreal. Some $ 324.7 million will also be allocated to accelerate the improvement, renovation and renovation of schools, across Quebec. 
Finally, $ 30 million will be used to conduct a broad operation of detecting potential air quality problems in schools in all regions of Quebec. This operation, which will be driven by a committee made up of representatives of the Ministry and the school network, will have a fair picture of the situation of the entire Quebec school housing stock to determine the actions to be carried out in this priority issue. 
"For a year, we have not stopped taking steps to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe and accommodating living environments. We are increasingly incurred on this path by carrying and strong gestures that we posite today, "concluded Malavoy. 
