Saint-Ulric-de-Matane- As part of the economic lapolitics: employment priority, the Minister delegate to Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region and MP Pascal Bérubé, today announced today On behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy, that the Government would make investments of $ 11,851,295 in schools in the region to provide healthier media students for learn. These investments will help improve improvement, renovation and renovation projects in 47 schools to prevent potential air quality issues. 
"In view of the air quality problems that some schools have known, the government has chosen the only way possible: action. We had to make every effort to meet the most pressing needs and act upstream on existing infrastructures. This is what we do with these massive investments, which total nearly $ 12 million, in the School Heritage of Bas-Saint-Laurent, "Malavoy said. 
The sums announced, the details of which are attached, will be divided between the school boards of Kamouraska-Rivière-du-Loup, Mountains and tides, lighthouses and the river-and-lakes. Various fixing work will be made, from replacing the plumbing, through the repair of roofs, doors and windows, to that of the outer envelope and the structure of the buildings. This preventive work will ensure a secure environment for students, teachers and school staff. 
"We have any interest in what our institutions are living environments in good condition, security and functional, because it is at school that Quebec tomorrow is emerging. That's why our government makes every effort to maintain and improve school heritage in all regions, "said Minister Bérubé. 
This announcement is part of the context of a Global Government Action Plan to address air quality issues in some schools in Quebec, unveiled on October 11 by Malavoy. This government approach relies in particular on the Réno-Schools Renovation Program, with an envelope of $ 401.2 million, which is one of the measures of economic policy: priority employment. 
The global action plan is divided into three components: immediate action against known mold problems, detection and prevention. Anticipated investments include an envelope of $ 46.5 million for offensive against cases of mold contamination already known in 19 Quebec schools, particularly in Montreal. Some $ 324.7 million will also be allocated to accelerate the improvement, renovation and renovation of schools, across Quebec. 
Finally, $ 30 million will be used to conduct a broad operation of detecting potential air quality problems in schools in all regions of Quebec. This operation, which will be driven by a committee made up of representatives of the Ministry and the school system, will allow a fair picture of the situation of the entire Quebec school housing stock to determine the next actions to be carried out in this priority issue. 
"For a year, we have not stopped taking steps to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe and accommodating living environments. We are increasingly incurred on this path by carrying and strong gestures that we posite today, "concluded Malavoy. 
