Malbaie - in the framework of economic priority employment priority, the premier of Quebec and MP for Charlevoix-Côte-de-Beaupré, Pauline Marois, announced that a major infrastructure project in vocational training would be carried out in Malbaie, Thanks to government financial assistance from $ 1.2 million to the Charlevoix School Board. 
First, government assistance will support redevelopment work for a welding area for the Automobileau Education Center for Adult Education and Vocational Training in Charlevoix. It is then planned to carry out a complete redevelopment of the facilities of the same program of study. 
Automotive mechanics is a sector where demand for labor is high. Through this project, the Charlevoix School Board will be able to put the standards the facilities of this curriculum, which are obsolete and are no longer enough to accommodate a complete cohort of beginner students each year. The renovation of the facilities will allow the center to host the number of students planned by the ministerial standards for the curriculum and to increase its capacity of about half a cohort of beginner students per year. 
"We have any advantage that vocational training attracts more young people because it is essential to the development of our economy. A strong and prosperous Quebec needs to rely on women and men we have given every opportunity and support needed to obtain a diploma or qualification. The government believes it and that is why we are now doing these investments, "said the Prime Minister. 
It should be noted that throughout Quebec, 12 renovation and addition projects will materialize through investments totaling $ 29.2 million, planned in the Employment Priority Economic Policy. This policy aims, in particular, to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, short and medium term. 
Of the $ 565 million in public infrastructure announced, in addition to investment in vocational training, some $ 401 million is devoted to making educational infrastructure from healthier media to learn. In addition, more than $ 130 million are allocated to the modernization of sports and recreational infrastructures, throughout Quebec. 
"Employment Priority Economic Policy is a goneful and ambitious vision for the development of our economy. As evidenced by today's announcement, this vision hue our education actions. We thus pose carrying gestures for the well-being and quality of life of Quebeckers, "said the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Marie Malavoy. 
