Montréal- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, today presented four flagship measures designed to create jobs in all regions of Quebec, in the short and medium term, as part of the launch of the economic priority policy. 
The Premier announced the implementation of the Tariff Offer Investments Jobs, an ambitious measure to take advantage of Québec's electricity surpluses. A reduced rate will be offered to energy consuming companies that will achieve significant investments. This initiative is expected to attract $ 1.6 billion in investment and create, in the short term, 10,300 jobs. 
"Hydro-Québec will have significant surplus of electricity until 2027. We will use these surpluses to create wealth and jobs. The Tariff Offer Investments-Jobs will apply to new loads of 15 MW and more. We target the natural resource processing sectors, the manufacture of components related to renewable energies, green technologies and transport electrification, as well as the information technology sector. This offer will not result in rising electricity tariffs for citizens, "the premier explained. 
The tariff will be consented for a period covering the period of excess electricity. It will include a progressivity over time, in order to ensure a forward transition to the regular rate. 
"Several schools need significant renovations. In several regions, investments are needed to improve the state of institutions, including because of air quality issues. Infrastructures are also obsolete. To meet these needs, the government has been accelerating public investments in the order of $ 565 million. These investments, planned in the Quebec Infrastructure Plan for the years 2014 2015 to 2017 2018, will begin in the fall of 2013, "said Minister Marceau. 
Thus, the Government of Investments of $ 430.4 million to implement the Réno-Schools Plan. These investments will improve air quality in schools and renovate dilapiden or poor state infrastructure. Amounts will also be allocated to mixed expansion and renovation projects, and the improvement of vocational training institutions. 
In addition, the government announces $ 80 million in investments to build or renovate sports or recreational infrastructure. Finally, $ 55 million will be invested immediately for the maintenance of buildings and infrastructure as well as for improving road access and trails in facilities managed by the Society of Outdoor Institutions of Quebec. 
"This acceleration of investments will result in the creation of 3500 jobs in all regions of Quebec, and that, in the very short term," said the minister. 
Minister Marceau also announced the immediate implementation of major tax measures to stimulate the investment of individuals and businesses. These measures will result in investments over $ 1 billion and will create 6200 jobs by 2017. 
The first measure is the establishment of ecorenov, a refundable tax credit for green renovation. It will be offered to individuals executing by October 31, 2014 Green renovation work on their residence. The refundable tax credit will be 20% of eligible expenses above $ 2500 for recognized work. The maximum value of the tax credit will be $ 10,000. 
In addition, the Rénoclimat program will see its $ 37 million envelope to set up a component to replace heating systems with fossil fuels. 
In addition, the minister announced that the investment threshold required to be entitled to tax leave for major investment projects will increase from $ 300 to $ 200 million to support major modernization projects for our businesses. 
He also announced the subsidy of the investment tax credit for manufacturing SMEs from all regions of Quebec. It will see its rate plus 10 percentage points and it will be expanded to certain expenses relating to buildings. In addition, for all companies, it can also apply to investments in computer equipment. These bonuses will promote increased productivity of manufacturing SMEs. 
Finally, a new 25% refundable tax credit on information technology integration contracts in Manufacturing SMEs will be created to support businesses in modernizing their business process by the Integration of high value added packages. This will contribute to the increase in their productivity. 
The Prime Minister stated that the development of Northern Quebec is a strategic element of the Employment Priority Economic Policy. To ensure this development, public infrastructure is essential. 
Thus, the Quebec government will carry out significant repairs of the James Bay Road. Work on this route will represent investments of $ 100 million. In addition, the Government will finance a pre-feasibility study on the construction of an additional rail link allowing the transport of ore from the Labrador pit. The characteristics of the desired link must be specified to invite private investors to finance the project. The government will also support the development of an aerodrome in the Otish Mountains sector. 
Finally, the Prime Minister recalled that northern development should better meet the social needs of the population. "The government has already announced the creation of new child care spaces, invested in the offer of housing and senior services as well as sport and leisure infrastructure with First Nations and the Inuit Nation. Our economic policy contains other measures that will meet recognized needs, particularly in terms of training and development of the North tourism industry, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
Consult the Press Release: Economic Policy Priority Employment: An Integrated Approach to Creating 115,000 New Jobs 
Consult the Economic Policy Priority Employment: Economy.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueConomic 
