The name of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, his parliamentary assistant and President of the Government Caucus, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, today met the partners of the domains of the leisure, of the Sport and physical activity of the Chaudière-Appalaches region to hear them about the Green Paper Taste and the pleasure of moving: towards a national sport, leisure and physical activity. 
"It is with great pleasure that I met today the recreational and sports speakers of the Chaudière-Appalaches region. I discovered a dynamic and booming area as well as passionate people who are close to the development and radiation of leisure and sport in their area. I would like to greet all these people who generously shared their comments on the occasion of this third day of regional consultations, "said Mr. Pagé. 
Since June 27, Mr. Pagé crosses the routes of Quebec to meet the many regional partners who help to ensure citizens' access to access to sports, recreational and physical activities. These have the chance to express their concerns and vision about the future national politics of sport, leisure and physical activity. 
Quebecers and Quebeckers are also arrested. Indeed, an online consultation is held on the website of the Ministry of Education, Leisure and Sport on the sidelines of meetings with the partners. It will collect, until August 31, the comments and memoirs of all those who wish to feed the reflection and enrich the future policy. 
"The points of view that will be shared during these consultations will bring valuable lighting for the development of the new policy. This unifying project must eventually give everyone the taste of moving and practicing physical, recreational and sports activities from early childhood at the middle age. It also aims to implement measures to support our sports elite and help it even more radiate on the international scene, "Malavoy said. 
Note that the Green Paper is essentially a consultation tool that proposes a vision, stakes and guidance on which the discussions rely. To consult it or to participate in the online consultation, visitwww.mels.gouv.qc.ca/livrevert. 
