Sherbrooke- Following the unveiling of the National Research and Innovation Policy, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology (MESRST), Mr. Pierre Duchesne, performs the Tour of some facilities in the research community. In the company of the rector of the Université de Sherbrooke, Professor Luce Samoisette, Mr. Duchesne participated in the visit of the domotics and mobile computing laboratory from the University of Sherbrooke (Domus), to which the media were invited. . 
"On October 16, we unveiled the national research and innovation that represents an unprecedented investment of $ 3.7 billion over 5 years. This policy is a clear signal of all the importance we provide for research and innovation in our society. It is therefore important for our researchers to benefit from an environment of exceptional quality and adequate support. The facilities of the Université de Sherbrooke are a good example. They line up our goals to ensure the quality of life of Quebeckers through health research and it is proud that we support this project, "said Minister Duchene. 
The minister stated three major guiding principles that will guide the development of the new policy. 
Minister Pierre Duchesne visits the new facilities of the University of Sherbrooke's home automation and mobile laboratory. // (c) Joel Bouchard 
Remember that the acquisition of research equipment started in the fall of 2012 and will continue until the spring of 2014. This is a financial assistance of $ 1,073,195 granted by the Ministry of Higher Education, of Research, science and technology. Minister Duchesne welcomes the progress of the work. 
Located at the Faculty of Sciences at the University of Sherbrooke, the Domus laboratory carries out fundamental and applied interdisciplinary research in computer science and health. An interdisciplinary team of seven researchers works on cognitive assistance with people with cognitive deficits as well as on televigilance and medical follow-up. 
Thanks to this financial assistance, the house conquest, alternative residence, will be transformed into an international laboratory. This laboratory will be devoted to interdisciplinary research on cognitive deficiencies, televigilance and medical follow-up in a home maintenance perspective. 
The Conquest House has ten accommodation units that can accommodate ten severe cranial trauma or people who have suffered a stroke. Domus will install support and televigilance systems to innovate, evaluate, promote and transfer its solutions. In addition, the project includes an infrastructure upgrade to the Domus laboratory to integrate this research infrastructure into two interrelated sites: Alternative residence and Domus laboratory. 
"At the heart of one of the three major research centers in Quebec, the University of Sherbrooke consolidates its position among major research institutions in Canada. Its activities are growing both in quantity and its infrastructures are renewed in an accelerated manner. The many publications, discoveries, innovations or creations of its professors and teachers radiate in all disciplines. The project that brings us together this morning illustrates that when we enjoy bold and flexible investments, we can establish collaborations with middle organizations that generate immediate benefits for the well-being of the population, "said Professor Luce Samoisette, rector of the Université de Sherbrooke. 
The transformation of the residence The conquest in intelligent habitat for people with cognitive deficits will allow a fruitless mesh between users, clinicians and researchers. Residents of the conquest will have the opportunity and ways to give themselves a full-fledged life project that promotes their autonomy through a suitable environment and customized systems. These systems will also relieve caregivers and professional caregivers. Ultimately, the results of this research can also be transferred to other clienteles, such as people with Alzheimer's disease, or be adapted for other types of habitats, such as individual residences. 
This project was the subject of financial assistance of $ 995,195, granted by MESRST. This assistance is added a $ 78,000 grant for equipment operating and maintenance costs. These amounts are part of the research support program, component 2: Support for the financing of research infrastructure. The Foundation of the University of Sherbrooke also contributed to the project for $ 110,570. 
The National Research and Innovation Policy is part of the four strategic initiatives of Quebec's economic policy, employment priority, launched by the Prime Minister. It is the result of many consultations with actors from all sectors concerned with research and innovation: companies, educational institutions, state and society. With an unprecedented investment of $ 3.7 billion over five years, it will make it possible to advance Quebec in the knowledge and innovation society. 
For more information: mesrst.gouv.qc.ca/pnri. 
