Quebec- in the wake of the first food sovereignty policy, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron, today presented the new support program the development of reserved appellations and rewarding terms (PADARTV). This program, which supports the development of Quebec foods and their characteristics, is accompanied by a budget envelope of more than $ 1.6 million for the 2013-2016 period. 
"There is no doubt that the reserved appellations contribute to forging this strong identity of Quebec's food, which is an important axis of food sovereignty policy. It is a bearer element for the future and we intend to support the initiatives that will make our gourmet treasures shine as they deserve it, whether here or abroad, "said the minister. 
To promote the creation of new reserved appellations and new valuable terms and to provide better support for businesses, the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (MAPAQ) offers an improved version of Padartv. The amendments that have been made result in particular comments made by community partners and enterprise members participating in the recognition process. 
The new program will now support the acquisition and dissemination of knowledge about reserved appellations and rewarding terms to promote development and reputation. The achievement of this objective could go through the organization of symposia, conferences or training sessions animated by experts paid in this area and through the conduct of research work, among other things, on the realization of analyzes Economics of the names reserved, on the chains of value that will be developed and on the determination of products with interesting potential for obtaining a reserved appellation or a valuing term. 
Thanks to the Padartv, it will also be possible to support business combinations in continuous improvement of the collective management of the reserved appellation or the term valuing. The measure put forward makes it possible, in particular, the reimbursement of a portion of the expenses related to the management of the reserved appellation or the term valuing or the operating budget of the grouping or relating to the improvement of the marketing of products benefiting a reserved appellation or a valuing term. 
"The need to highlight food products gets a broad consensus within the bioalimentary industry. In this context, the reserved appellations law and the rewarding terms constitutes the tool par excellence to protect and promote Quebec's know-how and reassure consumers by attesting the authenticity and quality of the products they buy, "has concluded Mr. François Gendron. 
Note that the minister took the opportunity to confirm that the "Quebec ice cider" could soon join the "Charlevoix Lamb" and the "organic" mode of production in the register of reserved appellations recognized in Quebec. The process that will lead to this recognition was launched on 5 June by the Board of Appellations reserved and rewarding terms. Other promising strong projects are currently at the analysis stage, such as "Canadian Cow's Milk Cheese", "Traceleclerc Poultry" and "Sweet Corn of Neuville". 
This process launched on June 5 is a public consultation on the project of protected geographical indication "Quebec ice cider". 
For further information on the development support program for reserved appellations and rewarding terms, visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/ -APPELLATION ) To learn more about the food sovereignty policy, consult regularly the blog dedicated to it (www.politiquesa.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the websitewww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politique. It is also possible to follow the Mapaq on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
