Sept-Îles - As part of a Quebec tour that stops today in North Shore, the Minister Delegate to the Regions, Minister responsible for the Gaspé-Islands-de-la-Madeleine Region and Member of Parliament for The district of Gaspé, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, accompanied by the chief government whip, head of the North Shore and MP region, Mr. Marjolain Dufour, and the Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Transport (Transportation Component Maritime) and MP for Duplessis, Ms. Lorraine Richard, confirmed the granting of nearly $ 6 million to rural RCMs in the North Shore Region for the implementation of the national rurality of rurality. Following a commitment from the Prime Minister of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, to improve rural pacts, the national rurality policy has been renewed for a period of ten years with an envelope of $ 470 million. Created in 2001 by the Parti Québécois, the national rural policy provides unprecedented support to rural and regions of Quebec. 
"The aid announced today will allow those who care about the development of their community to give a new impetus to the most inspiring and promising projects in their environment. Long mature, this policy is based on the capacity of rural areas to mobilize and work on an intersectoral basis: an innovative and decisive approach to occupation of territory and rurality in Quebec. This new national rural policy will allow the establishment of major projects in the regions of Quebec, "said Minister Lelièvre. 
A sum of the order of $ 1.8 million will be devoted as early as 2014-15 to the North Côte-NCR for the financing of rural pacts and rural development agent positions in the region. The minister also confirmed an additional $ 3.9 million, for up to $ 750,000 per $ 750,000 per ten years, to the realization of "Covenants more" on the rural territory of the region. Large novelties of the new policy, "Covenants Plus" are aimed at supporting the realization of major intersectoral projects and bringing the future across the MRC. The intersectoral approach will now have to characterize the management of the rural pact as well as that of the "pacts plus" since it is by rallying around a common vision and ensuring the complementarity of their actions that the actors of rural development will be optimized the fallouts on their environment. 
Pivots of the National Rural Policy, rural pacts are contracts between the Government and the RCMs to finance projects in rural territory. As for rural development agents, they are real actors of change for rural communities. 
"I welcome the important amounts announced today to support the realization of projects that will undeniably contribute to building stronger and more dynamic communities in North Shore. Our government sends a clear signal of its willingness to support rural Quebec. The Parti Québécois demonstrates that it is the true party of the regions, "concluded Marjolan Dufour. 
"The development of rural territories is a priority for the development of our region. It is therefore an important promise that our government is today the citizens of the North Shore, since the sums granted will allow rural actors to continue the development of their environments and to embark on the realization of projects that will contribute to Establish strong rurality throughout the region, "said the member Richard. 
Appendix of the sums by mrCrégion of the North Shore 
