Joliette- As part of the economic lapolitics: employment priority, the minister responsible for the Lanaudière region of Joliette, Ms. Véronique Hivon, as well as the Minister of Education, Leisure and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, announced Today, significant investments totaling $ 1.4 million in schools from Charlemagne, the Assumption, Repentigny (sector the Gardeur) and Terrebonne (Lachenaie sector) to provide healthier school students to learn and blossom. 
"In view of the air quality problems that some schools have known, the government has chosen the only way possible: action. We had to make every effort to meet the most pressing needs and act upstream on existing infrastructures. This is what we do with these important investments, which total $ 1.4 million, in the school heritage of the district of the Assumption, "Malavoy said. 
"These investments will make projects for improvement and refurbishment in about twenty institutions from the tributary school board to prevent, in particular, possible air quality problems, for the benefit of students, teachers and Staff. It is essential to invest in structuring niches and unifying, and I am particularly proud of this choice, to invest for our young people, schools and education, "said Minister Hivon. 
The sums announced, the details of which are attached, will be devoted to various fixes, ranging from the replacement of plumbing, via the rehabilitation of ventilation systems, roofs, doors and windows, to that of external envelopes. and buildings of buildings. 
This announcement is part of the context of a Global Government Action Plan to address air quality issues in some Quebec schools, unveiled last October by Malavoy. This government approach is based in particular on the Réno-Schools Renovation Program, with an envelope of $ 401 million, which is one of the measures of the Employment Priority Economic Policy. 
In addition, $ 30 million will be used to conduct a broad operation of detecting potential air quality issues in schools in all regions of Quebec. This operation, which will be piloted by a committee made up of representatives of the department and the school system, will allow a fair portrait of the situation of the entire Quebec school housing stock to determine the actions to be asked in this priority issue. 
"For a year, we have not stopped taking steps to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe and accommodating living environments. We are increasingly incurred on this path by carrying and strong gestures that we posite today, "concluded Malavoy. 
