Montréal - On behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, his parliamentary assistant and President of the Government Caucus, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, today met the partners of the domains of the leisure, of the Sport and physical activity of the Montreal area to hear them about the Green Paper Taste and the pleasure of moving: towards a national sport, leisure and physical activity. 
"I was waiting for the consultation of Montreal impatiently since the reality of the metropolis is distinct: a quarter of the Quebec population lives there is the densest region of Quebec. One-third of its inhabitants live below the threshold of poverty. It hosts 40,000 immigrants each year and more than 120 cultural communities come together. This diversity brings new issues specific to the metropolitan area. I think of the need for different sports trays like cricket grounds. The consultation participants shared the importance of physical activity practice for the integration of immigrant people and I agree with them. Montreal must also face a "beautiful" problem: the overuse of different sports infrastructures, including bike paths. It demonstrates that people are active, but you have to find solutions for all and all to have access and remain active, "said Mr. Pagé. 
Since June 27, Mr. Pagé crosses the routes of Quebec to meet the many regional partners who help to ensure citizens' access to access to sports, recreational and physical activities. These have the chance to express their concerns and vision about the future national politics of sport, leisure and physical activity. 
Quebeckers and Quebeckers were also arrested. Indeed, an online consultation was held on the website of the Ministry of Education, Leisure and Sport on the sidelines of meetings with the partners. It raised, during the months of July and August, the comments of those who wanted to fuel the reflection and enrich the future policy. 
"The points of view that will be shared during these consultations will bring valuable lighting for the development of the new policy. This unifying project must eventually give everyone the taste of moving and practicing physical, recreational and sports activities from early childhood at the middle age. It also aims to implement measures to support our sports elite and help it even more radiate on the international scene, "Malavoy said. 
Note that the Green Paper is essentially a consultation tool that proposes a vision, stakes and guidance on which the discussions rely. To consult it, visitwww.mels.gouv.qc.ca/livrevert. 
