Montreal- The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Marie Malavoy, accompanied by the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, Today announced an acceleration of investments in schools in the Montreal area. These investments, which total $ 117.3 million, include an envelope of 43.3 million to launch a real offensive to counter mold contamination identified in 16 schools from the Montreal School Board (see list in annex) , as well as an envelope of $ 74 million for expansion, renovation and renovation of educational infrastructure in the region. 
These amounts are also part of the increase in investments of $ 59 million allocated to the Montreal School Board in 2012-2013 to support asset maintenance projects, plus a $ 10 million for the reconstruction of Saint-Gérard school ($ 5 million in asset maintenance and $ 5 million in adding space), a total of $ 186.3 million. Thus, taking into account the investments of $ 110.5 million announced over the last few months for the construction and expansion of schools, it is 296.8 million that will be invested in the School Real Estate Park of the Montreal Area this year. 
"Since my entry into office, I have seen the state of obsolescence of some network schools with mold problems, many of whom here in Montreal. In front of this situation quite intolerable and critical, only one observation is needed: it is imperative to act now and forcefully to settle, once and for all, cases of mildews identified and prevent new similar situations. This is what we do by launching an unprecedented action plan, "said Malavoy Minister. 
"The situations that some Montreal schools face require both prompt, thoughtful and integrated solutions. This is how our government has chosen to act by adopting a proactive plan that will allow us to ensure that our children are learning in a healthy and safe environment. At major evils, great remedies, "added the minister. 
In addition to investments related to this offensive against mold, ministers announced that $ 30 million would be devoted to a broad operation of detecting potential air quality problems in schools, and this, in all regions of Quebec. This operation will be controlled by a committee made up of representatives of the Ministry and the school network. 
"It is essential to have a just picture of the situation of the entire Québec School Real Estate Park to determine the suites to give this priority issue," supported the minister. 
The government action plan also includes an important preventive component to prevent the appearance of new air quality problems. In this regard, Malavoy Minister has announced investments of $ 324.7 million by 2017 as part of the Réno-Schools Plan to accelerate the work of reparation, improvement and rehabilitation of schools. Quebec scale. 
This announcement is part of the context of a national plan of action unveiled at the same time by Malavoy Minister. This government approach is based in particular in terms of renovation, with an envelope of $ 401.2 million, which is the heart of one of the flagship measures provided for in the Employment Priority Economic Policy. 
