Drummondville - On behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment and Parks and Minister responsible for the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec , Yves-François Blanchet, today announced that the government would make investments of $ 2,920,969 in school board of the Oak School Board to provide students with healthier learning media. These investments will make projects improve improvement, renovation and renovation in ten schools to prevent potential air quality issues. 
"In view of the air quality problems that some schools have known, the government has chosen the only way possible: action. We had to make every effort to meet the most pressing needs and act upstream on existing infrastructures. This is what we do with these massive investments, which total more than $ 2.9 million, in the school heritage of the region, "Malavoy said. 
The sums announced will be used to carry out various fixes, replacing the plumbing, to the repair of roofs, doors and windows, to that of the outer envelope and the structure of the buildings. This preventive work will ensure a secure environment for students, teachers and school staff. 
"I look forward to students and teachers, but also for more and more relatively parents. Young people and professionals will continue to benefit from quality educational infrastructures for several years to come. In many cases, a significant improvement in living and learning conditions is expected. In others, it will be preventive measures. Thus, our government poses a long expected gesture, needed and beneficial not only for our school heritage, but also for health and quality of life as learning in our schools, "said Minister Blanchet. 
This announcement is part of the context of a Global Government Action Plan to address air quality issues in some schools in Quebec, unveiled on October 11 by Malavoy. This government approach is based in particular on the Réno-Schools Renovation Program, with an envelope of $ 401.2 million, which is one of the measures of the Employment Priority Policy. 
The global action plan is divided into three components: immediate action against known mold problems, detection and prevention. Anticipated investments include an envelope of $ 46.5 million for offensive against cases of mold contamination already known in 19 Quebec schools, particularly in Montreal. Some $ 324.7 million will also be allocated to accelerate the improvement, renovation and renovation of schools, across Quebec. 
Finally, $ 30 million will be used to conduct a broad operation of detecting potential air quality problems in schools in all regions of Quebec. This operation, which will be driven by a committee made up of representatives of the department and the school system, will have a fair picture of the situation of the entire Quebec school housing stock to determine the suites to give this priority issue. 
"For a year, we have not stopped taking steps to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe and accommodating living environments. We are increasingly incurred on this path by carrying and strong gestures that we posite today, "concluded Malavoy. 
