Quebec- In the wake of the National Research and Innovation Policy launched on October 16, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne , announces an investment of nearly $ 1.8 million in a research project on the study of links between the environment and prostate cancer. This investment is part of the Cancer Research and Prevention Group (GREPEC) program for the Cancer Research (CBC). 
"This investment goes in the sense of the national policy of research and innovation, which aims to ensure the well-being of Quebeckers at the economic, social and human levels. The government can already rely on a health research network that stands out. Recognized as an important pole of international scientific research, Quebec brings major contributions in the field of cancer research. It is therefore important for our researchers to benefit from an exceptional environment and adequate support, since their research has great hopes, "said Minister Duchesne. 
Pierre Duchesne announces an investment of nearly $ 1.8 million in a research project on the study of the links between the environment and the prostate cancer. // (c) Joel Bouchard 
The investment in this project, which totaled $ 3.7 million, comes from the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology (MESRST) and the Cancer Research Society. Thus, $ 2.7 million, of which $ 1.35 million from Mesrst, which are devoted to this research project of Dr. Yves Fradet, Laval University, and Dr. Armen Aprikian, McGill University. , researchers emeritus. In addition, $ 1 million also granted by MESRST and CBC will be available to enable the recruitment of specialized ePidemiologists in Cancer. The GREPEC program enjoys an investment fund of $ 6 million granted, equally by MESRST and the CBC. Other partners also support GREPEC. 
The GRECEC supports research teams and excellence projects. It promotes multidisciplinary and multi-institutional projects that generate concrete results, as well as translational research, that is to say from the laboratory to the patient. This program aims to bring together a maximum of scientific evidence to demonstrate the effect of various elements of the environment on the risk of developing cancer. All the physical and chemical elements of our living and work environments as well as our lifestyle habits (food, physical activity, etc.) are part of this environment. 
Prostate cancer is the most common cancer among Canadian men. It is estimated that during his life, 1 out of 7 man will be reached in Canada and 1 on 27 man by deceiving. This represents about 23,600 Canadians, including 4,800 Quebecers, who will receive a diagnosis of prostate cancer this year only. Hereditary factors contribute to the risk of being achieved, but this risk is also linked to the environment. The expected spin-offs of this research project are therefore extremely relevant. 
Thanks, among other things, research on all types of cancer, significant increases in the survival rate have been observed for both men and women, in most age groups, for all combined cancers. The survival rate of 40% in 1975 was more than 60%, 30 years later, in 2005. 
The Cancer-Cancer Epidemiologists Recruitment Program aims to overcome a lack of staff by offering two $ 100,000 epidemiologist scholarships per year for a five-year period. The new program will allow Quebec's research centers and universities to recruit candidates of excellence. 
The National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI) is one of four major strategic initiatives around which the Employment Priority Employment Policy is based on the Government of Quebec. In terms of research and innovation, PNRP represents an unprecedented $ 3.7 billion investment that will extend over five years. 
For more information: National Policy for Research and Innovation. 
