Montréal - the Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, today presented the new Employment Priority Employment Policy, a policy of the immediate effects, with significant means, of which the 'main objective is job creation. This policy will generate private and public investments of nearly $ 13 billion within 10 years, and will create more than 43,000 jobs by 2017. These jobs will be added to new jobs already planned for the same period. In total, the government is aimed at the creation of 115,000 new jobs over the next three years. 
The Prime Minister stressed that in recent months, the government identified the most effective approaches to increase research and development investments as well as innovation, improve business productivity, increase exports and deepen its project. transport electrification. These different sites converge to train the Employment Priority Economic Policy. This policy will build on a major asset, the availability of abundant, clean and renewable electricity. 
"In concrete terms, the government integrates in a coherent and orderly action the national policy for research and innovation, Quebec's industrial policy and the foreign trade development plan developed in recent months. We will also implement the Transportation Electrification Strategy, "said the Prime Minister. 
Minister Marceau explained that economic policy will be articulated around two components. The first will be devoted to four flagship measures implemented by the government to stimulate the creation of jobs and investments now: 
The second component is devoted to the four strategic initiatives put in place as part of an integrated approach to create jobs: 
In addition, two targeted sectoral measures, tourism and in the forest sector, are added to these strategic initiatives. 
"These four strategic initiatives pursue well-defined objectives such as: accelerating research and development, making our businesses more efficient, increasing the economic presence of Quebec in the world and imposing us as a reference in electrification of transport", emphasized the minister. 
The Prime Minister argued that the means used for the deployment of the Employment Priority Economic Policy are very important. Only in terms of public investment, the policy will be accompanied by budgetary and tax measures up to $ 2 billion for the 2013 2017 period, namely: 
"Quebec has all the assets to be part of the most successful economies. From today, all our efforts will be devoted to the success of this new economic policy and the realization of this ambition, "concluded the Prime Minister. 
Consult the statement: Economic Policy Priority Employment: Flagship measures for short-term jobs and wealth creation 
Consult the Economic Policy Priority Employment: Economy.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueConomic 
