Quebec- In the wake of the implementation of the Food Sovereignty, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, chaired the second meeting of the members of the Table of consultation of Quebec bioalimentary partners yesterday in Montérégie. The partners at the table had met a first time when launching the policy last May. 
"I am delighted with the beautiful concertation spirit that emerges from Quebec bioalimentary currently. I believe that everyone recognizes the importance of tightening elbows and working closely to ensure that the food sovereignty policy will have the maximum impact. The craze she gives is unequivocal: it is encouraging for the rest of things, "said Gendron. 
Yesterday, several subjects were on the agenda, including the reciprocity of standards with external markets, the impact of agricultural area development plans (PDZA) in the regions of Quebec, and better support for agricultural succession. The issue of the accessibility of tablets in the feed chains has also been exchanged. "We have a duty together to find sustainable solutions allowing Quebec's small producers and transformers to have a place of choice in our major food chains, it is a strong link in the food sovereignty policy" , said Gendron 
In recent months, concrete actions have been put forward to give impetus to the bioalimentary sector. A new "Quebec Food" advertising, which encourages consumers to develop the reflex to choose the products here, was launched last September. In addition, several support programs have been announced, particularly in terms of marketing, development of food processing, research and innovation, diversification, regional development and agri-environment. Also, support measures to sectoral development strategies for short circuits and local markets have been announced. 
"We stayed far after seven years of waiting and procrastination. The offensive we have made since the launch of the policy demonstrates the dynamism of the sector and its contribution in the economic development of Quebec, "continued the minister. 
The latter has also traced a positive assessment of the performance of the Quebec bioalimentary during the last year. "Sales of agricultural producers reached $ 7.6 billion, a 3% increase compared to 2011. The food processing industry has become advantageously from the Quebec manufacturing and economy sector. Its annual sales of $ 23.2 billion in 2012 put it at the top of the major Quebec manufacturing sectors, followed closely by the first transformation of metals. Our actions carry fruit and we are determined to go even further, "said Gendron. 
With investments of $ 2.3 billion and an annual food demand of nearly $ 34 billion generating 475,000 jobs, the bioalimentary industry is a powerful engine of Quebec's economy. 
For more information on food sovereignty policy, we invite you to regularly consult the blog (www.politicsa.gouv.qc.ca) of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and its website (www .mapaq.gouv.qc.ca / Policya), or to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
