Longueuil - On behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Marie Malavoy, his parliamentary assistant and President of the Government Caucus, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, launched today regional consultations in Montérégie with a view to The development of the future national policies of sport, leisure and physical activity. 
"It is today in Montérégie that we kicked off the tour of regional consultations. I discovered representatives and representatives of very well structured organizations, for whom the consultation is at the heart of the action. I also noted the diversity of this vast territory where various problems, both urban and rural. I thank all the people who moved to tell us about their thoughts, "said Mr. Pagé. 
This tour of consultations, led by Mr. Pagé, followed on the launch, on June 10 last, of the Vertittrustle Book, and the pleasure of moving: towards a national policy of sport, leisure and physical activity. Mr. Pagé will crowd the roads of Quebec to meet the many regional partners in the areas of sport, leisure and physical activity. The tour will stop in the Laurentians tomorrow, then in the other regions on the return of summer holidays. 
Quebecers and Quebeckers are also arrested. Indeed, an online consultation will be held this summer on the margins of meetings with the partners. It will collect the comments of all those who wish to fuel reflection and enrich the future policy. 
"The points of view that will be shared during these consultations will bring valuable lighting for the development of the new policy. This unifying project must eventually give everyone the taste of moving, practicing physical, recreational and sports activities, early childhood at mature age. It will also be aimed at implementing measures to support our sports elite and help it even more radiate on the international scene, "Malavoy said. 
Note that the Green Paper is essentially a consultation tool that proposes a vision, stakes and guidance on which the discussions rely. To consult or comment, visitwww.mels.gouv.qc.ca/livrevert. 
