Gatineau- As part of the economic lapolitics: employment priority, the minister of education, leisure and sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, today announced that the government would make investments of $ 10,910,058 in schools. The area to provide healthier media students to learn. These investments will make projects improve improvement, renovation and renovation in 41 schools to prevent possible air quality issues. 
"In view of the air quality problems that some schools have known, the government has chosen the only way possible: action. We had to make every effort to meet the most pressing needs and act upstream on existing infrastructures. This is what we do with these massive investments, which total nearly $ 11 million, in the school heritage of the Outaouais, "Malavoy said. 
The sums announced, the details of which are attached, will be divided between the school boards of the dravers, the Hauts-Bois-de-L'Ataouais, the Portages-de-L'Etaouais and Western Québec. Various fixing work will be made, from replacing the plumbing, through the repair of roofs, doors and windows, to that of the outer envelope and the structure of the buildings. This preventive work will ensure a secure environment for students, teachers and school staff. 
"We are convinced that each of the actions we posed to maintain and improve our school heritage paves the way for a quality future for young people who will build Quebec tomorrow. Investing in academic heritage, it is a responsible choice that will later benefit from the whole of society, "added the minister. 
This announcement is part of the context of a Global Government Action Plan to address air quality issues in some schools in Quebec, unveiled on October 11 by Malavoy. This government approach relies in particular on the Réno-Schools Renovation Program, with an envelope of $ 401.2 million, which is one of the measures of economic policy: priority employment. 
The global action plan is divided into three components: immediate action against known mold problems, detection and prevention. Anticipated investments include an envelope of $ 46.5 million for offensive against cases of mold contamination already known in 19 Quebec schools, particularly in Montreal. Some $ 324.7 million will also be allocated to accelerate the improvement, renovation and renovation of schools, across Quebec. 
Finally, $ 30 million will be used to conduct a broad operation of detecting potential air quality problems in schools in all regions of Quebec. This operation, which will be driven by a committee made up of representatives of the department and the school system, will have a fair picture of the situation of the entire Quebec school housing stock to determine the suites to give this priority issue. 
"For a year, we have not stopped taking steps to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe and accommodating living environments. We are increasingly incurred on this path by carrying and strong gestures that we posite today, "concluded Malavoy. 
