Joliette- On the occasion of the early days of the 2014 School Perseverance, the Minister Delegate to the Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Minister responsible for the Lanaudière Region and MPs of Joliette, Ms. Véronique Hivon, the Minister of Finance and of the economy and deputy of Rousseau, Mr Nicolas Marceau, and the member for Berthier, Mr. André Villeneuve, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, announced today At the Barthélemy-Joliette High School of Joliette, significant investments totaling $ 4.8 million in institutions from the Samares School Board to provide healthier school students to learn and flourish. 
"In the face of the air quality problems that some schools in Quebec, our government chose its camp, that of the action. We had to make every effort to meet the most pressing needs and act upstream on existing infrastructures. Here in the North Lanaudière, we answer "present" by these investments of importance for the well-being of our children, the maintenance of our school heritage and the future of our communities. These are well invested! "Said the member for Joliette, Ms. Véronique Hivon. 
"In last October, the Prime Minister and I presented the economic position: employment priority. This strong potential policy also tested our education actions. As evidence, some $ 565 million in announced public infrastructure, more than 400 million will be devoted to Réno-schools. Our primary goal is to stimulate employment across Quebec, and of course in North Lanaudière, while investing in mousagers. I am particularly proud of this choice, to invest in our schools and, by extension, in education, "said the member for Rousseau, Mr. Nicolas Marceau. 
"These investments will make projects improve improvement, renovation and renovation in 31 institutions from the Samares School Board to prevent, in particular, possible air quality problems. Various work will be made, such as rehabilitation of ventilation systems, roofs, doors and windows, external envelopes and buildings. This preventive work will ensure a safe environment for students, teachers and school staff. We will all agree that this "bar shot" is welcome, "said the member for Berthier, Mr. André Villeneuve. 
"Such budget envelopes are needed for the maintenance of our buildings and we see preventing preventive gestures to avoid any problematic. We strive all year to offer a healthy and secure environment for students and staff. With the amount announced today, the repairs and improvement of buildings will begin next summer, since the majority of this work is done when students and staff are on vacation, "said the President of the School Board of Samares, François Charbonneau. 
This announcement is part of the context of a Global Government Action Plan to address air quality issues in some schools in Quebec, unveiled on October 11 by Malavoy. This government approach is based in particular on the Réno-Schools Renovation Program, with an envelope of $ 401.2 million, which is one of the measures of the Employment Priority Policy. 
The global action plan is divided into three components: immediate action against known mold problems, detection and prevention. Anticipated investments include an envelope of $ 46.5 million for offensive against cases of mold contamination already known in 19 Quebec schools, particularly in Montreal. Some $ 324.7 million will also be allocated to accelerate the improvement, renovation and renovation of schools, across Quebec. 
Finally, $ 30 million will be used to conduct a broad operation of detecting potential air quality problems in schools in all regions of Quebec. This operation, which will be driven by a committee made up of representatives of the department and the school system, will have a fair picture of the situation of the entire Quebec school housing stock to determine the suites to give this priority issue. 
"For a year, we have not stopped taking steps to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe and accommodating living environments. We are increasingly incurred on this path by carrying and strong gestures that we posite today, "concluded Malavoy. 
