Repentigny- As part of the economic lapolitics: employment priority, the member for Repentigny, Mr. Scott McKay, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy, today announced that the government Invests $ 2.3 million in schools in Repentigny's riding to provide healthier media students to learn. These investments will help improve improvement, renovation and renovation projects in 17 schools to prevent potential air quality issues. 
"In view of the air quality problems that some schools have known, the government has chosen the only way possible: action. We had to make every effort to meet the most pressing needs and act upstream on existing infrastructures. This is what we do with these massive investments, which total $ 10 million, in the school heritage of the Lanaudière region, "Malavoy said. 
The Lanaudière region includes school boards of tributaries, samares and part of that of Laurentians. The tributary school board, whose constituency of Repentigny is one, will only receive $ 5 million for the improvement of its infrastructure. Various fixing work will be made, the addition of anti-running devices on the drinking water system, through the refurbishment of roofs, heating systems, to the bathroom and the rainwood and sanitary drainage network according to the Schools. This preventive work will ensure a secure environment for students, teachers and school staff. 
"The Réno-Schools program will certainly help improve the quality of life of students in our schools. Repentigny schools do not have mold problems, which is why the investments I announce today concern the preventive component. Prevention is also part of the government's objectives, "said Scott McKay. 
This announcement is part of the context of a Global Government Action Plan to address air quality issues in some schools in Quebec, unveiled on October 11 by Malavoy. The global action plan is divided into three components: immediate action against known mold problems, detection and prevention. The priority was first put on the offensive against cases of mold contamination in 19 schools in Quebec, particularly in Montreal. 
Across Quebec, $ 324.7 million will be allocated to accelerate the improvement, renovation and renovation of schools. 
In addition to this amount, $ 30 million that will be used to conduct a broad operation of detecting potential air quality issues in schools in all regions of Quebec. This operation, which will be driven by a committee made up of representatives of the department and the school system, will have a fair picture of the situation of the entire Quebec school housing stock to determine the suites to give this priority issue. 
"For a year, we have not stopped taking steps to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe and accommodating living environments. We are increasingly incurred on this path by carrying and strong gestures that we posite today, "concluded Malavoy. 
