Saint-Bruno-de-Montarville- As part of the economic lapolitics: priority employment, the minister of education, leisure and sport and minister responsible for the Montérégie region, Mrs Marie Malavoy, accompanied by the Minister of Security Public and Deputy of Verchères, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, today announced a government investment of more than $ 14.3 million in the infrastructure in vocational training of the Montérégie. Various renovation and addition projects can be achieved throughout Québec through this financial assistance. 
"By investing more than $ 14.3 million in Montérégie, the Government of Quebec is committed to getting even more young people exploring the many opportunities offered by vocational training because it is essential for the development of our economy. The realization of investments in training infrastructures, as is the updating of programs of study, represents a privileged path to do so while allowing our young people to be accomplished in a training that is important to them ", supported Minister Malavoy. 
Among the projects funded in the region, important work will be carried out at the School Board of the Patriots, thanks to government financial assistance of nearly $ 11.9 million. 
These aim to develop premises at the Patriotic Vocational Training Center and to add the equipment needed to implement two programs of study, either mechanical of fixed machines and welding-mounting. All the work should be completed for September 2015. Thus, forty new students can be trained annually in each of these two curricula, which present favorable employment prospects. Remember that the school boards of the Patriots and Riverside have been authorized to offer the program of mechanical studies of fixed machines. They will share the premises of the Patriot School Board and provide this program of studies in French and English. 
Advertised investments will also allow the addition of equipment required to ensure compliance with the requirements of cabinetry curriculum, assistance to the person in health facility and assistance to the person at home. 
"This announcement is a testament to our government's desire to implement everything so that young people are well prepared to take their place in the labor market. The five targeted curriculum present interesting employment opportunities in the coming years for those who choose them. This is a winning choice to energize the economy of our region and will allow young people, at the same time, to be accomplished in areas that are passionate, "said Minister Bergeron. 
It should be noted that these investments are planned as part of the economic policy: employment priority, which aims, in particular, to create jobs and wealth throughout Quebec, in the short and medium term. 
In addition to investments of $ 23.6 million for vocational training, this policy provides for some $ 401 million to make healthier learning infrastructure and more than $ 130 million allocated to modernization of sports infrastructure. and recreational, and this, to the grandeur of Quebec. 
"Economic policy: employment priority is a goneful and ambitious vision for the development of our economy. As evidenced by today's announcement, this vision hue our education actions. We thus pose carrying gestures for the well-being and quality of life of Quebeckers, "concluded Malavoy minister. 
Additional government investment of $ 14.3 million to improve the supply of vocational training in Montérégie, including: 
11,9 M$ 
For the implementation of fixed machine mechanical curricula and welding-assembly at the Patriot School Board (nearly $ 10.7 million in infrastructure and $ 1.2 million in equipment) 
2,4 M$ 
For updating of 7 curricula in 11 school boards in the region 
These investments are added to the $ 2.3 million already planned in the region as part of the five-year capital plans. 
All the investments announced in 2013-2014 total more than $ 16.6 million in Montérégie. 
