Québec- Following the presentation, with great pomp, from the Liberal government's youth policy by seven ministers, today, the spokesman for the Quebec party for youth, Dave Turcotte, points out that two years to get what proves to be a copy-paste from the White Paper that the Parti Québécois had filed in February 2014. 
"The question arises: why not have filed this policy more quickly, while it essentially takes the same elements contained in the White Paper of the Parti Québécois? The Liberal government has only delayed the implementation of the measures, while keeping the same objectives. After two years, we expected that he adds ways to achieve these goals faster, but there is nothing. The sums allocated remain the same, "said Dave Turcotte. 
The Liberal Party delayed the implementation of projects that would have given an impetus to Quebec youth. "The lack of vision of the Liberal government causes economic stagnation. Since arriving in power, less than half of the promised jobs have been delivered. In addition, the number of young employment assistance providers increased, and the migratory balance of several regions is worrying, "added the spokesman. 
This one also indicates that the Parti Québécois remains pending several important strategies. "The government has still not presented a national politics on healthy lifestyles, or a national policy to fight the stall. In mental health, he launched an action plan, but no money is associated with it for the next two years! He illustrated. 
In absolutely illogical way, the Liberal government has chosen to create an important emptiness by abolishing the regional conferences of elected officials and the youth forums, not to mention the rehabilitated reform of Youth-Emploi crossroads, as well as the compressions it has carried out in the budgets of the school boards, CEGEPs and universities. The Liberals also destabilized and destroyed the network of regional school-fighting organizations, which greatly affected young people in Quebec. 
"Certainly, we can rejoice that the government has inspired the measures proposed by the Quebecois party, including the Quebec Volunteer project and interregional mobilization. However, we deplore that the Liberals have waited two years to get to work, and we find the absence of new money. It is, all, quite disappointing, "concluded Dave Turcotte. 
