Saint-Agapit- As part of a tour of Quebec that stops today in Chaudière-Appalaches, the Minister Delegate to the Regions, Minister responsible for the Gaspé-Islands-de-la-Madeleine Region and Member of Parliament for The riding of Gaspé, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, accompanied by the Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and the Chaudière-Appalaches and MP From Taschereau, Ms. Agnès Maltais, confirmed the granting of more than $ 10 million to rural RCMs in the Chaudière-Appalaches region for the implementation of the national rural policy. Following a commitment from the Prime Minister of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, to improve the rural pacts, the national rurality of rurality was renewed for a period of ten years with an envelope of $ 470 million. Created in 2001 by the Parti Québécois, the national rural policy provides unprecedented support to rural and regions of Quebec. 
"The aid announced today will allow those who care about the development of their community to give a new impetus to the most inspiring and promising projects in their environment. Long mature, this policy is based on the capacity of rural areas to mobilize and work on an intersectoral basis: an innovative and decisive approach to occupation of territory and rurality in Quebec. This new national rural policy will allow the establishment of major projects in the regions of Quebec, "said Minister Lelièvre. 
A sum of more than $ 3.6 million will be devoted as early as 2014-15 to the MRC of the Chaudière-Appalaches for the financing of rural pacts and rural development agent positions in the region. The minister has also confirmed an additional $ 6.75 million, for up to $ 750,000 per $ 750,000 per ten years, to the realization of "plus pacts" on the rural territory of the region. Large novelties of the new policy, "Covenants Plus" are aimed at supporting the realization of major intersectoral projects and bringing the future across the MRC. The intersectoral approach will now have to characterize the management of the rural pact as well as that of the "pacts plus" since it is by rallying around a common vision and ensuring the complementarity of their actions that the actors of rural development will be optimized the fallouts on their environment. 
Pivots of the National Rural Policy, rural pacts are contracts between the Government and the RCMs to finance projects in rural territory. As for rural development agents, they are real actors of change for rural communities. 
"I look forward to the important amounts announced today to support the realization of projects that will undeniably contribute to building stronger and more dynamic community-appalachic communities. Our government sends a clear signal of its willingness to support rural Quebec. The Parti Québécois demonstrates that it is the real party of the regions, "Agnès Maltais concluded. 
Appendix of the sums by MrCrégion of the Chaudière-Appalaches 
