Quebec- Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is pleased with the decision last week by the Energy Régie, which will enable server companies to benefit electricity rates adapted from this winter. Indeed, the Energy Board went to the arguments of the Government of Quebec and authorizes a drop in tariffs as of November 1, 2013, which was previously announced for 1 April 2014. 
"Since the unveiling of the food sovereignty policy last May, we make every effort to support and boost the Quebec bioalimentary industry. This measure, which is a judicious use of energy surpluses, will allow Quebec server companies to be more competitive. I am particularly pleased that the entry into force of these adapted tariffs is preceding, "said the minister. 
Serricole production faces a double difficulty, namely a need for energy for heating and a need for electricity for lighting. Also, production in a Nordic climate causes higher energy costs compared to competition, which affects the competitiveness of Quebec companies. Thanks to the new measure, serricole companies that meet the eligibility requirements will have the opportunity to take advantage of beneficial electricity rates to overcome the use of oil that will become a spare power source for heating during the period. peak. 
In addition, the cultivation of greenhouse vegetables requires the use of photosynthetic lighting during the winter period to supplement the low amount of sunshine under our latitudes. The only source of energy available for this type of lighting is electricity. Photosynthetic lighting allows companies in Quebec to extend the production period. To meet this need, a tariff for photosynthesis lighting will now be offered to Quebec ger farmers. 
"Without the shadow of a doubt, this new measure arrives at the dawn of winter, and give a hand to our serricole producers who have experienced significant price increases under the old regime liberal. For a year, we have been making concrete gestures to support all our agricultural craftsmen, land at the table, through processors and restaurateurs, because it is together that we will be able to reach our ambitious objective of food sovereignty, " concluded Mr. François Gendron. 
To learn more about the food sovereignty policy, the blog dedicated to it (www.politicsa.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa). It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
