Montreal- The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, accompanied by the member for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques and Parliamentary Assistant to the Prime Minister in Electrification of Transport, Mr. Daniel Breton, today announced today Investments of nearly $ 2.7 million would soon be carried out at Pierre-Dupuy School of the Montreal School Board, to improve air quality in the building. This government contribution will change the water tower of the school and to redo the domestic water and sewer networks ($ 1,410,500). It will also repair lifts and lifts, replace ventilation systems and review the security system ($ 1,270,000). 
"In investing in our schools, we are investing in our students and we reaffirm high and loud that education is one of our most important priorities. We need to make sure that schools are attractive, healthy, security and learning living environments, "said Malavoy Minister. 
"The question of air quality in Montreal schools has made a lot of ink in the past year. It must be admitted that the situation was worrying and required rapid and energetic action. So we quickly made the decision to invest heavily to correct the situation. I am pleased to see the positive benefits of government action here, at Pierre-Dupuy, "Breton said. 
This announcement is part of the acceleration of public investments in schools in the Montreal area. "These investments, which total $ 117.7 million, include an envelope of 43.3 million to launch a real offensive to prevent mold contamination identified in the schools of the Montreal School Board," said the Chairperson. From the Montreal School Board Ms. Catherine Harel-Bourdon. 
The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, accompanied by the member for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques and Parliamentary Assistant to the Prime Minister in Electrification of Transport, Mr. Daniel Breton, announced today That investments of nearly $ 2.7 million would soon be carried out at Pierre-Dupuy School of the Montreal School Board. // (c) Daniel Breton. (source) 
