Quebec- The member for Labelle and sentence of the official opposition in sound habits of life, recreation and sports, Sylvain Pagé, invites the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Yves Bolduc, to Accept the collaboration of the official opposition to adopt a national policy of sport, leisure and physical activity without delay. 
"Let us adopt a national sport, leisure and physical activity together. This is a non-partisan file that turns into a large popular consensus. An unprecedented consultation of the actors of the leisure, sport and physical activity has already taken place in all regions of Quebec, to mobilize and consult a few thousand volunteers, partners and leaders, in particular, "said Sylvain Pagé. 
Remember that the government of the Parti Québécois presented, in June 2013, a Green Paper over a future national sport, leisure and physical activity invited Quebeckers to break on its contents which objective to make the Quebec nation. One of the most shaped in the world within 10 years by giving an intervention plan that would extend from CPE to CHSLD. 
"A-style nation reduces health costs, through disease-related diseases, reduce the suicide rate among young people through motivating activities, and at the same time encourage academic success. Quebec would thus build a broad vision with multiple positive impacts, "continued Sylvain Pagé. 
The Prime Minister emphasized in his opening speech that good ideas could come from everywhere. In this case sufficiently advanced, a collaboration is desirable. 
"We also ask the Minister Bolduc to renew, in the future budget 2014-2015, the sum of $ 50 million as Lebudget MarceauConsacrait to sports and recreational infrastructures. It is necessary to support our municipalities and the actors of the leisure, sport and physical activity, who need this money to keep the existing infrastructures upgraded and make available those that are still not for a part of Our population, "added the official opposition. 
"If we are able to collaborate to adopt without partisanship the bill" die in dignity ", why not do the same to give us a policy that will allow all Quebeckers to live in health? ", Concluded the member for Labelle. 
