Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu- The Deputy Deputy of Saint-Jean and Deputy Government, Mr. Dave Turcotte, confirmed, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to the Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élain Zakaïb, the attribution, through Investissement Québec, a financial contribution of $ 250,000 to Formica Canada for the modernization of its decorative laminate manufacturing plant located in Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu . 
The company's project, estimated at $ 7 million, includes the acquisition of new equipment, such as a melamine resin impregnator. It will create 2 new jobs and consolidation of the 255 current jobs at Formica Canada facilities in Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu. 
"We have, in Montérégie, a skilled workforce that builds on its best profit of our businesses, including that of the manufacturing sector," said Dave Turcotte. "We are very proud to support the implementation of this major economic benefits project for the region and Quebec, a project that will also help strengthen our expertise in this sector of our economy. » 
"For our government, it is essential to support the modernization of manufacturing companies, a vital sector for the Quebec economy," said Zakaïb Élaine. "Quebec industrial lapoliticism 2013-2017Vises to increase the competitiveness of this flagship sector by focusing on the integration of new technologies into our businesses to make them more modern and greener. The Formica Canada project is the guidance of this policy, in addition to maintaining many quality jobs in Quebec. » 
Formica Canada is a division of the American company Formica Corporation, which belongs to the New Zealand company Fletcher Building. It specializes in the manufacture of decorative laminates intended primarily for furnishings and construction. In Quebec, its head office is located in Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu. 
"Thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec, we will be able to modernize our equipment, increase our productivity and manufacture new products," supported the Formica Canada factory director, Claude Sarrazin. "This project will also allow our Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu plant to ensure its competitiveness and strengthen its expertise within the Fletcher Building Group. » 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicidustrielle. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
