Quebec- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élaine Zakaïb, today released Quebec industrial policy 2013-2017. This policy is part of the Economic Priority Employment Framework for Québec Prime Minister Pauline Marois on October 7th. 
"With its industrial policy, the government will invest more than $ 1 billion in the manufacturing industry and will eventually create more than 25,000 sustainable and quality jobs," said Élain Zakaïb. "Quebec's industrial policy will give the means in Quebec and its companies to monitor the cadence of a modern, greener and more innovative economy. » 
Why an industrial policy  The minister recalled that, over the past two decades, the manufacturing sector has declined in all industrialized countries, and that to revive this key sector of our economy and cope with the world's new deal, we need to rethink the models. known development, which are obsolete. 
"You have to give yourself a vision, review our approach and establish a comprehensive, coherent and integrated strategy. We need to modernize our businesses, make them more green and better equipped in advanced technologies. You have to help them grow, to innovate and export. This is exactly the role of our industrial policy, which is the result of broad consultation with key actors in the economic community. » 
The Quebec Industrial Policy 2013-2017 is divided into three areas of intervention that meets the current challenges of the manufacturing sector: 
Competitiveness requires not only to be more productive, but also to be more green. Measures will be put in place, including tax credits specific to manufacturing SMEs, to accelerate the mechanization, automation and robotization of manufacturing processes, while integrating information and communications technologies into logistics, Business processes and industrial processes. 
In addition, a new program, ecoperformance will be put in place and managed by the Ministry of Natural Resources in order to help companies reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. Companies will also be aware of the eco-friendly practices and the acquisition of recognized green certifications. 
"The Quebec industrial fabric is composed of a majority of SMEs, which gives a living and flexible industry," said the minister. "However, it is necessary to increase the number of medium-sized enterprises capable of acting as orders. For the first time in Quebec, the Ministry of Finance and Economy, Investissement Québec and the local development centers will work together through regional plans for enterprise intervention (PRIE) implemented in each of the regions of Quebec. It's already started. » 
The objective of these plans is to accompany 300 particularly promising manufacturing SMEs in all regions of Quebec over the next four years. This accompaniment will offer a personalized approach and a project manager attended to give these "gazelles" all the odds of growing and becoming our florets of tomorrow. 
A marketing of supply chains in the strategic and emerging sectors will also be developed to highlight gaps within these channels and to determine which Quebec SMEs could overcome them. 
In the context of a constant and rapid evolutionary market, future prosperity is based on the country's ability to innovate, but especially to market their products and know-how. To this end, an additional financial effort will be granted by the Government to support the commercialization of innovative technologies and products, at each stage. 
"To be effective, it is necessary to act on all fronts at the same time, integrated and short, medium and long term. This is the only way to build a more productive, more competitive and green economy together, has concluded the minister. 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicidustrielle. 
