Val-d'Or- On behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, his Parliamentary Assistant and President of the Government Caucus, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, today met the partners of the fields of the leisure, sport and physical activity of the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region to hear them about the Green Paper Taste and the pleasure of moving: towards a national sport policy, leisure and activity physical. 
"The partners encountered today in Val-d'Or have shown us that the consultation is indeed the trademark of Abitibi-Témiscamingue. This region has indeed developed a unique model in Quebec, where all leisure and sports services are gathered under one roof, leisure and sport Abitibi-Témiscamingue. This organization establishes many projects in the community, including the recent initiative by bike Québec "on foot, cycling, active city", which receives strong membership, as well as the organization each year of a regional final Centralized Quebec Games. This final makes it possible to live to young athletes who participate in a similar experience of the great games. I noted that consultation is also at the heart of the good deal between the school and municipal circles for the optimal use of sports trays and that, in our reflections, we will have to take into account the remote rural and rural reality which, all Two present different challenges, "said Mr. Pagé. 
Since June 27, Mr. Pagé crosses the routes of Quebec to meet the many regional partners who help to ensure citizens' access to access to sports, recreational and physical activities. These have the chance to express their concerns and vision about the future national politics of sport, leisure and physical activity. 
Quebeckers were also arrested. Indeed, an online consultation was held on the website of the Ministry of Education, Leisure and Sport on the sidelines of meetings with the partners. It raised, during the months of July and August, the comments of those who wanted to fuel the reflection and enrich the future policy. 
"The points of view that will be shared during these consultations will bring valuable lighting for the development of the new policy. This unifying project must eventually give everyone the taste of moving and practicing physical, recreational and sports activities from early childhood at the middle age. It also aims to implement measures to support our sports elite and help it even more radiate on the international scene, "Malavoy said. 
Note that the Green Paper is essentially a consultation tool that proposes a vision, stakes and guidance on which the discussions rely. To consult it, visitwww.mels.gouv.qc.ca/livrevert. 
