River-Du-Loup- As part of the Annual Conference of the Association for Science and Technology Teaching in Quebec (AESTQ), the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, announced an investment of $ 70 million over five years that will be devoted to projects aimed at science and technology education. This investment is divided into two main measures. On the one hand, $ 25 million will be allocated to the development of school scientific infrastructure and, on the other hand, $ 45 million will be used to increase and enhance knowledge in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (Stegma) . 
"I am particularly proud of these measures that promote and contribute to the development of scientific culture in Quebec. They will make it possible to bring more young people to take an interest in science and technology, which will encourage the formation of a passionate and inspiring scientific succession, "said Minister Duchesne. 
Minister Pierre Duchesne has announced an investment of $ 70 million over five years that will be devoted to projects aimed at science and technology education. // (c) Joel Bouchard 
An unprecedented effort of $ 25 million is invested in developing scientific infrastructure in public schools in disadvantaged. This amount will renovate existing infrastructures and create new ones. 
An investment of $ 45 million in Stegma will set up a series of measures and initiatives to increase and enhance knowledge in these areas. These measures and initiatives are as follows: 
"The measures I announce today are of crucial importance, since knowledge in science, technology, engineering and mathematics are the foundations on which scientific culture is. This knowledge is useful to all to tame a world where technology occupies a decisive place. That's why we need to ensure that the learning and exercise of scientific activities are based on modern and pointed technologies that will generate the interest of young people, "said Minister Duchesne. 
The National Research and Innovation Policy is part of the four strategic initiatives of the Employment Priority Policy of the Government of Quebec. It is the result of many consultations with actors from all sectors concerned with research and innovation: companies, educational institutions, state and society. With an unprecedented investment of $ 3.7 billion over five years, it will make it possible to advance Quebec in the knowledge and innovation society. 
For more information on PNRO, visitwww.messt.gouv.qc.ca/pnri. 
