Laval- On behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, his parliamentary assistant and President of the Government Caucus, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, today met the partners of the leisure areas, of the Sport and physical activity of the Laval region to hear them about the Green Paper Taste and the pleasure of moving: towards a national policy of sport, leisure and physical activity. 
"I am very pleased that the Laval region has participated with great interest in this seventh consultation. The city has also endowed last year from a physical activity policy whose regional issues are mostly directly related to the elements presented in the Green Paper. The participants encountered we told us of interesting Lavnelles initiatives, including the Montmorency College's Health Challenge and the "On Move" program, established by the consolidation of Laval and Quebec's early childhood centers. I also noted the challenges that the region should face as it knows about one of Quebec's largest demographic wives and should, therefore, adapt to meet the needs of people of all ages, "said Mr. Page. 
Since June 27, Mr. Pagé crosses the routes of Quebec to meet the many regional partners who help to ensure citizens' access to access to sports, recreational and physical activities. These have the chance to express their concerns and vision about the future national politics of sport, leisure and physical activity. 
Quebeckers and Quebeckers were also arrested. Indeed, an online consultation was held on the website of the Ministry of Education, Leisure and Sport on the sidelines of meetings with the partners. It raised, during the months of July and August, the comments of those who wanted to fuel the reflection and enrich the future policy. 
"The points of view that will be shared during these consultations will bring valuable lighting for the development of the new policy. This unifying project must eventually give everyone the taste of moving and practicing physical, recreational and sports activities from early childhood at the middle age. It also aims to implement measures to support our sports elite and help it even more radiate on the international scene, "Malavoy said. 
Note that the Green Paper is essentially a consultation tool that proposes a vision, stakes and guidance on which the discussions rely. To consult it, visitwww.mels.gouv.qc.ca/livrevert. 
