Sherbrooke- As part of the economic lapolitics: priority employment, the Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Elders, Minister responsible for the Estrie Region and MP in Saint-François, Dr. Réjean Hébert, on behalf of Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Ms. Marie Malavoy, today announced that the government would make investments of $ 12,713,789 in schools in the Greater Estrie Region to provide students with healthier media to learn. These investments will help improve improvement, renovation and renovation projects in 63 schools to prevent potential air quality issues. 
"In view of the air quality issues that some schools have known, the government has chosen to make every effort to meet the most pressing needs and act upstream on existing infrastructure. This is what we do with these massive investments, which total more than $ 12 million, in the school heritage of Estrie, "Malavoy said. 
The sums announced, the details of which are attached, will be divided between the school boards of the Appalaches, Hauts-cantons, Eastern Townships and the Summits. Various fixing work will be made, replacing the plumbing, through the repair of roofs, doors and windows, to that of the outer envelope and the structure of the buildings. This preventive work will ensure a secure environment for students, teachers and school staff. 
"These amounts will allow schools to carry out various renovations and renovations. The Quebec school heritage is aging and some schools have recently had to work precipitately due to lack of adequate maintenance investments in previous years. This envelope will allow school boards and schools to act upstream for the well-being of our children, "said Minister Hébert. 
This announcement is part of the context of a Global Government Action Plan to address air quality issues in some schools in Quebec, unveiled on October 11 by Malavoy. This government approach relies in particular on the Réno-Schools Renovation Program, with an envelope of $ 401.2 million, which is one of the measures of economic policy: priority employment. 
The global action plan is divided into three components: immediate action against known mold problems, detection and prevention. Anticipated investments include an envelope of $ 46.5 million for offensive against cases of mold contamination already known in 19 Quebec schools, particularly in Montreal. Some $ 324.7 million will also be allocated to accelerate the improvement, renovation and renovation of schools, across Quebec. 
Finally, $ 30 million will be used to conduct a broad operation of detecting potential air quality problems in schools in all regions of Quebec. This operation, which will be driven by a committee made up of representatives of the Ministry and the school system, will allow a fair picture of the situation of the entire Quebec school housing stock to determine the next actions to be carried out in this priority issue. 
"For a year, we have not stopped taking steps to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe and accommodating living environments. We are increasingly incurred on this path by carrying and strong gestures that we posite today, "concluded Malavoy. 
