Montreal - "The transport situation in Montreal has become intolerable for the population. People ask us to arrive with solutions and act with force to improve things. We are ready to act, not only by requiring accounts of the Government of Mr. Charest, but also by proposing solutions, by being constructive. One of these solutions is known and it consists in building a new Champlain bridge, "said the official opposition and hon. Member for Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the official opposition to the official transport and deputy De Gouin, Nicolas Girard, the Spokesperson for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs and MEP, Bernard Drainville, the member for Taillon, Marie Malavoy, the hon. Member for La Prairie, François Rebello, the hon. Member for Saint- Jean, Dave Turcotte, and the member for Chambly, Bertrand St-Arnaud. 
"There is a broad consensus among elected officials and the socio-economic actors of the Montreal area on the need to move forward with a new Champlain bridge. Yet the Harper government, despite repeated requests, still refuses to follow up there. Faced with this harmful inertia in the development of our metropolis, I proposed my collaboration in a letter transmitted this morning to Prime Minister Jean Charest so that we quickly format a broad delegation of the great metropolitan area going beyond the partisan lines. I propose to him that we went to Ottawa to organize a meeting at the top with Stephen Harper, to inform him of our common will to move forward by mobilizing this vital issue for Quebec. By showing a flawless determination, I am convinced that we can finally start the project of a new Champlain bridge. That's what the people expect from us: we're acting. I expect this meeting to be held before the start of the parliamentary session in Quebec City on September 20, "added Pauline Marois. 
"Road congestion has three direct consequences: an impact on the quality of life of thousands of motorists spending hours in their car morning and evening; an economic impact since it affects the transport of goods and costs 1.4 billion to the Montreal economy and a negative impact on our environment, particularly with the increase in greenhouse gases and the pollution. On the other hand, there are solutions to overcome this congestion, "said Nicolas Girard. 
"In conclusion, we encourage Mr. Charest to challenge the Harper government as soon as possible on the new Champlain Bridge, and our immediate, urgent concern, is to facilitate the lives of the people of the South Shore and Montreal. transport, concretely and quickly. We offer a major and bold long-term turn for all those who have rised more than two hours a day in their car. It's time to act. Quebeckers want a government that has a long-term vision that will allow us to proceed with a major corner at the level of public transport and that is what the Quebecois party offers, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
