Québec -The MP for Gouin and official opposition spokesperson for transport, Nicolas Girard, is questioned on the seriousness of the Minister of Transport, Sam Hamad, in the Champlain Bridge. 
"In recent months, I demanded on several occasions, in the House and the media, that pre-feasibility studies are made public. Each time, the minister claimed that it was impossible because they were not completed. However, the document made public yesterday by the Society the Bridges Jacques Cartier and Champlain incorporated date of March. This demonstrates that Sam Hamad has lied, induces the accident room and has been complicit from the Conservative Party during the election campaign and in the following weeks by refusing to make this study public. What does the minister play? Why did he bond that refusal of transparency while the Quebec government assumed 40% of the invoice? By doing this, he certainly does not protect Quebeckers as he should do, "said the member for Gouin. 
"The authors of the preween study unveiled yesterday in the media assess that the construction of a new bridge will take at least a decade. The current bridge is in a very poor condition and requires huge investments. Meanwhile, the Minister of Transport of Quebec plays hide and seek with Quebeckers and refuses to act, "added Nicolas Girard. 
"Despite repeated requests from all community stakeholders, elected officials, business people and citizens, the federal government is refusing to build a new bridge. Sixty million vehicles circulate on the Champlain Bridge each year. It is also a basic way of transportation for the economy of the metropolis. It is pitiful that the federal government is so little sensitive to the need to build this new bridge! , Added the member. 
Sam Hamad's attitude also raises questions in the Mercier Bridge's file. Indeed, the Minister of Transport du Québec once again refuses to make public the inspection reports that motivated the emergency closures of traffic lanes of recent weeks, closures that caused major headaches to motorists and truckers. To justify its refusal, remember that it affirmed on June 30 every day The Gazette that Quebeckers would not include "reports. 
"We hope that Minister Hamad has drawn a lesson from the Champlain Bridge's file and that he will finally be transparent by revealing the Inspection Reports of the Mercier Bridge. He must show transparency and not paternalism to Quebecers, "concluded Nicolas Girard. 
