Quebec- The member for Vachon and the official opposition spokesman, Martine Ouellet, the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the metropolis, Jean-Francois Lisée, and the hon. Member for Verchères and spokesperson Canadian Intergovernmental Business, Stéphane Bergeron, rejoice on the decline and change of Cape of the Liberal government about maintaining the name "Champlain" for the replacement bridge connecting the south shore in Montreal. This morning, elected officials unanimously voted in favor of a motion of the official opposition on this subject. 
"Thanks to our work, the Liberal government heard, just like the Future Quebec coalition. But it was as a result of multiple procrastination. Indeed, both parties first found that the name change was a good idea. Then they hesitated and banged the debate. Finally, they admitted that the name "Champlain" must remain. The National Assembly now says with one voice that the Champlain Bridge must keep its name, since it will be the same link between the two banks. In addition, we reiterate that the Canadian government has no good reason to want to impose a toll. This would go against the will of the population and elected representatives of the South Shore and Montreal, and would be harmful to our economy, "said Martine Ouellet. 
The motion, deposited by the member for Vachon, reads as follows: 
"That the National Assembly requests the maintenance of the name" Champlain "for the replacement bridge connecting the south shore in Montreal. » 
"In recent weeks, we have attended a bad cartoon of Robert Poëti Ministers and Denis Lebel, the" Dupont and Dupond "Champlain Bridge. They made competition in controversy and ridiculous. Today, I guess the Prime Minister still reformed a member of his cabinet, what he does on average once a day, because Minister Robert Poëti has given up his idea of consultation to change the name of the Champlain Bridge. . It was great time that he listens to us and recognizes that the name of Samuel de Champlain must remain, because of the essential role that this historic character played in the Foundation of Quebec, "added Jean-François Lisée. 
The federal government must now listen to  "In this case as in many others, the Liberal government is struggling to defend the interests and specificity of Quebec, too often ignored by Ottawa. Minister Lebel must take into account the unanimous voice of the National Assembly expressed today and the opinion of the population, not only for the name, but also for the question of the toll, rejected by all the stakeholders. And if the federal government continues to dwell ear, Quebec must affirm high and strong that it can not be a question of offering our collaboration for the perception of toll and for the development of road approaches to this effect, "concluded Stéphane Bergeron. 
