Quebec - The Government of Quebec has left a step towards the open government today by making it more easily accessible, on the portalwww.donne.gouv.qc.ca, the information concerning the granting of public contracts. Until now, this information was available only on the website of the electronic tender system, the SEAO. From now on, the data will be filed each month on the open data portal. The President of the Treasury Board and Minister responsible for Public Administration, Stéphane Bédard, and the minister responsible for democratic institutions and citizen participation, Bernard Drainville, have thus demonstrated the will of the Government of Quebec to give access to Quebeckers to a Maximum information on how public money is managed. 
"By publishing in an Open format the public data of the SEAO, our government wants to make the entire process of public contracts more accessible in Quebec. We choose transparency, "said Minister Bédard. 
"Integrity and citizen participation are at the heart of the priorities of the Government of Quebec. And that's what we now show again. By making accessible, in a format that can be used for all, information on government contracts and contracts granted by the municipalities, the health network, the school boards, we allow Quebeckers to have an overview of the contracts granted. by the state. And that, it will allow them to play even better their role as a guard dog of our democracy. More transparency, more democracy: Quebeckers do not want a hiding card, "added Bernard Drainville. 
By giving access, in the form of open data, details on the allocation of contracts of public bodies, the State may benefit from the ability to vigilance and analyze citizens and civil society experts. Which will contribute to better management of public expenditure. The dissemination of state information is one of the concrete solutions to ensure public contract integrity and to combat corruption that has shaken public confidence in its institutions. 
The Government of Quebec gradually increases the number and quality of government data available. "In accordance with our commitment, hundreds of strategic contracts and information files are now available on the government's website and we intend to increase this number. The open government will contribute to building a Quebec for all, "said Minister Bédard. 
"It's not just the relationship with the citizen that we are trying to restore. What we start today is to allow a greater involvement of Quebeckers in public administration. We put more light in public finances and it is all Quebec that will come out winner, "concluded Bernard Drainville. 
Public contract information can be consulted on the government's open data portalwww.donne.gouv.qc.ca. 
