Montréal - Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, took advantage of his opening day at the Open House of the Aquisium Inc. To reiterate the support of its government with industrial automation and robotics in the manufacturing sector. She reminded members of the industrial automation equipment group (UNAI), present for the occasion, that the industrial policy, which will be filed soon, will reflect this concern. 
"The competitiveness of our global manufacturing companies necessarily involves industrial automation, which allows them to increase their productivity and verdir their activities," says Zakaïb Élain. "That's why I greet the company's commitment Axium inc. and the grouping of equipment manufacturers in industrial automation in this regard. These are valuable partners who help help our manufacturing companies meet the 21st century challenges. » 
The company Axium inc. specializes in engineering services in automation and industrial robotics. It is structured in three operational units, either industrial automation, robotization of mounting chains and robotization of handling. This structure gives it some flexibility to design, set up and integrate complete and personalized automation solutions. 
Businesses within the CEA have more than 3,000 employees. Its mandate is to promote the development of a multidisciplinary skills network in the field of equipment design designed to promote production automation in manufacturing companies. 
"Despite the climb of the tertiary, the manufacturing sector remains a key element of our economy," added Zakaïb Élain. "But for our companies to be able to cope with the competition, they must make up for the delay in integrating ICT and robotization from the OECD countries. Our industrial policy will build on a vision of economic development based on innovation and increased productivity, in order to enable our manufacturing companies to bridge the gap and become more efficient and competitive in global markets. » 
Industrial policy will aim to promote the rise of the entire manufacturing sector by investments, particularly, in digital technologies and industrial automation. The Government of Quebec will also continue its goal of consolidating and creating Quebec strategic sectors such as clean technologies and their flagship site, transport electrification. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
