Québec- After unveiling the results of a survey conducted by the Firm Research communication demonstrating that the majority of Liberal voters support the prohibition of religious signs for judges, police and prison guards, the Leader of the Opposition Official, Jean? François Lisée, and the spokesman for the Québécois in secularism, Agnès Maltese, asked Prime Minister Philippe Couillard to apologize for having denigrated all those who disagree with him. 
"Last week, the Prime Minister stated that all those who agreed with Bouchard-Taylor's proposal, or forbid the religious signs for judges, prison guards and police," drift Nefastic "and" tried the xenophobic speech ". He addresses the majority of Quebeckers - 63% - and by a majority of his own voters - 52%, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
Three times during the question period, Mr. Lisée offered the Prime Minister the opportunity to express regrets to have denigrated Quebeckers and his own voters. Three times, the Prime Minister refused to withdraw or regret his words, indicating that Mr. Couillard considers that 52% of Liberal voters demonstrate harmful drift and trivialize xenophobic speech. This is unheard of. 
"In this case, there is only one Quebec. Montreal, Quebec, the regions: all approve more than 60% the ban on the port of religious signs for police, judges and prison guards. Francophones, more than two thirds, as well as allophones, in a proportion of 50.3%, also approve. It is a transcribed, transparent and transgenerational issue. We have clearly demonstrated that the Parti Québécois and other opposition parties are on the right track by offering the Prime Minister to prohibit the port of religious signs for people in authority. Now, to the government to act! Agnès Maltais added. 
"Now that it is better informed about the reality of public opinion and its political base, will the Prime Minister show a little humility and respect for those who disagree with him ? Asked the official head of the official opposition, before a prime minister who camped in a total arrogance. 
