Quebec- Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, invites the public to participate in large numbers at the Open Day on Quebec Farms, which will be held the Sunday, September 8th, from 10 am to 4 pm, in all regions. This year again, more than a hundred producers responded to the call and are preparing to receive in their farms, quite free of charge, the 100,000 visitors who are expected. 
"The open doors on Quebec farms are an opportunity to see what the Quebec bioalimentary offer is based. I am pleased to invite citizens to visit Quebec farms and discover where the products they have on their base, said the minister. 
Again this year, departmental employees will be present on nearly half of these farms around Quebec. In particular, they will work to highlight short distribution circuits in the regions and to answer consumers' questions. Among the proposed activities, a questionnaire will allow participants to learn more about Quebec's food. 
The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (MAPAQ) and Québec's Agricultural Financial are long-standing partners on open doors on Quebec farms. Thus, they are proud to support the host producers and the union of agricultural producers, instigating activity, in their desire to raise awareness of the various facets of agriculture. Indicator industry for the economic development of regions, agriculture also plays a vital role in the daily life of the population. 
Following the success of last year, the agricultural festival is back at Parc Jean-Flag de Montréal. Nearly 35,000 visitors had attended this activity where agriculture meets the metropolis. The Mapaq will be on site and will take the opportunity to discover Quebec food to city dwellers. 
"The Open Day on Quebec Farms Frames perfectly with the objectives of the Food Sovereignty Policy by highlighting the supply and peculiarities of Quebec products," said François Gendron. 
For more information on the Open Day on Farms du Québec, visit the websitewww.mapaq.gouv.qc.caou still appointment on the activity website at the addressportis .upa.qc. it. 
To learn more about the food sovereignty policy, the blog (www.politicalsa.gouv.qc.ca or websitewww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa) of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and food. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec 
