Quebec- Minister responsible for Government Administration, President of the Treasury Board and Parliamentary Leader of the Government, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, is extremely disappointed with the alambic position of the spokesman for the Coalition Future Québec (CAQ), Jacques Duchesneau, about Bill 1 on the integrity of public contracts. 
"The spokesman for the CAQ speaks on both sides of the mouth: he says he will vote for the bill while pulling on red balls! However, strangely, it has not proposed anything tangible to enhance the bill, apart from measures that, at the end of the line, have the effect of reducing the scope of certain articles. This denotes not only a great lack of rigor, but also that he had his own agenda. And this agenda obviously did not aim to counter collusion and corruption in the granting of public contracts. Today, masks fall, "said Minister Bédard. 
It should be noted that Minister Bédard has repeatedly claimed and repeated over the last month that Bill 1 is an important step in bringing the integrity into the granting of public contracts. He has the same breath added that other measures would be presented at the next parliamentary session. "I was very clear about my intentions and the member for Saint-Jérôme knows it very well. Today, he gets up and announces that he intends to propose his own bill at the next session. He pushes an open door! "Added Mr. Bédard. 
Remember that Bill 1 aims to ensure that companies that want to do business with the state demonstrate their integrity by obtaining an authorization to contract. This authorization will be awarded by the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF) in collaboration with the Permanent Unit Anti-Corruption (UPAC). It will aim for all types of contracts and all public bodies, both the ministries and the Crown corporations and municipalities. 
After a series of consultations during which all stakeholders have subscribed to the objectives of the bill, it has taken the stage of the detailed parliamentary committee study yesterday. Several amendments have been adopted at the request of groups and opposition parties. The bill is at the final adoption stage. "I call on the collaboration of all parties. We need to pass Bill 1 now to send a clear signal to the effect that, now, in Quebec, it is paying to be honest, "concluded Minister Bédard. 
