Quebec- The Quebec Party spokesman for Quebec? Canada and Francophonie of America, Stéphane Bergeron, was pleased to see that the Future Québec Coalition finally recognizes that the status quo is no longer a position Acceptable for Quebec. However, what the CAQ proposes, it is the return of new rounds of constitutional negotiations with Ottawa, which would bring Quebec 25 years back. 
"Unlike the PLQ, the CAQ admits that the constitutional status quo is not acceptable. We reach ourselves on this observation. However, the CAQ offers a solution that depends on the will of our neighbors and who have already experienced it, will create endless baffles with Ottawa. We propose a solution that depends only on ourselves, the independence of Quebec, "said Stéphane Bergeron. 
The experience of all past failures of the numerous attempts at constitutional amendments, as well as the legislative provisions adopted by several Canadian provinces compelling their room for maneuver, demonstrate that it has become impossible and completely illusory to arrive True changes to the existing federal system. "We advocate the independence of Quebec because it will allow us to develop and enrich us, collectively and individually, by granting us all the powers related to the exercise of the prerogatives of the nation that we are", also mentioned The hon. Member for Verchères. 
Recall that the Liberal Party of Philippe Couillard had also proposed to reopen the Constitution in order to affix the signature of Quebec. He seems to have, already, abdicated before the closure of Canada. As for Mr. Trudeau, he promised nothing about the constitutional question at the last federal election campaign. He even stated that he did not intend to revive the debate. 
"Prime Minister Trudeau has already closed the door to constitutional negotiations. What will the CAQ face this refusal? How long will the CAQ come to the same conclusion as we either after Meech and Charlottetown, there is no more possible constitutional modification for Quebec? Will the CAQ propose to refer the problem to later, while remaining in Canada? For our part, we want to repatriate all the powers. Sovereignty constitutes the only lasting solution, that which will put an end to the tensions that punctually poison the relations between Quebec and Canada, and to finally build an ever more harmonious and fruitful relationship based on mutual respect, "has concluded Stéphane Bergeron. 
