Montreal- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, and the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife. and Parks, Yves-François Blanchet, today announced the conclusion of an agreement between Resources Québec (RQ), Petrolia, Corridor Resources and Maurel & Prom, as well as an agreement in principle between RQ and JUNEX for the As early as the summer of 2014, exploration programs that will be aimed at confirming the oil potential of Anticosti Island. 
"Today, Quebec resumes its rights over natural resources that belong to it collectively and who must benefit all Quebeckers. My government is committed to acting to promote Quebec's energy independence. The partnerships we announce today, which cover almost all licenses from all over the island of Anticosti, will allow us to know once for all if there is oil on this island of St. Lawrence. These agreements with private sector partners will create sustainable wealth and quality jobs if the presence of oil is confirmed, "said Pauline Marois. 
Two exploration programs will be realized. In each case, the program will take place in two phases: the first to determine the type and amount of hydrocarbons present; And the second to determine if their exploitation was economically viable. 
The Agreement with Petrolia, Corridor Resources and Maurel & Prom, a second largest french company in this sector, provides for investments of $ 100 million. RQ participation will be 56.67 million, while Maurel & Prom's share will be 43.33 million. In addition, RQ will pay $ 13.3 million to Corridor Resources for additional participation. 
At the end of this agreement, RQ will hold a 35% interest in the joint venture, compared with 21.67% for each of the other three partners. 
In the case of the agreement with JUNEX, RQ and an operator who remains to be determined would finance a $ 90 million exploration program in exchange for a total participation of 80% in the joint venture. The distribution between the operator and RQ remains to be negotiated. RQ could obtain at least 40% of the joint venture. 
"The joint venture model has several benefits for the government, including: to invest directly in priority projects for Quebec, to influence current activities and have greater latitude in negotiating agreements with partners . The predominant statement of the state will also ensure safe development and to advantageously position the government for any exploitation, which will ensure the fair share of the benefits to Quebeckers ", explained for its part Nicolas Marceau. . 
The Minister noted that agreements negotiated with licensing holders will allow the government to control nearly 50% of anticostic island licenses and get more than 60% of oil exploitation benefits. If the project is successful, the economic benefits for Quebeckers could represent up to $ 45 billion over 30 years, in the form of royalties, taxes and profits related to participation. 
In addition, the minister said that the projects announced today will be funded by Resources Québec, a subsidiary of Investissement Québec, with a $ 250 million envelope for participation in natural resource projects. The financial impact of this envelope is already taken into consideration in the financial framework of the Government of Quebec. 
The first phase of exploration includes stratigraphic wells (between 15 and 18) in 2014 and 3 exploration drilling with fracturing in 2015 with the Petrolia project, Corridor Resources and Maurel & Prom. For the agreement with JUNEX, it is about 4 stratigraphic wells in 2014 as well as 3 exploration wells and 2 horizontal wells with fracturing in 2015. 
Minister Ouellet has stressed that the government will put in place a structured and rigorous approach. "It is necessary to deliver both the economic benefits, the environmental impacts that the means of mitigation to be able to make the right decisions," said Martine Ouellet. It has been confident that the studies entrusted to expert committees as well as the results of the first phase of exploration will make it possible to achieve this. 
The Minister Blanchet has repeatedly reiterated that the protection of the environment is an imperative for all partners involved in exploration projects. "All work will be closely supported by the experts from the Department of Natural Resources and the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks. In addition, planned exploration work requires the issuance of several certificates of authorization under the current legislative and regulatory framework. The planned work will in parallel to acquire new and precise knowledge that will be used for the development of studies and the new regulatory framework whose objective is to mark a possible safe exploitation of hydrocarbon resources, in accordance with respect of the environment, local populations, drinking water sources and sustainable development. Finally, special attention will be paid to the protection of salmon rivers and biodiversity specific to the island of Anticosti, and the national park found there, "he said. 
In addition, the minister indicated that if the planned work concluded that anticosti oil reserves could be exploited in a cost-effective manner, the government has already committed to entrusting the Office of Public Hearings on the Environment (BAPE). Public consultation mandate on the exploitation of hydrocarbons on the island of Anticosti. 
"With these exploration projects, we will be able to develop our expertise in the hydrocarbon sector and contribute to the establishment of an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly industry," concluded the Prime Minister. 
React on the Blog of the Parti Québécois, at Pauline Marois' Quebec's ticket resumes his rights to oil from Anticosti Island. " 
