Quebec- Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec Region, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to the Regions, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, announced the payment of $ 12,000 financial assistance to Saint-Pierre-les-Becquets Tommatie inc. For the production and marketing of an ancestral tomato jam. 
Financial assistance comes from the measure to stimulate the development of specialty products, an innovative measure from the national lapalics of rurality 2007-2014. 
With this financial support, the start-up company will see the development and marketing of a single tomato jam in Quebec. In addition, the company will create four jobs from its first year of operation, will revive the use of ancestral tomatoes from the local tradition, generate interesting spin-offs for the region while planning to grow its turnover of 79. $ 000 to more than $ 178,000 in three years. The total cost of the project is estimated at $ 127,934. 
"By this measure, promoters in our community have additional financial resources to invest in the development of specialty products so as to diversify the local economy while actively participating in the development of our rural areas," said Minister Blanchet. 
"We are very pleased with this innovative measure contained in the national rural policy that helps our craftsmen and our businesses to encourage the development of new products and promote the vitality of our territory", added Minister Lelièvre. 
The measure to stimulate the development of specialty products, the grant of which can reach $ 25,000 per project aims to support the creation of new activities in rural territory by focusing on projects related to resources, knowledge, knowledge. -Faire and the innovation capabilities of rural promoters. It supports microprojects in the bioalimentary sector as well as in the areas of non-timber forest products and forest, culture, heritage and crafts products. 
