Montreal- The Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, accompanied by the Chair of the Montreal Expert Committee = Families, Ms. Edith Cyr, The result of the work of the Committee, responsible for proposing measures to curb the exodus of the families of the island of Montreal. 
The report testifies to a strong consensus between the Committee's experts, not only on the issues that are numerous, but especially on the need to quickly put concrete gestures on several fronts. Remember that the Montreal Committee = Families brings together experts from government, municipal, financial, associative, community and academic circles. 
In his inaugural speech of October 2012, the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, had expressed priorities for the metropolitan area: one of them concerned the need to act to encourage more families with young children to Establish on the island of Montreal or staying there. The minister listed had then made a commitment to mobilize public and private actors for a concerted approach and created the Montreal Expert Committee = Families. 
An examination of all the dimensions of the question, made by the Committee, has made it possible to highlight various phenomena of concern. In the first hand, we find the difficulties of access to housing for young households, given the high cost of the properties on the island of Montreal. The report includes different ways of solutions to act as much on accessibility to family housing and on the supply of adapted home products and the quality of life. 
"We share with the members of the committee the belief that it is necessary to act vigorously to reverse the trend and allow young families, who are the lively force of the metropolis, to stay on the island and enjoy beneficial living conditions" , said the minister listed. 
The report was presented to the Departmental Committee of the Metropolitan Region, as well as to the Council of Ministers. It has also been sent to the departments and agencies of the Government of Quebec concerned by this issue, so that they can do an adequate analysis and make advice and recommendations. The Government will then evaluate the priorities among the proposed actions and determine the budgets necessary for the realization of targeted actions. 
"I want to thank and congratulate the members of the committee, who have shown commitment and vision in front of the future of the metropolitan area. Translate as complex issues and consensus on concrete measures were not a simple task. In this respect, they did substantial and notified work, "concluded the minister. 
For more information: www.mce.gouv.qc.ca/srm/publications/. 
The Secretariat advises the Government of Quebec on any question or measure with a significant impact on the Montreal metropolitan area and its development. He assured the Secretariat of the Departmental Committee of the Metropolitan Region, chaired by Minister Jean-François Lisée. The Secretariat acts with its various partners in conjunctioning the consistency and convergence of all interventions, as well as the growth and dynamism of the metropolitan area. 
