Quebec- The Deputy Officer of Terrebonne and Family Opposition Spokesman, Mathieu Traversy, the member for Pointe-aux-Trembles and spokespersons for primary and secondary education and school perseverance, Nicole Léger , the member for Rimouski and spokesperson for poverty, solidarity and social economy, Harold Lebel, as well as the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for social services, Jean-François Lisée, denounce Liberal attacks to Quebec families. 
"The Liberal government attacks families directly by postponing the development of custody places, wanting to implement a family tax that would end the universality of tariffs and, now, in submitting that the Quebec regime. parental insurance will go to the trestler. Quebec's family policy, however, gives exceptional results: the birth rate and activity rates have steadily increased over the last five years. Support young parents is paramount and beneficial for the entire society; It's not an accounting expense, it's an investment, "said Mathieu Traversy. 
For its part, Nicole Léger has been worried about "bolduc sections", which directly affect the services to students and families. "The Minister Yves Bolduc does not take his responsibilities by making the fault on schools, while his cabinet himself proposed a list of 32 sectors in which cut. It is clear that students will be affected by liberal decisions, especially those from more disadvantaged backgrounds, "she deplored. 
Le Governmentous Summer aux Plus Vulnerables 
"The action of the Liberal government excludes the poorest of our society. We need to review the law to combat poverty and social exclusion. Obviously, the targets we set ourselves ten years ago are not all reached. We need to take stock and define new goals away from liberal austerity, "added Harold Lebel. 
"Community organizations take care of our world and the most vulnerable. The concern that they feel must be heard by the government. And it must stand in front of the federal initiatives affecting the homelessness, among others, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
