Drummondville - Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Pierre Duchesne, and the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife And parks and minister responsible for the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, Yves-François Blanchet, today announced the establishment of a new university campus in Drummondville. 
"Investing in our universities is investing in the talents of those and those who will build Quebec tomorrow. A university is not only a place of high knowledge and knowledge, but also a source of social and economic effervescence for the community in which it is implanted. This investment concretizes the government's commitment to improving the quality and accessibility of higher education. He will benefit all Quebeckers and all Quebeckers, "said the Prime Minister. 
The government will contribute up to more than $ 3.3 million a year at the running costs of this new campus. Government investment will be deployed as follows: $ 1.7 million for teaching function; $ 810,000 for support for teaching; $ 576,000 for land and buildings; And, finally, $ 265,000 for the renewal of the furniture park. In addition, the maintenance costs of real estate assets, amounting to $ 334,000 a year, will be funded in the Five-Year Plan of University Investments. 
"We reiterate today the importance of the University of Quebec, whose offer of service deployed throughout Quebec makes it possible to improve accessibility to higher education in the regions. The permanent location of the Drummondville campus will have a beneficial effect on the Center-du-Québec's university graduation rate, because young people who may not think they continue their studies can come here to complete them. These students are often from first generation and represent a wealth for Quebec, said Minister Duchesne. 
With an area of 8000 m2 gross, it is expected that this campus welcomes training in school and preschool, nursing, administration, computer science, mechanical engineering and accounting science. Nearly 200 jobs will be created by the construction of this campus. 
"Drummondville and the Center-du-Québec have experienced incomparable economic and demographic growth in recent decades. The sector has become a leading industrial pivot, driven by febrile entrepreneurship. As early as 2008, it appeared to me that the university offer in Drummondville was to be greatly improved. When I made my main commitment, I thought and said that we would take us 10 years or more. Today, I see the effect of community engagement: nearly $ 10 million handed over to the foundation, and confirmation in less than 5 years. Drummondville can still be proud and confident today, "said Minister Blanchet. 
The permanent implementation of the UQTR campus in Drummondville consolidates the presence of the academic institution in the Center-du-Québec region, where the University Center of Drummondville has been established for more than 40 years. 
For more information, see www.messst.gouv.qc.ca. 
