Since the arrival of the Parti Québécois the government, we have worked tirelessly to restore the trust between the population and its institutions. Our order to achieve this goal: Integrity, accountability and vision. As a result, Quebec public finances have been managed intelligently and rigorously. By giving oneself a responsible budget, taking over the control of expenses, we give ourselves the means to enrich collectively. We give ourselves the means to have solid foundations to build a more prosperous society, more solidarity, stronger and much more independent. 
Our Minister of Finance and Economy, Nicolas Marceau, has succeeded in limiting the growth of state spending at less than 2% in two years. And it is also the goal we set ourselves for the next three years. 
Decrease our debt, it's also that, enrich Quebec. 
From our next term, debt will begin to decline. Our goal is simple: to pass the debt below the 50% of GDP by 2018-2019, to take back the full control of our public spending and be able to start making choices according to the priorities of Quebecers. To get there, a word: rigor. 
As early as 2012, we handed over the management of infrastructure spending and brought the integrity into government calls for tenders. 
This sound management, fun, for example, has allowed us, for example, to save $ 240 million in one year to the Ministry of Transport. And all departments have been involved. The effort comes from everywhere. The results are conclusive. Rigor. 
Under the Liberal Party, while corruption and collusion ran into masters, Quebec's debt increased by more than $ 60 billion. The Liberal Party is responsible for a third of Quebec's debt. 
And the economic irresponsibility of Jean Charest is perpetuated with Philippe Couillard. Ah! Good liberal habits ... 
Announces a $ 15 billion of debt due to infrastructure spending, on which we have resumed control.  Decrease in injections in the Generation Fund, because there is no longer mining royalties.  Maintenance of the doctors' salary agreement (which should please, certainly, to Dr. Barrette), rather than a responsible sprawl that respects our ability to pay. 
The Liberals have accustomed us to cynicism in public spending. Overall, their inheritance boils down to cost overruns of 78%, on average, for major work. It may be a few happy people, but certainly not the taxpayers of Quebec. 
At the Parti Québécois, we have been able to regain control of public finances. This is not the easiest or most pleasant task. But it is necessary. 
To have a prosperous and solidarity Quebec, it takes a responsible and honest government. And that is the Quebecois Party. 
