The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, as well as Mireille Jean (Chicoutimi) and Michelle Blanc (Mercier), presented the commitments of the Parti Québécois about technology and digital. It can be summarized as follows: A government listed will make the first steps of the Quebec digital revolution. 
IN SHORT 
"Today, we announce the greatest anticipnscreen offensive in Quebec's history. By now offering all citizens the opportunity to interact with the state in a totally digital, undocumented manner, we propose a new way to see the daily role of the public administration. We will take this challenge with the support of digital managers and experts, "first declared Jean-François Lisée. 
The Quebec optic fiber optic network will first be completed. "Currently, the Liberal government subsidizes telecommunications companies to connect copper homes, a technology to be outdated. We, we see further: we will deploy optical fiber throughout the territory, through a Québec investment subsidiary, ideally by 2022. That's it, being ambitious, "continued the chief. . 
Indeed, under the direction of a minister responsible for digital, a subsidiary of Investissement Québec (digitalic) will have the mandate to create a consortium of investors to complete the connection. Hydro-Québec, the crate of deposit, telecommunications companies ... All will be invited to join. Then, Digitaliebec will focus on the management of the MRC, cities or regions. All will share both investment and performance. 
"The local political will to connect citizens is strong. Efficiency is at the rendezvous. And the property of the fiber network will generate a new stable source of income for the RCMs, which is not negligible. In addition, a study shows that the national GDP of an industrial society, as is Quebec, increases by 0.25% per year each time 10% of its territory enjoys an optical fiber cover, "has -T he also mentioned. 
Of course, the Parti Québécois does not intend to stop there. Why not make Quebec a reference in the field? "To ensure the excellence of Quebec on the digital level, we will set up the National Council of Digital, which will be formed of recognized representatives of all sectors of activity of digital and civil society. Elected officials and departments should consult it for any questions regarding digital development in Quebec. The goal is simple: use the best options for digital to take effect of efficiency, "said Mireille Jean. 
For its part, Michelle Blanc mentioned that the Quebec state will give priority to free software and open standards generally in all its digital projects. "We will build internal expertise. We will adopt a real development policy of free software, as well as principles, a standard and a manual for the design and design of digital public services. The Parti Québécois also undertakes to appoint a minister responsible for digital, who will have in particular responsibility to implement a large digitization site of intelligent products developed and manufactured by Quebec companies, and to support many other technology sectors peak: remote medical consultations, robotic agriculture, online trade and culture, etc. She listed. 
Finally, since we are in favor of independence in all its forms, we will apply it to digital. "We will build on our own" farms "of government servers to ensure our full sovereignty for government public data. It will now be possible to guarantee Quebeckers that their data is hosted on Quebec servers, which is absolutely not the case at the moment, "said Mireille Jean. 
"A world of possibilities opens before us. It is up to us to seize this unique opportunity and give, finally, in Quebec a face of the 21st century from a technological point of view. Our ultimate goal, with our digital revolution is to save the state in flexibility. To put it at gym, literally. This is a way of helping citizens and businesses in Quebec, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
Rendezvous surcharge.org/revolution-numerique 
