Quebec, on May 21, 2020 - fearing that too many restaurateurs to be forced to finalize their doors if nothing is done quickly, the member for Matane-Matapédia and parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois, Pascal Bérubé, as well as the hon. Member for René -Vesque and spokesperson for economy, Martin Ouellet, call the Government of Quebec directly paying for emergency assistance. 
IN SHORT 
Pascal Bérubé emphasizes it at great features: restaurants animate all regions of Quebec, are inseparable from the tourism industry and constitute an exceptional showcase for Quebec products. "Restorers wear our identity because they know how to highlight the products from home. They are found everywhere, and they make our reputation as much as our pride. We absolutely need the as many as possible to survive the current crisis, "he insisted. 
Martin Ouellet increases by addressing an economic point of view. "Restaurants are also essential to our food producers and processors; In 2018, the industry acquired for $ 2.5 billion of local products! And it is not to mention the thousands of people that these companies employ, throughout Quebec. However, a survey of the Restoration Québec Association shows that more than two-thirds have seen their turnover melt by 81% in April 2020, in respect of April 2019. Their situation is perilous, not to doubt ", has -I reported. 
The Parti Québécois therefore asks the Government to pay entrepreneurs who have suffered considerable losses, urgently and unconditionally, modulated financial assistance according to the difference in relation to their income last year at the same period. "The restaurants represent one of the main links of the Quebec agri-food chain, and they allow us - as well as to visitors - to appreciate all the wealth of our terroir. We can not afford to let them die; This would have catastrophic consequences in many ways. But the time is counted; Help must arrive as soon as possible. The government must make it a priority, "added Pascal Bérubé. 
Another way to help restaurateurs would be flexible in the implementation of the Institutional Development Standards under the Liquor Permits Act. "One must allow, among other things, the installation of structures to delimit, maximize the space available on the terraces, so as to ensure compliance with the instructions of social distancing", have concluded members. 
