Integrity is an unavoidable issue of this election campaign, whatever by saying Philippe Couillard. The Liberal leader would like to put it behind him. He talks about a battle of the past, as if the fight against corruption was over. 
It's very disturbing: when I hear Philippe Couillard say that, it's as if he wanted to put the lid back. On the contrary, it is necessary to continue the fight against corruption without weakening. 
Quebeckers must choose the government that will be the most integrity. However, the liberal balance sheet in terms of integrity, it boils down to denial and refusal to act. The Liberals voted 11 times against the holding of a commission of inquiry. 
At the Québécois party, it is the opposite: everyone fought for the holding of the Charbonneau Commission. We acted quickly. Under our government, advance integrity and corruption declines. 
To go further in the fight against corruption, the Parti Québécois is committed to adopting a law facilitating the disclosure of wrongdoing committed by an employee in a public body, who will protect the disclosters. For example, such a law has allowed state employees to denounce, without fear of reprisals, the liberal choices in the award of childcare places. 
Unlike Philippe Couillard, I'm sure the battle against corruption must continue. As the premier, I take this commitment to go all the way and finish the work! 
The choice is simple: either we return to the liberal years, with the same team and the same through, or we give ourselves a government that makes the fight against corruption a priority. Either votes for the Parti Québécois, who claimed a public inquiry for two years, or votes for the Liberal Party, which has done everything to ensure that this investigation does not take place. 
In short, the Parti Québécois, in addition to working to defend our values and create sustainable jobs throughout Quebec, we will continue to strengthen integrity. We have the best team to get there. And we are determined. 
With a Quebec party government, it's over, fake-fled and cachotterie.Lise, comment and share the Daniel Lebel blog ticket. 
