Québec- On the occasion of the preview of the exhibitionThe collection of William S. Paley. A taste for modern art, the minister responsible for the regions of the Capitale-Nationale and the Chaudière-Appalaches, Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, is pleased to participate in this official inauguration and to announce a financial assistance of $ 100,000 to support this international exposure. 
From October 11, 2013 to February 16, 2014, the National Museum of Fine Arts of Quebec presents the prestigious Collection of William S. Paley, organized by the Museum of Modern Art of New York (MOMA). This collection brings together 62 tables, sculptures and graphic works drawing up a panorama of the Impressionist French painting and postimpressionist of the late nineteenth century and the early twentieth century. The collection includes, in particular, works of great masters of painting like Cézanne, Bacon, Degas, Gauguin, Toulouse-Lautrec, Matisse, Derain and Picasso and also sculpture, like Rodin. 
"The commitment of this collector and great patron, that was William S. Paley for the development of culture, will certainly have helped make art accessible to a wider audience. In the same way, more and more business people, such as Mr. Pierre Lassonde, represent extraordinary philanthropists that contribute to the cultural growth of here. All these people allow the region to position themselves, as is the case with this exhibition, as a museum capital of internationally renowned, "said Madame Maltais. 
Ms. Maltais takes the opportunity to invite the people to visit this exhibition in Quebec City, the only Canadian stage of this tour. In addition, she wanted to launch a special invitation to young people aged 13 to 17, because "in addition to giving them taste for culture, the new entry pricing announced by the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, and The Minister of Culture and Communications, Mr. Maka Kotto, which is set at $ 1 for state museums since October 1, will give them a great opportunity to take advantage of it, "said the minister. 
The financial assistance of $ 100,000 from the Secretariat to the Capitale-Nationale demonstrates the importance that the Government of Quebec grants the cultural vitality of here, with the aim of making Quebec a unavoidable international cultural capital. 
The Secretariat, attached to the Ministry of the Executive Board, advises the Government and the Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale, Ms. Agnès Maltais, on any question or measure having a significant impact on the region and its economic, cultural, tourist and social development . 
The Secretariat acts in consultation with its various governmental and regional partners, while financially supporting the implementation of projects contributing to the growth of the Capitale-Nationale for a mobilized, innovative, festive and international region. 
