Quebec- In the wake of food sovereignty unveiled on May 16, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, invites regional county municipalities (MRC ) Located outside of metropolitan communities to submit a proposal for the development of a development plan of the Agricultural Zone (PDZA). The MRCs whose projects will qualify will get financial assistance up to 50% of eligible expenses up to $ 40,000. 
"Territorial planning from PDZA projects makes it possible to bring together the actors concerned by agriculture around the same table to determine innovative means of fully and sustainably exploiting their agricultural zone. It is a formula that has beneficial and concrete effects and all RCMs should be encouraged to have such a plan, "said Francois Gendron. 
Currently, more than 30 MRCs have begun or completed the realization of their PDZA. In concrete terms, PDZAs make it possible to highlight agricultural enterprises and their products, to increase or diversify activities, to promote the multifunctionality of agriculture and to increase the development of complementary activities of agriculture, such as Agritourism or food processing on the farm. 
"At the time of the launch of the food sovereignty policy, we have served our desire to expand the realization of PDZAs to all the MRCs. This is part of the concrete actions that will be implemented to achieve the objectives we have set in terms of dynamic occupation of the territory. I am convinced that the RCM will be surrounded by all those who have agricultural development at heart, "the minister concluded. 
For more information on the presentation of a project for the realization of a PDZA, visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/pdza ) 
For further information on the food sovereignty policy, consult the blog dedicated to it (www.politiquesa.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food ( www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa). It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
