The Chief and Vice-Chauffe of the Quebecois, Jean-François Lisée and Véronique Hivon, as well as the candidates Nicolas Marceau (Rousseau) and Jean-Martin Aussant (Pointe-aux-Trembles), presented the commitments of the Parti Québécois to fight Against tax havens and disciplining senior executives who affect hawmmers. With the Parti Québécois, these people will have to do their fair share, like all Quebeckers. 
IN SHORT 
To restore tax fairness, the government of the Parti Québécois commits to: 
"One of the major challenges of our time is the growing inequity between the taxation of middle-class families and that of large corporate bosses. The CAQ and the PLQ have neither the will, nor the courage to name things as they are: the 1% benefits from privileges and stratagems to which do not have access to Monsieur and Mrs. All-World ", said Jean-François listed game entry. 
Fight against tax evasion and tax havens 
The Plan of the Parti Québécois will resolutely tackle tax havens, which make hundreds of millions of dollars with the public treasury. Nicolas Marceau recalled that the Liberal Party, far from joining his voice to the Parti Québécois, was an accomplice of the federal government by legalizing, in Quebec, jurisdictions of complacency, such as Grenada and Cook Islands. "Tax havens are cancer for all governments. It is unfair that millionaires and multinationals do not pay tax, while SMEs are closely followed by Revenu Québec and that taxpayers pay their fair share, even if they have very little room for maneuver, " Has he raised. 
The spokesman for the Parti Québécois in terms of finance also recalls that Philippe Couillard took advantage of a jurisdiction of convenience, Jersey Island. "Philippe Couillard even defends the freedom of Eugénie Bouchard to declare his income to the Bahamas! Quebeckers can not expect it to take this problem seriously. In this case, Quebec is equipped to act, as long as its government has a little spine, "Marceau continued. 
Tax the diverted profits and discipline the "Gluttons" 
We will introduce a tax on diverted profits, as did the United Kingdom. "The Ministry of Finance assesses tax losses attributable to diverted profits to $ 159 million annually for the Government of Quebec. We will apply a 25% tax on these diverted profits and we will derive Quebec from tax treaties signed with tax havens. Thus, companies will benefit from declaring their income in Quebec, which will allow us to recover these $ 159 million, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
"Since 1982, the average salary of 99% of Quebecers has increased by almost 160%. For the ultrarich, the 0.1%, it increased by 489%; It's more triple! It just has no common sense. We have no problem with success or with wealth, but there are limits to stratospheric remuneration. Some perfect illustrations are undoubtedly the latest increases of 40% of 6 bombardier leaders, the 26% increase in Hydro-Québec's CEO, or the 75% increase in compensation at the CDPQ In the last three years. These examples shocked many Quebeckers, "said Jean-Martin aussant. 
To bring more tax fairness, a government of the Parti Québécois also intends to limit the salaries of the leaders of Crown corporations at the level of the Prime Minister. An exception will be made for the CEO of the CDPQ, which will nevertheless have to be more restrained. 
The Québécois party is part of a global trend and will also introduce a "GLOULOUT TAX" on the very high salaries of the leaders of the public companies. The principle is simple: the average salary, within a public company, will be compared to the average of the 5 highest income. If the outcome of the high wages is more than 30 times higher, the company will have to pay the "Glutholding Tax", a percentage applied to the portion of the wages of the highest leaders exceeding the standard of the 30 times. 
To give businesses to change their practices, the measure will only apply in the third year of our mandate at a rate of 10%. From the fourth year, the rate will be 25%. "In a way, it is a" solidarity tax "because it will serve to support social missions, such as aid for children in difficulty or support for caregivers, seniors," has illustrated Véronique Hivon. 
Vice-Cheffe also announced that the Parti Québécois undertakes to cancel a gift that the Liberals offered the very rich Quebec women. "In its plan for maintaining social seats dating from February 2017, the government has increased the tax deduction rate on purchase options, increased by 25% to 50%. In other words, instead of paying tax on 75% of their gains, the very rich now pay on only half. This totally unjustified practice cost Quebeckers $ 14 million, we will recover, "she promised. 
Remove the crate of deposit and placement of tax havens 
Finally, the Parti Québécois will require the Fund and placement that it provides for a plan for the divestment of tax havens. It currently holds nearly $ 27 billion of assets, a sum that continued to increase over the past year. Added to these commitments The application of the QST to all foreign property purchased through e-commerce, so that our traders are on an equal footing with the web giants. 
"With our plan, it will be over, the injustices. We will reinvest the recovered money in the services. Quebeckers expect more justice, more equity. This is what we propose to them, and we are the only ones to have the courage to do it, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
For our explanatory sheet, click here. 
