The leader and vice-cheese of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée and Véronique Hivon, as well as candidates Nicolas Marceau (Rousseau) and Alain Therrien (Sanguinet), presented the Quebec Party Plan entitled "Quebec Inc.. The following. Seriously. " It aims, among other things, to increase the control of Quebecers on their economy, to encourage local purchase and to facilitate the lives of SMEs. 
IN SHORT 
With a government of the Parti Québécois: 
"As of October 1, the government of the Parti Québécois will take an important turn to revive Quebec Inc., to find our pride and our project management in economic matters. To do this, we have a solid team; Composed of entrepreneurs, economists and managers, she will give Québec's economy in the hands of Quebeckers, and will ensure that the state is at the service of SMEs, "announced Jean-François Lisée. 
Promote the purchase of Quebec products 
We will adopt several concrete measures to increase the purchase of Quebec products. "The Government of Quebec and its subsidiaries must do more. We want them to be brought to buy the products from here when it comes to calls for tenders or more general purchases, in respect, of course, international agreements that we have signed. Thus, we will launch the era of "smart" calls for tenders; From now on, the environmental performance criteria will be taken into account, such as those related to the respect of our linguistic laws, the rights of workers and the probity. We also reserve a share of public contracts for the development of technologies developed by our SMEs, and create a "manufactured in Quebec" certification, like the Quebec food formula, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
SME priority 
We will give priority to our entrepreneurs. "For too long, the state requires entrepreneurs to be at his service. But you have to do exactly the opposite! At the end of his national tour, the SME priority team identified several ways to better support our SMEs. Our government will go to entrepreneurs, will lighten the paperwork and regulation, will offer them personalized solutions and the right to error. We will also promote the redemption of companies by employees or the new generation. Our way of accompanying entrepreneurs will be resolutely updated. With us, those who wish to expand their horizons will finally develop their full potential, deploy their wings, "continued the chief. 
"In recent years, we attended the quiet dispossession of Quebec. Under the government of the Liberal Party, headquarters have left Quebec, companies from home to be struggling to have their fair share of government investments, and the state - including Revenu Québec - is in "punishment" mode rather than in mode. "Solutions", according to entrepreneurs. Our economic plan offers nothing less than the return of a saving of owners, a partner economy of its SMEs, "added Véronique Hivon. 
Give the case of deposit to Quebecers 
Among the other strong gestures proposed by the Parti Québécois to repair the Liberal mess and to give a new breath in Quebec Inc., note the return to the fundamental mission of the Caisse de Dépôt and placement of Quebec, as it was imagined by Jean Lesage and Jacques Parizeau. "We will give two goals on an equal footing: to develop the economy of Quebec, including that of the regions, and to grow the savings of Quebecers. In other words, we will give the fund to Quebecers. We will even allow them to invest their personal savings in investment funds specifically provided for this purpose. Citizens want to participate in the economic development of Quebec, and we will give them the means, "insisted Alain Therrien. 
"We wish more than anything that entrepreneurs' dreams become projects, and that these projects turn into success. We believe very strongly at the immense potential of our entrepreneurs, their capacity for innovation. We know we can compete with the best and become a reference. I am particularly proud of the plan we present today, "also mentioned Véronique Hivon. 
"If the PLQ and the CAQ are fighting for the worn label of the" Party of the economy ", it is clear that the Parti Québécois, is the party of economic nationalism! We propose a renewed, current and robust vision of economic nationalism, a vision that will allow our entrepreneurs, talents and regions to go after their ambitions. This is Quebec inc. The following. Seriously. ", Concluded Jean-François Lisée.For more information, click here. 
