The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the candidates Sylvain Rochon (Richelieu), Diane Lamarre (Taillon), Diane Lavallée (Taschereau), and Éric Tremblay (Repentigny), were passing through Sorel-Tracy to unveil their Proposals to repair the damage that barrette reform has caused in the region. The purpose of the Parti Québécois: to give patients from all regions of Quebec the care they are entitled. Our plan: the patient at the heart of the system, and the good professional, in the right place, at the right time, and at the right cost. 
IN SHORT 
"Here in Sorel-Tracy, as in all regions of Quebec, services are missing, decisions are made elsewhere, without real knowledge of the needs of the environment. Like many others, Sorelors have been in the first lodges of the centralization of barrette reform. They can only see that everything is now decided at the upper levels, in Longueuil, far from people here, far from reality from here. In health, the liberal years have been a failure. The Parti Québécois will overthrow this trend, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
"With us, the network will not undergo the trauma of barrette reform again. We will not launch an umpteenth reform of structures; We will bring the site's decision places closer to the health teams, so that each initiative is adapted to reality and needs in each region, "said Sylvain Rochon. 
"For example, here in Sorel, CLSC Gaston-Bélanger will be open until 9 pm not only the week, as is the case now, but also the weekends. People will have easy access to a specialized nurse practitioner, an IPS, who will be able to treat minor emergencies and track chronic diseases, "illustrated Diane Lamarre. 
"In addition, citizens will be able to find, in the dozen pharmacies that Account Sorel, a pharmacist authorized to vaccinate and review the use of their medications without saying their doctor. We will also form more "superparamedics", these professionals authorized to intervene with people with severe arrhythmia, intoxication, or diabetic and respiratory problems, "has chained the candidate. 
"At the Hôtel-Diel de Sorel, bachelor's nurses will also have more autonomy; In particular, they will be able to seek radiographs in the event of a fall, which will accelerate triage to emergencies. As for nursing / patient ratios, they will decrease; From this fall, we will deploy a fund of $ 10 million urgently to do this, which will be added to $ 500 million over 4 years that we have already committed to injecting into the network. Beneficiary attendants will also benefit from this investment, "added Diane Lavallée. 
In addition to the air conditioning of the CHSLDs present on the territory of Sorel, already announced, the Parti Québécois undertakes to amend the law 10 to give a greater place to citizens and sub-territories within the CA of CISS and CIUSS. In concrete terms, for the Hôtel-Diel de Sorel, for example, it means that there will be a real direction on site: a fight that has been conducting Sylvain Rochon for a long time. 
In addition, the Québécois party denounced another injustice: the fact that the infertile couples of Quebec must now pay between $ 8,000 and $ 15,000 to receive in vitro (IVF) fertilization treatments, a sum that is more considerable when Couples live far from Montreal or Quebec City, where the clinics offer this service. "Couples who wish to resort to in vitro fertilization must move frequently to large centers. This situation generates significant costs, including housing. It is unfair. We will restore the public coverage of the first cycle of IVF to alleviate the invoice of these families. We will ask for INESSSS and experts to identify tags, as recommended by the Commissioner for Health and Wellbeing, "Diane Lamarre announced. 
The Quebec party knows that most older people want to stay at home as long as possible, and is committed to providing them with the care and services needed. "The envelope dedicated to home support will be enhanced by $ 100 million a year for 5 years. In the long term, therefore, $ 500 million more will be invested each year for home care. We will take it, this necessary turn, "said Sylvain Rochon. 
Éric Tremblay continues on the momentum of his colleague: "You have to do more, and put patients back to the heart of our budget choices. That's why we will manage, from this year, the remuneration of doctors, and we will end their incorporation. And we will proclaim the independence of the other health professionals - nurses, pharmacists, physiotherapists ... - who can and who want more. With us, for example, dental hygienists will be able to practice in CHSLD without being supervised by a dentist; It seems obvious but, currently, they can not do it! The equation is simple: the good professional, in the right place, at the right time, and at the right cost, "he said. 
"We do not promise to set everything on the first day. It would not be serious. But we propose a different approach to improve the situation. There is a real crisis of confidence in our health system and politicians' commitments that, election election, promise the impossible. No one believes them. So, what we propose is to do differently. Diane Lamarre, Diane Lavallée and Eric Tremblay form the perfect trio to meet the challenge, "concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
For our explanatory sheets, click icietici. 
