Quebec, April 24, 2020 - The member of the Madeleine Islands and spokespersons of the Quebecois Healthy Party, Joël Arseneau, and the hon. Member for Rimouski and spokesperson for seniors, Harold Lebel, believe that To avoid further spreading the virus in seniors residences (RPPs), people are needed as quickly as possible. To do this, they propose to deploy, in all regions, buffer zones in the hotels and other places having volunteered, and to transfer positive tested residents to CVIV-19. 
IN SHORT 
It has been seen in recent days: what residents live and RPP staff are more than dramatic. "The system is saturated, and it is necessary at all costs to prevent the situation degraded more. However, the VVID-19 virus spreads at a crazy speed, the caregiver is exhausted or lacking the call, and the clientele is particularly vulnerable. The combination of all these factors can quickly lead to the disaster, but we can act, "mentioned Joël Arseneau. 
A solution track to consider is the layout of buffer zones in hotels and other places identified, currently little used despite their availability. "By removing positive tested residents from living environments, the risks of developing new infection homes are significantly reduced. Thus, both residents and institutional staff would be protected, "said Harold Lebel. 
"It's not too late to change our ways of doing things, continued the member for Rimouski. The essential thing is to remove a pressure whose residents, their families and the caregiver do not need the times that run. We are asking the government to give a clear directive to CISS and CIUSS so that these buffer zones are expanded quickly, and for resident transfer to be coordinated effectively and safely for all. » 
Moreover, the Parti Québécois considers that the excessive centralization hurts the proper functioning of the health system, especially when it comes to sending reinforcements on the ground. "Service offers should be dealt with at the regional level, in partnership with institutions. Thus, each region, each accommodation center could meet its needs according to its own reality. Flexibility is the key to efficiency, "said the member of the Madeleine Islands. 
