Lac-Mégantic- In the company of the Quebec candidate in the riding of Mégantic, Isabelle Hallé, the Quebec Prime Minister and Head of Quebecois, Pauline Marois, announces measures to develop tourism in all regions. The tourism industry is a major development engine for local economies. 
In a future mandate, the Parti Québécois will improve the tax credit to modernize tourist accommodation. This measure could benefit 400 companies and support investment projects worth $ 240 million in the next two years. 
The Parti Québécois also undertakes to build strong tourist centers in all regions, including winter tourism, nature and adventure tourism, as well as cultural and event tourism. He will also support the deployment of new gourmet and agrotouristic roads. 
To do this, the development support program of tourist attractions already has an envelope of $ 85 million over 5 years. Economic lapolitics Priority employment is also an envelope of $ 42.9 million over 3 years for, among other things, highlighting winter tourism and stimulating private investment. 
"We are committed to creating jobs by supporting and developing regional tourist attractions, to shine Quebec and its regions. We announced important amounts to support our tourism industry. We will continue in this way in a future mandate, "said Pauline Marois. 
"I invite Quebeckers who plan their summer holidays to visit the meganticois and discover their beautiful region. We continue to support the people of Lac-Mégantic in the revival of their economy. In collaboration with stakeholders, we will support local tourist attractions and events, "continued the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
In collaboration with regional tourism associations, the Parti Québécois will put in place new tourist routes and promote. Since agarourism is booming, the government will also develop the potential of gourmet and agrotourism circuits, through the food sovereignty, in addition to encouraging hotels, hostels and gîtes to offer local products. In addition, Quebec's Liquor Corporation will have to offer local products in at least one branch of the region. 
"A developing tourism industry means more jobs, more prosperity, so stronger regions. We have a business plan, we have the best team to realize it, and we have the determination to get there, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
