Quebec - The Minister of Justice of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, today presented a review of judges' appointments at the Quebec Court made for a year. In total, it is 39 new judges that have been appointed to the Court of Quebec. 
"I am very pleased to have recommended the appointment of 39 new judges to the Court of Quebec, so that our justice system is more accessible, more efficient and faster. I am particularly proud to have chosen these new judges as a result of a rigorous and completely apolitical selection process, "said the Minister of Justice. 
According to the new fellowship on the candidate selection procedure for the judge of the Court of Quebec, a judge of a municipal court and the judge of the peace magistrate, entered into force in 2012, a selection committee of five members, presided over By a judge, selects the three best candidates for each position to be filled. The Minister of Justice then recommends one of these candidates to the Council of Ministers for appointment. 
"I am very pleased to have the full confidence of the premier to choose the best person for each vacancies. I make a duty to select women and men of course very competent, but who are also recognized for their human qualities and their degree of conscience with respect to social realities, "added Bertrand St-Arnaud. 
It should be remembered that these 39 appointments were intended to provide for vacant positions with retirements, but also to achieve the target of 290 judges in Laloi on courts. Amendments to this law had been adopted unanimously by the National Assembly in 2012, to increase from 270 to 290 the number of judges to the Court of Quebec. To date, 18 of the 20 new positions have been filled. 
Finally, again with the aim of reducing hearing time on justice, the Minister of Justice has held reminding his support for the approaches of the Superior Court and the Court of Appeal to the federal government to increase the number judges to these courses, the appointments in this respect being federal jurisdiction. 
