Quebec - "Judge Charbonneau does not have to kneel to the Prime Minister to seek a modification of the decree, this responsibility rests with Jean Charest. If it is serious, it will change next Wednesday the Council of Ministers' decree to give Judge France Charbonneau the power to compel witnesses. We must follow the Act respecting commissions. This is stated by the member for Verchères and the official opposition to the public safety opposition, Stéphane Bergeron, reacting to the declaration of the Liberal leader yesterday as part of the members of the Liberal Party. Quebec. 
Since the announcement made by the government last Wednesday, several voices in the legal environment have denounced the usurpation made by the government that tries to make believe that it is a commission of inquiry. Yesterday, the Barreau du Québec, the professional order of which Prime Minister Charest is a member, clearly indicated that this commission is not one since it does not have the powers of a commission of inquiry. 
For the Parti Québécois, it is imperative that this power to compel witnesses is not granted during work, but right now. "The words of the Minister of Justice, Jean-Marc Fournier, made this morning are at least worrying, he who says that the judge must first begin his work to see if this power to compel witnesses will be necessary. It is finished the time of the leak forward. It's been more than two years since a real public inquiry is claimed and necessary, "said the spokesperson. 
The member for Verchères also notes that it is necessary to be wary of such a statement made in a highly partisan framework. "How can we trust Jean Charest? Is it, again, a way for him to scroll under the pressure of his activists? It has become clear that Jean Charest governs more for the interests of the Liberal Party than for the public interest. Judge Charbonneau does not have to make his guidelines for a partisan speech. Where would independence be? Stéphane Bergeron added. 
Financing Political Parties: Not in camera 
In addition, the MP requests that, next Wednesday, the government also modifies the decree for the important issue of funding for political parties to be approached in camera, but in front of the cameras. "As elected, we have the responsibility to restore citizens. The government must ensure that the whole issue of political parties funding is not treated behind closed doors, as is currently planned, "concluded Stéphane Bergeron. 
