Quebec - "Since 2001, the Parti Québécois has always been in agreement with Nordic development. However, the success of North Development is based on essential conditions that are not present in the North Plan. That's why we want a real North plan that reports to Quebeckers, "said the official opposition and hon. Member for Charlevoix, Pauline Marois. 
"The government has a duty of transparency and rigor even if it is demanding. In order to ensure that Quebeckers have for their money, the government must be able to obtain accurate information about deposits and operating conditions to ensure the community a fair share of the wealth created. By exploiting our mining resources, "said Pauline Marois. 
As a result, the Parti Québécois therefore proposes the creation of a mining commissioner liable to Quebeckers. This commissioner will be mandated: 
"We need a custodian of the resource and the economic and financial interests of Quebeckers. Someone needs to monitor our resources and report. It must be independent of the mining companies and sheltered from the influences, "added Pauline Marois. 
"Before allowing exploration and exploitation, as well as obtaining permits accordingly, the rules of the game must be clear and stable in order to promote the benefits in terms of jobs, but also in terms of creation. Wealth for future generations. That's what the industry wants. Moreover, it is imperative to revise in depth the Mining Act to better supervise mining companies both in terms of social acceptability and environmental impact. Finished improvisation! ", Continued the leader of the official opposition. 
The government is taking risks, among other things in the development of infrastructure that will be located beyond traditional activity areas. It must guarantee Québec tax payers that the risks will also be borne by the companies operating our resources and not only by the government itself. 
"The exploitation of our non-renewable natural resources should benefit future generations. These resources must afford to do anything more productive with collective revenues that will be learned to develop a real knowledge-based economy. In other words, our resources must be a stepping stone to finance the true areas of the future that are renewable energies or electrified transport and, of course, must support education and health systems. They must also allow the reduction of the debt, "claimed the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
Thus, it takes a global taxation for the mining sector that provides Quebeckers with the wealth created by the exploitation of the resource. This must include a clearer fee charge policy that will ensure that Quebeckers are largely benefiting from the intrinsic value of the resource. For example, Australia has just reviewed its taxation applicable to mining companies in order to recover for its citizens 30% of excess profits that are attributable to the intrinsic value of the resource in addition to normally imposing mining companies on their profits. Regular, as is the case for all other companies. 
In addition, other formulas could allow us to achieve the same goal. For example, we could make sure that a minimum amount of royalties is paid by the companies by including in the calculation a minimum tag that depends on the raw profits or the value in the resource market. 
"It is essential that local and indigenous communities are consulted, that they endorse the government project and participate. We believe that more ambitious goals need to be set for housing, schooling, jobs, health, water quality and procurement, internet access and decreased domestic violence and suicides, "said Pauline Marois. 
"In short, we strongly believe in Nordic development and it must be done in a real perspective of sustainable development. We will ensure that Quebec adopts the best practices and relies on the best experts to define a regulatory framework. We must also ensure that the royalty program is the most generous possible for Quebeckers. This is a question of principle and leadership, "concluded the official opposition leader. 
