Québec- The Parti Québécois is and has always been favorable to the development of the Nordic territories. However, it is not with the current Liberal marketing plan that this will be for the benefit of Quebecers. Since the deposit of this marketing plan, we reiterate that royalties need to be increased by the implementation of a compulsory floor and an overprofit tax. We also argue that there is a need to negotiate and demand local transformation when possible, that all Aboriginal communities need to be involved, should be investing more in education and housing for Nordic populations and that It is necessary to set up a mining commissioner based on the model of the Chief Forestier. 
The official opposition now wants to remind the Minister of Natural Resources and Wildlife and Head of North Plan and the Liberal Government The minimum requirements for the creation of the North Plan Society. "Bill 27 has been in the study intermittently since November 2011. On January 31, in a gesture of goodwill and openness, the opposition has filed its main demands for this project. law. Unfortunately, it is clear that the minister did not take these requests seriously since each time we need to study one of the amendments we proposed, the minister reacts as if it was a new amendment and he We have lost our time, "said the official opposition spokesperson for Nordic development, Luc Ferland. 
The official opposition wishes to recall the proposed amendments to the Minister for several months. 
For the mission 
That the company negotiates to maximize in Quebec the transformation of natural resources operated in the territory of the North Plan. The company must play a role with the mining and negotiate with them so that they transform the ore in Quebec when possible. 
For the Board of Directors 
At least four members come from indigenous and Inuit communities located in the territory of the North Plan so that these communities participate fully in the development of the territory they live. 
At least eight members reside in the territory of Plan Nord so that the company's projects truly reflect the needs of northern people. 
That the Board of Directors complies with the Governance of Crown Corporations Act, particularly at the level of independence of board members. 
For infrastructure 
That the government may, by regulation, determine the use of an infrastructure so that other users can dispose of it. This is an important amendment to actually be able to order projects and coordinate the development of the North. It is also about avoiding the conflicts of use of an infrastructure and to give them the means to settle them if they occur. The opposition wants to prevent every mine or project with its own airport, its own railway or its own line of electricity. The government will be able to truly regulate the development of infrastructure in the North. In the same vein, we proposed that any infrastructure whose design or achievement is the subject of authorized funding from the North Plan Fund remains property. 
For transparency 
That the strategic plan be studied by the competent committee of the National Assembly so that the elected officials have control over the orientations of the Company. 
For the participation of communities 
"The government must accept our requests. The Crown corporation that the Liberals propose must at least serve the Nordic populations before foreign mining. In its current form, the society of the North Plan is at the service of the mining, "said the member for Duplessis, Lorraine Richard. 
"Our amendments are a minimum. We ask for transparency, a fair return of the exploitation of natural resources for the Nordic communities and for all Quebeckers, as well as a representation of northern people in society, "continued the member for Rousseau and door. -Parole of the official opposition in terms of finance and economic development, Nicolas Marceau. 
"How will the government coordinate the development of the North and scheduling the projects if it refuses to give themselves the means to intervene on the territory? Our requests have been known to the minister for four months. It is time to integrate them into the bill creating society from the North Plan, "concluded Luc Ferland. 
