Montreal - Surrounded by its economic team, Quebec's Prime Minister and Head of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, announces that a government of the Parti Québécois will adopt measures to promote the retention of headquarters in Quebec. "To develop a vigorous economy, the presence of social seats is essential. We must remember the headquarters in Quebec, particularly with regard to companies that are florets of the Quebec economy, "said Pauline Marois. 
In order to propose adapted measures, the government has set up the Quebec Protection Working Group, led by Claude Séguin, Senior Vice President, Business Development and Strategic Investments at CGI. Several personalities from the business world joined the group, including Monique Jerome-Forget, Andrew Molson and Michel Leblanc. 
"We welcomed the recommendations of the Working Group and my Government will promptly put in place two measures for companies wishing to defend themselves. This will allow boards to make decisions they consider to be in the best long-term interest in the company, "said Pauline Marois. 
Thus, to counter, if they wish, hostile purchase offers, companies will be able to set up a variable voting right, which provides an additional vote when the voting shares have been held for more than two years by their owner. 
In addition, the working group and the Autorité des marchés financiers (AMF) propose to allow the boards of directors of companies which are the subject of a hostile purchase offer to exercise fully their duties of trustees of interests of the company as a whole and not only those of its shareholders. The AMF's proposal focuses on restoring the regulatory equilibrium between the initiators of purchasing public offers and the board of directors of the targeted companies. 
"Since our securities regime is harmonized with that of other Canadian jurisdictions, my Government plans to undertake approaches with its counterparts to make the necessary amendments to the Securities Act. What we propose today could not only promote the retention of head offices, but also support the development of Quebec companies, "said Pauline Marois. 
In 2011, Quebec had 578 headquarters, which generated more than 70,000 jobs. Their activities have resulted in a wealth creation of $ 5.1 billion, more than $ 3.6 billion from the head office businesses and more than 1.5 billion arising from purchases from Quebec suppliers. 
"We have a business plan, we have the best team to realize it, and we have the determination," concluded Pauline Marois. 
Watch the press conference 
Check out the Electoral Platform of the Parti Québécois 
