Quebec- Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron, Announces the Allocation of a $ 2.5 Million Government Grant to the Quebec-Canada Agribusiness Export Group for the year 2013-2014. The organization can continue to manage the export fund and facilitate business access from home to markets outside Quebec. 
"Quebec offers a variety of high quality food products. The bioalimentary industry therefore has all the assets to distinguish yourself and carve out a place of choice in the markets outside Quebec. The Quebec-Canada Agribusiness Export Group, which works daily from Quebec companies, contributes greatly to shaping and asserting this strong identity that will allow us, without a doubt, to increase the reputation and the presence of food from here in the world. I can only rejoice in this partnership which, by putting the forefront and distinctiveness of Quebec products, follows the right of food sovereignty policy, "said Francois Gendron. 
The budget envelope granted is distributed as follows: 
$ 1 million will be devolved to the world-class exporting program and for companies wishing to increase their exports; 
It is with great enthusiasm that the Chairman of the Québec-Canada Agribusiness Export Board, Mr. Robert Comeau (better Ltd.), welcomes this announcement: "Competition in international markets is fierce and this Commitment confirms the importance that the Government of Quebec grants to the marketing activities of Quebec products and assets on the external markets. It is therefore very good not only for the Québec-Canada Agribusiness Export Group, but also for exporters from here. » 
Last year, the grant granted by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food supported 60 companies with the world-class exporting program. Eligible activities under this program include the production of market research, the production of promotional documents or the organization of in-store tastings so that consumers outside Quebec can experience quality and taste without equal products Quebec. With respect to the collective activities that took place in 2012-2013, the Quebec-Canada Agribusiness Export Group, among other things, organized 18 training sessions that brought together 252 people and made possible the participation of 285 companies at 26 Trade fairs. 
Companies that wish to apply for the world-class export program or participate in collective activities by communicating with the Québec-Canada Agribusiness Export Group. Just visit the websitewww.groupexport.ca. 
In addition, for more information on the Government of Quebec's food sovereignt policy, interested persons can regularly consult the blog (www.politicsa.gouv.qc.caou websitewww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquea ) from the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
