Québec, September 15, 2016 - Member of Parliament for Taschereau and spokesman for the Quebec party in election law, Agnès Maltais - like his colleagues François Gendron, Gaétan Lelièvre, Martin Ouellet and Sylvain Roy, respectively deputies of deputies. Abitibi West, Gaspé, René-Lévesque and Bonaventure, describers called "exceptional" - denounces the fact that the Liberal caucus is now opposed to the criteria that justify this denomination. 
First, let us remember that the electoral law provides that the Committee on Electoral Representation may recognize exceptional electoral districts, that is to say, constituencies whose total number of voters is 25% lower than or greater than The average of the other Quebec constituencies, in order to ensure effective representation of voters. 
"We welcome the proposal of the Electoral Representation Commission, which recognizes six exceptional electoral districts - in addition to the Îles-de-la-Madeleine - in its preliminary report. This joins the historical position of the Parti Québécois as to the electoral map, the dynamic occupation of the territory and the effective representation of voters and regions ", exposed the hon. Member for Taschereau. 
Why does the Liberal Party oppose the Commission of Electoral Representation? 
"The Commission of Electoral Representation has serious reasons to justify its willingness to recognize the exceptional status in certain constituencies. Basically, it is because it allows a real regional representation. In this case, why does the Liberal Party oppose it too fiercely? How is it that after having recognized themselves, for years, the principles that have led to the creation of exceptional constituencies, including the question of regional representation, the Liberals suddenly change position? , "Said Agnès Maltese. 
The spokesperson sees only one plausible explanation: "The Liberals attack exceptional constituencies for an attempt to protect their constituencies from Montreal, too numerous according to the electoral representation commission. In short, they wish to eliminate members of the regions. Even in such a serious and fundamental exercise as the redesign of the electoral map, they show partisanship. It's shameful and unacceptable, "she concluded. 
