Quebec, March 22, 2021 -The member for Jonquière and spokesman for the Treasury Board as well as in terms of work, Sylvain Gaudreault, submitted last week Bill 697, which aims to strengthen The current law to better protect warning launchers. This is a tool to truly fight corruption and promote the public interest, he believes. 
IN SHORT 
To strengthen the fight against corruption and conflicts of interest, the Parti Québécois offers: 
- to extend the scope of the law currently in force to more public sector organizations .- To give the citizen protector a central role with the alert launchers, including the management of a fund of Help and increased liability to support them in their approaches .- To allow warning launchers to speak directly to the media. 
Title Act to strengthen disclosure of wrongdoing and the protection of disclosers, the bill tabled by the member for Jonquière would be much further than the current Act, particularly because it would apply beyond the only departments and organizations of the state. "The law, as it is, showed its limits. Protection is to apply to staff of seniors, intermediate resources, state-owned subsidiaries and research centers funded more than 50% by public funds, among others, "said Sylvain. Gaudreault. 
"On the one hand, the alert launchers - like the Louis Robert agronomist, dismissed after spoken, and then rehired - ex officio of better protection and a guarantee of confidentiality. On the other hand, the conflicts of interest - like the one involving the ex-CEO of Otra, a subsidiary of the CDPQ - would be denounced much faster, not to doubt. In short, the witnesses would be less reluctant to speak, knowing that they do not risk, "the member continued. 
It also wishes to use the Protecteur of the Citizen, by instituting a Fund of aid for warning launchers to finance any judicial costs in case of reprisals, an idea that the Parti Québécois has since 2016 . The bill also provides for the removal of the obligation, for warning launchers, first inform UPAC or police officers, which can block disclosure to the public. Again, this measure aims to encourage the denunciation of wrongdoing and to promote transparency. 
"We need such law. Thus, the problematic or even revolting situations, which have courses in some seniors residences, for example, will be quickly updated. As an elected, our duty is to free the word and protect the most vulnerable. I invite the government to quickly call the study of Bill 697, "concluded Sylvain Gaudreault. 
- 30 - 
SOURCE : 
Laura Chouinard-Thuly 
Press Officer 
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois 
514 880-9594 
Laura.c After i's -t care liquid @as is NAT. Second. Wipe 
