Quebec- The hon. Member for Saint-Hyacinthe, Mr. Emilien Pelletier, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to the Regions, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, announced the payment of $ 39,000 for two projects, or $ 14,000 to the company Candy Kel Inc., for the production and marketing of artisan candy, and $ 25,000 at the small muzo business, for the production and marketing of a range of dog treats. 
Financial assistance comes from the measure to stimulate the development of specialty products, an innovative measure resulting from the national policy of 2007-2014. 
Thanks to this financial support, Candy Kel inc. Produce four new sugar candies fired, manufactured in a traditional way: Christmas canes, large multicolored successes, maple syrup candies and biological sugar candies. The total cost of the project is estimated at $ 53,000. 
As for small Muzo, with the financial assistance granted, it will produce a range of dog treats made from dehydrated hearts and chicken livers. These products, 100% natural, without dyes, conservation agents or additives and composed only of local ingredients, will be manufactured at the company's production center located on the territory of the Municipality of Rougemont. The total cost of the project is estimated at $ 86,000. 
"By this measure, promoters in our community have additional financial resources to invest in the development of specialty products so as to diversify the local economy while actively participating in the growth of our rural areas," said the Deputy Pelletier. 
"We are very pleased with this innovative measure contained in the national rural policy that helps our craftsmen and our businesses by encouraging the creation of new products to promote the vitality of our territory," added Minister Lelièvre. 
The measure to stimulate the development of specialty products, which offers subsidies of up to $ 25,000 per project aims to support the creation of new activities in rural territory by focusing on projects related to resources, knowledge, knowledge. know-how and the innovation capabilities of rural promoters. It supports microprojects in the bioalimentary sector as well as in the areas of non-timber forest products and forest, culture, heritage and crafts products. 
