In a recent release, the Philippe Couillard stated that he would not cede a thumb to the sovereignists. Here is the replica of the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
We could have thought that the Liberal Prime Minister would have had a little more imagination than his federalist predecessors such as Pierre Trudeau, Jean Chrétien, Stéphane Dion and many others. Rather, it seems that his communication offices have advised him the same ethereal formulas of the past.  Thus, the Liberal Prime Minister Philippe Couillard agitates the scarecrows and the arguments of fear, so many times used by the federalist clan. Ironically enough to note that the Prime Minister, in a speech focused exclusively on the defensive, we are going out the numbers while itself has absolutely no data on which to base. It's up to him to tell us how the provincial vision he proposes is visionary and carrier for Quebec and Quebeckers. 
Perhaps he should listen to Prime Minister Jean Charest, who claimed that Quebec had the means to be independent? 
Today, these arguments of fear no longer work, while Quebec was in the 27th rank of the countries according to GDP per capita, in 2013. Quebeckers have demonstrated for the last decades their courage, their successes and their determination. All paths, especially that of independence, are open. 
Unlike the negative appreciation of the Prime Minister at Quebecers, I firmly believe, and we have proved it in all respects, that we are winners. The economic development of our nation is essential. This is why we have been insisting for months on the need in Quebec to have real economic policy. That's why I ask the Liberal Prime Minister Philippe Couillard the holding of a great economic forum, which would bring together all partners. Proposal received with the usual contempt that is theirs in their perception and habit of still right. 
Electrification of transport, the challenges of our industries, the forest, entrepreneurship, agricultural succession, research and development. These are all economic sectors that deserve special attention among others. 
Not the liberal leaving, not the austerity that attacks the economic and social levers of the community, but a real policy. 
As for the arguments in favor of independence, I invite the Prime Minister to ask his advisers to do their work and re-read the interventions of the Quebecois members, among others the two arrests on the question of the independence made by My colleague MP Stéphane Bédard, where the Prime Minister was absent. In particular, we discussed rail safety, energy, supply management, firearms register, federal docks, transportation, protection of our environment. 
