Laval- At the term Dupremier forum on the hypersexualization of young people, the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, and the Parliamentary Assistant of the Minister responsible for The female and MP status of Sainte-Rose, Ms. Suzanne Proulx, find that the exchanges have been fruitful and that interesting ways of solutions to counter this phenomenon have been presented. 
"The government is very sensitive to the issue of sexual stereotypes that undermine the achievement of equality between women and men. He is concerned about the hypersexualization of girls who are unfortunately present in our society. Ultimately, what we want as government is that young Quebec people are better equipped to withstand the pressure of some reducing female models, "Ms Maltais said. 
The day was devoted to the study and description of the problem through presentations delivered by university researchers and speakers. Exchanges on possible solution tracks to counter the phenomenon of hypersexualization were also kept. More than 100 participants who took part in the Lavallois forum on Hypersexualization, including various national and regional organizations concerned by the problem. 
"It appears to be clear that we can not content ourselves with the cancellation of" Mini Miss "competitions: it is important to find, in addition to the actions already conducted, other durable solutions to counter the hypersexualization. In this respect, we must question each other collectively so that our young girls grow into a framework that looks like us as a society, "said Proulx. 
Remember that in addition to the Forum today in Laval, the minister's parliamentary assistant will lead three other forums, this spring, through Quebec. These days aim to enrich the actions already undertaken and inspire new to act in the face of hypersexualization. They are in harmony with the guidelines of the Governmental Action Plan for Equality between Women and Men 2011-2015 and Government Policy for Equality Between Women and Men. 
