Kahnawake- Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs, Mrs. Elizabeth Larouche, went today in the Mohawk Community of Kahnawake to meet the Grand Chief, Mr. Michael Ahríhrhon Delisle JR, the head responsible for intergovernmental relations, Mr. Lloyd Phillips, as well as the Cabinet Director of Grand Chief, Mr. Mike O'Brien. 
This meeting aimed at pursuing a fruitful dialogue with the community. The Grand Chief and the Minister were able to approach several important topics together, including the question of the Regional Education Center for Anglophone Adults, some tourist projects as well as the ongoing negotiations between the Government of Quebec and Kahnawake. 
"The relationship between the Quebec government with the Kahnawake Mohawks must be frank and constant in order to develop all its potential. My presence in the community is also the illustration of the nature of this relationship that I intend to have persist, "said the minister. 
Minister Larouche reiterated the message made by the Prime Minister to Grand Chief Delisle, in 2012. It therefore affirmed the Government of Quebec's willingness to comply with the addition of land to the reserve and to support economic development. Kahnawake. It also expressed the wish to lead to mutually satisfactory solutions, through negotiation mechanisms. 
"The development of the community is essential for its population, of course, but also because it will promote collaboration and dialogue with neighboring communities. Let's not forget that Kahnawake is located near Montreal, Quebec's first economic center, "added Ms. Larouche. 
Following the meeting, Minister Larouche participated in the Tour of Consultations concerning the economic development of the Corridor of Highway 30. It should be remembered that in May 2013, an interdepartmental committee, consisting of eight ministers, was created in order to Develop a government strategic vision on Highway 30 ranging from Sorel-Tracy to Vaudreuil-Soulanges, as well as a related development plan. The Committee decided to hold a tour of consultations with the partners concerned in the metropolitan area, in order to ensure a common and comprehensive understanding of the various issues related to economic growth, along the new road axis. 
The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the Minister of Education, Leisure and Sport and Minister responsible for the Montérégie Region, Mrs Marie Malavoy, and the Minister Elizabeth Larouche met with the Grand Delisle Chief and the representatives of the Kahnawake community partner organizations, in order to know their vision concerning the development of the Corridor of Highway 30 and to evaluate the opportunities offered to the community. 
