Québec- At the end of the first meeting of the Council of Ministers, the Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, announces that the Government of Quebec today carried out the annulment of the rise in tuition fees and that. Tomorrow, the law 78 will be canceled. 
For the year 2012-2013, the ceiling of tuition fees will be maintained at $ 2,168. The government will not recover increased financial assistance, some students have already benefited. The current regulation of student financial assistance will be maintained for all those who will apply for help. The government will maintain funding for universities. As for Law 78, the provisions concerning the prohibition of manifesting will be repealed by decree tomorrow. These two decisions will bring peace and restore rights and freedoms. 
The Prime Minister also reaffirmed the commitment made during the election campaign to closing the Gentilly-2 nuclear power plant. "I want this gesture to become a symbol of Quebec's commitment to the environment and well-being of future generations, but also a rigorous management of our finances. However, this closure must be done correctly. In this event, I asked the Minister of Natural Resources and Hydro-Québec a full report on the different implications and conditions in which such a closure would be held, "she said, by confirming the creation of An economic diversification fund of $ 200 million for Central-du-Québec and Mauricie. 
Integrity, public finances and economics 
"The first message I delivered to the Council of Ministers this morning was to assert that the integrity of the government is the first requirement of all. On this issue, I will be intractable, "said the Prime Minister, mentioning that the government thus immediately emphasizes integrity as well as public finances and the economy. 
"Budget rigor is non-negotiable. We clearly committed to restoring a balanced budget in 2013-2014 and manage our finances with rigor. This commitment will be respected, "Pauline Marois insisted, adding that the government would question the management of certain budget-impact cases, including some investments that are not taken into account in the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. 
Regarding the economy, the government will quickly put in place the necessary means to revive the activity, support jobs and promote investment. The first of these means is the grouping, under the authority of a single Minister, mandates on finance, economic development, income and tourism. Government action will result in coherence and efficiency. Means must be put in place to stimulate private investment as quickly as possible. 
"I intend to act quickly to offer Quebecers. In the election campaign, we are committed to getting quick results and, in some cases, in the first 100 days of our mandate. The realization of these commitments on day 1 of our mandate confirms our desire to act quickly, "concluded the Prime Minister. 
