Waskaganish- The Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and Minister responsible for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue Region, Mr. François Gendron, the Minister of Natural Resources and Minister responsible for the Secretariat. Nordic Development, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, the Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs, Ms. Elizabeth Larouche, and the Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (Northern Affairs Component) and MP, Mr. Luc Ferland, participated today At a historic ceremony, held on the occasion of the first session of the new Regional Government of Eeyou Istchee Baie-James. 
This event, to which the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, on mission to Davosa also required to join video, was held at the invitation of the Grand Chief of the Grand Council of Cree, Mattew Coon Come and the Mayor of the city of Chibougamau, Ms. Manon Cyr, who has been designated as the first president of the regional government, for a two-year term. 
"The introduction of this government authority represents a historic initiative to harmonize relations between the Government of Quebec, Jamesians and CRIs in the governance of the territory of the former municipality of James Bay. I am confident that this avant-garde approach will allow both communities to contribute even more significantly to the prosperity of a future-leading territory, "said Minister François Gendron. 
"By offering a structure adapted to the current stakes and challenges of the territory, the new powers of the regional government will allow it to participate more in northern development by creating the conditions conducive to the realization of mobilizing projects. It will act as a catalyst for regional development, capable of determining potentials of enhancement of natural resources and territory according to its particular needs, "said Minister Martine Ouellet. 
"This regional government is the very first public management structure that explicitly provides for aboriginal and non-Aboriginal representation. This is a key step in establishing an open and respectful relationship between our two nations, "said Elizabeth Larouche delegate. 
The Regional Government, whose Council is composed of 22 shared seats in equal shared by Cree and Jamesians, exercises the competences, functions and powers conferred on a local municipality, to a regional county municipality, a regional conference of elected representatives and To a Regional Commission on Natural Resources and the Territory on Category III Lands of the former Municipality of James Bay, an area of 277,000 km2. 
"The Regional Government of Eeyou Istchee Baie-James results from a long tradition of" living together "which testifies to the maturity of the relationship between the cries and Jamesians by bringing together their representatives around the same table for the First time in the history of our region, "said the member Luc Ferland. 
"As Northern Citizens, we all have the responsibility to work on the establishment of future-leading partnerships for all residents of the region and it is this opportunity that we offer the establishment of the regional government. 'Eeyou Istchee Baie-James, "said the Chair of the Regional Government, and Mayor of Chibougamau, Manon Cyr. 
"This regional government that we are inaugurating today reflects the vision of a new way for this region which is based on the noble principles of inclusion, democracy and social harmony," concluded Grand Chief Dr Matthew Coon Come, Vice President of the Regional Government. 
