Sainte-Clotilde-de-Châteauguay- Senator Jean-Guy Dagenais, on behalf of the Minister of Industry and Minister of State (Agriculture), Mr. Christian Paradis, and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron, are pleased to announce the allocation of financial support from $ 440,000 to the Greenhouses Lefort for the establishment of a technological showcase for the production of peppers of greenhouse for the Quebec market. 
The aid that is granted comes from the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, funded under the Canada-Quebec Agri Flexibility Agreement. The built-in greenhouse of 2.4 hectares is at the cutting edge of technology. She recently delivered her first peppers that are marketed under the Vôg brand. The expertise acquired should contribute to the expansion of this new culture in Quebec. 
"This investment in Canada's Economic Action Plan will help make this greenhouse better and increase sales of local vegetables. This support for the development and adaptation of this agri-food industry is also support for agriculture as a central economic drive and aims to ensure the competitiveness of the sector in the long term, "said Dagenais. 
"This greenhouse is a good concrete example of what we aim with the policy of food sovereignty that we have just disclosed: an offer of quality Quebec products for the consumer and a production realized in a sustainable way, since all the energy used for Heating comes from a biomass-based system. Finally, it is the economy of the bioalimentary sector that is thus energized, with the creation of about twenty jobs, "said Gendron. 
The Quebec government wants to give the server sector the means to be more competitive and competitive. Thus, the Prime Minister of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, announced, on the occasion of the unveiling of the policy of food sovereignty, that serricole companies would benefit from adapted electricity rates. These rates could allow them to reduce their energy costs by about 25%. 
Recall that the governments of Canada and Quebec announced on March 25, 2011 the signing of the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, which includes an investment of $ 16.7 million over a period of 4 years. This program aims to support both adaptation and the development of agri-food sectors with regard to a context of competitive mutation competitive business. 
For a complete description of the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, visit the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food website: www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/strategiesectoral. For further information on the food sovereignty policy, consult the blog dedicated to it (www.politiquesa.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food ( www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa). It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
