Joliette- On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the member for Joliette, Minister responsible for the Lanaudière Region and Minister Delegate to Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Véronique Hivon, announced a first agreement cultural development between the city of Joliette and the Ministry of Culture and Communications. The minister made this announcement with the mayor of Joliette, René Laurin. 
The Cultural Development Agreement aims at the development of the Pliettain heritage, the creation of an event in the dance sector, the promotion of the work of the artists as well as the positioning of this city as a cultural destination. The implementation of this agreement will give the population the opportunity to learn about the arts and culture by promoting an interaction between citizens and creators. 
"I welcome the unwavering commitment of the municipal elected representatives of the region in cultural development. This first partnership between the Ministry of Culture and Communications and the City of Joliette will help offer different cultural activities to the citizens of Joliette in a sustainable way, "said Maka Kotto. 
"It is said that we are harvesting what we sow: by giving last year of a large cultural policy, the city of Joliette carefully prepared the ground for the signing of this agreement. Can count on a dynamic socio-economic environment and a community of well-living artists, it again confirms culture as a major axis of its development. We can therefore aspire to have access to a cultural leisure or an artistic professional practice, with a perspective of improving the quality of life of citizens from here. It rejoices me and excite me greatly! , "Said Véronique Hivon. 
The city of Joliette will therefore be able to realize different projects thanks to this two-year agreement. The financial participation of the Ministry of Culture and Communications amounts to $ 40,000 and comes from the Program Assistance to Partnership Initiatives. The city of Joliette contributes for the same amount to this agreement whose total costs are estimated at $ 80,000. 
