Montreal - a few weeks after speaking his opening speech, in which she affirmed his willingness to give a new breath to the relations with the Aboriginal people, the Prime Minister of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, met this afternoon the Grand Chef Cree, Mr. Matthew Coon Come. "Today, the Government of Quebec and the Grand Council of Crees (Eeyou Istchee) renew their willingness to have frank, fruitful and carrier relationships for the whole Quebec. We therefore pursue in the direction drawn by the peace of the brave, which had introduced the nation principle to nation and paved the way for an era of cooperation and prosperity, "said Marois. 
This first official discussion since the beginning of the mandate of the new government aims in particular to initiate the implementation of the Governance Agreement in the territory of Eeyou Istchee-James. From the entry of the game, the premier of Quebec assured the great chef that all his team was ready. Negotiations and work will be undertaken in very short term with the Cree. The first milestones were posed by the various ministries concerned, or will be at the near future. In addition, a bargaining team is in place to carry out the discussions. The appointment of the main negotiator, Mrs. Martine Tremblay, was warmly welcomed by the Grand Council of Crees (Eeyou Istchee). 
The meeting was held a few days after the creation of the Nordic Development Secretariat, whose mandate is to coordinate all government actions to meet the needs of Nordic communities and to ensure the responsible development of the North. "We share the same concerns about the issues and challenges that challenge us. We will set together essential issues such as sustainable development, protection and enhancement of natural resources. It is by showing openness and respect that we will develop the best solutions to realize the north for all, a project that will be beneficial for the whole Quebec, "said Marois. 
Signed in last July, the Governance Agreement in the territory of Eeyou Istchee-James aims to allow cries to exert greater autonomy and to have increased responsibilities, particularly with regard to management. land and natural resources. It provides for the creation of a new regional government to replace the municipality of James Bay, which will consist of an equal number of Cree and Jamesian representatives. 
