Quebec- The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the member for Bertrand, Claude Cousineau, announce the ranking of the shopping center of the Domaine-de-L'Esérel in Sainte-Marguerite-du-Lac-Masson, as heritage building, under the Cultural Heritage Act. The building is one of the first shopping centers in Quebec's history. 
"Hinge of the career of the designer and architect Antoine Courtens and personal project of the Baron Belgian Louis Empain, the commercial center of Domaine-de-l'eserel is an important witness of the Art Deco in Quebec. By granting him the status of heritage building, the ministry intends to enhance and make more familiar with modern heritage to the citizens of the Laurentians and all Quebec, "says Maka Kotto. 
Since this building fits into an exceptional natural setting and it has been designed to provide a clear view of Lake Masson, the Minister has also announced that it delimited a protective area to ensure The preservation of the environment of the commercial center of the domain-de-lierel. 
Appeared in a context of multiplication of hotels and country houses in the Laurentians in 1936 and in 1937, this building is a heritage interest for its historical and architectural values. Indeed, it is one of the last witnesses of the prestigious resort whole that this area has been. In addition, the commercial center of the domain-de-l'Eserel is an early manifestation of modern architecture in Quebec. Naval references present in its architecture suggest the luxurious character of the ships and testify to the influence of the Streamline style of Art Deco in Quebec. 
"Not only is the mall of great value for the city of Sainte-Marguerite-du-Lac-Masson, but the environment in which it is equally exceptional. I look forward to this announcement that protects this emblematic building, erected in the Laurentians during the inter-wars, "adds the member for Bertrand, Claude Cousineau. 
The ranking applies to the outer envelope of the building and parts of the interior, including the Blue Room (former Cabaret restaurant) and the main stairwell. It should be noted that other parts of the building are cited by the city, the rectangular appendix of a floor located at the back, the cinema and the hall of the carousel. This ranking and this quote aim to guarantee its protection, knowledge and development as well as its transmission to future generations. 
Additional information regarding the commercial center of the domain-de-l'Eserel are available on the website of the Cultural Heritage Directory of Quebec (CPDC) (www.patrimoine-culturel.gouv.qc.ca). This dissemination tool of the Ministry of Culture and Communications makes it possible to discover the richness and diversity of the Quebec cultural heritage by making it accessible to all. Part of the RPCQ content is now on the Open Data Portal of the Government of Quebec (www.donnes.gouv.qc.ca). 
