Tokyo- The first day of the multisectoral mission led by Minister Jean-François listed in Japanene Company of 35 companies of companies, organizations and educational institutions has already announced the signing of three new agreements of partnership between Quebec and Japanese companies. 
These ads took place as part of a business lunch where the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, which started Monday a one-week mission in Japan, presented Quebec priorities in matters. economic development in front of more than a hundred representatives of Japanese economic circles. 
"Our government does not spare any effort to support Quebec businesses and research centers in conquering new export markets. By choosing to ally the Quebec expertise, our Japanese partners demonstrate that Quebec companies are innovative, creative and that they have recognized know-how in several areas, "said the minister. 
The Quebec acquired company, the world leader of the media solutions platforms for interactive media agencies and the Japanese company IREP announced that they united in a strategic partnership allowing the creation of a co-enterprise that will support The Acquisio Growth Initiative in Japan. With the creation of this partnership, ACQUIO and IREP share expertise and technology to provide a suitable solution for the Japanese market. This long-term contract represents common investments of $ 5 million and will eventually create forty jobs. 
World leader in animation and digital content technology, the Quebec firm Toon Boom Animation and Japanese Heartbit Digital Creation have entered into an agreement regarding the distribution of Toon Boom Storyboard Pro and Harmony software on the Japanese market and translation into Japanese serve local clientele. Considering the importance of the Japanese animation market, this agreement will enable new partners to position a market share of up to 10% of the software, in the first year. 
In terms of energy, the Hydro-Québec Research Institute (IREQ) and the Japanese Group Sei Corporation unite for the commercialization of a new technology in the field of Li-ion batteries, including patents specific to each of both institutions. The anticipated income of the medium-term royalties will be used to finance the research and development activities of signatory partners. 
Third global economy and seventh Quebec client in the world in exports, Japan presents both business opportunities to seize and challenges in terms of language, culture and business practices. In this regard, the minister recalled the essential work of Quebec's General Delegation in Tokyo who, for 40 years, accompanies Quebeckers in their Nippon expansion goals. The anniversary of the Quebec presence in Japan has been emphasized at the end of the day at a reception offered for the occasion at which many influential dignitaries and personalities of Japan were. 
"Quebec is resolutely turned towards the future: 22.6% of its exported manufactured goods are related to the field of high-tech, compared with 11.5% for Canada. Our companies are focusing on innovation to increase their productivity and competitiveness. The Government of Quebec supports the process of developing innovative products in the framework of the national research and innovation and ensures to facilitate the marketing of foreign trade, "said the minister listed. 
The mission in Japan continues until Friday. Several political and economic meetings are planned. 
