Québec- Minister responsible for democratic institutions and citizen participation, Mr. Bernard Drainville, and the government's parliamentary leader, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, condemn the attitude of the Liberal Party in terms of democratic integrity. Today, the party of Mr. Philippe Couillard refused to give his consent for the National Assembly to adopt a motion on the abolition of the starting premiums paid to the resigning members. Remember that later submitting the bill on March 20, Liberal MPs systematically block Bill 33 which would end this practice heavily denounced by Quebeckers and Quebeckers. "The Liberals refuse to withdraw the premium of a member who does not respect the moral commitment contracted with the population. Already two of theirs resigned in less than a year. Everyone with a premium of more than $ 100,000. Clearly, for Philippe Couillard and its deputies, it is the liberal interest before the public interest, "deplored Minister Drainville. 
Here is the wording of the motion presented today by Bernard Drainville: 
"That the members of the 40th Parliament undertake to give up  their transition allowance if they  leave during the present mandate to  less than one medical reason or  Family ". 
The motion presented by the Minister responsible for democratic institutions and citizen participation was rejected from the outset by the Liberal Party. 
"The Liberals do not respect the mandate entrusted to them. The starting bonus must allow the elected officials to make the transition the time they are a new job once the public life is over. If you do not finish the mandate, you should not be entitled to a premium. This is clearly a lack of respect for voters and electors who voted for you. The rejection of our motion shows once again that the Liberal Party has not really changed at the level of ethics, "said Bernard Drainville. 
The Government's Parliamentary Leader, Stéphane Bédard, regrets the systematic blocking strategy to which the Liberals have delivered whenever the bill has been called and debated in the House: "We called for its adoption of principle six times, while one or two sessions usually sufficient. In all, we discussed for 11:33 am to the principle of Bill 33. From this time, 9:45 ama were taken by the 30 Liberal members who intervened to oppose it ". Short of arguments, the Liberals have even used a motion to adjourn in order to put an end to the debate and a motion to postpone the debate, which proposed to postpone three months later the process of adopting this draft law. "We can legitimately ask for what the obstinate refusal of Philippe Couillard debate now debate", "concluded Mr. Bédard. 
You are in favor of Bill 33? Share this image on social media! You can download it to the following address: http: //bit.ly/glw85b 
