Quebec- The member for Verchères and official opposition spokesperson for ethics and integrity, Stéphane Bergeron, asks Yves Bolduc again to give up his departure premium. 
"In addition to the numerous kings of the former minister and his $ 215,000 bonus received for the care of an unreasonable number of patients he abandoned soon returned minister, the premium of about 150,000 Yves Bolduc usually ruins his exit. This premium is absolutely not justified, especially since it will soon return to medical practice and that it may again benefit from an additional amount for each patient he will take charge of, all at the expense of Taxpayers. It was he who made the decision to leave, and that, after having solicited a popular mandate; He must therefore assume the consequences. Out of respect for the population who has to deal with liberal austerity measures, he must set an example and give up his departure bonus, "said Stéphane Bergeron. 
In just a few months, Yves Bolduc has committed several bourdes, including imposing direct cuts in student assistance, which affects academic success. In addition, it put an end to the funding of the HAPE initiative, girls!, Which required a $ 64,000 budget annually, let alone half of the former minister's departure bonus. This contest, very important, aims to enhance and promote the place of women in traditionally male trades. We also remember the unfortunate declaration of Yves Bolduc trivializing the lack of books in school libraries. However, the Foundation for Literacy is currently the 16th edition of its campaign with gift reading, through which thousands of disadvantaged children from 0 to 12 years old receive a new book. A financial contribution from the former Minister of Education would certainly have been welcome ... 
"The cup in hat, girls! is a saving of candlelights. How can Yves Bolduc can, without the slightest embarrassment, take ownership more than twice this sum? After hungry for commendable initiatives that promote equal opportunities and academic success, it seems to me that it should have made a more "respectful" exit, "concluded Stéphane Bergeron. 
It will be remembered that the Government of the Parti Québécois introduced Bill 33, An Act to amend the Labor Conditions Act and the Pension Plan of the Members of the National Assembly, so that a member of Parliament could not affect his premium. Departure if he leaves under office, unless exceptional circumstances. The Liberals had opposed this bill in a stubborn way. Since then, the Liberals Emmanuel Dubourg, Raymond Bachand and Yves Bolduc have prevailed from their departure bonus, while the Calciste Christian Dubé and the Élain Zakayb squwah have given up. 
