Québec - "There is something deeply embarrassing to see the passive attitude of the minister responsible for the application of the French Language Charter, Christine St-Pierre, concerning the bilingual premium put in place by the city of Gatineau. Minister St-Pierre has already showed us many times his indifference in the defense of French, but there is an unconsciousness. This is what the member for Drummond and spokesman of the official language opposition, Yves-François Blanchet said, after learning that the city of Gatineau intends to reward bilingualism within its staff. 
"That we understand each other: we strongly encourage the knowledge of English and we respect the right of English-speaking communities. However, in the present case, the city of Gatineau buys an ideological circumvention of Law 101 with a bonus of 45 cents / hour for white passes that know English, "reproached Yves-François Blanchet. 
For the Parti Québécois, this measure is discriminatory for employees who will not touch this premium. "It is our responsibility to apply linguistic discrimination between Francophones in a French-speaking city. It's intolerable. Whether English is a criterion of competence for certain positions, this is sometimes understandable, but that knowing this language creates financial discrimination established and encouraged by the city is totally unacceptable, and perhaps even illegal. The minister must certainly and immediately deposit the legal opinions on the matter, "said the member for Drummond. 
"In addition, what poses an additional problem is that this premium will be funded from the citizens' money. Do the residents of Gatineau do not live in a state whose official language is French? Does Gatineau City transfers massively everyday with foreign companies and English-speaking countries? Asked the hon. Member for Drummond. 
On the other hand, it is pretty ironic that all this happens when the Liberal government tries to save appearances with an advertising campaign here, we win to speak French, touching Montreal and encouraging an increased presence of French. "While Quebec is investing in Naïve Advertising, Gatineau invests in Anglicisation," concluded Yves-François Blanchet. 
