The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, accompanied by the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and Minister responsible for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region, Mr. François GENDRON, and the hon. Member for Iberville, Ms. Marie Bouillé, announced the award of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 1.85 million to the company A. Lassonde. 
The financial assistance provided will be used to carry out projects totaling $ 19 million in Lassonde plants in Rougemont. These projects aim to modernize multilayer packaging lines and to implement two new preform production lines used for the manufacture of polyethylene terephthalate plastic bottles (PET). The company also plans the addition of a warehouse with an area of 40,000 square feet. 
"With these projects, the Lassonde put on the innovation and expertise of its employees to consolidate its place in a competitive market, where it is essential to ensure its productivity and competitiveness," said Nicolas Marceau. This announcement is part of our government's economic vision, which has just launched the Employment Priority Employment Policy and Quebec Industrial Policy 2013-2017. The Quebec manufacturing sector faces more and more international competition. Our companies must design new products at more competitive costs. Our government is therefore proud to support these projects that will improve production automation, a crucial issue for the competitiveness of our manufacturing sector. » 
"Lassonde, by his know-how and dynamism, is a flagship company of the Quebec biofood industry and an active member of the slot of excellence Transformation," said Franco Gendron. By supporting these projects, our government encourages the deployment of our full potential and consolidates Quebec's Place among the most innovative and successful societies on a North American scale. » 
"Lassonde Industries is a creative business of wealth and jobs in our region, Marie Bouillé added. These investment projects will allow the creation of 24 quality jobs from the implementation of new preform production lines and the consolidation of 20 posts to the Rougemont factories. They are also structuring projects that, in the long term, will preserve more than 800 jobs in the five Lassonde industries factories in Quebec. » 
Founded in 1918, the Lassonde industries specialize in the manufacture of fruit and vegetable juices marketed under recognized brands, such as Fairlee, fruity, Clement Pappas, Oasis and Rougemont. The company also manufactures specialized food products, such as broths and melted sauces, under brands like Antico and Canton. In addition, it imports and markets selected wines from several countries of origin and produces apple cider and wine-based drinks. The company is one of the largest apple processors in Quebec. 
"The support of the Government of Quebec will contribute to increase our production capacity and modernize our facilities, in order to maintain our competitiveness," said the President and Chief Exploitation of Industries Lassonde, Mr. Jean Gattuso. "The realization of these projects increases the strategic importance and value of our Quebec factories within the Lassonde and the North American Bioalimentary Industries. » 
