Montréal- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, today proceeded to the unveiling of the 2014 National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI) -2019. This policy is part of the four strategic initiatives of Quebec's economic policy, priority, launched last week by the Prime Minister. With the NPO, the Quebec government will make an investment of $ 3.7 billion. 
"I am pleased to announce that PNRE has an unprecedented financial effort on the part of our government. Compared to the previous SQRI (2010-2013) with a budget of $ 1.6 billion, the NPO will count on an envelope of $ 2.1 billion for the next three years. Given the budgetary context, this additional effort of nearly $ 500 million demonstrates the importance of our government grants to research and innovation as the pillars of the development of our economy and society, "said Minister Duchene. . 
In recent years, Quebec has declined as regards the share of its GDP devoted to research and development. It went from 2.8% in 2003 to 2.4% in 2009. The Minister stressed that the target of 3% is the central element that guided all the work surrounding the NPO, adding that the Achievement of this target is essential if we want to achieve our goals for economic development and job creation. 
Pierre Duchesne today proceeded to the unveiling of the National Research and Innovation Policy (PNRI) 2014-2019. // (c) MESRST 
The company holds an important place within the NAVP and has increased support. For example, a new tool will provide financial and technical assistance to SMEs eager to undertake the deposit of a first patent application. PNRs enhances support for technology start-ups. It launches a first-employment program for researching colleges and universities. Measures also affect the recovery and transfer of research results as well as the international caliber excellence poles developed by companies. 
Collaborations with international researchers teams are an important part of the NPO. For example, the Innovation Québec research network will be created; It will promote better communication and close close links between researchers, organizations and businesses. This network will benefit among others from the QuebecInnovation platform. Enhanced support will also be granted to different sectoral industrial research groups to promote synergy between researchers and industrialists 
The policy prioritizes seven strategic areas for which Quebec has strong and recognized businesses, skilled labor and renowned researchers. It is aeronautics, bioalimentary, biotechnology, renewable energies and electrification of transport, creative industries, personalized health care as well as information and communications technologies. 
The Minister is proud to announce that the budget basis for the National Research and Innovation Policy will extend over five years. This longer-term vision will ensure the sustainability of the funding for university research, the Collegiate Technology Transfer Centers (CCTT), Quebec Research Funds and the various organizations and research centers, a request long time of these circles. 
The Government reiterates its support for Quebec Research Funds and guarantees the protection of their budgets for the next five years. The budget base of the funds will be increased by 25% by 2014-2015 over five years. It's more than a billion dollars that will be devoted to them. An increase of $ 142 million over the period, compared to 2012-2013. 
Amounts are reserved in the NPCP to enhance the CCTT budget for their operation and for the establishment of three new centers. In this sense, the budget envelopes of the CCTT will be enhanced by 10% over three years. The potential of the benefits of the collaborative research activities of the CCTTs is immense. This is why the National Research and Innovation Policy wants to build on these achievements to further stimulate synergy between researchers, businesses and practice settings. 
Following a commitment made at the Higher Education Summit, emphasize that PNRs will further support university research, or an additional $ 340 million over the next five years. 
The PNR provides concrete and long-term solutions to the indirect research costs (FIR) by adding $ 286 million to the reinvestment of $ 340 million to assume the complete costs of research. Unlike the federal government, the Quebec government will fulfill all FIRs arising from research projects sponsored in universities by Quebec ministries and organizations. The full reimbursement of FIR will be beneficial for both researchers, universities, CCTTs and healthy academic research centers. 
An unprecedented $ 25 million effort to current budgets will be invested for laboratories in public schools in disadvantaged. Additional support is also planned to stimulate science succession and to strengthen scientific culture, which will bring the financial effort to $ 70 million. 
Collaboration is a central theme of PNRI. It reiterates the importance of joining the strong forces of research and innovation with the aim of meeting the challenges of society that are at our demographic, environmental and identity doors. 
PNRI is also reflected by: 
Download Full Ledocument (PDF) of the PNriteLoad Ledocument Synthesis (PDF) from the PNRIVIDER The Album PhotoDed Launch of the NPO 
