Quebec- "A citizen party government is committed to abolishing the health tax and restoring Quebec families the $ 400 that Jean Charest came to seek in their pocket with the imposition of this regressive tax which strikes the same way the most poor as the richest ". 
It is the commitment today the official opposition and deputy of Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, with the approximately 4.7 million Quebeckers who are preparing to complete their tax return and to Pay this inequitable contribution. 
"The Parti Québécois wants to restore economic justice. This liberal health tax affects all Quebeckers regardless of their income. These are the poorest and the families of the middle class that Jean Charest has penalized by imposing this additional financial burden. At the Québécois Party, we are committed to overcoming these $ 400 in the pockets of Quebec families, "A guaranteed Pauline Marois. 
The official finance person in the official opposition and deputy of Rousseau, Nicolas Marceau, denounced Jean Charest's indifference with regard to the middle class. "While our economy slows up, that job losses are multiplying and the disposable income of Quebec decreases, the Charest government has doubled the amount of the health contribution in addition to rising QST, the gas tax, the gasoline tax. electricity rates and tuition fees. The middle class is always the one who pays, "he explained, adding that by picking up $ 200 in the pocket of every Quebecer, it is not only their quality of life that is affected, they are 950 million Dollars that could have been spent to stimulate our economy. 
The Parti Québécois is committed to doing this operation at zero cost. For the sake of economic justice, we propose to relieve the middle class by asking the richer of our company to contribute more. 
"It is taxpayers whose income is greater than $ 130,000, particularly $ 250,000, which we will ask to make an additional effort. We want to restore economic justice in Quebec by requiring the most fortunate to make a little more. We also propose to review the taxation applicable to a portion of the performance of certain financial assets. There is no question of further aggravating the situation of our public finances, "said the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
"With such a revision of our tax structure, we reach two important objectives. We are restoring economic justice between the middle class and the most fortunate, we create an economic stimulus of $ 950 million to revive consumption, "said the member for Rousseau. 
"The Liberal government is indeed ideas to find solutions to stimulate our economy. Jean Charest has indebted Quebec of $ 55 billion since he is in power. The indebtedness strategy has reached its limits. It is necessary to innovate to act on our economic growth without further deteriorating our public finances, "concluded Pauline Marois, mentioning that the Parti Québécois is the only political training that undertakes to restore economic justice and to better distribute the tax burden of Families. 
