What we announced today is neither for doctors nor for pharmacists nor for nurses. 
It's for you all. To give you better care. We know that health is your high priority. It's ours too. 
In 18 months, the balance sheet of the Québécois healthy party is already impressive. 
Our government has managed to implement a clear and effective plan for the patient to become the number 1 priority of the health system. We worked hard. We acted where it was necessary. 
In Nicolas Marceau's latest budget, we increased the $ 976 million health envelope. We have invested in home care, in access to family physicians. 
Since we have arrived in the government, there are 3,000 less people on waiting lists for surgery, and a record number of non-urgent surgical procedures have been practiced. 
We have also created 13 new groups of family medicine. This is 323,000 more Quebeckers who now have a family doctor. 
Such results do not occur by magic. 
They hold a new approach that we are implementing with Minister Réjean Hébert: put all the bodies of health professionals to improve the accessibility and quality of care. In particular, we think of clinical nurses, pharmacists, kinesiologists, nutritionists, social workers, and I pass. 
By developing this first line, we make sure that people can treat themselves by staying at home, rather than being hospitalized. We also make sure that some more mild minds or chronic diseases are worsening and leading to complications that require a stay at the hospital. 
The Parti Québécois brought together the best health team. A multidisciplinary and competent team that brings together the expertise of several groups of professionals: Réjean Hébert, the best Minister of Health of the last ten years, Véronique Hivon, an empathetic and rigorous minister, Diane Lamarre, former president of the order of Quebec and candidate pharmacists in Taillon, Gyslaine Desrosiers, former President and Chief Executive Officer of Quebec and Candidate Nurses in Blainville, and Dr. Gilles Aubé, family doctor and candidate in Hull. 
We have the best team. We have the best plan. We have the determination. 
And we will succeed! 
March 17 in brief: give priority to the patient 
