On September 19, 2012, a few days after the election of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois appointed a delegated minister to industrial policy, created a Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, and added the Foreign trade to the responsibilities of the Minister of International Relations and La Francophonie. In his speech, she gave the mandate to each of them to prepare a policy for this purpose, as planned in the party election platform. 
A few months later, she appointed a parliamentary assistant dedicated to the electrification of transport to carry out her electoral commitment to implement this project. 
On October 7, 2013, the Premier presented the fruit of these mandates entrusted a year ago, an economical economicsCompany four strategic initiatives: 
His ministers delivered the merchandise effectively, responsible and rigorous. Some observers see it the imminence of an election trigger. The opposition parties, meanwhile, shout at the DIY of measures and improvisation. 
Yet it is obvious that the government of the Parti Québécois only implements what it had announced. And that he does it well. 
Just take a look at the concert of positive reactions that followed Monday's announcement to be convinced of it: 
Metropolitan Montreal Chamber of Commerce 
"The plan presented today offers a breath of oxygen whose economy needs. » 
Federation of Chambers of Commerce of Quebec 
"The Government reveals several interesting measures on economic development and job creation. » 
Manufacturers and exporters of Quebec 
"The government goes in common sense by recognizing the manufacturing priority. » 
"We can only receive this policy with enthusiasm. » 
"(The government) about both immediate and other measures that will register in a long-term vision. » 
"The government is aimed at just seeking to stimulate investment in the manufacturing sector. » 
Council of Patronat du Québec 
"The CPQ supports the various economic measures presented by the Prime Minister of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Finance, Mr. Nicolas Marceau. » 
"The majority of the proposed interventions, whether in terms of productivity, innovation or marketing, go in the right direction and we support them without reservation. » 
Canadian Federation of Independent Business 
"FCEI welcomes the measures for SMEs. » 
Federation of Quebec Workers 
"The FTQ welcomes the presentation of the new economic policy by the Marois government. » 
Energy Sector Canadian Union of Public Service 
"Announced economic policy is entreprenerative, particularly in terms of the electrification of transport and electricity surpluses. » 
Confederation of National Trade Unions 
"The CSN applauds the Government of Quebec's initiative to move forward with a proactive economic policy, which aims to support the development of the economy and employment. » 
Central Trade Unions of Quebec 
"The CSQ wishes to express its agreement with the objectives of the Prime Minister's approach, which is creating quality employment priority for economic development policy. » 
Union of Quebec Municipalities 
"The Policy of the Government of Quebec responds to several concrete concerns [of the UMQ]. The UMQ is pleased to note that the new policy accentuates the turn to a greener Quebec economy. » 
Association of the Quebec Electric Industry 
"Quebec opts for a strategic approach to development. » 
"The Government of Quebec was right to bet on the electricity industry in Quebec. » 
"This economic policy will help attract world-class players while accompanying companies in the US market. » 
Quebec Association of the Tourism Industry 
"The AQIT welcomes with great enthusiasm the new investments of economic policy to support the development of tourism. » 
"Ultimately, the economic policy will create 23,000 new tourist jobs as well as the addition of $ 2.6 billion annually to tourist revenues, which are currently about $ 13 billion. » 
Intellectual Property Institute of Canada (IPIC) 
"We are very pleased that in its economic policy - Priority Employment unveiled yesterday, the Government of Quebec confirms its commitment to supporting innovation and its support for Quebec companies in marketing by SME assistance to obtain a first patent. This first patent program will contribute to economic activity in Quebec and the creation of sustainable wealth and jobs. » 
Montreal Regional Conference (CRED) and its Social Economy Committee (CESIM) 
"The social economy generates annual incomes of two billion dollars and represents more than 60,000 direct jobs on the island of Montreal. The adoption of this law is one step closer to recognize the social economy as a key component of the socio-economic structure of Quebec, but also as a tremendous regional development tool. » 
A long list of praise that can be added positive comments issued by the flow of entrepreneurship by the Quebec forest industry. 
It is clear: the policy that the Parti Québécois government has presented on Monday relies on strong seating and a vast vision for Quebec. Our government puts all its energies at work every day to make Quebec stronger, more proud and prosperous. Because at the Québécois party, we do not build for the benefit of our friends, but for a whole people: we build a country! 
