Montréal - Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, today unveiled his 2013-2017 foreign trade development plan, in which $ 82 million will be invested by The government to converge Quebec efforts on export and better support Quebec exporting companies. 
The objective of the Foreign Trade Development Plan (PDCE) is clear: Reduce the trade deficit of Quebec by increasing exports and the reduction of oil imports. To do this, the action of the government and its partners will be maximized and will respond more to the expectations of Quebec exporting companies. 
"By 2017, the impact of the plan should allow companies accompanied in the markets outside Quebec to generate firm sales of more than $ 940 million and to create more than 6,000 jobs in Quebec," said the minister . 
Of the $ 82 million announced, $ 60 million will be dedicated to an essential tool, Export Quebec Export Program, which will also be reviewed to increase its effectiveness. 
"We will allow Quebec companies that wish to give new impetus to their exports. We expect to accompany 2,500 companies in the markets outside Quebec annually and help identify 1,000 new exporting companies. This is the way of our ambitions, "launched the minister. 
The foreign trade development plan is one of four strategic initiatives related to the Employment Priority Employment Policy, launched by the Prime Minister on October 7th. The plan was developed after an unprecedented consultation effort, associations and regional organizations from across Quebec. Concrete and innovative actions have been identified to support exporting companies, better identify their needs and issues, with the aim of providing simplified access to export services, a better adequacy between the Quebec offer and the Foreign demand, and concerted action of foreign trade actors. 
"The last real strategy specifically targeting foreign trade had been published in the early 2000s by the last government of the Parti Québécois. It was time for efforts and resources to this important part of our economy that is eminently creative of wealth and jobs, "said the minister. 
The government intends to equip Quebec from a strong economic brand image, recognized and considered by investors and buyers around the world. The promotion of competitiveness, innovation, the quality of labor and infrastructure as well as the ease of dealing with Quebec will be put forward. Quebec will, in an extremely competitive approach, occupy the niches that the sectors of excellence represent, including research and innovation, the electrification of transport, green energies and the mining sector. 
The mining sector represents 2.7% of gross domestic product (GDP), about 25% of Quebec exports and generates tens of thousands of direct and indirect jobs in all regions of Quebec. The government intends to support 2,500 suppliers of mining equipment that will highlight Quebec expertise abroad. 
If the United States continues to be the main destination for our exports, special attention is paid to emerging economies. Nearly 40% of Quebec's product growth comes from BRIC countries (Brazil, Russia, India, China) and Quebec is well placed to partner with the take-off of Africa that knows its longest period of expansion in sixty years. 
The geographical proximity of Mexico and the strong demand for high added value products also make it a market of choice, like several European Union member countries with which the economic and commercial agreement that will come into effect in the coming years. 
It should be noted that the launch of the PEDCE has been carried out in consultation with the International Relations of Montreal (Corim) and the Quebec Manufacturers and Exporters (MEQ) in front of a parterre of more than 450 business people. Economic partners, members of the Export Quebec Advisory Committee as well as the heads of the Quebec diplomatic network abroad were also present. 
