Since my government is in power, we have worked very hard to revive Quebec. We had to make difficult decisions and put brave gestures, but we can now work on solid foundations to strengthen Quebec and build a richer, more solidarity and proud nation. It is in this context that I presented today the new Employment Economic Policy, which aims to quickly create quality jobs across Quebec. 
All economies do it at this time: the recovery is slow to make its vigor. It is therefore important to act with all the means that are at our disposal. 
These means, we have them because our government has managed the public finances since the deposit of the last budget. I am very proud of it; This is the first time in the last ten years that the Government of Quebec respects the budget targets it had set. 
We therefore put on four major strategic initiatives: a policy of research and innovation; An industrial policy to support the manufacturing sector, help our businesses modernize and improve their productivity, and create paid jobs throughout Quebec; a foreign trade development plan, to revive our exports; and a last initiative, which is personally dear to me: the electrification of transport. 
Our goal is ambitious. We want Quebec to become a world leader in electrical transport. By supporting the development of this industrial sector, not only will we free ourselves from our dependence on foreign oil and contribute to the achievement of our targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but we will also create jobs quality at home. 
We will also implement two targeted sectoral actions: one to promote tourism growth in Quebec, the other to support the maintenance and development of jobs in the forest sector. 
But we must also act in a very short term to stimulate too shy recovery from our economy. We will implement four flagship measures now: offer electricity, which we have in large quantities, with a reduced rate to attract investment, so to create jobs; Accelerate the authorization of public investment projects that are ready to start, particularly to address mold problems in our schools, renovate and modernize them; encourage investment from SMEs and individuals, among others through tax credits for green renovation; and develop the North responsibly, for the benefit of local communities and all Quebeckers. 
I am very proud of the integrated and bold approach we have presented today to create jobs. I am deeply convinced that this is a keystone for the economic development of Quebec. It is a policy with ambitious means, which is based on a vision for the future and whose impacts will benefit, for a very long time, to all regions of Quebec. 
That's what I want to offer all Quebeckers: a prosperous Quebec, job creator and sustainable wealth. 
