Quebec- The Minister of the Family, Mrs. Nicole Léger, and the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale Region and the Chaudière Region- Appalaches, Ms. Agnès Maltese, want to congratulate the company Proxima Centauri, winner of the "Conciliation-Family Conciliation" award. The price was given to him by the Quebec City of Commerce in collaboration with the youth wing of the Lévis Chamber of Commerce during the Young Desjardins Business Scholarship party. 
"I wish to welcome Proxima Centauri's commitment to work-family conciliation and its determination to foster a better balance between the family and professional responsibilities of its staff. In 2012, the efforts of this undertaking were publicly recognized with the certification of its work-family conciliation program according to the Standard Conciliation Standard attributed by the Quebec Standards Office (BNQ). Proxima Centauri is a source of inspiration in its community and a Quebec government partner in its efforts for families, "said Light Nicole Minister. 
The "Work-Family Conciliation" Recognition Award has been awarded since 2008 by the Ministry of Family, in collaboration with the group of young chambers of Quebec. It aims to highlight the initiatives of a company that contributes concretely to the well-being of its employees, facilitating the balance between their professional responsibilities and their family obligations. 
Founded in 2008, Proxima Centauri is a Quebec Human Resources Strategies consulting firm that works in the areas of training, human resource management and recruitment. Among the working-family conciliation measures implanted within the company, we find in particular flexibility in the work schedule and the possibility of benefiting from different holidays for family reasons, or paid leave in the case of marriage, civil union or mourning as well as leave without pay to meet the needs of its staff. 
"As Minister responsible for the application of the parental insurance law, I note that the various work-family conciliation measures contribute not only to an increase in the rate of activity of women and the increase of the Fathers' presence with their children, but without a doubt about the socio-economic growth of Quebec. Indeed, Quebec is among the precursors on a global scale in this area. So I want to make my congratulations to the company for his constant efforts to foster the well-being of his employees, "said Minister Agnès Maltese.
Proxima Centauri is a team of professionals who are also defined as relatives and close caregivers and, above all, as people seeking a healthy balance between their family and professional obligations. Listening to the needs of its staff and wishing to become a socially responsible company, Proxima Centauri has set up a work-family conciliation program as well as a committee responsible for the latter within the company. These achievements have become its distinctive brand as an employer and an important factor in attracting and retention of its staff. 
"Work-family conciliation measures can improve the quality of life of staff, but they also represent added value for businesses. By integrating work-family reconciliation into their culture and organizational values, companies become more attractive and ensure better workforce retention for their economic prosperity, "said Minister Nicole Léger .  The Ministry of Family acts on several plans to encourage workplaces in setting up measures to promote work-family reconciliation. Financial support is provided as part of the Financial Support Program for Work-Family Conciliation. The terms and details of this program are available on the Web Web of the Ministry of the Family. 
