Montréal - Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announces that he has received the mandate to develop a bill in order to supervise the price of new printed and digital books for the purpose of Limit the news discount to 10% for nine months. 
"I am proud to announce that the government is moving forward with this measure that will protect Quebec's identity and culture. The book is not a commodity like the others. The supervision of the price of printed and digital new books will consolidate the libraries network that guarantees diversified access to books and to provide places of diffusion to our Québec authors in all regions, "said Minister Kotto. 
"We act for the benefit of all the actors in the book world that is the largest sector in the cultural industry with its 12,000 jobs and its annual benefits estimated at nearly $ 800 million. Our action will also be beneficial for readers and consumers who will continue to have access to the expertise of booksellers and thousands of titles they offer, "he added. 
The bill, which will be tabled during the next parliamentary session, will also amend the Quebec Business Development Act in the book area to subject the digital book. These two important measures are part of the consequences of the parliamentary committee on the public selling price of the new printed and digital books held last summer. 
"The government wants to help the libraries network whose financial situation is increasingly precarious. By proposing a bill of thirty-six months, one can measure its impact on the vitality of libraries, while allowing them to make a transition to digital, called to gain a lot of popularity over the next few years . At the end of this period, the Government will conduct an assessment to decide on maintaining the measure or not, "the minister has redeemed. 
With the proposed bill, the price of the book will continue to be fixed by the publisher, but the discount on new printed and digital books would be limited to 10% for novelties for nine months. For example, a book whose price will be set at $ 20 by the publisher could be sold at $ 18 during the nine months after its launch. After this period, the book could be sold more than 10%. 
"The booksellers are critical actors of our society. In addition to being promoters of our authors, they help to make new ones. Without them, Michel Tremblay, Dany Laferrière, Chrystine Grail, Jocelyne Saucier, Éric Dupont or Kim Thuy would not know the success they have today, "said the minister. 
"The vitality of the book in Quebec has always been a concern for our government. It is in Denis Vaugeois that we owe the most important book law that Quebec has known and always consensus today. It was under our government, in 1998, the Summit on Book and Reading, chaired by Prime Minister Lucien Bouchard. Today, our government brings its contribution to the Defense of the Quebec book and the defense of our identity, "concluded Maka Kotto. 
