Quebec - following the interpellation of this morning, the deputies François Rebello and Sylvain Gaudreault, respectively, respectively, the official opposition to the protection of consumers and in terms of energy, were stunned to see the change Government Cap with respect to the steady increase in gasoline prices. 
"In response to a question about the imposition of a ceiling price for the gasoline last Thursday, Minister Normandeau replied that the Energy Régie was studying the proposal. Yet the representative of the minister for the interpellation of this morning, Clément Gignac, told us that it was not the case. In addition, we learned from the media that the Prime Minister was against this ceiling price idea. The Prime Minister not only said the opposite of his minister, but he once again goes against the will of Quebecers, "said the hon. Member for the Prairie. 
"Beyond the beautiful promises, Quebeckers expected concrete gestures from the government to limit the significant fluctuations in the price of gas. Unfortunately, we stopped this morning at a refusal to act from the replacement of the Minister of Natural Resources, Minister Clément Gignac, who had received order of the boss to refuse any price proposal ceiling from the official opposition. , "Said François Rebello. 
"We learned this morning that New Brunswick has got tangible results by implanting a ceiling price. Why what is good for them could not work here and why, again, the Prime Minister refuses to take care of the interests of Quebec preferring to let Ottawa decide? Added François Rebello. 
For its part, Sylvain Gaudreault questioned the minister about the estimated minimum price fixed by the Energy Régie. "We have asked the minister that the Energy Régie sets the estimated minimum price of gas in a daily basis instead of it in a weekly basis, in order to limit unforeseen and important fluctuations in the price of the price. gasoline. It was not new, the government itself had proposed this measure in 2007, but nothing has yet been done on this and obviously it has no intention of doing it, "he deplored. 
