Trois-Rivières- The Minister of the Family, Ms. Nicole Léger, and the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec Region, Mr. Yves-Francois Blanchet wants to congratulate the Junction Youth-Employment MRC Maskinongé, winner of the "Conciliation-Family Conciliation" award. The price was given to him at the first edition of the Edis Gala of the Mauricie's Young Chamber of Commerce. 
"I wish to greet the commitment of the Junction Youth-Employment MRC Maskinongé in terms of work-family conciliation and the efforts it has made to promote a better balance between the family and professional responsibilities of its staff. This organization is a source of inspiration in its environment and a partner for the Government of Quebec in its action for families, "said Minister Nicole Léger. 
The "Work-Family Conciliation" Recognition Award has been awarded since 2008 by the Ministry of Family, in collaboration with the group of young chambers of Quebec. It aims to highlight the initiatives of a company or organization that contributes concretely to the well-being of its employees, facilitating the balance between their professional responsibilities and their family obligations. 
The junction youth-employment MRC Maskinongé is a non-profit organization present in the Maskinongois territory since 1997. Because it could not be as competitive in the wage level as other categories of employers, the Junction Youth-Employment MRC Maskinongé put forward work-family conciliation measures that made a difference in the attraction and retention of its employees. "Among the Junior Junction-Employment initiatives MRC Maskinongé in terms of work-family conciliation, mention a flexible schedule, teleworking, the possibility of enjoying different holidays for family events as well as special holidays during the summer and the period of the summer and the period of the summer. Parties who are in addition to the holidays. These initiatives have helped to make this organization an employer of choice and innovative in its sector of activity, "said Minister Yves-Francois Blanchet. 
"Work-family conciliation measures improve the quality of life of staff, but they also represent added value for organizations, regardless of their sector of activity. By integrating work-family reconciliation into their institutional values, these organizations become more attractive and make sure of better retention of the workforce needed to their development, "said the light minister. 
The Ministry of Family acts on several plans to encourage workplaces in the implementation of innovative measures to promote work-family reconciliation. Financial support is provided as part of the Financial Support Program for Work-Family Conciliation. The terms and details of this program are available on the Web Web of the Ministry of the Family. 
