Quebec, August 28, 2020 - In the light of what a recent survey of the Caregiver of Quebec (RANQ) indicates, the member for Rimouski and spokesman for the Quebecois for Seniors and Caregivers, Harold Lebel , press the minister responsible for seniors and caregivers, Marguerite Blais, to implement measures really coming and directly supporting caregivers, urgently. 
IN SHORT 
"It is estimated that one in four Quebecers can be considered a relative caregiver. Everyone admits immediately that the contribution of these people is precious or essential. But who will support them? In question the hon. Member for Rimouski. 
Because indeed, according to the data collected by the RANQ, the close caregivers face a crowd of difficulties, that the CVIV-19 crisis has only exacerbate. "Financially, first: 20% of respondents said that the expenses related to their role had increased by about $ 900 per month that spring, while nearly two-thirds of them were not eligible Government programs, such as the PCU. It should also be considered that the pandemic has ensured that several services, for example, housekeeping or transportation, have been suspended, which has increased further the task of caregivers. Add to that stress, isolation, exhaustion, besides many caregivers are themselves older ... Their situation is simply untenable, even in the short term, "Judge Harold Lebel. 
That's why the hon. Member calls for the minister dedicated to them, Marguerite Blais. "In recent months, I have often heard Ms. Blais talking about seniors' houses, but rarely the challenges faced by caregivers, because of the lack of care and home care. Now, in the health chain, this link is one of the first importance! In June, the minister had submitted a bill to recognize and support close caregivers, by his adoption, nothing is planned for them. Not even in the action plan in case of second wave! He lamented. 
Moreover, during the study of the credits, Harold Lebel has tried to learn more about the intentions of the government as to the close caregivers, but he was only entitled to a ping-pong match between the Ministers Blais, Carring and Dubé. "Ultimately, the minister responsible for caregivers is Marguerite Blais. It is therefore his duty to take the real measure of the distress expressed by caregivers and community organizations in the field, and to quickly offer them solutions, concrete. Otherwise, Quebec will have to deal with serious consequences, among others for seniors, disabled or loss of autonomy, "said the hon. Member for Rimouski. 
