Rouyn-Noranda- The member for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue and a parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Labor, Mr. Gilles Chapadeau, is proud to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, regions and occupation of the territory, Minister Transport and MP from Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the City of Rouyn-Noranda will receive a financial contribution of $ 588,390 for the replacement of drinking water, wastewater and stormwater. This assistance is granted as part of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM). 
More precisely, this contribution will be used to replace drinking water, wastewater and rainwater pipes under several sections of Tremoy Road to the City of Rouyn-Noranda. In total, it's more than three hundred meters of water pipes that will be renewed. 
"I am very pleased with the financial support today for the City of Rouyn-Noranda for the implementation of these water infrastructure work. Our government is aware of the need to renew and develop water infrastructure in communities across Quebec. That is why he works in partnership with the valuable partners that the municipalities are, in order to allow access to quality public services for all, with a view to sustainable development, "said MP Gilles Chapadeau. 
The realization of this project requires government financial assistance of $ 588,390, under the PIQM 1.5 component. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this part of the PIQM program allows not only to ensure the sustainability of the infrastructures, but also to enhance the quality of life of the population and to create many jobs in all of the Regions of Quebec. 
The support of the Quebec government to the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) released last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the associated costs and to make informed choices. 
