Firm - the member for Labelle and Government Manager of the Laurentians Region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, is pleased to announce today, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the Devil's Mountain Regional Park will receive $ 170,000 financial assistance for the construction of eight refuges. This assistance comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship (PIEC) infrastructure program. It should be noted that this is the first authorized project this year as part of the PIEC program for the Laurentides region. 
"I am very happy with the investment announced today for the construction of eight shelters at the Devil Mountain Regional Park. These new shelters, located at the foot of the mountain, will help improve the hosting offer and increase capacity. In addition, the completion of this project will promote the growth of the region by diversifying tourism activities, in addition to meeting the expectations of many customers who benefit directly, but also to the entire community in the region. Laurentians who can enjoy it, "said MP Sylvain Pagé. 
The project aims at the construction of eight new shelters near the welfare pavilion, near the services, at the foot of the mountain. These shelters will serve as cottages for hikers and outdoor lovers. Since the current shelters are located at the top of the mountain, this initiative will provide another type of customer accommodation from the Devil Mountain Regional Park and propose various outdoor activities in addition to attracting tourists who are Adepts of mountain biking, cross-country skiing, racket and hiking. This project is part of a regional park development plan and will certainly have positive benefits both at the social and economic levels of which the entire community can benefit. 
The completion of this project requires a total investment assessed at $ 600,000. The Government of Quebec, within the framework of the PIEC, contributes for a maximum amount of $ 170,000. Other partners also participate in the project, including the Social Economy Fund, the social economy site and the Desjardins Caisses of Mont-Laurier and News. 
Let us mention that the devil mountain is the second highest peak of the Laurentians and that it constitutes a dominant tourist attraction in the MRC of Antoine-Labelle. Created in September 2012 and located 80% on the territory of New and 20% on that of Mont-Laurier, the Devil Mountain Regional Park aims to ensure cohabitation and harmonization of activities on an area of 100 km2. 
The Solidarity Coop of Social Economy companies of the Laurentians recognizes the Devil Mountain Regional Park as a social economy company. By its development and consolidation of its activities in the tourism sector, the park greatly contributes to the socio-economic vitality of the region. 
For its part, the President of the Devil's Mountain Park Corporation and Mayor of the Municipality of Farmhouse, Mr. Gilbert pilot, was very happy with the support of the Government of Quebec which will allow the organization to achieve Its development project of the regional park to better serve its customers and the community. 
Recall that the PIEC has a budget envelope of $ 10 million. It aims to support social economy companies in the implementation of projects of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition of commercial or industrial infrastructure. The objectives of the CEP are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories as well as to promote the preservation and valorization of the environment. 
