Rimouski - Minister Delegate to Tourism and Minister of the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, announces financial support of $ 390,000, in the form of a loan, from the development support program for the tourist attractions (Padat ), at the Pointe-Au-Father's maritime site, for the construction of a multifunctional room, a project totaling an investment of $ 1,039,000. 
The project consists of the construction of a multifunctional room, the hangar 14, with an area of 330 m2 with about 150 seats in a wooden building at the back of the Empress of Ireland Museum. The building will accommodate the different commemorative activities surrounding the centenary of the sinking. 
"This innovative project is entirely in the vision of the Padat and is, in itself, a model of economic and tourism development that will contribute to making Quebec an original and essential destination for world caliber. The project will also promote the development of the St. Lawrence River by improving its access, knowledge and animation. He will participate, by the very fact, to make the St. Lawrence an international tourist icon, "said Minister Bérubé. 
For his part, the hon. Member for Rimouski, Mr. Irvin Pelletier, welcomed this announcement for its region. "The Empress of Ireland project is actively involved in developing the potential of tourism regions and is part of cultural and event tourism, a carrier facet identified in the tourism development of the regions. The construction of the Hangar 14 will consolidate a job and the creation of 4 new positions, in addition to increasing the awareness of the destination. I am delighted with the support that the government brings to this project project for the region. " 
Finally, the Director General of the Pointe-Au-Father's Marine Historic Site, Mr. Serge Guay, urged that "this financial support will add a strong element to an already existing complex. Indeed, the uniqueness of our product, in addition to its governmental heritage recognitions, is an undeniable force for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region. The important annual traffic of the site over 50,000 visitors certainly constitutes a guarantee of success for our Hangar 14 project. 
In addition to the evening show, the program scheduled for commemorating the sinking includes, among other things, a party of tales and legends, thematic exhibitions, wreck excursions, testimonial activities, a memorial dinner, the establishment of a memorial and other point animations of the site. 
Remember that the Empress of Ireland project is also supported by $ 100,000 financial assistance from the Strategic Assistance component to tourism tourism projects and $ 100,000 from the Bas- Tourism Regional Partnership Agreement. Saint Laurent. 
The PADAT is intended to offer Quebec tourism companies with flexible financial solutions adapted to the realities of the tourism industry, by the granting of a term loan or a loan guarantee. Coming from the 2012-2020 Tourism Industry Development Plan, the PADAT has an envelope of $ 85 million also spread over five years. Financial interventions are between $ 150,000 and $ 2 million. Initiated by Tourisme Québec, the PADAT is managed and administered by Investissement Québec, through its new tourism division. 
For the complete conditions relating to this program and to obtain the financial assistance application forms, see one or other of the following pages: 
Hey. Tourism E. Hook v. Second. Wipe / Program Mes-Services / Love / I am afraid to hit him .html 
Hey .INVEST quebec.com/ put in /index.aspx? Published = 3190 
