Jonquière- The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce the granting of $ 70,000 financial assistance for The standards and exterior restoration of the building of the Cooperative of Solidarity Lac Keno. This assistance comes from the program of infrastructures in collective entrepreneurship (PIEC). 
Concretely, this financial support aims at the renovation of the current building of the convenience store The Lac-Kenogami sector. The project involves building standards, especially with respect to fire safety, drinking water supply and power supply and air conditioning, which will allow the solidarity cooperative. Lake Keno to consolidate its service of convenience store and develop, in its vacant premises, additional services to the population. 
Specifically, the organization also wants to provide health services and food services, including a Bistro sandwich. In addition, the Solidarity Cooperative Lake Keno would like to further support the cultural social activities of the sector. 
"La Coop Lac Keno offers local services that contribute to the socio-economic vitality of a Sector of the Jonquière borough and the aid granted is a way for our government to recognize it. I am very proud of the investment announced today for the renovation and setting up the current building of the cooperative. In addition to meeting the needs of the population of Lac-Kenogami and holidaymakers, the organization, founded in 2011, is a good example of a management of local development by environmental people. I thank the proponents for the efforts they have made, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The completion of this project requires a total investment assessed at $ 152,000. The Government of Quebec, within the framework of the PIEC, contributes for a maximum amount of $ 70,000. 
Recognized as a social economy enterprise by the Regional Social Economy Pole of the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean Region, the Solidarity Cooperative Lake Keno has more than 205 members. In addition, this organization has the financial support of some organizations, including Sobey's, the CLD of the city of Saguenay and the Desjardins Solidarity Fund. 
"In the long term, this project will maintain and develop local services for the entire community. This initiative demonstrates the dynamism and mutual help from people from home and will have positive impacts throughout the community, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
For its part, the President of the Cooperative of Solidarity Lac Keno, Mr. Louis Pilot, is very pleased with the support of the Government of Quebec, which will allow the organization to carry out its renovation project and to continue its mission that is to serve the community. 
Equipped with an investment envelope of $ 10 million, the PIC aims to support social economy companies in the implementation of projects of refurbishment, expansion, construction or acquisition of commercial infrastructure or industrial. The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy companies, contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories and to promote the preservation and valorization of the quality of the environment. 
