** Sainte-Anne-de-la-Perrade- The member for Champlain, NoëlThe Champagne, today announced the granting of a financial assistance of $ 156,800 to support the completion of a carrier project in the region of Mauricie. She made the announcement on behalf of the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert. Excertrated over a period of one to three years, these projects benefit from this support as part of the support component to the Community actions of the new Quebec friend of elders. 
"Our government has the effort to adapt Quebec to the aging of the population, and these projects contribute in a beautiful way. Through the Community Action Support component, we help seniors stay longer at home, in their community, adapting their living environments to their realities. We also promote their active participation in Quebec society by helping to make their environments healthier, safer and more welcoming, "said MP Noël Champagne. 
Equipped with an overall $ 60 million granted over five years, the Community Aids Support component of the Elders AMI program aims to support the realization of local local or regional projects that are carried by the community, and where people. Elders are involved. The financial assistance announced today is granted to the Channels AQDR for its living environment for small private homes for seniors. 
"Since they contribute to better integrating seniors into social and community life, these projects benefit not only to the elderly, but the whole community. I encourage all regional and local organizations to continue their efforts in this direction, and even to accentuate them, because it is how we will ensemble, together, to build a Quebec for all, and therefore a Quebec friend of seniors ", Concluded the member for Champlain. 
Remember that in 2012-2013, a global sum of $ 7,669,112 was granted as part of the Quebec AMI program of seniors: $ 2,99979 through the support component to national projects and experimentation for the Realization of 13 projects, and $ 4,669,433 through the Community Action Support component for the implementation of 67 projects, of which the project announced today in the Mauricie region. 
