Duhamel- The Minister of Public Safety, Minister responsible for the Ottawa and Deputy Region of Verchères, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, regions and occupation of the territory Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the realization of a project of RECIM in the Ottawa region. Thus, the municipality of Duhamel will receive government assistance for the construction of a new municipal garage. This assistance will be granted under the new 5.1 sub-component of the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM) program, which is devoted only to municipal or community-based infrastructure projects. 
"I am very proud to announce today the participation of our government in the implementation of this important infrastructure project in the Outaouais region. The future municipal garage is a strong project that will meet the environment's expectations. In addition, this new infrastructure will ensure the health and safety of its employees as well as the adequate maintenance of the municipality's road services, in the best interests of the community, "said Minister Stéphane Bergeron. 
The Duhamel Municipality's project aims at the construction of a new municipal garage, because of the obsolescence and non-compliance of the current building of public services. Thus, the new municipal garage will keep the road services of the municipality for many years.  Under the current rules and standards of the PIQM sub-component, the financial assistance for the project of the Duhamel municipality is estimated at 70% of the amount of eligible costs. 
With a budget envelope of nearly $ 60 million over five years, the PIQM sub-flap 5.1 allows Quebec municipalities to carry out construction, setting up, rehabilitation or refurbishment of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the supply of service and the quality of life of citizens, in addition to overcoming the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures. 
The support of the Quebec government to the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) released last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
