Petit-Saguenay- The member for Dubuc, Mr. Jean-Marie Claveau, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce The granting of $ 330,000 financial assistance to the Petit-Saguenay Consumption Cooperative for the relocation of its facilities. This assistance comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship (PIEC) infrastructure program. 
More concretely, this financial support aims to move the Consumption Cooperative from Petit-Saguenay to new 7,000 square feet premises that will bring together all the local services of the municipality, including a grocery store, hardware, restaurant and A store offering seasonal products. In addition to consolidating local services, the cooperative wishes to ensure the sustainability of the gas station. 
"The Consumption Cooperative of Petit-Saguenay plays a key role in the community and aid granted to the organization today is a way for our government to recognize it. I am very proud of the investment announced for the relocation of the cooperative in a new building. The realization of this project will allow the cooperative to consolidate all local services under one roof, in addition to maintaining the economic vitality and the occupation of this sector of Bas-Saguenay, "said the member Jean-Marie Claveau. 
This initiative requires a total investment valued at $ 1,703,000. The Government of Quebec, as part of the PIEC, contributes for a maximum amount of $ 330,000. This contribution will be increased by $ 54,868 to take into account the interests that the body should assume during the aid payment period. 
Other partners also participate in the project, including the Saguenay Local Economic Development Center, the Fjord Community Development Assistance Society and the Petit-Saguenay Economic Development Corporation. 
For its part, the President of the Consumer Cooperative of Petit-Saguenay, Michel Houde, was very happy with the support of the Government of Quebec for the realization of his relocation project which will allow him to offer better services to its customers and the community. 
Founded by farmers in 1958, the Petit-Saguenay consumption cooperative offers out-of-pest products and services to the people of the community. This company, which has adapted and transform itself with time, is rooted in its community since it has nearly 400 members on a population of 730 residents. 
Recall that the PIEC has a budget envelope of $ 10 million. It aims to support social economy companies in the implementation of projects of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition of commercial or industrial infrastructure. The objectives of the CEP are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories as well as to promote the preservation and valorization of the environment. 
