Sainte-Anne-des-Plaines - The member for Labelle, Government Manager of the Laurentian Region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, is pleased to announce today, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, regions and occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the realization of a project of RECIM in the Laurentians region. Thus, the city of Sainte-Anne-des-Plaines will receive government assistance for the construction of a new fire station. This assistance will be granted under the new 5.1 sub-component of the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM) program, which is devoted only to municipal or community-based infrastructure projects. 
"I am very proud to announce today the government's participation in the implementation of this important municipal infrastructure project in the Laurentians region. The future fire station at HTTP: //www.infrastructures.gouv.qc.ca/plan-infrastructure/index.Asppling the city to ensure the safety of its employees and citizens, in addition to responding more adequately to the requirements From the fire department, and this, in the best interest of the population, "said MP Sylvain Pagé. 
The current barracks is very overloaded because of the exiguity of the premises and no longer meets the health and safety requirements, taking into account unregiling. Thus, the Sainte-Anne-des-Plaines project consists in building a new fire station on a new land belonging to the city. The future barracks will be able to accommodate inside all emergency vehicles including the future tanker truck for interventions outside the urban area as well as the facilities required for staff training. In the long term, this project will benefit a population of some 14,790 inhabitants. 
Under the rules and standards in force of the PIQM sub-component 5.1, the financial assistance for the implementation of the City of Sainte-Anne-des-Plaines project is estimated at 55% of the amount of eligible costs. 
With a fiscal envelope of nearly $ 60 million over five years, the PIQMMPERMET sub-flap 5.1 to Quebec municipalities to carry out construction, setting up, rehabilitation or refurbishment of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offering and the quality of life of citizens in addition to overcoming the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures. 
The support of the Government of Quebec to the project is part of the 2013-2023Reured Public Infrastructure Duplan (PQI) framework last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
"We are obviously very happy with this financial support from the Government of Quebec, which will allow us to fulfill our obligations against the new fireworm scheme. This announcement allows us to go less tap in the gussets of our citizens who are already very solicited, "added the Mayor of Sainte-Anne-des-Plaines, Mr. Guy Charbonneau. 
