Scott - Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, today announced a financial support of $ 1.9 million, in the form of a loan, to the promoters of the Cache at Maxime for the development of a project totaling 5.3 M $ As part of the development support program for tourist attractions (PADAT). In addition, Investissement Québec has granted a $ 1 million loan guarantee for this project, with its regular financial products. 
"I am proud to announce the first Padat project. This program is an accessible tool that will allow several companies to find some of the funding needed for their development. It will help stimulate private investment and to ensure the growth of tourism businesses in Quebec, an essential element for the development of our tourist destination. The project of the Cache at Maxime is entitled quite in the vision of the Padat and constitutes, in itself, a model of economic and tourist development, which has been able to increase, grow and innovate. This initiative will create 20 new full-time jobs and 20 part-time in the next 5 years, while consolidating the 80 current jobs, which will have significant impacts for the region, "said Minister Bérubé. 
Launched in March 2013 by the Prime Minister of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, the Padat aims to offer Quebec tourist companies with flexible financial solutions adapted to the realities of the tourism industry, by granting a loan to term or a loan guarantee. To this end, support for cache promoters in Maxime will help improve the attractions of the Chaudière-Appalaches region in cultural, business and congress tourism. 
"This financial support will enhance the range of services offered by the Cache to Maxime and, by the very fact, to offer a service enhanced to our customers. The planned investments will allow to welcome national or international organizations and will certainly contribute to the development of the tourist potential of the Chaudière-Appalaches region, "said the director of the cache in Maxime, Mr. Olivier Berthiaume. 
The Cache at Maxime is a country and recreational tourism domain grouping on the same site several activities including accommodation, catering, a local product shop, meeting and reception rooms, a theater, a vineyard and a Health center. The financial support of the PADAT will enlarge the current complex to create a mini-center of the congresses with theaters, private fairs and location of a leisure center. The multifunctionality of the configurations of the rooms and the addition of specialized equipment will adequately meet the varied needs of the various clients, and the company intends to accommodate up to 500 people. 
Coming from the 2012-2020 Tourism Industry Development Plan, the Padat has an envelope of $ 85 million also spread over 5 years. This envelope is available for existing tourist businesses, mature or growing, in the form of a loan or loan guarantee. Financial interventions can reach $ 150,000 to $ 2 million. Initiated by Tourisme Québec, the PADAT is managed and administered by Investissement Québec, through its new tourism division. 
For the complete conditions relating to this program and to obtain the presentation forms of a project, see one or the other of the following pages: www.tourisme.gouv.qc.ca/programs-services/aide/padat .html 
