Amqui- the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region and MFA Region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, announces additional $ 82,500 at the Revermont Golf Club. This assistance is added to that of $ 50,000, announced in June 2013, bringing the total amount of the contribution to $ 132,500. This amount, which comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship Infrastructure Program (PIEC), will be used to carry out all the work at the main chalet of the club. 
The increase in government assistance will allow the standards of the kitchen, the enlargement of the warm room and cold rooms, the layout of the bathrooms and the complete extension of the facade of the chalet. This work is added to the initial project of magnification of the main chalet and the reception room. 
"I am very proud of the additional government assistance announced today for the enlargement and standards of the Revermont Golf Club Senior Chalet. These improvements will respond not only to the needs of people who benefit directly, but also to the entire community in the Matapédia region that can take advantage of these enlarged and renovated infrastructures, "said Minister Bérubé. 
The completion of this project requires an eligible investment revised on the order of $ 507,005. In addition to this additional contribution, the Government of Quebec consents to a bonus of $ 22,030 in order to take into account the interests that the organization will have to assume during the aid payment period, bringing the maximum financial assistance to 154,530. $. Other partners also contribute to the project, including the Amqui Development Corporation (SODAM), the Middle Development Fund (FADM), the City of Amqui and the Local Development Center (CLD) of the Matapédia. 
Recognized as a social economy company, the Revermont Golf Club has 250 members and employs more than thirty full-time people during the season. The organization can also count on the support of about fifteen volunteers. Through its activities, the club contributes to the socio-economic vitality of the region. 
For its part, the Chairman of the Revermont Golf Club Board, Mr. Claude Jacques, thanks the Government of Quebec for the granting of this additional assistance that will better serve its customers and the community. 
Recall that the PIEC has a budget envelope of $ 10 million. It aims to support social economy companies in the implementation of projects of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition of commercial or industrial infrastructure. The objectives of the CEP are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories as well as to promote the preservation and valorization of the environment. 
