Quebec -The official opposition for the language opposition and deputy of Drummond, Yves-François Blanchet, denounces Jean Charest who now says the opposite of what he has always said about the programming of the summer festival Quebec. 
"In mission in France, the Prime Minister says he wants more francophone programming for the festival. The rest of the year, here he asserts by the voice of his Minister of Culture he does not have to intervene. It's hard to follow! "Said the hon. Member. 
Several times in recent years, citizen movements and representatives of Quebec artists have criticized the place occupied by international English-speaking artists in the programming of the festival. "Never has even been considered when it comes to promoting Quebec music. This time, because it is the Francophone image of Quebec internationally and that it wants to appear, it is ready to force the hand at the festival, "denounced the member, qualifying for hypocritus the double language of Jean Charest. 
The hon. Member for Drummond expressed concern about the controversy in recent years. "The government should not act coercively against a tourist or cultural event. It would be a questionable interference. It can, however, as a major funder, encourage an event to ensure better representation of our culture in its programming. It is done by talking, when the contracts are trading, not by the voice of newspapers, "continued Yves-François Blanchet. 
Finally, the spokesman of the Parti Québécois said respect the independence of the Quebec City Summer Festival on programming: "The festival can take advantage of the immense tourist success that derives from its international program to offer more Quebec artists better technical, financial and promotional conditions. I am sure the Quebec Summer Festival team has this concern in mind when it builds its programming, year after year. " 
Yves-François Blanchet stands on the side of the Quebec City Festival following Jean Charest's comment: "The end of non-reception expressed by the festival is perfectly legitimate. Tourist and cultural events as well as Quebec artists are not at the service of Jean Charest's political ambitions, "concluded the member for Drummond. 
