Saint-Fabien- The member for Rimouski and President of the Committee on Public Finance, Mr. Irvin Pelletier, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, regions and occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and Deputy De Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the municipality of Saint-Fabien will benefit from a maximum government financial assistance of $ 459,180 for the replacement of water pipes in the city. This assistance comes from the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM) program. 
Briefly, the project aims to replace drinking water pipes under the 4th Street, as well as drinking water and rainwater pipes under the 6th in Saint-Fabien. 
"I am very pleased with financial support today in the municipality of Saint-Fabien. Our government recognizes the need to renew and replace drinking water, wastewater and storm sewer in communities across Quebec. That's why, in partnership with municipalities, we want to make sure that citizens benefit from sustainable and quality public services for current and future generations, "said MP Irvin Pelletier. 
The realization of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 459,180, under 1.5 of the PIQM. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this new component of the PIQM program allows not only to ensure the sustainability of infrastructure, but also to enhance the quality of life of the population and to create many jobs overall. Regions of Quebec. 
The contribution of the Government of Quebec to this project is part of the 2013-2023Rendurable Public Infrastructure (PQI) framework last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
