Québec- The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, Minister responsible for Government Administration, President of the Treasury Board, Minister responsible for the Region Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean and MP for Chicoutimi, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, as well as the member for Dubuc, Mr. Jean-Marie Claveau, are pleased to announce that the municipality of Rivière-Eternity will benefit from government assistance for the Construction of a fire station. This assistance is granted under the new subpaid 5.1 of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructures Program (PIQM), which is devoted to municipal and community-based infrastructure projects. 
"I am very proud to announce today's support for my government to implement this important municipal infrastructure project in Rivière-Eternity. Future fire station will allow the municipality to comply with environmental requirements for drinking water supply in addition to ensuring the health, safety of its employees, in the best interests of the population, "said MP Jean-Marie Claveau. 
"Our government has chosen to prioritize projects that flow from a significant problem that emergency could be demonstrated. I am very happy with the financial assistance granted for the construction of the Fire Barrack in Rivière-Eternity. The realization of this project will allow the municipality to offer quality services to the population, "said Minister Stéphane Bédard. 
"The selection of the projects of this second phase of approval of RECIM projects perfectly reflects the will of my government to put integrity at the heart of its decisions. The chosen projects comply with the standards in force and take into account the objectives of occupation and the vitality of the territory for the benefit of all Quebeckers and all Quebeckers, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
Under the current rules and standards of the PIQM sub-component, financial assistance for the project of the Rivière-Eternity Municipality is estimated at 65% of the amount of eligible costs. 
With a budget envelope of nearly $ 60 million over five years, the PIQM sub-flap 5.1 allows Quebec municipalities to carry out construction, setting up, rehabilitation or refurbishment of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offering and the quality of life of citizens in addition to overcoming the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures. 
The support of the Quebec government to the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) released last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
