Sainte-Luce - Minister Delegate to Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region and MP Pascal Bérubé, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, regions and The occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the municipalities of Sainte-Luce and Sainte-Flavie will benefit from government financial assistance for the replacement of drinking water and water pipes worn. Thus, the municipality of Sainte-Luce will benefit from a total financial assistance of $ 1,757,455, while the municipality of Sainte-Flavie will obtain financial support of $ 310,950. These contributions come from the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM) infrastructure. 
"I am very pleased with financial support today to the municipalities of Sainte-Luce and Sainte-Flavie. Our government recognizes the need to renew the drinking water, wastewater and storm sewer infrastructures in communities across Quebec. That's why, in partnership with municipalities, we want to make sure that citizens benefit from sustainable and quality public services for current and future generations, "said Minister Pascal Bérubé. 
The project aims to replace drinking water and wastewater pipes under several segments of the 132 West Route and St. Alphonse Streets, Saint-Michel, Malables and Saint Anthony. There will also be a sewer separation under some of these segments by adding rainwater sewer pipes. At the end of this work, drinking water and wastewater pipes will be replaced on nearly three kilometers of streets in Sainte-Luce. 
The realization of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 1,757,455 under the PIQM 1.5 component. 
As for the project of the municipality of Sainte-Flavie, it consists of the replacement of drinking water pipes under several segments of the airport road. At the end of this work, water pipes over more than half a kilometer will be renewed in Sainte-Flavie. 
The realization of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 310,950 under the PIQM 1.5 component. 
With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this new component of the PIQM program allows not only to ensure the sustainability of infrastructure, but also to enhance the quality of life of the population and to create many jobs overall. Regions of Quebec. 
The support of the Government of Quebec to the project is part of the 2013-2023Reured Public Infrastructure Duplan (PQI) framework last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
