Saint-Rémi- The member for Sanguinet and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Alain Therrien, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière , Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, is pleased to announce today the payment of total financial assistance of $ 42,500, granted in the framework of the 2011-2012 project call, to the city of Saint-Rémi, in the Montérégie region. This financial assistance, which will be used to implement a training circuit for seniors, comes from the Québec-Municipal Infrastructures Program - Municipality of Seniors' Municipality (PIQM-MADA). 
Thanks to the Infrastructures Québec-Municipal Infrastructures-Municipality of Seniors, municipalities engaged in the process of access to funds aimed at supporting them in the realization of small infrastructure projects for seniors and their loved ones. 
"Today's announcement supports the commitment made by the City of Saint-Rémi towards seniors. Thus, the aid granted will enable safe and accessible infrastructures for the elderly, in order to promote an active lifestyle among seniors and promote healthy lifestyles in the community. This is a project related to the Family Policy Action Plan and Elders who meet the needs of seniors, including improving their quality of life and promote active aging, "said MP Alain Therrien. 
"I am proud of our government's commitment to this beautiful initiative a few years ago and to which the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, of which I am responsible, is associated. Improving the living conditions of our elders is to contribute to their fulfillment as an individual in the community. To assume together a responsibility that challenges us all to make Quebec a place where it is good at age, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"This project, like many others who are emerging in all regions of Quebec, confirms the priority that our government gives to the quality of life of seniors. I wish to greet the initiative of the municipality and the project leaders of training circuits in Saint-Rémi, which will allow seniors to take advantage of safe recreational infrastructures encouraging them to practice physical activity and thus contributing to To their well-being and their good health, "said Minister Réjean Hébert. 
The project includes the establishment of external training circuits adapted to seniors at two locations strongly busy by this clientele, either at Jean-Paul Ferdais Park and the Center for Interpretation of Nature. The circuits will include high quality and secure external fitness equipment for seniors, which will be connected by small trails. 
The PIQM-MADA is equipped with an annual $ 3 million envelope from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the occupation of the territory, reserved for the financing of infrastructures meeting the needs of seniors. For the first two years of the program, 89 projects from across Québec benefit from this envelope that is only accessible to municipalities engaged in the Municipal Elderly Municipality approach. These investments are part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. The PIQM-MADA program is also an action listed in the aging policy and living together, at home, in its community, in Quebec. 
Strong today's membership of 579 municipalities or MRC, the MADA approach was implemented in Quebec by the Seniors Secretariat in 2008 and continues under the responsibility of the Minister responsible for seniors and Minister of Health and Social Services. This is inspired by an approach developed by the World Health Organization (WHO), and the model it proposes has been designed to enable citizens to age while remaining active in their community. The collaboration of the entire community is one of the winning conditions of the approach, but it could not succeed fully without the participation of seniors themselves and that of local organizations that represent them. Quebec is considered by WHO as the most advanced company in the world in the application of this approach based on the adaptation of municipal policies and services to the aging of the population. 
