Dolbeau-Mistassini - the member for Roberval and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (Forest Fund), Mr. Denis Trottier, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, regions and occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the City of Dolbeau-Mistassini will benefit from maximum government financial assistance of $ 376,100 for the replacement of water pipes in the municipality. This assistance comes from the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM) program. 
More specifically, the project aims to replace drinking water, wastewater and rainwater pipes under some segments of Saint-Michel Boulevard and sewer separation. It also provides for the replacement of rainwater pipes and sewer separation under the rue Chiquette, as well as road work on these two traffic lanes in Dolbeau-Mistassini. Thus, this work will complement those announced last January under the street Louis-Hémon, which have been made since. 
"I am very happy with the financial support today to the city of Dolbeau-Mistassini. Our government recognizes the need to renew and replace drinking water, wastewater and storm sewer in communities across Quebec. That's why, in partnership with municipalities, we want to make sure that citizens benefit from sustainable and quality public services for current and future generations, "said the member Denis Trottier. 
The realization of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 376,100, under 1.5 of the PIQM. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this part of the PIQM program allows not only to ensure the sustainability of the infrastructures, but also to enhance the quality of life of the population and to create many jobs in all of the Regions of Quebec. 
The support of the Government of Quebec to the project is part of the 2013-2023Reured Public Infrastructure Duplan (PQI) framework last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
