Québec- The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, Minister responsible for Government Administration, President of the Treasury Board, Minister responsible for the Region Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean and MP for Chicoutimi, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, and the Minister the Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Governance, Minister responsible for the North-du-Quebec Region and Member of Parliament for Lac-Saint-Jean, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, are pleased to announce that the village of Hébertville-Station will benefit from a government assistance for the reconstruction of the Town Hall. This assistance is granted under the new subpaid 5.1 of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructures Program (PIQM), which is devoted to municipal and community-based infrastructure projects. 
"I am very pleased with the decision of my government to support this infrastructure project in the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region. The future public service building of the village of Hébertville-Station, strongly expected by the community and the municipal authorities, will meet the needs expressed by the community. This new infrastructure will again provide quality services to citizens in addition to ensuring employees a safe workplace, "said Minister Alexandre Cloutier. 
"Our government has chosen to prioritize projects that flow from a significant problem that emergency could be demonstrated. I am very pleased with the financial assistance for the reconstruction of the Hébertville-Station Village Town Hall. The realization of this project will allow the municipality to provide quality services to all citizens, "said Minister Stéphane Bédard. 
"The selection of the projects of this second phase of approval of RECIM projects perfectly reflects the will of my government to put integrity at the heart of its decisions. The chosen projects comply with the standards in force and take into account the objectives of occupation and vitality of the territories for the benefit of all Quebeckers and from all Quebeckers, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
Under the current rules and standards of PIQM sub-component, financial assistance for the completion of the Hébertville-Station project is estimated at 65% of the amount of eligible costs. 
With a budget envelope of nearly $ 60 million over five years, the PIQM sub-flap 5.1 allows Quebec municipalities to carry out construction, setting up, rehabilitation or refurbishment of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offering and the quality of life of citizens in addition to overcoming the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures. 
The support of the Quebec government to the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) released last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
