The Trinity-des-Monts- The member for Rimouski, Mr. Irvin Pelletier, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is proud. To announce financial assistance of $ 354,000 for the expansion of the Consumer Consumers' premises of the Neignette of the Municipality of the Trinidad-des-Monts. This amount comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship (PIEC) infrastructure program. 
More specifically, the project will allow the expansion of the cooperative garage to develop a grocery store, including a point of sale of the Society of Alcohols du Québec. Lightweight food service, hardware and Desjardins counter will also be added. Thanks to this enlargement, the cooperative will house new services, in addition to those current mechanical repair and gasoline sales. 
"I am pleased with the announcement of financial assistance for the proposed expansion of the Consumer Consumer Consumer Premises of the Neigette. This social economy enterprise will influence the economic vitality of the region by creating jobs and offering a variety of local services for the 280 inhabitants of the Trinidad-des-Monts and Rimouski region. I also take this opportunity to thank the many volunteers and staff at the local development center (CLD) without whom could not have seen the day, "said the member Pelletier. 
"I am very proud of the government assistance announced today for the expansion of the local Consumer Cooperative of the Neigette. The realization of this project will not only allow it to consolidate its existing services, but also to propose a bonignized range of local services. In this way, this cooperative will contribute to revitalizing its community and strengthen the attractiveness of its environment in addition to stimulating the economy of the entire community, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
The eligible cost of this project is $ 800,656. The Government of Quebec, within the framework of the PIEC, pays an amount of $ 354,000. It also provides a bonus of $ 58,859 to take into account the interests that the organization will have to assume during the aid payment period. Other partners also participate in the project, including the Social Economy Site Trust and CLD Rimouski-Neigette. 
For its part, the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Consumer Consumer of the Neigette Haut-Consumer, Ms. Jacinthe Lévesque, thanked the Government of Quebec for the granting of this financial assistance that will be used to carry out this project and will better serve its customers and the community. 
Recall that the PIEC has a budget envelope of $ 10 million. It aims to support social economy companies in the implementation of projects of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition of commercial or industrial infrastructure. The objectives of the CEP are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories as well as to promote the preservation and valorization of the environment. 
