Saint-Roch-des-Aulnaies- The member for Taschereau, Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Regions of the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches , Mrs Agnès Maltais, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the parish of Saint-Roch-des -Aulnae will benefit from government financial assistance of more than $ 13.6 million for major water infrastructure work in the urbanized sector. This help comes from the Infrastructure Québec-Municipal Infrastructures (PIQM). 
"I am very pleased with the financial assistance announced today in Saint-Roch-des-Aulnaies which testifies to our government's desire to ensure the population of quality infrastructures for all. In the long term, this project will ensure essential service for citizens, who will benefit from infrastructures that meet the standards in force. Thus, this realization will contribute to better protection of the environment, with a view to sustainable development, "said Minister Maltese. 
As a whole, this project provides for the establishment of drinking water distribution and sewage collection networks combined with the construction of a treatment plant in the urbanized sector of Saint-Roch-des-Aulnaies. In particular, the planned work is intended, in particular, the establishment of drinking water supply pipes for the water supply of the users of the sector, the installation of a domestic sewer network for collection and interception wastewater including pumping positions and discharge pipes. 
The project also requires the construction of an aerated pond sewage treatment plant for the treatment of wastewater comprising a service building, mechanical equipment, a gravity emissary rejected in the river and various complementary work. These interventions will allow the municipality to reduce the quantity and improve the quality of wastewater discharges in the environment and thus comply with the environmental requirements of the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks ( MDDEFP). About 385 people will benefit from this work. 
The realization of this project is based on a maximum allowable cost established at $ 14,327,616, under 1.4 of the PIQM. The Quebec government contributes to the project for $ 13,611,235, while the municipality of Saint-Roch-des-Aulnaies invests $ 716,381. 
This government assistance is part of Quebec Infrastructure LePlan. 
For its part, the mayor of Saint-Roch des Aulnaies, Mr. Michel Castonguay, welcomes the support of the Government of Quebec to the realization of this project which will enhance the essential services to the Community. 
