Quebec- The Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks (Fauna and Parks component) and hon. Member for Bonaventure, Mr. Sylvain Roy, today announced that the municipal office of Saint-François-d'Assise dwelling received, from the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), confirmation that 8 Community housing units were reserved for the realization of a project filed under the Access ProgramLogis Québec. 
This announcement is an important step for this organization, which is now invited to submit to the SHQ the documents necessary for the continuation of the analysis of its application for financial assistance. 
"This announcement is an excellent news for our region that faces many challenges in occupancy and sustainable development of the territory. That's why our government encourages local initiatives like this in order to improve the conditions of housing of citizens and, thus, to ensure that they benefit from a better quality of life. Community housing projects contribute to developing stimulating, safe and rewarding living environments, which will benefit from current and future generations, "said MP Sylvain Roy. 
The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, joined his voice to that of his colleague to clarify that "the investments of the Government of Quebec for Creating affordable housing are part of a vast plan based on social solidarity and aimed at ensuring that every Quebecker has access to decent living conditions and can play an active role in society. " He added that he was "important to pursue housing interventions, since they represent a great way to combat poverty and promote greater equality between citizens." 
Since the implementation of the AccessLogis Québec and Affordable Housing Programs of the SHQ, 644 Community dwellings have been constructed or are in the process of being in the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, which represents Investments totaling more than $ 80 million. 
It should be remembered that in its newest budget, the Quebec government has announced an envelope of $ 231 million for the construction of 3,000 homes. 
The SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Every year, thanks to its programs and many partners, it helps more than 230,000 Quebec households. For more information on its programs and services, see www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. 
