Longueuil- The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Minister responsible for the Montérégie Region and Member of Parliament for Taillon, Mars Marie Malavoy, has confirmed today the reservation, through the AccessLogis Québec program of the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), 274 housing units for the realization of three community housing projects that will emerge in the territory of Longueuil. 
"In recent years, I have been actively militated for the creation of social housing for the citizens of my riding. Today's announcement is one step closer to the realization of one of my most expensive wishes as a member of Taillon, that is to say, offer affordable and quality housing for people low-income. Projects like these promote social solidarity and equality between citizens who are dear values to our government and that we share with all our partners who invest their time and energy for more citizens to have Access to adequate housing conditions, "said Minister Marie Malavoy. 
The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, joined his voice to that of his colleague to clarify that it is "important to continue the Housing interventions, since they represent a great way to combat poverty and social exclusion. " 
Today's announcement is an important step for the organizations that have initiated these three projects, which are now invited to submit to the SHQ the necessary documents for the further analysis of their application for financial assistance. 
"Ads like today's, Longueuil would like there to be every day. It's good for our city, so it's good for our world. The reservation of 274 housing units, through the AccessLogis Quebec program of the SHQ, could not fall better. We will be able to ensure the completion of three projects of community housing, expected for a long time in Longueuil, "said the Mayor of Longueuil, Mrs. Caroline St-Hilaire. 
Since the implementation of AccessLogis Québec and Affordable Housing Programs from the SHQ, 3,316 community housing units have been built or are in the process of being in the Montérégie region, which represents investments totaling more than $ 354 million. . 
Recall that in its newest budget, the Quebec government has announced a $ 231 million budget for the construction of 3,000 affordable housing. 
The SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Every year, thanks to its programs and many partners, it helps more than 230,000 Quebec households. For more information on its programs and services, see www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. 
