Quebec- Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is pleased to announce the grant award totaling $ 5 million over three years under the program Stowing college universities. The sums granted will allow twelve universities and twenty-six colleges to carry out in partnership 16 projects favoring the development of educational tools, the sharing of expertise as well as research. 
As a result of the results achieved in the past and the importance of strengthening collaboration between higher education institutions, the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, and Minister Duchene announced, on occasion due to the education Superior, that the Colleges-Colleges Collaboration Program launched in 2008 is replaced by the Universities-College Securities Program. He will now benefit from an envelope of $ 15 million, starting in 2014-15. 
"Thanks to the stowage between universities and colleges, circles can enjoy both the expertise and synergy of these two levels of higher education. That's why we decided at the top of higher education to triple the envelope for this program. We are convinced that better cooperation between college and university research groups will facilitate the progress and transfer of knowledge, "said Minister Duchene. 
The objective of this program will remain the same, that is to say increasing the synergy between public and private and private colleges. New orientations, such as DEC-BAC agreements, integrated programs and cooperative studies, will do now part of the program. 
Minister Pierre Duchesne announces $ 5 million for the completion of 16 projects in 2013-2014 and a commitment of $ 15 million for next year // © Joël Bouchard 
Passage at the University of Quebec, the Minister unveiled the project presented by three institutions in this network and by six colleges in the regions of Abitibi-Témiscamingue, from Bas-Saint-Laurent and Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean . The latter brought together their knowledge and experiences to develop initiatives related to the school path of first generation students (EPG), that is to say, those whose parents have not gone to college or university. 
From the results of the work and experiments that will be carried out by this community of practice, a model of intervention with the EPG will be created in order to intervene in the most sensitive moments of their schooling, from the 2nd cycle of the primary school up to the graduates of the university. 
"In regions like Abitibi-Témiscamingue where a share of the economy is based on the exploitation of natural resources, the importance of education is unfortunately not fully acquired. The valuation and accessibility of graduate studies therefore remain primary issues. Our institutions welcome a majority of first generation students and we must support them in their project of studies and give them the means to succeed. Thus, we will help train highly qualified professionals, essential for the development of our regions, "added the rector of the University of Quebec in Abitibi-Témiscamingue, Johanne John, who participated in this announcement. 
Note that there are first generation students in all Quebec university educational institutions. According to the ICOPE survey (study conditions indicators), carried out by the University of Quebec in 2011, they account for 53% to 72% of the students enrolled in the first year at the baccalaureate in its network, 31% of the students enrolled In English and 46% universities in other Francophone universities. 
"The partner institutions of this project have decided to jointly invest their efforts and expertise to identify interventions that correspond to the profile and needs of first generation students. This project will ultimately contribute to increasing the participation of the Quebec population in graduate studies, as well as to promote access to studies for anyone who has the will and aptitudes, "said Sylvie Beauchamp, President of the University of Quebec. 
Minister Pierre Duchesne with Kévin Bouchard who testified as a first generation graduate. It is a doctoral student in science and information technology. // © Joël Bouchard 
"In recent months, I have repeatedly mentioned the importance of first-generation graduates who open the door to the following generations. I am a first generation graduate. I know how it made my father and my mother proud. It is important to multiply this kind of situation. That's why I congratulate partner institutions for this beautiful initiative. Hold a degree opens the doors of knowledge. I could measure, and I still measure, what effect has had in my life. That's why at the top of higher education, I hated several opportunities the importance of expanding knowledge. Our mission must be to offer knowledge to a greater number. A society mobilized in this way can only enrich themselves socially and economically, "concluded Minister Duchesne. 
For more information on departmental programs and services, visitwww.messt.gouv.qc.ca. 
