Saint-Arsene - Minister Delegate to Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region and MP Pascal Bérubé, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, regions and The occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the municipality of Saint-Arsene will benefit from a maximum government financial assistance of $ 315,000 for the replacement of several wastewater pipes in the city . This assistance comes from the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM) program. 
More specifically, the project aims to replace wastewater pipes under several segments of Rue du Rocher. At the end of this work, water pipes over almost half a kilometer street will be renewed in Saint-Arsene. 
"I am very happy with the financial support today in the municipality of Saint-Arsene. Our government recognizes the need to renew and replace drinking water, wastewater and storm sewer in communities across Quebec. That's why, in partnership with municipalities, we want to make sure that citizens benefit from sustainable and quality public services for current and future generations, "said Minister Pascal Bérubé. 
The realization of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 315,000 under the PIQM 1.5 component. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this new component of the PIQM program allows not only to ensure the sustainability of infrastructure, but also to enhance the quality of life of the population and to create many jobs overall. Regions of Quebec. 
The support of the Government of Quebec to the project is part of the 2013-2023Reured Public Infrastructure Duplan (PQI) framework last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
