Saint-Mathieu-du-Parc- The member for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is Happy to announce that the municipality of Saint-Mathieu-du-Park will benefit from a government assistance of $ 734,267 for its interception and wastewater treatment project in the mountain sector. This assistance comes from the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM) program. 
"I am very proud of the support of our government at the municipality of Saint-Mathieu-du-Park for the implementation of these important infrastructure work. The realization of this project represents an investment of the most valuable for the future of the municipality that can offer infrastructures in accordance with the standards in force, thus promoting good health and the well-being in addition to enhancing the quality of the public services offered to The community, "said the member Trudel. 
"Every Quebecker must be able to benefit from access to quality public services. That's why our government is committed to providing municipalities with the support needed to renew and develop their infrastructure. Thus, the aid granted will ensure essential services to the citizens of the mountain sector in Saint-Mathieu-du-Park, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
Briefly, the project consists in setting up a system of interception and wastewater treatment. The work includes the development of a sewage plant near the Shawinigan River, the installation of two septic tanks and two biological reactors, an ultraviolet disinfection system and related equipment. The project also includes the addition of an interception line, the construction of a main pumping station (PP-1) and a service building and the installation of an emissary pipe between the Sewage treatment plant and current emissary management. Various works will complement this project. 
These interventions will enable the municipality to reduce the quantity and improve the quality of wastewater releases in the environment so as to meet the environmental requirements of the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks. . All of these work will benefit residents of the mountain sector. 
The realization of this project requires a maximum permissible investment of $ 772,913, under the PIQM 1.4 component. The contribution of the Government of Quebec is $ 734,267 and that of the municipality of Saint-Mathieu-du-Park at $ 38,646. 
The support of the Government of Quebec to the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) released in April 2013. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in investments of 8.1 billion. dollars for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebeckers, to measure the costs associated with them and to make informed choices. 
