Saint-Edmond-les-Plaines - The member for Roberval and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (Forest Fund), Mr. Denis Trottier, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce that the St. Edmond Development Corporation of Plaines Inc. will benefit from $ 98,000 financial assistance for the acquisition and processing of the former presbytery. . This assistance comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship (PIEC) infrastructure program. 
The realization of the Plains Inn project allows the citizens and visitors of Saint-Edmond-les-Plaines to benefit from local services, including a convenience store and an open restaurant throughout the year. Also arranged in its premises, a tourist reception desk providing information on the various attractions of the region and a camping ground rental service. The Plains Auberge also offers accommodation services, including five rooms, and the rental of rooms. 
"I am very pleased with the support granted by our government to the St. Edmond Development Corporation of the Plains. The Hostel of the Plains thus contributes to the socio-economic and tourist development of the municipality and the region. In addition to consolidating and supporting the activities of the municipality, the hostel highlights the works of artists and local products and contributes to the improvement of the quality of life of citizens by giving them access to local services. "Said the deputy Denis Trottier. 
"Projects like the one announced today contribute to local and regional development. That's why I am very proud of the investment consented for the acquisition and transformation of the Presbytery of Saint-Edmond-les-Plaines. For example, the Plains Inn enhances the services to the population, in addition to promoting the development of cultural and tourism activities in the MRC and in the region. It is a structuring project that will have positive benefits both socially and economically across the community, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The realization of this project requires a total investment estimated at $ 408,060. The Government of Quebec, within the framework of the PIEC, pays $ 98,000 to the St-Edmond Development Corporation of Plaines Inc. Other partners also participate in this project, including the Local Development Center (CLD) And the regional county municipality (MRC) of Maria-Chapdelaine as well as the Caisse populaire Desjardins of the boreal plains. 
Note that the municipality of Saint-Edmond-les-Plaines welcomes two important tourist events every year, the Saint John Festival and the winter carnival. The Plains Inn, which is recognized as a social economy enterprise, will thus meet the hosting needs of tourists. 
Recall that the presbytery of Saint-Edmond-les-Plaines is a heritage building that was built in 1924 on the site of Val-Jalbert. In 1938, the municipality of Saint-Edmond-les-Plaines undertakes to get and move the presbytery of Val-Jalbert on its territory. Last year, the St. Edmond Development Corporation of the Plains acquired it in order to make it accessible to the population and to conserve the heritage of the municipality. 
Equipped with an investment envelope of $ 10 million, the PIC aims to support social economy companies in the implementation of projects of refurbishment, expansion, construction or acquisition of commercial infrastructure or industrial. The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy companies, contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories and to promote the preservation and valorization of the quality of the environment. 
