Quebec- The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce that changes to the program home adaptation (PAD) of the SHQ will reduce the processing time of certain requests. 
Thus, a new measure will be put in place gradually so that the work needed to allow people with disabilities to access their home can be realized faster. This measure will be entitled to financial assistance for the installation of an access ramp or a lifting platform requiring the presence of a caregiver. The beneficiaries of this measure will thus have the advantage of carrying out more quickly access to their homes and may subsequently, if necessary, have other adaptation work inside their home. 
"We have decided to intervene more effectively with people with disabilities to reduce the risks associated with access to inadequate home, to promote a rapid return of these persons in their environment and to facilitate their displacements so that they receive. Appropriate care and carry out an active social life, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
For several years, the SHQ has been working with its municipal partners and partners in the health and social services network, to develop and propose various solutions to optimize the application of the PAD and reduce the processing time. files presented as part of this program. The average processing time of requests increased from 45 months in 2006-2007 to 26 months in 2012-2013. 
"As Minister Delegate to Social Services and the Protection of Youth and Minister Responsible for Persons with Disabilities, I am delighted by this happy news. The groups of disabled people have long demand the acceleration of the processing of applications to enable them to benefit from an adapted living environment within a faster period. The measure announced today is a concrete demonstration that the collaboration of the partners, combined with a real political will, leads to the realization of tangible advances for the accessibility of the premises, the support for the quest for autonomy and the Improvement of the quality of life of people with disabilities, "concluded Minister Véronique Hivon. 
Remember that in 2012-2013, the SHQ has invested $ 20.7 million to financially support the adaptation of 1,347 homes in Quebec, representing an average grant of nearly $ 15,400 per housing. In addition, during the same period, the SHQ paid $ 1.9 million to meet 3,810 specialized equipment repair requests and is committed to paying total financial assistance of $ 1.4 million to The replacement of 67 specialized equipment consisting mainly of lifting platforms for wheelchair. 
To date, the Quebec residential company has helped more than 18,000 people with disabilities take advantage of better accommodation for their needs. These interventions also favored the home maintenance of these people and helped reduce the use of public services for them. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Habitat Espace, a new web magazine that deals with the spin-offs of the SHQ interventions across Quebec. 
