Labelle- The member for Labelle and Government Manager of the Laurentians Region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and From the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, is pleased to announce the payment of financial assistance up to $ 100,000 to the Municipality of Labelle, in the Laurentians region. This contribution, which comes from the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities Program - Municipality Municipality of Seniors (PIQM-Mada), will be used for sidewalks on the street of the Church. 
Thanks to the PIQM-MADA, the municipalities incurred in the MADA approach have access to funds to support them in the realization of small infrastructure projects for seniors and their loved ones. 
"Today's announcement supports the commitment by the Municipality of Labelle with regard to seniors. Thus, the replacement of damaged sidewalks on the street of the Church will allow the municipality to better meet the needs of seniors, in particular by encouraging them to the practice of walking to keep them in good physical form. The realization of this work will also benefit from the wheelchair users who can move safer in this street. This is a project that is part of a concerted approach with seniors with the aim of improving their quality of life and fostering active aging, "said the member for Labelle, Mr. Sylvain Pagé. 
"I am proud of our government's commitment to seniors as part of the MADA approach, this great initiative ahead of a few years ago and to which the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the occupation of the territory. Improving the living conditions of our elders is to contribute to their fulfillment in the community. To assume together a responsibility that concerns us all to make Quebec a place where it is good at age, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"This project, like many others who are emerging in all regions of Quebec, confirms the priority that our government gives to the quality of life of seniors. I want to salute the initiative of the Municipality of Labelle that will allow seniors to move safer in the street of the Church. In the long run, this project will contribute to improving their quality of life while allowing them to remain active as long as possible, "said Minister Réjean Hébert. 
Briefly, the project consists of replacing the damaged sidewalks on the street of the Church to build more broader. This will promote the practice of walking for seniors and allow wheelchair users to access different services safely. In total, there are about 580 meters of sidewalks that will be renewed at Labelle. 
Remember that the PIQM-MADA has an annual $ 3 million envelope from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the occupation of the territory, reserved for the financing of infrastructure adapted to the needs of seniors. Since 2010, more than 130 projects have benefited from this envelope accessible to municipalities engaged in the MADA approach. These investments are part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. The PIQM-MADA program is also an action listed in the aging policy and living together, at home, in its community, in Quebec. 
Strong today's membership of 719 municipalities or MRC, the MADA approach was implemented in Quebec by the Seniors Secretariat in 2008 and continues under the responsibility of the Minister responsible for seniors and Minister of Health and Social Services. This is inspired by an approach developed by the World Health Organization (WHO), and the model it proposes has been designed to enable citizens to age while remaining active in their community. The collaboration of the entire community is one of the winning conditions of the approach, but it could not succeed fully without the participation of seniors themselves and that of local organizations that represent them. Quebec is considered by WHO as the most advanced company in the world in the application of this approach based on the adaptation of municipal policies and services to the aging of the population. 
