Government of Quebec Investment $ 1 Million 
Alma- The Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs and the Sovereign and MP Governance of Lac-Saint-Jean, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, enjoys From the first shovel of land marking the launch of the modernization of the Mario-Tremblay Center to announce the financial commitment of the Government of Quebec of $ 1,000,000 granted to the City of Alma for the realization of this project. This assistance comes from the 2.1 component of the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM) program. 
According to Minister Cloutier: "After five years of work in collaboration with the partner partners, I am very proud to participate in the launch of modernization work. The Mario-Tremblay Center is essential for the people of Alma and Lac-Saint-Jean. » 
The project aims to enlarge the building, some of which will be funded by the Government of Quebec. The work planned on the ground floor, for this subsidized phase, include a secondary entrance hall, five players' rooms, ice access corridor, premises for the storage and storage of equipment and Administrative premises. On the floor, there will be mainly a restoration space and a bar, multipurpose rooms, combat surfaces as well as sanitary blocks. 
Let us mention that the building housing the Mario-Tremblay Center was built in 1972 and requires a major modernization, because of its growing use and the exceptional level of its traffic. The Mario-Tremblay Center is an important sporting infrastructure for the city of Alma, the MRC de Lac-Saint-Jean-Est and the entire territory of Lac-Saint-Jean, which requires significant changes to better respond to the needs of the local and regional population. In addition to the practice of sports and recreational activities, the Center also allows for about twenty events, whose participation amounts to more than 30,000 people annually. 
The mayor of the city of Alma, Mr. Marc Asselin, adds: "Although the municipal council is very happy to see that the site is officially started, it is especially to the citizens we think today. They waited with great patience the beginning of the modernization work of the Mario-Tremblay Center. Rest assured that we will maintain our efforts to achieve the second phase of the work we also want to see. » 
