Saint-Mathieu-de-Beloeil- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology and MP Officer, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the municipality of Saint-Mathieu-de-Beloeil will benefit from a government financial assistance of $ 1,092,000 for its collection project. Wastewater in the surrounding area-prefontaine. This assistance comes from the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM) program. 
Briefly, the project consists in setting up sanitary sewer pipes in several sections, the St. John the Baptist climb, the streets of the fire, leisure and prefontin as well as the paths of the south creek and North Creek. It includes a pumping position at the intersection of the Saint-Jean-Baptiste climb and the path of the south creek and the installation of a discharge pipe of about 630 meters rejected in the existing network at the existing network. intersection of the path of the industry. These interventions will benefit from a population of some 250 people living in the prefontaine terrace sector. 
"I am very happy with the financial assistance announced today in Saint-Mathieu-de-Beloeil which testifies to the will of our government to ensure the population sustainable and quality infrastructure for all. In the long term, this project will allow both to ensure the well-being of citizens and to offer facilities that meet the standards in force. The realization of this project will help reduce the quantity and improve the quality of wastewater discharges and, by the very fact, to protect the environment in this sector with a view to sustainable development, "said Minister Pierre Duchesne . 
Under Duvolet 1.4 of the PIQM, the contribution of the Government of Quebec granted to the Saint-Mathieu-de-Beloeil project amounts to $ 1,092,000. As for the municipality of Saint-Mathieu-de-Beloeil, it invests $ 3,343,644 in its wastewater collection project, bringing the total amount of investments at $ 4,435,644. 
The contribution of the Government of Quebec to this project is part of the 2013-2023Rendurable Public Infrastructure (PQI) framework last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
