River-Route-the member for Labelle and Government Manager of the Laurentian Region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, is pleased to announce today, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of the Minister. Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the Rivière-River city will benefit from maximum government financial assistance of $ 430,950 for the replacement of drinking water pipes in the city. This assistance is granted as part of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM). 
Briefly, the project aims to replace drinking water pipes under the Bellevue climb and the Charrette and Landry streets. At the end of this work, water pipes over more than half a kilometer street will be renewed in the river town. 
"I am very happy with the financial support today to the city of Rivière-Rouge. Our government recognizes the need to renew and replace drinking water, wastewater and storm sewer in communities across Quebec. That's why, in partnership with municipalities, we want to make sure that citizens benefit from sustainable and quality public services for current generations and for those to come, "said MP Sylvain Pagé. 
"Every Quebecker must be able to benefit from access to quality public services. That's why our government is committed to providing municipalities with the support needed to renew and develop their infrastructure, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The realization of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 430,950 under the PIQM 1.5 component. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this part of the PIQM program allows not only to ensure the sustainability of the infrastructures, but also to enhance the quality of life of the population and to create many jobs in all of the Regions of Quebec. 
"We are very happy for our taxpayers in the Bellevue climb sector that will benefit from better water quality. This financial assistance will allow us to move forward with our project to replace our aqueduct system. By new infrastructures, this portion of the merchant sector will be revitalized! "Said Rivière-River mayor, Deborah Bélanger. 
The support of the Government of Quebec to the project is part of the 2013-2023Reured Public Infrastructure Duplan (PQI) framework last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
