Deux-Montagnes - The member for Deux-Montagnes, Mr. Daniel Goyer, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, announces that the City of Two-mountains will receive a significant maximum financial contribution of $ 3,609,500 for trenchless rehabilitation of drinking water and wastewater pipes in the city. This assistance is granted as part of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM). 
More precisely, the project aims to strengthen drinking water and wastewater pipes under several segments of the Belvedere streets, Henri-Brabant, Hudson, Lakeview, Lakewood, Marquette, Olympia and Lake Boulevard. The project also provides for the restoration of about five kilometers of water pipes spread over a dozen avenues. At the end of these works, water pipes over about seven kilometers and a half will be rehabilitated. 
"I am very pleased to participate in this event highlighting the start of the work, which will be achieved through the government support granted to the City of Deux-Montagnes. Our government recognizes the need to renew and replace drinking water, wastewater and storm sewer in communities across Quebec. That's why he's committed to providing municipalities with the support they need to ensure that citizens benefit from sustainable and quality public services, such as access to drinking water, a right fundamental, an essential service for all, "said the member Goyer. 
"Every Quebecker must be able to benefit from access to quality public services. That's why our government is committed to providing municipalities with the support needed to renew and develop their infrastructure, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
The realization of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 3,609,500, under the PIQM 1.5 component. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this part of the PIQM program allows not only to ensure the sustainability of the infrastructures, but also to enhance the quality of life of the population and to create many jobs in all of the Regions of Quebec. 
The support of the Government of Quebec to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) released last April. It should be remembered that this decennial plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebeckers, to measure the costs associated with them and to make informed choices. 
