Dolbeau-Mistassini- The member for Roberval and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (Forest Fund), Mr. Denis Trottier, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce the granting of $ 99,087 financial assistance for the enlargement and renovation of the building with the Dolbeau Golf Club inc. This assistance comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship (PIEC) infrastructure program. 
"I am very happy with the investment announced today for the expansion and restoration of the current building of the Dolbeau Golf Club. Which will respond not only to the needs of people who benefit directly, but also to the entire Dolbeau-Mistassini community that can use these renovated infrastructures, "said the member Denis Trottier. 
More concretely, this financial support aims at extension, on two floors, of the current building of the Dolbeau Golf Club as well as the renovation of its various service areas. The project also includes various internal finishing work, the renewal of flooring and roof repair. 
It should be noted that the Club Enlargement and Restoration Project has become essential to maintaining club activities. It is part of the strategic plan of the company, to which are added a water supply project, the acquisition of the land, as well as the development of the golf course. 
The completion of this project requires a total investment assessed at $ 505,500. The Government of Quebec, within the framework of the PIEC, contributes for a maximum amount of $ 99,087. 
Located in Dolbeau since 1953 and recognized by the Social Economy Cluster of the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region as a social economy company, the Dolbeau Golf Club uses a dozen full-time people. Through its activities, it contributes to the socio-economic vitality of the region. 
For its part, the Chairman of the Dolbeau Golf Club Board, Mr. Junior Juneau, said he was very pleased with the support of the Government of Quebec that will allow the organization to carry out its expansion and modernization to better serve its customers and the community. 
The Chairman of the Dolbeau Golf Club Board, Mr. Junior Juneau and the member for Roberval and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (Forest Fund), Mr. Denis Trottier. (Source: Minister CNW / Office of the Minister Municipal affairs, regions and occupation of the territory) remember which room is equipped with a budget envelope of $ 10 million. It aims to support social economy companies in the implementation of projects of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition of commercial or industrial infrastructure. The objectives of the CEP are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories as well as to promote the preservation and valorization of the environment. 
