Saint-Hippolyte- The Minister of Finance and the Economy and Deputy of Rousseau, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, regions and occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the realization of a project of RECIM in the Laurentians region. Thus, the municipality of Saint-Hippolyte will receive government assistance for the construction of a fire station. This assistance will be granted under the new 5.1 sub-component of the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM) program, which is devoted only to municipal or community-based infrastructure projects. 
"I am very proud to announce today the government's participation in the implementation of this important municipal infrastructure project in the Laurentians region. The future fire station in Saint-Hippolyte will allow the municipality to ensure the safety of its citizens as well as those of the North River MRC, "said Minister Nicolas Marceau. 
The project of the municipality of Saint-Hippolyte consists in building a fire station within an eight kilometer radius of the most inhabited residential areas. In the long term, this project will benefit a population of some 8,100 inhabitants and more than 20,000 casual resorts.  Under the current rules and standards of the PIQM sub-component, the financial assistance for the project of the Saint-Hippolyte municipality is estimated at 50% of the amount of the eligible costs. 
With a fiscal envelope of nearly $ 60 million over five years, the PIQMMPERMET sub-flap 5.1 to Quebec municipalities to carry out construction, setting up, rehabilitation or refurbishment of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offering and the quality of life of citizens in addition to overcoming the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures. 
The support of the Government of Quebec to the project is part of the 2013-2023Reured Public Infrastructure Duplan (PQI) framework last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
