Rawdon- The Minister of Finance and the Economy and MP in Rousseau, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, regions and occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and MP Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the realization of a project of RECIM in the Lanaudière region. Thus, the municipality of Rawdon will receive government assistance for the construction of a new fire station. This assistance will be granted under the new 5.1 sub-component of the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM) program, which is devoted only to municipal or community-based infrastructure projects. 
"I am very proud to announce the government's participation in the implementation of this important municipal infrastructure project in the Lanaudière region. The future fire station in Rawdon will allow the municipality to ensure the safety of its citizens and its employees in addition to improving their quality of life and to respond more adequately to the requirements of the fire safety department, in the The best interest of the population, "said Minister Nicolas Marceau. 
The project of the Rawdon municipality is to build a new fire station in replacement of that which had been destroyed in a fire in December 2010. In the long term, this project will benefit some 10,626 people.  Under the current rules and standards of PIQM sub-component, financial assistance for the project of the Rawdon municipality is estimated at 50% of the amount of eligible costs. 
With a budget envelope of nearly $ 60 million over five years, the PIQM sub-flap 5.1 allows Quebec municipalities to carry out construction, setting up, rehabilitation or refurbishment of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offering and the quality of life of citizens in addition to overcoming the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures. 
The support of the Quebec government to the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) released last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
