Chesterville- The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert Take advantage of the inauguration of the Seniors Park to announce the financial assistance of $ 69,680, granted as part of the 2011-2012 project call to the Municipality of Chesterville, in the Center-du-Québec region. This financial assistance, which will be used for the redevelopment of the municipal land used by seniors, comes from the Québec-Municipal Infrastructures Program - Municipality of Seniors' Municipality (PIQM-Mada). 
Thanks to the Québec-Municipal Infrastructures - Municipal Municipality of Seniors, municipalities incurred in the MADA approach have access to funding to support them in achieving small infrastructure projects that meet the needs of seniors. 
"I want to commend the realization of this project for seniors in Chesterville. Elders will now be able to take full advantage of this common place and practice their activities safely. I am also proud of our government's commitment to this beautiful initiative a few years ago and to which the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, of which I am responsible, is associated. Improving the living conditions of our elders is to contribute to their fulfillment as an individual in the community. To assume together a responsibility that challenges us all to make Quebec a place where it is good at age, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"This project, like many others who are emerging in all regions of Quebec, confirms the priority that our government gives to the quality of life of seniors. I would like to welcome the initiative of the Municipality of Chesterville and the efforts made by those responsible for the realization of this project which now allows seniors to enjoy safe access to the enhanced municipal land and an entertaining venue. stimulant, "added Minister Hébert. 
Briefly, the project consists of carrying out the work required to redevelop municipal land and allow seniors to access them safely. The main works include the development of pedestrian trails and a central place with benches, the addition of urban furniture, a gazebo and a lamppost, the repair of the pétanque and parking lot, the layout landscape land, as well as various complementary work. These interventions and additions will promote optimal operation while allowing all to enjoy the municipal land improved. 
The PIQM-MADA is equipped with an annual $ 3 million envelope from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the occupation of the territory, reserved for the financing of infrastructures meeting the needs of seniors. For the first two years of the program, it is nearly 90 projects from all over Quebec that benefit from this envelope accessible to municipalities engaged in the Municipality Age of Seniors. These investments are part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. The PIQM-MADA program is also an action listed in the politicsVerville and live together at home in its community in Quebec. 
Strong today's membership of 579 municipalities or MRC, the MADA approach was implemented in Quebec by the Seniors Secretariat in 2008 and continues under the responsibility of the Minister responsible for seniors and Minister of Health and Social Services. This is inspired by an approach developed by the World Health Organization (WHO), and the model it proposes has been designed to enable citizens to age while remaining active in their community. The collaboration of the entire community is one of the winning conditions of the approach, but it could not succeed fully without the participation of seniors themselves and that of local organizations that represent them. Quebec is considered by WHO as the most advanced company in the world in the application of this approach based on the adaptation of municipal policies and services to the aging of the population. 
