Québec- Minister Delegate to Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region and MP Pascal Bérubé, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and L Food, Mr. François Gendron, is pleased to announce the allocation of financial support from $ 25,000 to the Agro-Futur Matane Agroenvironmental Club for the implementation of measures to limit the risk of contamination of the source drinking water of the municipality of Sainte-Luce. Financial assistance is granted under the Prime Green Program. 
"It is essential to take all necessary means to preserve drinking water sources and ensure that agricultural activities are carried out in the greatest respect for the environment. That's why we support the measures planned in the Joint Agro-Futur Matane project and the municipality of Sainte-Luce. Moreover, this initiative coincides perfectly with one of the four axes of our policy of food sovereignty, namely sustainable development, "said Francois Gendron. 
"I welcomed when I learned that the Agro-Futur Matane Agroenvironmental Club will benefit from the financial assistance of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. The project will achieve will have positive benefits not only for local agriculture, but also for all citizens of the municipality of Sainte-Luce, "said Pascal Bérubé. 
The measures envisaged include the following objectives: 
It should be noted that Prime-Green is an agri-environment support program to assist agricultural farms to meet the challenges of protecting the environment. It aims to promote and publicize good agricultural practices, support agricultural farms on the adoption of environmentally friendly modes of production and to encourage collective initiatives to solve problems that are detrimental to the quality of the quality of the Air, soil health, biological diversity or human health as well as climate change issues. 
For further information about the Prime-Vert program, we can visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food at addressingwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca. To learn more about the food sovereignty policy, the blogwww.politicalsa.gouv.qc.caqui is dedicated to it or section www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesadu ministry's website. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the addresssetwitter.com / Mapaquebec. 
