Compton - Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Elders, Minister responsible for the Estrie and MP Region, Dr. Réjean Hébert, is pleased to announce, on his behalf and the name of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the municipalities of Compton and Dixville will benefit from government assistance from the Québec Infrastructures Program. Municipalities - Municipalité Friends of Elders (PIQM-MADA) For their infrastructure projects for seniors. Thus, the municipality of Compton will receive $ 52,881, and the Municipality of Dixville will obtain $ 14,400 for the realization of their respective project. 
Thanks to the Québec-Municipal Infrastructures - Municipal Municipality of Seniors, municipalities incurred in the MADA approach have access to funding to support them in achieving small infrastructure projects that meet the needs of seniors. 
"I am very pleased with our government's financial support for the realization of infrastructure projects for elders in Compton and Dixville. These projects, like several others who are emerging in all regions of Quebec, confirm the priority that our government gives to the quality of life of seniors. I wish to salute the initiative of the municipalities of Compton and Dixville for the realization of these projects that meet the needs of seniors, in addition to contributing to their safety and quality of life while allowing them to remain active. As long as possible, "added Minister Hébert. 
"I am very proud of our government's commitment to seniors as part of the MADA approach, this great initiative put forward a few years ago and to which the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, regions and of the occupation of the territory. Improving the living conditions of our elders is to contribute to their fulfillment as a person in the community. It is also assuming together a responsibility that concerns us all to make Quebec a place where it is good at age, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The project of the Compton municipality consists in developing a walkway connecting two parks and three streets where seniors live mainly. This course will be extended to where the municipal, postal and commercial services are located. This future circuit will also include resting stations that promote active users while allowing them to move more easily over more distances and to have more access to the services of the municipality and to take advantage of public spaces of interest . 
The project also provides for the construction of a pavilion next to the municipal cottage, which will include a skaters' room and a room for activities. The layout of a trail around the recreation-o-park and the addition of benches and picnic tables near the pavilion will complete this project. 
The completion of this project is based on an eligible maximum cost set up at $ 105,762 under the PIQM component, which is brought equally by the Government of Quebec and the Municipality of Compton for a respective contribution of $ 52,881 . 
The Dixville Municipality's project aims for improvement in Lougeette Park in order to provide adequate recreation infrastructure for elders, including the installation of two Galet Games, the renovation of the roof of the pavilion as well as the Construction of parks. 
The completion of this project is based on an eligible maximum cost established at $ 18,000 under the PIQM 2.5 component. The Quebec government invests $ 14,400 while the Municipality of Dixville spends $ 3,600. 
Recall that the PIQM-MADA has an annual $ 3 million envelope from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the occupation of the territory, reserved for the financing of infrastructures meeting the needs of seniors. Since 2010, they have been 137 projects that have benefited from this envelope accessible to municipalities incurred in the Municipality Municipality of Elders. These investments are part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. The PIQM-MADA program is also an action listed in the politicsVerville and live together at home in its community in Quebec. 
Strong today's membership of 704 municipalities or MRC, the MADA approach was established in Quebec by the Seniors Secretariat in 2008 and continues under the responsibility of the Minister responsible for seniors and Minister of Health and Social Services. This is inspired by an approach developed by the World Health Organization (WHO), and the model it proposes has been designed to enable citizens to age while remaining active in their community. The collaboration of the entire community is one of the winning conditions of the approach, but it could not succeed fully without the participation of seniors themselves and that of local organizations that represent them. Quebec is considered by WHO as the most advanced company in the world in the application of this approach based on the adaptation of municipal policies and services to the aging of the population. 
