Bécancour- The Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Minister responsible for the Mauricie Region and the Center-du-Québec Region and MP Johnson, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, is pleased, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the City of Bécancour will benefit from government financial assistance from 759 175 $ for the replacement of the ozonation system of the drinking water treatment plant. This assistance comes from the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM) program. 
"I am very pleased with the financial assistance given to the city of Bécancour which testifies to the will of our government to ensure the population of quality infrastructures for all. This major investment will ensure essential service for the population by providing them with better consumption water. In addition, in partnership with municipalities, we want to make sure that citizens benefit from sustainable and quality public services for current and future generations, "said Minister Blanchet. 
The project consists mainly of replacing the ozonation treatment system at the drinking water production plant in the city of Bécancour become obsolete. The project initially provides for the dismantling of the existing ozonation system and then the establishment of a new gas, ozoner system and an ozon operating system. This work also includes the installation of ozone diffusion systems in water and those of dissolved and gaseous ozone analysis, as well as the gaseous ozone destroyer by combustion. The realization of this project will benefit from a population of more than 12,700 people. 
Under the PIQM component 1.4, the contribution of the Government of Quebec granted to the Bécancour project amounts to $ 759,175. For its part, the city of Bécancour also invests $ 759,175 in its project, bringing the total amount of investments at $ 1,518,350. 
The contribution of the Government of Quebec to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) released in April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
For its part, the Mayor of the city of Bécancour, Ms. Gaéta Désilets, welcomes the support of the Government of Quebec to the realization of this project which will ensure that services essential to the community. 
