Quebec- Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology and Deputy of Borduas, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is proud to announce, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture , Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, the allocation of financial assistance of 100,000 dollars Auxvergers Paul Jodoin Inc. This amount will allow the company to acquire the equipment required to proceed to the treatment of the necessary water for its processing activities. 
"It's a pleasure for me to support a company that, like the Orchards Paul Jodoin Inc., is working on improving its processes in order to carry out its activities while respecting the environment," said Mr. Gendron. 
"I am always proud to know that we support monteregal companies, especially when this assistance allows them, through the use of new technologies, to engage in sustainable development while successfully pursuing their activities," added Pierre Duchesne. 
FINANCIAL AID IS GRANNED IN THE FOLLOWING OF THE PRIME-GREEN PRIME-GREEN, component of which the objective is to support agricultural holdings in the implementation of equities, agri-environmental practices and production methods to reduce pollution. agricultural and maintaining biodiversity. 
"We are concerned about the impact of our agricultural activities on the environment. This financial assistance from the Government of Quebec will therefore allow us to continue our actions in this direction, "said Alexandre Jodoin, Orchards Paul Jodoin inc. 
The orchard Paul Jodoin inc. They were founded in 1970. Always owned by the Jodoin family, this agricultural enterprise specializes today in the production, processing and marketing of apple products. 
"The adoption of sustainable modes of transformation by the orchard Paul Jodoin inc. is the perfect example of actions that fit with the Food Sovereignty Policy filed last May ", concluded Minister Gendron. 
For further information about the Prime Green program, we can visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food at addressingwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca / primevert. To learn more about the food sovereignty policy, the blogwww.politicalsa.gouv.qc.caou section www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesadu site of the department. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the addresssetwitter.com / Mapaquebec. 
