Quebec- Minister Delegate to Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region and MP Pascal Bérubé, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the granting of $ 85,000 Government Assistance to the Témiscouata-Aster Observatory Corporation for the restoration of its building. This assistance comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship (PIEC) infrastructure program. 
"I am very pleased with the support of the Government of Quebec to the realization of this project, which will allow both to contribute to the territorial anchor and the collective use of a very important infrastructure for the region. This astronomical observatory is a major attraction for the Témiscouata and the Bas-Saint-Laurent. At the end of the work, the observatory will allow visitors and astronomy enthusiasts to live captivating experiences, "said Minister Pascal Bérubé. 
More precisely, the project consists of the restoration of the building housing the Témiscouata Observatory as well as the Museum of Science. Work focuses on building standards, particularly with regard to safety, elevators and electricity. Note that the project also provides for the installation of a new exhibition. 
The realization of the restoration works requires a total investment valued at $ 870,199. The Government of Quebec will pay an amount of $ 85,000 under the PIT. It should be remembered that the Ministry of Culture and Communications, under the Program Assistance to Capitalization, has already contributed to the project for an amount of $ 509,800 and Investissement Québec, awarded a loan of $ 150,000.  Aster is a scientific extension and recreation station and an interpretive center that addresses both school clients and the general public. It has been recognized museum institution by the Ministry of Culture and Communications in 2001. Aster continues a dual mandate of interpretation and scientific animation. Its dome houses a permanent exhibition. 
With an investment envelope of $ 10 million, it can support social economy companies in the implementation of projects of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition of commercial infrastructure or industrial. The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy companies, contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories and to promote the preservation and valorization of the quality of the environment. 
