Quebec- The member for Saint-Hyacinthe, Mr. Emilien Pelletier, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is pleased to announce the awarding of Financial assistance from $ 48,200 to three bodies of the Montérégie. This financial support, which is granted under the 2013-18 Prime Green Program, will enable three projects that relate to agri-environment and soil protection. 
The first project is the direct seedling action that organized, together with the Ministry of Agriculture, fisheries and food, the Soil Health Symposium. The organization received $ 10,000 for the preparation and holding of this meeting that took place on January 7th. On this occasion, activities and means of intervention have been proposed to support the adoption of agricultural practices in favor of soil conservation and water. 
The second project is that of the Club Agri Council Maska, which has been granted $ 15,000 for the improvement of soil health for the three types of clay found most frequently in the monterégie soils. 
Finally, a financial assistance of $ 23,200 is granted to the Geomont for the support it provides on geomatics to agri-environmental club advisors. 
"In both the implementation of the Prime-Green Program and the deployment of the Food Sovereignty, we ensure that agricultural activities such as the economic development of the different bioalmic sector links harmonize with protection and improvement. of the environment, "said Francois Gendron. 
"I withdraw a great proud of the support that the Quebec government brings projects focused on soil protection in my riding of Saint-Hyacinthe. The people of this territory of Montérégie are recognized for their dynamism in the farm and agri-environment. It is therefore nice to see that efforts are supported to preserve or improve the lands of the region, "said Emilien Pelletier. 
The three projects favor a form of agriculture development that agrees with the expectations of society in the chapters of respect for the environment and the preservation of soil. In this sense, they fit with the objectives set in the Food Sovereignty Policy launched in the spring of 2013. 
Prime-Green is a support program for agri-environment, which is intended to assist agricultural farms to meet the challenges of protecting the environment. For more information on this program, please visit the Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food website at www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/primevert. To learn more about the food sovereignty policy, visit the blogww.politiquesa.gouv.qc.caqui is dedicated to it or browse the section www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesadu department's website. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the addresssetwitter.com / Mapaquebec. 
