Saint-Charles-sur-Richelieu- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology and MP, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is pleased to announce today, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal affairs, regions and occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that government financial assistance granted to the municipality of Saint-Charles-sur-Richelieu has been revised on the rise and Go from $ 3,750,000 to $ 5,153,542, which is an increase of $ 1,403,542. 
Government aid has been increased because of the amendments to the initially planned project, particularly for the completion of all the work required for the treatment of joint wastewater of the municipalities of Saint-Charles-sur-Richelieu and Saint- Marc-sur-Richelieu. This assistance is added to that already announced in the overall project for the sanitation of wastewater and repair of aqueduct pipes of these two municipalities. 
"I am very pleased with the additional financial support given today to the municipality of Saint-Charles-sur-Richelieu to complete its joint project with the municipality of Saint-Marc-sur-Richelieu. This support demonstrates our Government's commitment to providing infrastructure to Quebec municipalities that meet the standards in force. That's why, in partnership with municipalities, we want to ensure that citizens benefit from sustainable and quality public services for current and future generations, "said Minister Pierre Duchesne. 
Remember that the departure project aimed to equip the municipality of Saint-Charles-sur-Richelieu of sewage sanitation infrastructures requiring the establishment of a network of sanitary sewer pipes for collection, a Interception system, comprising several pumping stations, joint wastewater treatment with Saint-Marc-sur-Richelieu including the construction of a ventilated pond sewage treatment plant as well as various complementary work. 
In addition, the municipality of Saint-Charles-sur-Richelieu benefited from this opportunity to replace the ducts of the aqueduct network in place within a dozen streets, for a total length of about 1,716 meters, as well as the pipes of the unit sewer network that could not be stored as rainfeds. All of these interventions enjoys a local and surrounding population of nearly 1,600 people, including 807 residents of the municipality of Saint-Charles-sur-Richelieu. 
Underneath 1.1 and 1.2 of the PIQM, the contribution of the Government of Quebec awarded to the entire project is now at $ 8,470,093, or $ 5,53,542 for the municipality of Saint-Charles-sur-Richelieu Following an increase of $ 1,403,542 and $ 3,316,551 already announced for the municipality of Saint-Marc-sur-Richelieu. The total cost of the project amounts to $ 13,876,238. 
The contribution of the Government of Quebec to this project is part of the 2013-2023Rendurable Public Infrastructure Duplan (PQI) framework in April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
