Quebec - Since October 1, 2013, the age of eligibility for the Quebec Housing Corporation Allowance Program (SHQ) is now 52 for single people and couples who meet the other criteria of the program. For the year 2013-2014, this measure represents an investment of $ 3.4 million and the SHQ estimates that 3,400 Quebec households will benefit. Recall that every year, since 2011, the admissibility age of this program has been lowered to reach 50 years in 2015. 
The maximum allowable income was also $ 24,729 for households of two or more people. This bonus allows couples of seniors who receive the maximum benefits of the Old Age Security Pension and the Guaranteed Income Supplement to maintain their housing allowance. 
More than 100,000 low-income households that devote too much part of their budget to stay will be able to receive an allowance for helping them rent. In addition, between October 1, 2012 and September 1, 2013, more than $ 74 million were devoted to the Allocation-Housing program. The financing of the latter is also shared between the Government of Canada, through the Canadian Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC), and the Government of Quebec, through the Quebec Housing Corporation . 
To benefit from the program  Low-income households who have at least one dependent child, as well as single people aged 52 or older and couples, one of the spouses 52 years of age or more, who believe they are eligible for the program must contact Revenu Québec at 1-800-267-6299. 
General information on the program are also available at the address www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. 
Implemented in 1997 by the Quebec Housing Corporation and administered by Revenu Québec, the Allocation-Housing program is for low-income households, whether they are owners, tenants or chamberrs. The amount of the aid granted can reach $ 80 per month depending on the size of the household, its income and the cost of its housing. 
Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the Quebec Housing Corporation contributes to improving quality. of life of more than 230,000 households each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Habitat Espace, the WEB magazine of the SHQ, which deals with the spin-offs of the interventions of it on the whole of Quebec society. 
This year, through CMHC, the Government of Canada will invest approximately $ 2 billion in housing. Of this amount, $ 1.7 billion will be devoted to supporting nearly 594,000 households living in social housing. In Quebec, this represents some 127 150 households. These investments improve the quality of life of low-income Canadians and households living in social housing, including homelessness and people at risk, seniors, people with disabilities, recent immigrants and Aboriginal people. 
To learn more about how CMHC supports the development of solid houses and prosperous communities for all Canadians, contact CMHC at 1-800-668-2642 or visitwww.cmhc-schl.gc.ca. 
