Saint-Tite-des-Caps- Prime Minister of Quebec and MP for Charlevoix-Côte-de-Beaupré, Pauline Marois, is pleased to announce financial assistance from $ 282,613 to the College of High Summits College Work Cooperative for The renovation of its facilities. This sum comes from the program of infrastructures in collective entrepreneurship (PIEC). 
"This grant granted to the College of Splete College's Work Cooperative is a way for the Government to recognize the merits of the educational mission of this institution. We have the responsibility to build a Quebec knowledge. That's why I am proud of the improvements that will be made to the current facilities of the college of high peaks. They will respond not only to the needs of people who benefit from it, but also to the entire community, "said the Prime Minister. 
In concrete terms, this financial support will be used to put on the standards of the college building and school residences as well as the modernization of one of the adjoining buildings. Contents, the work includes changing windows, the installation of new floors, the repair of walls and skylights and the layout of a new multifunctional room in the main building. In addition to strengthening the infrastructure, these improvements will enable the establishment of improving its service offering and proposing new activities to its students. 
Located in an exceptional natural environment, at the top of a mountain overlooking the St. Lawrence River, the college of high peaks welcomes students who want to experience an exceeding experience that will give them hope to succeed. By offering them various training options, the college promotes their fulfillment. 
The realization of this project requires a total investment estimated at $ 484,646. The Government of Quebec, within the framework of the PIEC, contributes to this project for a maximum amount of $ 282,613 and the Foundation of the High Summits College participates in 1923 $ 323. 
The Chairman of the Board of Directors of the College of Hauts College, Sonia Lefrançois, is very pleased with the support of the Government of Quebec, which will allow the organization to pursue its educational mission in better conditions. 
Recognized as a social economy enterprise by the National Social Economy Pole of the National Capital, the Work Cooperative of the College of Hauts Summits was created by the staff of the establishment in 2003. Its purpose is to ensure the Sustainability of the college of high peaks. The only private institution of French-language joint education with school residences of the Quebec City and Eastern Region, the College offers regular education with a follow-up to more than 150 secondary level students from all regions of the Quebec. 
It should be noted that the Secretariat at the Capitale National issued a favorable opinion to the project of renovation of the establishment of the college of high peaks, considering that it generates positive socio-economic benefits. 
The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy companies, contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories and to promote preservation as well as the valorization of the quality of the environment. With an investment envelope of $ 10 million, this program supports social economy companies in the implementation of projects of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition of commercial or industrial infrastructure . 
