Government of Quebec Investment $ 1 Million 
Alma - Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignist Governance, Member of Parliament for Lac-Saint-Jean, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, is proud to participate, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, regions and the Occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, at the inauguration of the first phase of modernization of the Mario-Tremblay Center. It benefits from this opportunity to recall the financial commitment of the Government of Quebec of $ 1,000,000 granted to the City of Alma for the realization of this project. This assistance comes from the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM) program. 
"I am very happy to be here today to inaugurate the first phase of the expansion work of the Mario-Tremblay Center. It's been a year, almost day for day, I donned financial assistance for the realization of the project. It is a major sporting infrastructure for the city of Alma, the MRC de Lac-Saint-Jean-Est and the entire territory of Lac-Saint-Jean. The building thus renovated now makes it possible to better meet the needs of the population in addition to strengthening the Center's recreational and cultural vocation, contributing to the socio-economic development of the region and to promote a sense of belonging to the environment, "said the Minister," said the Minister. Alexandre Cloutier. 
More concretely, government assistance has enabled the enlargement of the 12,000-square-foot building area on two floors. Among the main amenities made, include the addition, on the ground floor, a secondary entrance hall, five rooms of players, an ice cream access corridor, premises for storage and The storage of equipment as well as administrative premises. Other work was also performed upstairs to develop a restoration space, multipurpose rooms, combat surfaces as well as sanitary blocks. 
It should be noted that the building housing the Mario-Tremblay Center was built in 1972 and that it needed significant modernization work due to the growing use of this infrastructure. Also, this complex offers services to a school and citizen clientele of the city and the MRC. In addition to the practice of sports and recreational activities, the Center also allows for about twenty events, whose participation amounts to more than 30,000 people annually. 
The maximum allowable cost of the first modernization phase of the Mario-Tremblay Center has been set up at $ 1,500,000, under the PIQM. The contribution of the Government of Quebec amounts to $ 1,000,000. 
The support of the Government of Quebec to this project is part of the Cébécois Infrastructure (PQI) framework. Remember that the 2013-2023 plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
