Sainte-Anne-des-Lacs- The member for Berthier and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. André Villeneuve, accompanied by the member for Bertrand and Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Claude Cousineau, is pleased to announce today, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the realization of a project of the RECIM in the Laurentian region. Thus, the municipality of Sainte-Anne-des-Lacs will receive government assistance for the construction of a fire station. This financial assistance will be granted under the Nouveausous-component 5.1 of the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities Program (PIQM), which is devoted only to municipal or community-based infrastructure projects. 
"I am very proud to announce today the participation of our government in the realization of this important municipal infrastructure project in the Laurentians region. Future fire station in Sainte-Anne-des-Lacs will enable the municipality to ensure the safety of its employees and citizens, in addition to responding more adequately to the requirements of the fire department, and this, in the best interest of the population. That's why our government is committed to providing municipalities with the support needed to renew and develop their infrastructure, "said MP André Villeneuve. 
"I am very happy with this ad in Sainte-Anne-des-Lacs. This investment is an essential contribution that will provide quality services to the citizens of this beautiful municipality, "said MP Claude Cousineau, Vice-President of the National Assembly. 
Currently, the municipal garage acts as fire barracks, which presents a significant risk of occupational safety, due to the exiguity of the premises. Thanks to the government support, the municipality of Sainte-Anne-des-Lacs is able to acquire a fire station of a sufficient size for the trucks as well as for the storage of the different equipment required. In the long term, this project will benefit a population of some 3,499 inhabitants. 
Under the rules and standards in force of the PIQM sub-component 5.1, financial assistance for the implementation of the project of the municipality of Sainte-Anne-des-Lacs is estimated at 65% of the amount of eligible costs. 
With a budget envelope of nearly $ 60 million over five years, the PIQM sub-flap 5.1 allows Quebec municipalities to carry out construction, setting up, rehabilitation or refurbishment of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offering and the quality of life of citizens in addition to overcoming the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures. 
The support of the Government of Quebec to the project is part of the 2013-2023Reured Public Infrastructure Duplan (PQI) framework last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
