Quebec- The Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food, Mr. Gerry Ritz, and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, are pleased to announce The allocation of financial assistance of more than $ 24,500 to two companies in Saint-Louis-du-Ha! Ha!, In the Bas-Saint-Laurent, for the realization of soil conservation projects. These projects are funded under component 1 of the 2013-2018 Prime Green Program, in accordance with the Canada-Quebec Agreement Grow the Future 2. 
"An environmentally friendly agricultural sector makes an important contribution to the Quebec and Canada economy," said Gerry Ritz. Through cultivating the future 2, we invest in projects that will promote the sustainable development of this sector of activity, with respect for the environment. » 
"That we can encourage such projects through Prime-Vert gives me great satisfaction, as this program encourages producers to adopt sustainable modes of production and to practice agriculture that takes into account the environment, for the benefit of our generations. Futures. These projects are perfectly joining the objectives set in the national food sovereignty of the Government of Quebec, "said Francois Gendron. 
The Emmental Senc Farm and Gérald Marquis Farm Inc. have undertaken actions to correct soil erosion problems observed in their fields. The $ 12,647 financial assistance given to Caprine Farm Emmental and that of $ 11,869 received by the Gérald Marquis Farm dairy company will allow them to make adjustments to solve these erosion problems. 
The interventions carried out at the Emmental Farm and the Farm Gérald Marquis are part of a collective measure of reducing diffuse pollution, like interventions carried out in other farms located in the "Phosphorus Priority Response Area From the Madawaska River. 
For more information on the Prime-Green Program, please visit the Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food website at www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/primevert. To learn more about the food sovereignty policy, visit the blogww.politiquesa.gouv.qc.caqui is dedicated to it or browse the section www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesadu department's website. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at Twitter.com/Mapaquebec. 
