Valley-Junction - Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Minister responsible for the Regions of the Capitale-Nationale and the Chaudière-Appalaches and MP for Taschereau, Ms. Agnès Maltais, On behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce that the municipality of Valley-Junction will receive a financial contribution of $ 653,250 for the replacement of drinking water pipes and sewers. This assistance is granted as part of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM). 
More specifically, the project aims to replace drinking water and sewer pipes under the Giguère and Turcotte streets. At the end of this work, water pipes over 445 meters will be renewed. 
"I am very pleased with the financial support granted to the municipality of Valley-Junction. Our government recognizes the need to renew and develop drinking water, wastewater and stormwater infrastructure in communities across Quebec. That's why, in partnership with municipalities, we want to make sure that citizens benefit from quality sustainable public services for current generations as well as future generations, "said Minister Maltese. 
The realization of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 653,250 under the PIQM 1.5 component. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this new component of the PIQM program allows not only to ensure the sustainability of infrastructure, but also to enhance the quality of life of the population and to create many jobs overall. Regions of Quebec. 
About the Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI)  The support of the Government of Quebec to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public in April 2013. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in investments of 8.1 billion dollars for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with them and to make informed choices. 
