Quebec- The member for Iberville, Mrs. Marie Bouillé, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is pleased to announce the allocation of a Financial Assistance of $ 9,000 at the Agri-Sustainable Consulting Club, from St. Césaire, for the realization of a project aimed at improving the health of agricultural soils. The financial support consented to initiate this project comes from the Prime Green Program. 
"I am always happy to hear that we encourage initiatives like that of the agri-sustainable club. Both in the implementation of the Prime Green Program and the deployment of food sovereignty, we ensure that agricultural activities such as the economic development of the different links in the bioalmimentary sector harmonize with the protection and improvement of The environment, "said Francois Gendron. 
"I withdraw a great pride in the support that the Quebec government grants the realization of this project concerning the improvement of the quality and health of the Montérégie soils. This proves that the particular problems of the regions are taken into account and also working to improve crop yield, while respecting the environment, "said Marie Bouillé. 
Prime-Green is a support program for agri-environment, which is intended to assist agricultural farms to meet the challenges of protecting the environment. The agri-sustainable club project is carried out in accordance with the regional approach plan established in the context of the Prime-Green Program and intended to solve agri-environmental problems specific to the region. In concrete terms, autumn wheat are shed into fields of the montreegie in order to study and develop the conditions necessary for the establishment of a third rotation culture. Wheat could be an interesting, agronomically and environmental alternative, contributing to improving soil health. 
For more information on the Prime Green Program, please visit the Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food website at www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/primevert. To learn more about the food sovereignty policy, visit the blogww.politiquesa.gouv.qc.caqui is dedicated to it or browse the section www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesadu department's website. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the addresssetwitter.com / Mapaquebec. 
