Val-d'Or- Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs and MP Abitibo-East, Ms. Elizabeth Larouche, is pleased to announce today, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the granting of maximum government assistance from $ 279,800 to TechnoBois SOS Jobs (Abitibi East) for the construction of a new factory. This assistance comes from the program of infrastructures in collective entrepreneurship (PIEC). It should be noted that this is the first authorized project as part of the PIEC program for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region. 
"I am very proud of the help today by our government for the TechnoBois project, which is a way of recognizing the important contribution of this company to the community. Thus, the construction of a new plant will allow TechnoBois, currently in full growth, to have adequate and modern spaces to maintain and develop, and this, for the greatest benefit of people in integration in the labor market. and the community, "said Minister Elizabeth Larouche. 
Summarily, the TechnoBois project aims to build a new plant to relocate its operations, taking into account the restricted and unformational spaces of the current building. This future infrastructure has become essential to the continuation of the activities of TechnoBois, the main objective of which is to allow, on an annual basis, the insertion into employment of about 40 young people away from the labor market. 
The realization of this project requires a total investment estimated at $ 2,791,570. The Government of Quebec pays a maximum amount of $ 279,800 under the PIT. Other partners also contribute to this project, including the Local Development Center (CLD) of the Valley and Economic Development Canada (DEC). 
Founded in 1997, Technobois is recognized and supported in its environment as a social economy enterprise, whose mission is to provide concrete work experience allowing its workers to acquire the necessary skills and skills in order to obtain and to keep a job. Since its inception, TechnoBois has helped more than 500 people integrate the labor market. With its fifteen years of existence, this insertion company specializes in the processing of wood, the factory manufacturing of wood items for residential, commercial and industrial uses. The greatest strength of the company lies in its ability to quickly make customized products to meet the specific needs of its customers.
The Chairman of TechnoBois Board of Directors, Mr. Vincent Rousson, as well as the Mayor of the City of Val-d'Or, Mr. Fernand Trahan, are very pleased with the support of the Government of Quebec for the realization of this project which will allow The company to carry out its activities in adequate spaces, in addition to protecting the seven current permanent jobs and to create some others. 
Equipped with an investment envelope of $ 10 million, the PIC aims to support social economy companies in the implementation of projects of refurbishment, expansion, construction or acquisition of commercial infrastructure or industrial. The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy companies, contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories and to promote the preservation and valorization of the quality of the environment. 
