The Pocatière - Minister Delegate to Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas? Saint? Laurent and Matane Deputy Region? Matapédia, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, regions and of the occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the granting of $ 374,000 financial assistance for the expansion of the Quebec Bioalimentary Development Center (CDBQ) to La Pocatière . This assistance comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship (PIEC) infrastructure program. 
Specifically, the project aims to enlarge the current CDBQ building to install modular incubation rooms, a cold room and a biotechnical packaging room. The work also includes the renovation of current laboratories to better adapt them to the use and management of chemicals according to the standards in force. 
The realization of this project will develop the pre-industrial scale of new agrobiotechnology products by offering a full range of professional services in food processing. 
"I am very proud of the government assistance granted today for the expansion of the building of the Quebec Bioalimentary Development Center. The completion of this project will allow this social economy company to contribute to the development of the Kamouraska region and the entire community by creating jobs and offering research support services for technological innovation, and This, in a sustainable development approach, "said Minister Pascal Bérubé. 
The eligible cost of this project is $ 3,742,564. The Government of Quebec, within the framework of the PIEC, pays $ 374,000. It also provides a bonus of $ 62,184 to take into account the interests that the organization will have to assume during the payment period. 
Recognized as a social economy enterprise, the CDBQ hosts 14 companies working in the areas of food processing with which it collaborates. In 1995, the CDBQ continued to grow for several years and make its mark in the agri-food area as a public research center. 
For its part, the President of the CDBQ, Mr. Gilles Martin, thanked the Government of Quebec for the granting of this financial assistance that will be used to carry out all the work and will encourage research and serve the community. 
Recall that the PIEC has a budget envelope of $ 10 million. It aims to support social economy companies in the implementation of projects of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition of commercial or industrial infrastructure. The objectives of the CEP are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories as well as to promote the preservation and valorization of the environment. 
