Gracefield- The Minister of Public Safety, Minister responsible for the Ottawa and Deputy Region of Verchères, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, regions and occupation of the territory Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the completion of two RECIM projects in the Outaouais region. Thus, the municipality of Denholm will receive government assistance for the reconstruction of the community hall, while the Cayamant municipality will also benefit from help for the construction of a fire station. These aid will be granted under the new subpaid 5.1 of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM), which is devoted only to municipal or Community infrastructure projects. 
"I am proud to announce today's participation in the implementation of these two important municipal infrastructure projects in the Outaouais region. The reconstruction of the Community hall in Denholm will help improve the supply of services and, consequently, the quality of life of citizens of this community. In addition, the future fire station in Cayamant will allow the municipality to ensure the health, safety and effectiveness of its employees, in addition to responding more adequately to the requirements of the fire department, and this, in the best Interest of the population on which he watches, "said Minister Stéphane Bergeron. 
The project of the municipality of Denholm aims at the reconstruction of the destroyed community room following a fire in 2010. The new room will include, in particular, an office for organizations, a dating room, community cuisine and a local computer. These interventions will benefit about 580 people. 
Under the current rules and standards of the PIQM sub-component, the financial assistance for the project of the Denholm municipality is estimated at 75% of the amount of eligible costs. 
As for the project of the Cayamant Municipality, it consists of the expansion of the municipal garage in order to integrate an independent firefighters in accordance with the standards in force. In the long term, this project will benefit 875 people. 
Under the current rules and standards of PIQM sub-component, financial assistance for the project of the Cayamant Municipality is estimated at 65% of the amount of eligible costs. 
With a budget envelope of nearly $ 60 million over five years, Lesius-component 5.1 of Piqmpermet to Quebec municipalities to carry out projects of construction, setting up, rehabilitation or refurbishment of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offering and the quality of life of citizens in addition to overcoming the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures. 
The support of the Government of Quebec to the project is part of the 2013-2023Reured Public Infrastructure Duplan (PQI) framework last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
