Quebec- Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Governance, Minister responsible for the North-du-Quebec Region and MP Alexandre Cloutier, on behalf of the Minister of Business Municipal, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, is pleased to announce that the municipalities of Hébertville-Station, Saint-Gédéon and the Ascension-of-Our Lord will benefit from government financial assistance from the Québec-Municipal Infrastructures Program - Municipalité Des Seniors (PIQM-Mada) . Thus, Hébertville-Station and Saint-Gédon will each receive $ 100,000 and the Ascension-of-Our Lord $ 70,962 for the realization of their respective projects. 
Thanks to the PIQM-MADA, the municipalities incurred in the MADA approach have access to funds to support them in the realization of small infrastructure projects that meet the needs of seniors. 
"I am very pleased with our government's support for the realization of infrastructure projects for seniors of these three municipalities in the region. I am particularly proud of our government's commitment to seniors as part of the MADA approach: this great initiative put forward a few years ago and to which the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the occupation of the territory. Improving the living conditions of our elders and promote active aging is to contribute to their fulfillment as a person in the community; To assume together a responsibility that concerns us all to make Quebec a place where it is good at age, "said Minister Cloutier. 
"These projects, like many others who are emerging in all regions of Quebec, confirm the priority that our government gives to the quality of life of seniors. I wish to salute the initiative of the municipalities of Hébertville-Station, the Ascension-de-Our Lord and Saint-Gédéon as well as all the efforts made by those responsible for the realization of these projects which will allow the seniors of Benefit from infrastructure better adapted to their needs, "said Minister Hébert. 
The Hébertville-Station project consists of carrying out standards and renovation work at the Community Center. These interventions will allow seniors and people with reduced mobility to benefit more from the different activities and services offered at the Community Center. 
The Ascension-de-Our Lord project provides for changes to the subsoil of the municipal building to improve access and configuration of the internet room. The front door will be changed and the divisions will be refurbished for better use of space. These improvements will allow seniors to benefit from infrastructure better adapted to their needs, while allowing everyone to enjoy the internet room. 
The Saint-Gideon project focuses on the expansion of the municipal building for the installation of a lifting platform to make it accessible to elders. The work includes the redevelopment of entry, modifications to the fenestration and the interior doors as well as various complementary works. 
These projects are part of an approach undertaken by these three municipalities to improve the quality of life of elderly people and to promote active aging. 
Remember that the PIQM-MADA has an annual $ 3 million envelope from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the occupation of the territory, reserved for the financing of infrastructure adapted to the needs of seniors. Since 2010, more than 130 projects have benefited from this envelope accessible to municipalities engaged in the MADA approach. These investments are part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. The PIQM-MADA program is also an action listed in the aging policy and living together, at home, in its community, in Quebec. 
Strong today's membership of 704 municipalities or MRC, the MADA approach was established in Quebec by the Seniors Secretariat in 2008 and continues under the responsibility of the Minister responsible for seniors and Minister of Health and Social Services. This is inspired by an approach developed by the World Health Organization (WHO), and the model it proposes has been designed to enable citizens to age while remaining active in their community. The collaboration of the entire community is one of the winning conditions of the approach, but it could not succeed fully without the participation of seniors themselves and that of local organizations that represent them. Quebec is considered by WHO as the most advanced company in the world in the application of this approach based on the adaptation of municipal policies and services to the aging of the population. 
