Quebec- The member for Roberval, Mr. Denis Trottier, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, is pleased to announce the allocation of a Financial assistance of $ 10,000 at the Bleet Board Club. This financial assistance, which is granted under the Prime Green Program, aims to produce a guide to good practices regarding the development and rehabilitation of the dunes for the operation of blueberries. 
"I'm always happy to hear that we encourage initiatives like the Bleet Board Club. Both in the implementation of the Prime Green Program and the deployment of food sovereignty, we want agricultural activities to harmonize the protection of the environment and sustainable development, "said François Gendron. 
"I withdraw a great proud of the support that the Quebec government brings to the completion of the Bleet Board Club project, which aims to address environmental issues specific to our region. To make producers aware of the problems of erosion and soil degradation of the Bleuetiers helps to minimize the environmental impact of agricultural activities, "said Denis Trottier. 
Prime-Green is a support program for agri-environment, which is intended to assist agricultural farms to meet the challenges of protecting the environment. The financial assistance granted is linked to the sub-flap 3.1 "Regional Approach" of the Prime Green Program. It will allow the Bleupet Board Club, in collaboration with the Scientific Committee of the Quebec Blueberry Producers Union and the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, to create a guide for producers about Good practices to adopt in the blueberries. Note that five farmers will assist in the realization of this tool. Also, in the summer of 2014, a day of information will be held at one of them to present the results of the Bleet Board Club Initiative. 
For more information on the Prime Green Program, please visit the Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food website at www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/primevert. To learn more about the food sovereignty policy, visit the blogww.politiquesa.gouv.qc.caqui is dedicated to it or browse the section www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesadu department's website. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the addresssetwitter.com / Mapaquebec. 
