Canton of Saint-Camille- Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for seniors, Minister responsible for the Estrie and Deputy Region of Saint-François, Mr. Réjean Hébert, are pleased to announce that the canton of Saint-Camille will benefit from government assistance for the transformation of the Church of Saint-Camille. Multifunctional center. This assistance will be granted under the new 5.1 sub-component of the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM) program, which is devoted to municipal and community-based infrastructure projects. 
"I am very pleased with the decision of my government to support this project of transformation from the Church of Saint-Camille in the multifunctional center. This future building, strongly expected by the Community and the municipal authorities, will meet the needs expressed by the environment. This new infrastructure will enable in particular to improve the offer of service to citizens, to improve their quality of life, while ensuring the sustainability of the infrastructures in addition to reinforcing the sense of belonging of the community in its environment, to His municipality, in his region, "said Minister Réjean Hébert. 
"The selection of the projects of this second phase of approval of RECIM projects perfectly reflects the will of my government to put integrity at the heart of its decisions. The chosen projects comply with the standards in force and take into account the objectives of occupation and the vitality of the territory for the benefit of all Quebeckers and all Quebeckers, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
With a budget envelope of nearly $ 60 million over five years, the PIQM sub-flap 5.1 allows Quebec municipalities to carry out construction, setting up, rehabilitation or refurbishment of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offering and the quality of life of citizens in addition to overcoming the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures. 
The support of the Quebec government to the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) released last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
