Chambly- The Minister of Justice and Member of Parliament for Chambly, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, is proud to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, regions and occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the City of Chambly will benefit from maximum government financial assistance of $ 703,200 for the replacement of drinking water, wastewater and rainwater pipes in the city. This assistance comes from the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM) program. 
More specifically, the project aims for the replacement of drinking water and wastewater pipes and the addition of a stormwater conduct under St. George and Galipeau Streets. At the end of this work, nearly 450 meters of water pipes will be renewed in Chambly. 
"Every Quebecker must be able to benefit from access to quality public services. Our government's commitment aims to provide municipalities with the support necessary to enable them to move forward with their projects for drinking water infrastructure, wastewater and storm sewers. Thus, the aid granted to the city of Chambly will ensure essential services to citizens, in addition to providing this city of infrastructure that meets the standards in force and to enhance the quality of public services, "said the member for Chambly and Minister of Justice, Bertrand St-Arnaud. 
The realization of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 703,200 under the PIQM 1.5 component. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this part of the PIQM program allows not only to ensure the sustainability of the infrastructures, but also to enhance the quality of life of the population and to create many jobs in all of the Regions of Quebec. 
The support of the Quebec government to the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) released last April. It should be remembered that this decennial plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
