Sainte-Florence - Minister Delegate to Tourism, Minister Responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region and MPs of Matane-Matapédia, Pascal Bérubé, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the municipality of Sainte-Florence will benefit from a government financial assistance of $ 6,976,800 for its aqueduct, sewer and treatment project. waste. This help comes from the Infrastructure Québec-Municipal Infrastructures (PIQM). 
"I am very happy with the financial assistance today announced at the municipality of Sainte-Florence which testifies to the will of our government to ensure the population of quality infrastructures for all. This major investment will ensure essential service to Florencian and Florenciens by providing them with better water of consumption and sufficient quantity. While contributing to the well-being of this community, this work will help preserve the environment from a sustainable development perspective, "said Minister Bérubé. 
The project is the establishment of capture, processing and drinking water infrastructures as well as the implementation of waste collection, interception and treatment infrastructure in the municipality of Sainte-Florence . More concretely, it is the layout of two drinking water catchment wells at the southern end of the Rue des Recreation and the construction of a service building comprising a treatment system for manganese. Also, the project involves the construction of two wastewater pumping positions as well as the establishment of aerated pond sewage treatment facilities. The project will benefit from a population of nearly 235 people. 
Note that all the work that will be achieved aims to improve the quality of drinking water and the reduction of quantity and improvement of the quality of wastewater discharges, thus meeting standards in force. 
Under Duvolet 1.4 of the PIQM, the contribution of the Government of Quebec granted to the Sainte-Florence project amounts to $ 6,976,800. For its part, the municipality of Sainte-Florence invests $ 367,200 in its wastewater collection project, bringing the total amount of investments at $ 7,344,000. 
The contribution of the Government of Quebec to this project is part of the 2013-2023Rendurable Public Infrastructure Duplan (PQI) framework in April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
For its part, the Mayor of the municipality of Sainte-Florence, Mr. Gaston Martin, welcomes the support of the Government of Quebec to the realization of this project which will ensure that services essential to the Community. 
