Saint-Ludger-de-Milot- Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Governance, Minister responsible for the North-du-Quebec Region and MP Alexandre Cloutier, On behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is proud to announce that the municipality of Saint-Ludger-de-Milot will receive government assistance. $ 836,550 for the renewal of many of its water pipes. This contribution comes from the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructures Program (PIQM). 
More specifically, the project aims to replace drinking water, wastewater and rainwater pipes under some segments of Pedneault Street and Lévesque Avenue. At the end of these works, water pipes over 670 meters of streets will be renewed in the municipality of Saint-Ludger-de-Milot. 
"I am very pleased with the financial support granted to the municipality of Saint-Ludger-de-Milot. In partnership with municipalities, we want to ensure that citizens benefit from quality sustainable public services for current generations as well as future generations, "said Minister Cloutier.  The realization of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 836,550, under 1.5 of the PIQM. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this new component of the PIQM program allows not only to ensure the sustainability of infrastructure, but also to enhance the quality of life of the population and to create many jobs overall. Regions of Quebec. 
The support of the Government of Quebec to this project is part of the 2013-2023Rendic Public Infrastructure (PQI) framework in April 2013. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually lead to investments of $ 8.1 billion. For the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with them and to make informed choices. 
