Sept-Îles - Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory and Minister of Transport, Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, are happy to Announce that the Côte-Nord region will benefit from an estimated government financial assistance to nearly $ 85 million, for the implementation of twelve priority municipal projects in the context of Nordic development. This assistance, which comes from Duvolet 4 of the Québec Municipalities Infrastructures Program (PIQM), was announced at a press conference in the presence of the member for Duplessis, Lorraine Richard. 
"Our government is committed to supporting concrete initiatives to promote the exploitation and valuation of our natural wealth, in the best interests of Quebec, its municipalities and its population. In this respect, the coming years will be rich in challenges and I have no doubt that the government and municipalities will combine their efforts in order to better raise them, for the well-being of our fellow citizens, "said the Prime Minister . 
The municipalities of Fermont, Port Cartier, Schefferville, Havre-Saint-Pierre and Sept-Islands are targeted by the implementation of these new projects that meet the objectives of Nordic development, such as the development of potentials Energy, mining, forestry, bioalimentary and tourist. This public investment will allow municipalities to replace, maintain, put to standards and develop their drinking water and wastewater infrastructures, including local roads, in addition to modernizing infrastructure that allows the development of the coast. North. 
"Nordic development leads to the municipalities of this territory, strong pressure on their infrastructure, particularly because of the arrival of new residents and industrial business opportunities. In addition to creating several jobs in the region, the selected projects will contribute to the improvement of community living conditions and the protection of the environment, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
The PIQM component 4 includes an overall $ 200 million envelope for eligible municipalities wishing to carry out infrastructure projects generated by Nordic deployment. It helps financially accompany municipalities in carrying out construction, rehabilitation or expansion of infrastructure. 
The Côte-Nord Regional Government Coordination Office will be present to enable local communities to benefit from government expertise to establish priority needs. It will be the privileged regional interlocutor in consultation and coordination. 
"We want to develop the North responsibly to ensure the well-being and development of communities. We believe that the establishment and modernization of infrastructure is essential to improve the quality of life of the communities of the North Shore. This financial assistance concretely reflects our government's desire to identify the most advantageous solutions to increase the accessibility of infrastructure, with respect for local communities and the environment, "concluded Minister Ouellet. 
The Nordic Development Secretariat will support Nordic communities by supporting the government in the implementation of its northern strategies and policies. In particular, it will be responsible for optimizing all resources, both private and public, made available to the Nordic territory to facilitate harmonious, ethical and pest-friendly development. 
