Saint-Pierre-the Minister delegate to the Social Services and the Protection of the Youth, Minister responsible for the Lanaudière Region and MPs of Joliette, Mrs Véronique Hivon, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, is pleased to announce today the payment of financial assistance Total $ 100,000, granted as part of the 2011-2012 project call, in the village of Saint-Pierre, in the Lanaudière region. This financial assistance, dedicated to the development of the community room for seniors and people with disabilities, comes from the Infrastructures Québec-Municipal Infrastructures-Municipality of Seniors (PIQM-Mada). 
Thanks to the Québec-Municipal Infrastructures Program - Municipality of Seniors, municipalities engaged in the MADA approach have access to funding to support them in the realization of small infrastructure projects for seniors and their loved ones. 
"Today's announcement supports the commitment by the village of Saint-Pierre towards seniors. Thus, the aid granted will provide the adequacy of easy and safe access to the community hall. Thanks to this project, seniors will be able to take full advantage of this common place and participate in the activities organized by the municipality, the MRC de Joliette, the CLSC and the Golden Age Club. This is a project that is part of a concerted approach with seniors with the aim of improving their quality of life and to promote active aging, "said Minister Véronique Hivon. 
"I am proud of our government's commitment to this beautiful initiative a few years ago and to which the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, of which I am responsible, is associated. Improving the living conditions of our elders is to contribute to their fulfillment as an individual in the community. To assume together a responsibility that challenges us all to make Quebec a place where it is good at age, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"This project, like many others who are emerging in all regions of Quebec, confirms the priority that our government gives to the quality of life of seniors. I wish to salute the initiative of the municipality and the heads of the community room and the efforts made for the realization of this project which allows seniors and persons with disabilities to enjoy safe access to the community hall while Offering a rewarding and stimulating leisure place, "said Minister Hébert. 
The project involves performing the work required to secure places and allow seniors and persons with disabilities to access the community hall. The main works include the replacement of the main entrance door, the layout of an external access ramp and two bathrooms accessible to people with reduced mobility, the establishment of integrated furniture, including the counters and The faucet, as well as various complementary work. These modifications and additions will promote optimal operation while allowing everyone to enjoy the community hall. 
The PIQM-MADA is equipped with an annual $ 3 million envelope from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the occupation of the territory, reserved for the financing of infrastructures meeting the needs of seniors. For the first two years of the program, 89 projects from across Québec benefit from this envelope that is only accessible to municipalities engaged in the Municipal Elderly Municipality approach. These investments are part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. The PIQM-MADA program is also an action listed in the aging policy and living together, at home, in its community, in Quebec. 
Strong today's membership of 579 municipalities or MRC, the MADA approach was implemented in Quebec by the Seniors Secretariat in 2008 and continues under the responsibility of the Minister responsible for seniors and Minister of Health and Social Services. This is inspired by an approach developed by the World Health Organization (WHO), and the model it proposes has been designed to enable citizens to age while remaining active in their community. The collaboration of the entire community is one of the winning conditions of the approach, but it could not succeed fully without the participation of seniors themselves and that of local organizations that represent them. Quebec is considered by WHO as the most advanced company in the world in the application of this approach based on the adaptation of municipal policies and services to the aging of the population. 
