Saint-Robert- The Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, Mr. Gerry Ritz and the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank and hon. Member for Richelieu, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, on behalf of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, are pleased to announce the allocation of $ 300,000 financial assistance to Buffalo Maciocia livestock The production and transformation of buffalo milk in Quebec. The completion of this project is funded by the governments of Canada and Quebec under the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies. 
"Our government continues to focus on job creation, growth and prosperity by making targeted investments in agriculture. This help will allow the company Buffalo Maciocia farms to increase the business opportunities of its unique product and stimulate the Canadian economy, "said Minister Gerry Ritz. 
Buffalo Maciocia farms have the only dairy breeding of buffonne in Quebec. The company conducts a project in partnership with the polyethnic cheesery, which is intended to develop value-added products for the North American market. A first step of the project is to transform buffalo milk and market products such as cheese and yogurt. 
"The Government of Quebec is proud to support Buffalo Maciocia farms. Products with high added value that this company is to be developed diversify both the economy, the Quebec agricultural portrait and the consumer base and will also open access to new markets. I am very pleased that this initiative frames perfectly with our food sovereignty that it aims to establish a new sector and to energize the Quebec bioalimentary sector, "said Francois Gendron. 
"I am proud that the Government of Quebec supports an innovative project in my region and more in my riding, that of Richelieu. Montérégie and Richelieu are a model of agricultural dynamism and I am happy to know that this vigor will be strengthened by this project that will promote the establishment of a new agricultural sector in Quebec, "added Ms. Zakaib. 
Recall that the governments of Canada and Quebec announced on March 25, 2011 the signing of the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, an investment of $ 16.7 million over a period of 4 years. This program has recently been renewed and now has four components that respectively concern the development of sectors, strategic sectoral plans, value chains and sectoral consultation. The latter component is a novelty compared to the previous version of the program. It should enable sectoral consultation organizations to hire development agencies that will act as project managers to facilitate the design and implementation of sectoral activities and development measures. 
By concluding the bilateral agreement Grow the future 2, the governments of Canada and Quebec, involved $ 293 million funding over a 5-year period, from 2013 to 2018. This importance agreement. Support strategic initiatives for innovation, competitiveness and market development, both for the benefit of the agricultural sector and the food processing sector. 
For more details on the pan-Canadian Growing Future 2 initiatives, interested persons can visit the websitewww.agr.gc.ca/cultivonslavenir.ca. To learn more about Growing Future 2 fee programs that are implemented in Quebec, they will consult withwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/cultivonslavenir. 
For further information on food sovereignty policy, visit the blog dedicated to it (www.politicsa.gouv.qc.ca) or the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www. Mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquea). It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
