Quebec- The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport and Minister responsible for the Montérégie Region, Mrs Marie Malavoy, is proud to announce on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, the award of financial assistance of $ 150,000 to three Montérégie agencies for the implementation of integrated water management projects by watershed affecting three courses of water from the region. This financial support is granted under the Prime Green Program. 
Thus, three agri-environment consulting clubs will benefit each of $ 50,000 to adopt the approach to water management by basin with respect to three rivers of the Montérégie. Affairs of Datasol, which will focus on Norton Creek, Techno-Champ 2000, which is interested in the Lacolle River, and Agro-Moisson Lac St-Louis, which will focus on the Bean River. It should be noted that integrated watershed water management is in particular to apply certain measures to reduce environmental risks related to agricultural activities. 
"The approach that these three promoters have adopted not only supports the sound management of water systems, but also maintaining good quality water in agricultural circles. I am very proud to support such projects that contribute to the development of environmentally friendly agriculture, "Mrs. Malavoy said. 
Prime-Green is a support program focused on the quality of agri-environment and is intended to help agricultural farms to meet the challenges of protecting the environment. The projects of the three agri-environment consulting clubs will be carried out through the second component of the Prime Green Program, which supports collective water management measures by watershed and part of the intervention plan on Blue-green algae of the Government of Quebec. In total, nearly 200 agricultural enterprises will directly benefit from the reality of the realization of these three projects. 
"The protection of the environment is an aspect that agricultural producers must take into account daily. For this reason, it always makes us happy to support companies' initiatives that seek to harmonize agricultural activities with the environment and commit to sustainable development. It is also in this perspective that we have adopted the policy of food sovereignty last spring, "said Francois Gendron. 
For more information on the Prime Green Program, visit the Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food website at www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/primevert. To learn more about the food sovereignty policy, visit the blogww.politiquesa.gouv.qc.caqui is dedicated to it or browse the section www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesadu department's website. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at Twitter.com/Mapaquebec. 
