Pohenegamook- Minister Delegate to Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region and MP Pascal Bérubé, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce the granting of $ 189,431 financial assistance at the Pohéngamook Head-Lac Tourist Center inc. For the construction of a versatile building with roof terrace. This assistance comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship (PIEC) infrastructure program. 
"The Tourist Center of the Head-du-Lac Pohenégamook inc. plays a key role in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and the aid granted to the organization is a way for our government to recognize it. I am very proud of the investment announced today. This beach has been enjoying excellent notoriety and great popularity for more than 20 years. The replacement of the beach buildings had therefore become necessary to allow the organization to continue its mission and to offer a rallager place that benefits from the whole community, "said Minister Bérubé. 
More concretely, this financial support targets the construction of a versatile building with rooftop terrace, at the west entrance to the Municipal Beach of Pohénégamook. This new building will replace the one in place, become obsolete. It will serve as a hosting station, rest area, restoration and location service for health services. In addition, the development of a campsite of 162 places on land located a few meters from the Versatile building is also planned. 
The completion of this project requires an investment assessed at $ 1,000,489. The Quebec government, as part of the PIEC, contributes for $ 189,431. This contribution will be increased by $ 31,496 to take into account the interests that the body will have to pay during the aid payment period. 
Let us mention that the tourist center of the head-of-Lac Pohenégamook inc. The mission of promoting and developing the beach to provide the best services and contribute to the conservation and enhancement of the lake environment. 
"In the long term, this project will maintain and develop local services for the entire community. This initiative demonstrates the dynamism and mutual aid of people from home and will have positive impact on the entire community, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
Remember that the PIEC has a budget envelope of $ 10 million. It aims to support social economy companies in the implementation of projects of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition of commercial or industrial infrastructure. The objectives of the CEIP are to encourage the development of social economy companies, contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories as well as to promote the preservation and enhancement of the environment. 
