Gatineau - The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Public Safety and Minister responsible for the Outaouais Region, Stéphane Bergeron, is pleased to confirm the construction of a sporty and cultural multifunctional center in Gatineau. 
"It's been a long time since we talked about this Gatiner project that will allow the City of Gatineau to position themselves on major event markets. The work of this large site will begin rapidly so that the population of Gatineau can finally enjoy a modern and modern sports and cultural multifunctional center, up to one of the largest cities in Quebec, "said the Prime Minister. 
Estimated at nearly $ 60 million, the project consists of the construction of a multifunctional and cultural multifunctional complex of about 14,000 m2, comprising about 4400 seats and 40 lodgives for businesses. The complex will include an ice rink, administrative offices, players, a ticket office, a mechanical room and a press gallery. 
In addition to meeting the needs of the region's population and young athletes in the region, this modern sports infrastructure will be the high demands of the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League. The Gatineau Olympics team will benefit from a residence worthy of the name to compete with all of its local games. 
The total aid of $ 26.5 million granted by the Government of Quebec stems from the PIQM sub-component 2.1, which aims to allow municipalities to carry out projects that affect economic development or the quality of life of the communities. . This financial support is part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan, which provides for nearly $ 44.18 billion for the 2011-2016 period. 
"I am delighted with the confirmation of this financial assistance that will allow the construction of a multifunctional center in Gatineau. Such an investment will result in significant economic benefits in the city and surrounding area. The project will also have a positive impact on the creation or maintenance of jobs, in addition to contributing to the influence of the city through the holding of major cultural and sporting events. It is therefore the whole of the Ottawa region that will benefit from the new amphitheater, "concluded Minister Bergeron. 
