Buty- The member for Sherbrooke and Vice-President of the Public Administration Commission, Mr. Serge Cardin, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP, Mr. Jonquière, sir Sylvain Gaudreault, announces that the municipality of Bury will benefit from $ 274,000 financial assistance for the standards of its drinking water production facilities. This assistance comes from the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM) program. 
Bury's drinking water distribution network about 550 people from the urbanization perimeter of the municipality. Due to the obsolescent of the current drinking water that dates from the 1930s and the risk of contamination of drinking water, the municipality has planned to demolish the existing tank and build a new one with a service building to shelter all The required equipment. The realization of this project will allow the municipality of Bury to meet the needs expressed by the population and to respect the standards in force for drinking water. 
"I am very happy with the support announced today to the municipality of Bury for the implementation of these important drinking water infrastructure work. In the long term, this project will provide better consumption water, thus promoting the good health and well-being of citizens, in addition to enhancing public services to the community. Access to quality drinking water is a fundamental right, an essential service for all, always with a view to sustainable development, "said MP Serge Cardin. 
Under the PIQM sub-component 1.4, the contribution of the Government of Quebec granted to this project amounts to $ 274,000. For its part, the municipality of Bury invests $ 274,000 in its planning project, bringing the total amount of investments to $ 548,000. 
The Government of Quebec's contribution to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) released last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
