Québec- The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Minister responsible for the Region of the Montérégie and Member of Taillon, Mrs Marie Malavoy, as well as the Minister of Justice and Member of Parliament for Chambly, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, are pleased to announce that the city of Carignan will benefit from a government assistance for the establishment of fire station. This assistance is granted under the new subpaid 5.1 of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructures Program (PIQM), which is devoted to municipal and community-based infrastructure projects. 
"I am very pleased to announce today the government's participation in the implementation of this important municipal infrastructure project in the Montérégie region. The establishment of a fire station in Carignan will allow the municipality to ensure the safety of its citizens, in addition to adequately responding to the requirements of the fire department, and this, in the best interest of the population, " Declared Minister Marie Malavoy. 
"Our government has chosen to prioritize projects that flow from a significant problem that emergency could be demonstrated. I am very pleased with the financial assistance granted for the establishment of a fire station in Carignan. The realization of this project will allow the municipality to ensure the safety of the population, with a perspective of sustainable development, "said Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud. 
"The selection of the projects of this second phase of approval of RECIM projects perfectly reflects the will of my government to put integrity at the heart of its decisions. The chosen projects comply with the standards in force and take into account the objectives of occupation and vitality of the territories for the benefit of all Quebeckers and from all Quebeckers, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
Under the rules and standards in force of the PIQM sub-component 5.1, the financial assistance for the realization of the City of Carignan project is estimated at 55% of the amount of eligible costs. 
With a budget envelope of nearly $ 60 million over five years, the PIQM sub-flap 5.1 allows Quebec municipalities to carry out construction, setting up, rehabilitation or refurbishment of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offering and the quality of life of citizens in addition to overcoming the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures. 
The support of the Quebec government to the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) released last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
