Québec- The Minister of Justice, Attorney General and Minister responsible for the fight against homophobia, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, took advantaged last Saturday of his passage to the 2013 Rainbow Gala of the Quebec Council LGBT to officially launch the 2013-2014 project call for homophobia. 
"Fight against all forms of homophobia is a priority of the Government of Quebec. This commitment has reflected in particular the implementation of this program to support community projects that contribute to combating homophobic attitudes and behaviors and to promote the full recognition of people from sexual minorities, "said the Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud. 
This year, financial assistance will be awarded for the realization of projects to counter homophobic and transphobic violence and intimidation in all their forms. It will also support cultural activities that contribute significantly to the fight against homophobia. An amount of $ 331,195 is allocated to all these new projects. The proposals are expected at the latest on December 13, 2013. 
For organizations wishing to apply, a comprehensive programmode information guide against homophobia is available on the Ministry of Justice website: www.justice.gouv.qc.ca/homophobia. 
"The contribution of LGBT Community organizations [lesbian, gays and bisexual, transsexual and transgender people] is important in all aspects of the fight against homophobia. This $ 330,000 of the Government of Quebec will strengthen the interventions of these organizations on everyday land and take a step further in this quest to build a Quebec open to the difference, a Quebec for all, "has concluded Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud. 
Recall that, for a year, the government's commitment to the fight against homophobia has resulted in an increase in financial support of more than $ 600,000 to about twenty promoting agencies and defense of the rights of persons of sexual minorities; by a national awareness campaign; and by the filing, last April, law No. 35, An Act to amend the Civil Civil Code, of Estates and Advertising of Rights, which proposes to lift certain obstacles to which transgender and transgender people must do Faced within the governmental apparatus. 
