Quebec- On behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, the member for Duplessis, Ms. Lorraine Richard, is pleased to announce the allocation of aid Financial totaling $ 150,000 to three companies in the North Shore for their participation in the collective project "Economic Diversification and Nordic Agriculture Development in Gros-Mécatina". This assistance is granted under the Pilot Support Program for Agriculture Multifunctionality and the Agriculture and Agri-Food Development Support Program. 
This project will allow the deforestation of land in a northern territory, that of Lower North Shore, to set up new fruit and vegetable crops. It also aims to supply the community into fresh vegetables as well as to intensify the cropping culture in the natural environment. 
"I am still looking forward to seeing companies that are committed to energizing the agricultural activity of their community and thus contributing to the economic diversification of their region. This project will undoubtedly promote the development of agriculture in northeastern Quebec, "said the member, Ms. Lorraine Richard. 
The three agricultural enterprises that will receive aid for the collective implementation of this project are the regrouping of Economic Diversification of Mecatina ($ 81,000), Enviro-Lect Inc. ($ 36,000) and the Corporation for Leisure and Sport Development ($ 33,000). 
"It is important to support companies that set up initiatives like this. Such projects not only enhance the agricultural potential of the region, but also to optimize the occupation of the territory. I am very pleased to offer them this support, which fits perfectly with the objectives of the food sovereignty policy, "said Minister François Gendron. 
The Pilot Support Program for Agriculture Multifunctionality encourages farmers to adopt practices that have positive impacts both on the environment and for communities. From the launch of the program, in April 2011, until March 31, 2013, almost three million dollars were paid to 224 companies for the realization of projects promoting the multifunctionality of agriculture. For more information on this program, see the WebHTTP page: //www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/multifonctionite/. 
To learn more about the food sovereignty policy, visit the Department of Agriculture, Food and Food, the Blog (www.politicsa.gouv.qc.caou page wwww.mapaq.gouv .qc.ca / policiesa) that are dedicated to it. It is also possible to follow the activities of the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
