Notre-Dame-de-Pontmain- The member for Labelle and Government Manager of the Laurentians Region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, regions and occupation of the territory, Minister Transport and MP from Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the municipality of Notre-Dame-de-Pontmain will benefit from maximum government financial assistance of $ 1,105,999 for the supply of the municipality of drinking water. This help comes from the Infrastructure Québec-Municipal Infrastructures (PIQM). 
"I am very happy with the financial support announced today in Notre-Dame-de-Pontmain. In the long term, this project will provide better consumption water for many years, thus promoting the good health and well-being of the community, in addition to enhancing public services for all, and this, in a Sustainable development optics, "said MP Sylvain Pagé. 
Contents, the project includes the establishment of a membrane filtration treatment system, a chlorination system and measuring and control instruments. It also includes the installation of connecting lines between the two wells and the processing system and also, between the projected tank and the existing aqueduct network. In addition, the project involves the construction of an underground tank to store drinking water, adding a distribution pumping system as well as various complementary work. 
These interventions will allow the municipality of Notre-Dame-de-Pontmain to distribute better drinking water to about 230 people as well as three municipal buildings, in addition to respecting the requirements on the quality of drinking water ( RQEP). 
The realization of this project represents a maximum permissible investment of $ 1,556,000, under 1.4 of the PIQM. The Government of Quebec contributes to the project for $ 1,105,999, and the municipality of Notre-Dame-de-Pontmain for $ 450,001. 
This government assistance is part of Quebec Infrastructure LePlan, which provides for nearly $ 44.18 billion for the 2011-2016 period. 
