Rimouski- The member for Rimouski and President of the Public Finance Committee, Mr. Irvin Pelletier, is pleased to announce today, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the RIMUSKI-Neignette MRC will benefit from $ 327,796 for the establishment and maintenance of technical expertise. This assistance comes from the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM) program. 
Briefly, this aid will allow the MRC municipalities of Rimouski-Neigette to have access to a technical expertise that will serve them to better identify and evaluate the services they need for the realization of certain infrastructure mandates. The municipalities can be accompanied in the execution of certain projects. 
This financial support is primarily aimed at reimbursing gross salaries and benefits paid for the implementation of technical expertise mandates made for municipalities. Eligible mandates include, on the one hand, technical support in engineering and contract management with respect to construction, rehabilitation and rehabilitation work and, on the other hand, independent counter-expertise with respect to services that are offered to municipalities. 
"I look forward to the aid today at the RIMUSKI-Neignette MRC, as it will allow municipalities to obtain technical support, consulting services and also to have additional tools for the realization. their different mandates. By being able to rely on new resources, municipalities will be able to better plan the management of their long-term infrastructure while developing their own expertise. They will be able to ensure adequate follow-up of their infrastructure investments, "said MP Irvin Pelletier. 
"Before undertaking infrastructure work, technical expertise is required at several stages, particularly for preliminary draft studies, intervention plans, the preliminary estimate of the work and the preparation of calls from Offers or analysis of submissions. This expertise has a cost and financial assistance from the government is a boost to the RIMUSKI-Neignette MRC who wants to make profitable infrastructure projects, "added Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
Remember that this financial assistance comes from the PIQM component 3 that makes available to the MRC du Québec a financial support of $ 25 million to encourage them to provide engineering and contract management expertise to their municipalities. 
