Saint-Hyacinthe- The hon. Member for Saint-Hyacinthe, Mr. Emilien Pelletier, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, confirms that the company Agriculture of Saint-Hyacinthe will benefit from a financial assistance of $ 1.5 million for the construction of a new exhibition pavilion. This assistance comes from the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM) program. 
The Saint-Hyacinthe agriculture society's project is to build a large exhibition pavilion of about 28,000 square feet on land located on BeauParlant Street in Saint-Hyacinthe and already belonging to the organization. The work consists of setting up a large showroom that will occupy most of the ground floor. At the front of the pavilion, we will find an entrance hall, a cloakroom, a ticket office, a desk and the stands. Other facilities will be made upstairs including a cloakroom entrance hall, meeting rooms, a kitchen with bar and storage space for the organization of symposia and conferences. 
"I am very pleased with the support granted by our government to the Saint-Hyacinthe agriculture society. This aid will fill a lack of spaces for exhibition organizers and salons in agricultural, agri-food and bioalimentary sectors. These future infrastructures will also be used by the Agricultural Expo of Saint-Hyacinthe for its various activities and by the agencies and institutions that make the request. In addition, the Agriculture Society of Saint-Hyacinthe will host in the hall of the new pavilion The Honoring Fame of Agriculture Temple, which has honored, for more than 20 years, people whose Quebec agricultural contribution was remarkable ", said the member Emilien Pelletier. 
"My government is proud to contribute to the development of the Saint-Hyacinthe agriculture project. The addition of a new pavilion will increase the increase in traffic of some 25,000 visitors annually, the creation of new direct and indirect jobs as well as synergy between business people, the cultural environment and the Agribusiness. In the long term, this new infrastructure will contribute to the expansion of the Agriculture Society of Saint-Hyacinthe, including the creation of importance events on agriculture and agri-food, in addition to supporting economic and tourism development. of the region, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
Let us mention that the Agriculture Society of Saint-Hyacinthe is a non-profit organization existing since 1936 and whose primary mission is to promote agriculture in its territory. Its main activities include promoting the marketing and technological exchange of agri-food products, to encourage the improvement of agriculture in all its forms and to raise awareness of the urban environment and the reality of agricultural producers. 
The completion of the entire project requires an eligible total investment of $ 3 million, under the PIQM, which is assumed by the Government of Quebec for an amount of $ 1.5 million, and by the agriculture society of Saint-Hyacinthe up to $ 1.5 million. 
The contribution of the Government of Quebec to this project is part of the 2013-2023Rendurable Public Infrastructure (PQI) framework last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
