Amqui- the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region and MFA Region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, today announces a financial assistance of $ 50,000 au club of golf Revermont for the enlargement and the internal redevelopment of the main chalet of the club. This assistance comes from the program of infrastructures in collective entrepreneurship (PIEC). 
"I am very pleased with the investment announced today for the enlargement and internal redevelopment of the Revermont Golf Club's main chalet that will answer not only the needs of people who benefit directly, but also to the whole. From the community of the Matapédia region that can take advantage of these renovated infrastructures, "said Minister Pascal Bérubé. 
More specifically, the project is to enlarge the main cottage and to redevelop the reception room in order to accommodate more groups doing the capacity of 150 to 190 places. Also, standing and renovation work will be carried out, including different service areas, including cooking and cold rooms. 
The completion of this project requires a total investment assessed at $ 400,000. The Government of Quebec, within the framework of the PIEC, contributes for a maximum amount of $ 50,000. Other partners also participate in the project, including the Social Economy Site Trust, Canada Economic Development and the Matapédia Local Development Center (CLD). 
Recognized by the Regional Social Economy Pole of Bas-Saint-Laurent as a social economy company, the Revermont Golf Club has 250 members and employs more than thirty full-time people during the season. The organization can also count on the support of about fifteen volunteers. Through its activities, the club contributes to the socio-economic vitality of the region. 
For its part, the Chairman of the Revermont Golf Club Board, Mr. Claude Jacques, said he was very pleased with the support of the Government of Quebec, which will allow the organization to carry out its project of expansion and modernization to better serve its customers and the community. 
Recall that the PIEC has a budget envelope of $ 10 million. It aims to support social economy companies in the implementation of projects of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition of commercial or industrial infrastructure. The objectives of the CEP are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories as well as to promote the preservation and valorization of the environment. 
