Saint-Prime- The member for Roberval and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (Forest Fund), Mr. Denis Trottier, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, takes advantage of the end of the work to announce the maximum government financial assistance of $ 541,200 granted to the municipality of Saint-Prime for the replacement of water pipes in the municipality. This assistance has been granted as part of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM). 
More specifically, the project aimed at the replacement of drinking water and wastewater pipes under a few segments of the main street. At the end of this work, water pipes over almost half a kilometer of street were renewed in the municipality of Saint-Prime. 
"I am very pleased to participate today in this event highlighting the end of the work, which have been achieved through the financial support granted to the municipality of Saint-Prime. Our government recognizes the need to renew and replace drinking water, wastewater and storm sewer in communities across Quebec. That's why, in partnership with municipalities, we want to make sure that citizens benefit from sustainable and quality public services for current and future generations, "said the member Denis Trottier. 
"Every Quebecker must be able to benefit from access to quality public services. That's why our government is committed to providing municipalities with the support needed to renew and develop their infrastructure, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The realization of this project required maximum government financial assistance of $ 541,200 under the PIQM 1.5 component. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this part of the PIQM program allows not only to ensure the sustainability of the infrastructures, but also to enhance the quality of life of the population and to create many jobs in all of the Regions of Quebec. 
The support of the Government of Quebec to this project is part of the 2013-2023Rendurable Public Infrastructure (PQI) framework last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
