Quebec- The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, announces that an agreement has intervened to extend the program of animal health improvement in Quebec for a period Three years, 1st of 1st 2013 to March 31, 2016. In 2013-2014, $ 15.1 million will be devoted to it. 
"My government is very proud to contribute concretely to the protection of animal health and public health and ensure the provision of veterinary services in all regions of Quebec. It directly joins one of our priorities, "said Francois Gendron. It should be noted that these services are provided by 460 veterinary doctors, for the benefit of more than 12,000 Quebec farmers. 
The new agreement provides that the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (MAPAQ) will include, in support of the Quebec Health and Wellbeing Strategy, a million dollars over the next three years. To facilitate the collection of data on the use of veterinary drugs, through an electronic transfer, and for the implementation of new surveillance activities. 
Particular measures, including to provide succession support in remote areas, benefit from a budget of $ 2.4 million for the 3 years of the agreement. Also, $ 1.84 million will be devoted to the management of some of the complex veterinary care directed towards the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine at the Université de Montréal. This sum will thus contribute to supporting teaching activities. 
The Union of Agricultural Producers, the Association of Veterinary Practitioners of Quebec and the Veterinary Drug Distribution Center are the MAPAQ partners in this agreement. Remember that the Quebec Animal Health Improvement Program makes it possible to repay some of the cost of veterinary services, of a preventive or curative nature, which are given on the farm, excluding embryo transfer. This program has existed since 1971 and it is intended to promote animal health and to ensure the access of agricultural producers from all regions of Quebec to quality veterinary care. 
