Papineauville- Minister of Public Safety, Minister responsible for the Ottawa and Deputy Region of Verchères, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP De Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is proud to announce that the municipality of Papineauville will receive maximum government assistance from $ 852,050 for the renewal of several municipal drinking water pipes. This contribution comes from the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructures Program (PIQM). 
More specifically, the project aims to replace drinking water pipes under certain segments of the Streets Henri-Bourassa and Saint-Julien. At the end of these works, water pipes over a kilometer of streets will be renewed. 
"I am very pleased with financial support today to the municipality of Papineauville. Our government recognizes the need to renew the drinking water, wastewater and storm sewer infrastructures in communities across Quebec. That's why, in partnership with municipalities, we want to ensure that citizens benefit from sustainable and quality public services for current generations as well as future generations, "said Minister Bergeron. 
The realization of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 852,050, under the PIQM 1.5 component. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this new component of the PIQM program allows not only to ensure the sustainability of infrastructure, but also to enhance the quality of life of the population and to create many jobs overall. Regions of Quebec. 
The support of the Government of Quebec to these projects is part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) 2013-2023 made public in April 2013. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in investments of 8.1 billion dollars for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the associated costs and to make informed choices. 
