Alma - Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Governance, Minister responsible for the North-du-Québec Region and MP Alexandre Cloutier, on behalf of the Minister of Business municipal, regions and occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce the granting of $ 54,000 Government Assistance to the Information and Reference Body Region 02 (IRR-02) for the acquisition of a building in Alma. This assistance comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship (PIEC) infrastructure program. 
Located in Alma and for more than 35 years in Lac-Saint-Jean, IRR-02 has been working on improving the quality of life of people. Committed to the elderly, single-parent and poor families and people in poverty, the company to social and community vocations helps its clientele to become the most autonomous as possible in its various approaches. It offers personalized help and support services and brings a lack of resources in its environment. It also provides various services to the community, including an income tax reporting, mobile tax and form writing. In addition, it hosts the information center for seniors and coordinates four points of service located in Ascension, Metabetchouan Lac-à-la-Croix, Roberval and Dolbeau-Mistassini. 
"I am very proud of the investment consented to information and reference region 02 for the acquisition of its building. The support of our government to this project is a way of recognizing the important intake of this organization to the community. Thus, the company can not only consolidate, but especially develop its activities and consolidate in one roof several services rendered by various organizations, "said Minister Cloutier. 
Government assistance granted to the IRR-02 organization allows it to acquire a building to overcome the lack of space and staff. Thanks to its new premises, this company will be able to continue its activities and thus meet the needs of a larger number of people who wish to benefit from its services. 
The eligible total cost of the project is $ 188,735. The Government of Quebec, within the framework of the PIEC, pays a maximum amount of $ 54,000. Other partners also contribute to this project, including the city of Alma. 
For its part, the President of IRR-02, Mr. Jean-Noël Tremblay, is very pleased with the support of the Government of Quebec for the project to acquire the building that will allow the organization to better serve its customers and the community. 
Equipped with an investment envelope of $ 10 million, the PIC aims to support social economy companies in the implementation of projects of refurbishment, expansion, construction or acquisition of commercial infrastructure or industrial. The objectives of this program are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories and to promote the preservation and valorization of the quality of the environment. 
