Matane - Minister Delegate to Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region and MP Pascal Bérubé, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce a government aid of $ 84,450 in the Corporation of Solidarity La Co.Mode Verte for the realization of renovation and redevelopment work at its building. This assistance comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship (PIEC) infrastructure program. 
"I am very proud of the participation of our government in the implementation of renovation and redevelopment work at the building of the solidarity cooperative Green Co.Mode. This support will allow this social economy enterprise to continue its mission to highlight a diversity of products used by recovery and sale. The organization also aims to raise awareness and education of the Community as to the behaviors to be adopted to protect the environment, with a view to sustainable development, "said Minister Pascal Bérubé. 
In a summary basis, this project aims to achieve significant renovation and redevelopment work including electricity, plumbing and ventilation and various repairs, especially the roof drain, cracks on the exterior walls and the concrete slab. The project also provides for the addition of windows, a door of goods, the development of a landing stage, the installation of a material lift, as well as modifications to the emergency and the staircase in order to make them safe. In addition, the sales area and some spaces of the building will be redeveloped, including repair shops, a meeting room and a room for insertion activities. 
These interventions will allow Green Co.Mode to continue its activities, the main objective of which is to reduce product waste, by proposing recycling and reuse as a true waste recovery sector. They will also help improve sales, optimize residual processing to better meet the needs of insertion activities. The cooperative can thus seize the opportunities offered to it with respect to the treatment of textiles. 
The realization of this project requires a total investment estimated at $ 281,500. The Government of Quebec will pay a maximum amount of $ 84,450 under the PIT. Other partners also contribute to this project, including Recyc-Québec and the Matanie Local Development Center (CLD). 
The Director of the Solidarity Corporation The Green Co.Mode, Madame Marie Fortin, as well as the Prefect of the MRC of Matanie, Mr. Pierre Thibodeau, and the Mayor of the City of Matane, Mr. Claude Canuel, said very happy Support from the Government of Quebec for the realization of this project that will allow the corporation not only to continue its mission but also to develop more to serve the community. 
Equipped with an investment envelope of $ 10 million, the PIC aims to support social economy companies in the implementation of projects of refurbishment, expansion, construction or acquisition of commercial infrastructure or industrial. The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy companies, contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories and to promote the preservation and valorization of the quality of the environment. 
