Sherbrooke- The Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Elders and Minister responsible for the Estrie Region, Réjean Hébert, accompanied by the member for Sherbrooke, Serge Cardin, today announced a financial assistance of 190 236. In three years to support the realization of the immigrants active immigrants in their communities of the cultural communities of the Estrie. This funding has been granted as part of the Support Component to Community Aids of Elders' Programbec. 
"The project of the Federation of the Cultural Communities of Estrie has this particular that it is addressed to immigrant seniors. This group of people lives a dual integration challenge: as a baffle, integration into community life; As immigrants, they need to meet the challenge of integration with their new community. This innovative project will further contribute to the maintenance of their good overall health, "said Minister Hébert. 
In fact, by offering immigrants' seniors various active and cultural hobbies, this project promotes the adoption of healthy lifestyle while helping them adapt to their new community. These hobbies can take different forms: community garden, training, twinning, artistic workshops, awareness activities and knowledge transfer, intergenerational and collective activities, and many others. These activities aim to break the isolation of immigrant seniors, to help them acquire new skills, to promote intercultural and intergenerational reconciliations and to awaken their sense of belonging to their environment. 
"This project benefits from the whole of the Sherbrookoise and Estrian community since it helps to integrate immigrant seniors into social and community life. I would like to thank the Federation of the Cultural Communities of Estrie for this beautiful initiative that integrates into the Municipality Action Plan of Seniors of the City of Sherbrooke and helps to make our environment even more welcoming for seniors and For immigrants, "said the member for Sherbrooke, Serge Cardin. 
Remember that the Québec AMI program of seniors aims to financially support local, regional and national initiatives to adapt the living environments to the realities of seniors to allow them to stay in their living environment as long as possible. It promotes their active participation in Quebec society by making their environments more welcoming. 
"Our government has the firm desire to adapt Quebec to the aging of the population, and projects like that supported today contributes it in a beautiful way. Above all, this fits in perfect complementarity with our self-government insurance and home care projects, "concluded the Minister Hébert. 
