Saint-Alexandre-des-Lacs - Minister Delegate to Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region and MP Pascal Bérubé, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the municipality of Saint-Alexandre-des-Lacs will benefit from a financial assistance of $ 917,732 for the implementation of its Drinking water installations. This assistance comes from the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM) program. 
More precisely, the project aims at the development of a new feeding well along the main street, the addition of a supply line and the construction of a technical building including the establishment of a chlorination disinfection system. The project also provides for the installation of a drinking water line on the main street to connect the well to the existing drinking water network, which will allow the blow to serve 22 residences currently fueled with water by individual wells. 
"I am very happy with the support announced today at the municipality of Saint-Alexandre-des-Lacs for the implementation of these important drinking water infrastructure works. In the long term, this project will provide better consumption water, thus promoting the good health and well-being of citizens, in addition to enhancing public services to the community. Access to quality drinking water is a fundamental right, an essential service for all, "said Minister Pascal Bérubé. 
Under the PIQM sub-component 1.4, the contribution of the Government of Quebec granted to this project amounts to $ 917,732. For its part, the municipality of Saint-Alexandre-des-Lacs invests $ 305,911 in its planning project, bringing the total amount of investments at $ 1,223,643. 
The Government of Quebec's contribution to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) released last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
