River-du-Loup- Minister Delegate to Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region and MP Pascal Bérubé, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, regions and the occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the granting of a government aid of $ 76,592 to renovate the building housing the Old Manège in Rivière-Rivière. the wolf's. 
"I am very pleased with the support of the Government of Quebec for the renovation of the building housing the Joint Management Cooperative of the Old Manège, which has been a social and community vocation in the region for more than 10 years. The Cooperative's project is part of the priorities of the environment and the objectives of the city of Rivière-du-Loup, including that of ensuring citizen and entire participation in all. Place of animation and reference in the Community field, the cooperative has an extremely significant impact on the territory. The enhancements provided for in its building will allow its tenants to continue their activities in safer premises, "said Minister Pascal Bérubé. 
More specifically, the project of the Old Manège's Joint Management Cooperative aims to achieve significant renovations to the former military carousel, including the repair of the roof, the change of the fenestration and the door as well as masonry and sanding work. Let us mention that many of these work have become essential because of infiltration of water in the building. 
The realization of the restoration works requires a total investment estimated at $ 95,740. The Government of Quebec will pay a maximum amount of $ 47,870, under the CIP, as well as a $ 28,722 contribution from the FCD. The Old Mangia's Joint Management Cooperative also contributes to this project, for an amount of $ 19,148. 
Located in Rivière-du-Loup in an old military carousel dating back to 1910, the Old Manège's joint management cooperative, incorporated in 1992, is recognized as a social economy enterprise by the regional pole in the social economy and the center. Development room (CLD) of the Rivière-du-Loup region. Its mission is to consolidate community organizations to promote a better exchange of information, equipment sharing and access to lower-cost premises. 
Let us mention that the cooperative, as a community center, is an integral part of the life of the community and several partners, among others, the Health and Social Services Center (CSSS), Tourism Rivière-du-Loup and the House of Trade of business people. 
For its part, the President of the Old Manège's Joint Management Cooperative, Ms. Cyd Lamirande, is very pleased with the support of the Government of Quebec to this project that will allow the cooperative to continue its activities with community organizations. The River-Du-Loup MRC. 
With an investment envelope of $ 10 million, it can support social economy companies in the implementation of projects of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition of commercial infrastructure or industrial. The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy companies, contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories and to promote the preservation and valorization of the quality of the environment. 
Note what FCDVise to support initiatives that contribute in particular to economic, social, cultural, tourist, environmental and technological development. These initiatives may also be aimed at promoting the occupation and revitalization of the various territories of Quebec. 
