Quebec- Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, today announced measures totaling $ 11.3 million to help Quebec's agricultural producers affected by the Federal compressions made on risk management programs. 
"I had been committed to making concrete gestures to accompany agricultural producers who are hard hit by the federal government's compressions that are not protected by agricultural income stabilization insurance. What I'm annulled today responds to this commitment. From the outset, I indicated that Quebec could not fill the entire shortfall, but the measurements that will serve as a culvert are important and will give oxygen to thousands of producers, "said Mr. François Gendron. 
Concretely, in 2013, an adjustment is made to risk management programs, administered by the Québec's agricultural financial financial financial fiscal financial fiscal companies, which do not benefit from the supply management or the agricultural income stabilization insurance program ( ASRA). This adjustment translates into two measures, namely: 
Remember that the changes resulting from the Canada-Quebec Agreement Growing the Future 2 would have caused a significant decline in the annual payments made to Quebec producers and from government funds for risk management. This decrease would have had the effect of weakening a number of companies leading to areas that are not targeted by ASRA and do not benefit from supply management. 
"There was no question of dropping our farmers and we quickly put in search of solutions to arrive at fair measures that respect our principles and the ability to pay the Government of Quebec. In a context where we want to give our food sovereignty policy all the scope it deserves, it is essential to be able to count on a strong agricultural sector that will contribute to its just extent to respond to this great challenge, so that our farmers And the entire Quebec economy derive the maximum benefits, "said the minister. 
Recall that with investments of $ 2.3 billion and an annual food demand of nearly $ 34 billion that supports 475,000 jobs, the bioalmic industry is a powerful engine of the Quebec economy. 
For more information on the Government of Quebec's food sovereignty policy, we can visit the blogww.politicsa.gouv.qc.caqui is dedicated to it or go to page www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesadu website of the website Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
