Saint-Stanislas- The member for Champlain and President of the Planning Commission, Ms. NoëlThe Champagne, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer, Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce the granting of additional aid of $ 2,340,598 to the municipalities of Saint-Stanislas and Saint-Prosper-de Champlain to complete significant water infrastructure work in these Two municipalities. Thus, the municipality of Saint-Stanislas will receive an additional amount of $ 522,045 increasing government aid to $ 2,475,110, while the municipality of Saint-Prosper-de-Champlain will benefit from an increase of $ 1,818,553. Government assistance at $ 2,271,640. 
The additional assistance granted to these two municipalities comes from the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities Program (PIQM) and will be used for the implementation of joint works of infrastructure of stable water and drinking water treatment, including the replacement of a Driver of water distribution. 
"I am very proud of the additional help today to the municipalities of Saint-Stanislas and Saint-Prosper-de-Champlain, which will enable them to jointly supplement major water infrastructure work. This support demonstrates our Government's commitment to providing infrastructure to Quebec municipalities that meet the standards in force. That's why, in partnership with municipalities, we want to make sure that citizens benefit from sustainable and quality public services for current and future generations, "said the Champagne deputy. 
"Our government wants to provide Quebeckers with quality infrastructure for all. That's why I am very pleased with the additional support for the municipalities of St. Stanislas and Saint-Prosper-de-Champlain. This work represents a major investment of the most valuable for the future of these two municipalities, since they will allow them to distribute quality water in addition to contributing to better drinking water management and renewing public infrastructure. . Our government is constantly working with municipalities to ensure that every citizen can benefit from essential public services, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
The completion of this work will allow municipalities of Saint-Prosper-de-Champlain and Saint-Stanislas to improve the quality of the water distributed in accordance with the Drinking Water Quality Regulations (RQEP), in addition to contributing better management of drinking water. 
Under the PIQM sub-component 1.4, the contribution of the Government of Quebec granted to the municipality of Saint-Stanislas is increased by $ 522,045, bringing the initial help of $ 1,953,065 to $ 2,475,110, on a new maximum allowable cost of $ 3,712,663. 
As for the total aid granted to the municipality of Saint-Prosper-de-Champlain, it is now $ 2,271,640, representing an increase of $ 1,818,553 on a higher total permissible maximum cost, or 2 $ 391,200. 
The support of the Government of Quebec to these projects is part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) 2013-2023 made public in April 2013. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in investments of 8.1 billion dollars for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebeckers, to measure the costs associated with them and to make informed choices. 
