Saint-Alexandre-de-Kamouraska - Minister Delegate to Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region and MP Pascal Bérubé, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the municipality of Saint-Alexandre-de-Kamouraska will benefit from maximum government financial assistance of $ 915,600 for the replacement of several water pipes in the municipality. This assistance comes from the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM) program. 
The project consists of replacing several drinking water and wastewater pipes from several segments of the Street of Forges (North and South). There will also be sewer separation under these segments by adding rainwater sewer pipes. At the end of this work, water pipes over more than half kilometer from street will be renewed in Saint-Alexandre-de-Kamouraska. 
"The support granted today to the municipality of Saint-Alexandre-de-Kamouraska testifies to our government's desire to ensure the population of quality infrastructures for all. Indeed, our government recognizes the need to renew and replace water infrastructure in communities across Quebec. That's why he is committed to providing Quebec's municipalities with the support they need to ensure that citizens benefit from sustainable and quality public services, "said Minister Pascal Bérubé. 
The realization of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 915,600, virtue 1.5 component of the PIQM. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this new component of the PIQM program allows not only to ensure the sustainability of infrastructure, but also to enhance the quality of life of the population and to create many jobs overall. Regions of Quebec. 
The support of the Government of Quebec to the project is part of the 2013-2023Reured Public Infrastructure Duplan (PQI) framework last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
