East Broughton- The Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and the Chaudière-Appalaches and MP for Taschereau, Ms. Agnès Maltais, at Name of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce that the municipality of East Broughton will benefit from government financial assistance from 2 $ 688,307 for the completion of two major water infrastructure projects. This amount comes from the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructures Program (PIQM). 
"Our government wants to provide Quebeckers with quality infrastructure for all. That's why I am very pleased with this financial assistance at East Broughton for the realization of projects that represent an investment of the most valuable for the future. Thanks to this work, the municipality will be able to guarantee a key service to citizens who can take advantage of quality drinking water in accordance with the standards in force, thus promoting good health and well-being in addition to enhancing the Quality of public services offered to the community for many years, "said Minister Maltese. 
The project involves the construction of an infiltration gallery in the Lake Five sector to meet the use of users' water. More precisely, the work includes the development of the P-8 well, paired with a new treatment station including a green sand filter for the removal of manganese, an anionic exchanger and a double disinfection. The establishment of a supply line between the P-8 well and the R-1 tank over a length of 730 meters is also intended. 
Other work will also be made, including changes to the PP-1 Tank Processing Station for the establishment of a green sand treatment system for maintaining the combined water supply of Pit P -4, P-5, P-6 and P-7 as well as various complementary work. 
These interventions will allow the municipality to distribute quality drinking water in sufficient quantities and meet the requirements of the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks. All of these works will benefit about 2,220 people. 
The realization of this project is based on a maximum permissible cost set up at $ 4,032,232,232, under the PIQM 1.4 component. The Government of Quebec and the Municipality of East Broughton contribute equal to this project for a respective amount of $ 2,016,137. 
The project aims to replace drinking water pipes, domestic sewer and sewage under the 13th west street, between the 10th North Avenue and the 7th. At the end of these works, water pipes over a length of about 415 meters will be renewed in the municipality of East Broughton. 
The realization of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 672,170, under the PIQM 1.5 component. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this part of the PIQM program allows not only to ensure the sustainability of the infrastructures, but also to enhance the quality of life of the population and to create many jobs in all of the Regions of Quebec. 
The support of the Government of Quebec to these two projects is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) made public in April 2013. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in investments of 8.1 billions of dollars for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebeckers, to measure the costs associated with them and to make informed choices. 
