Saint-Pierre-de-Broughton- The member for Taschereau, Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches, Ms. Agnès Maltais, is happy to Announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, that the municipality of Saint-Pierre-de-Broughton will benefit from financial assistance. Government of $ 10 million for the realization of major water infrastructure work in the urbanized sector. This assistance comes from the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM) program. 
"Our government wants to ensure the population of quality infrastructures for all. That's why I'm happy with the financial assistance today in Saint-Pierre-de-Broughton. In the long term, this project will ensure essential service for citizens, who will benefit from infrastructures that meet the standards in force and also promoting good health and well-being, in addition to enhancing the quality of public services offered to The community, "said Minister Maltese. 
As a whole, the project provides for the standards of drinking water installations and the establishment of the drinking water distribution network and the wastewater collection network, paired with the construction of a treatment plant. Wastewater in the urbanized sector of Saint-Pierre-de-Broughton. 
More precisely, the project includes the addition of new catchments, the establishment of a filtration system as well as equipment required to ensure ultraviolet disinfection and sodium hypochlorite (chlorine), L Installing a drinking water tank and a pumping station. The project also provides for the construction of a wastewater treatment plant and its emissary, the addition of the mechanical equipment required to dephosphatation as well as various complementary work. 
These interventions will allow the municipality to distribute better drinking water and reduce the quantity and improve the quality of wastewater discharges in the environment so as to meet the environmental requirements of the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP). All of these work will benefit about 300 people from the urban sector. 
The realization of this project is based on a maximum allowable cost established at $ 9,998,789, under 1.4 of the PIQM. The Quebec government contributes to this project for $ 9,498,850, while the municipality of Saint-Pierre-de-Broughton invests $ 499,939. 
The contribution of the Government of Quebec to this project is part of the 2013-2023Rendurable Public Infrastructure (PQI) framework last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
For its part, the Mayor of Saint-Pierre-de-Broughton, Ms. Nicole Bourque, welcomes the support of the Government of Quebec to the realization of this project that will enhance the services essential to the Community. 
