Val-des-Lacs- The member for Berthier and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. André Villeneuve, accompanied by the member for Bertrand and Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Claude Cousineau, is pleased to announce today, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the realization of a project of RECIM in The Laurentians region. Thus, the municipality of Val-des-Lacs will receive government assistance for the renovation of the community hall. This assistance comes from the new 5.1 sub-flag of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructures Program (PIQM), devoted only to municipal or community-based infrastructure projects. 
"I am very proud to announce today the participation of our government in the implementation of this important municipal infrastructure project in the Laurentians region. The renovation of the Val-des-Lacs Community Room will contribute both to the better-live citizens and the sustainability of this infrastructure, with a view to sustainable development, "said the Deputy André Villeneuve . 
"I am very happy with this ad in Val-des-Lacs. This investment is a considerable contribution that will meet the community, cultural and recreational needs of the population, in addition to providing quality services to the citizens of this beautiful municipality, "said Claude Cousineau, Vice-President of the 'National Assembly. 
The former Church of Val-des-Lacs, which has been converted into a community room a few years ago to meet the needs of citizens, requires renovation work. 
Briefly, the project provides for work at the structure and roof as well as some interventions to address problems of insulation, water infiltration, heating and degradation of the external facing. All of these work will allow citizens to have a safe place for the various activities of the community. 
Under the current rules and standards of PIQM sub-component, financial assistance for the project of the Val-des-Lacs municipality is estimated at 65% of the amount of eligible costs. 
With a budget envelope of nearly $ 60 million over five years, the PIQM sub-flap 5.1 allows Quebec municipalities to carry out construction, setting up, rehabilitation or refurbishment of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offering and the quality of life of citizens in addition to overcoming the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures. 
The support of the Quebec government to the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) released last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
