Township of Harrington - Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the member for Labelle, Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Education, Recreation Minister and sport (leisure and sports component) and responsible for the Laurentian region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé and the member for Argenteuil, Mr. Roland Richer, are pleased to announce the construction of a municipal garage and administrative offices in the canton Harrington. This assistance will be granted under the new 5.1 sub-component of the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM) program, which is devoted to municipal and community-based infrastructure projects. 
"I am very proud to announce today the participation of our government in the implementation of this important infrastructure project in the Laurentians region. The future public service building, strongly expected by the community and the municipal authorities, will meet the needs expressed by the community. This new infrastructure will enhance the service offer for citizens in addition to ensuring employees a safe workplace, "said the deputy Roland Richer. 
"Our government has chosen to prioritize projects that flow from a significant problem that emergency could be demonstrated. I am very pleased with the financial assistance granted for the construction of a municipal garage and administrative offices at the Canton of Harrington. The realization of this project will allow the municipality to provide quality services to all citizens, "said the member and head of the Laurentian Sylvain region. 
"The selection of the projects of this second phase of approval of RECIM projects perfectly reflects the will of my government to put integrity at the heart of its decisions. The chosen projects comply with the standards in force and take into account the objectives of occupation and vitality of the territories for the benefit of all Quebeckers and from all Quebeckers, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
Under the rules and standards in force of the PIQM sub-component 5.1, financial assistance for the implementation of the Harrington County project is estimated at 65% of the amount of eligible costs. 
With a budget envelope of nearly $ 60 million over five years, the PIQM sub-flap 5.1 allows Quebec municipalities to carry out construction, setting up, rehabilitation or refurbishment of municipal infrastructure. It aims to ensure the safety and health of employees and the community, to improve the service offering and the quality of life of citizens in addition to overcoming the obsolescence and lack of space of existing infrastructures. 
The support of the Government of Quebec to the project is part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) 2013-2023, released last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
