Deux-Montagnes - the member for Deux-Montagnes, Mr. Daniel Goyer, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, regions and occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault , that the City of Deux-Montagnes will benefit from maximum government financial assistance of $ 2,667,600 for the rehabilitation of several drinking water and wastewater pipes in the city. This assistance is granted as part of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM). 
More precisely, the project aims for work for the rehabilitation without a trench of drinking water pipes under the streets Gagnon, Henri-Dunant and Sunny Side as well as under the 3rd, 5th, 7th, 9th, 10th, 11Eet 19eas. It also provides for the trenchless rehabilitation of drinking water and wastewater pipes under the 12th Avenue. At the end of these works, water pipes on more than 5.2 kilometers of streets will be renewed in the city of Deux-Montagnes. 
"I am very pleased with financial support today to the city of Deux-Montagnes. Our government recognizes the need to renew and replace drinking water, wastewater and storm sewer in communities across Quebec. That's why, in partnership with municipalities, we want to make sure that citizens enjoy sustainable and quality public services for current generations and for future generations, "said the deputy Daniel Goyer. 
"Every Quebecker must be able to benefit from access to quality public services. That's why my government is committed to providing municipalities with the support needed to renew and develop their infrastructure, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The realization of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 2,667,600 under the PIQM 1.5 component. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this part of the PIQM program allows not only to ensure the sustainability of the infrastructures, but also to enhance the quality of life of the population and to create many jobs in all of the Regions of Quebec. 
"In recent years, the City of Deux-Montagnes has invests amounts of money in the maintenance and rehabilitation of its infrastructure, whether for their update or to comply with the different standards in force. In 2013, we will carry out rehabilitation of aqueducts on 14 blocks, for a total of 5.2 km of pipelines, which represents 7% of all of our network. This work is essential because they will prolong the useful life of drinking water pipes, eliminate water leaks and improve water quality. We are very pleased to be able to count on the financial assistance of the government in carrying out this major work, "supported the Mayor of Deux-Montagnes, Mr. Marc Lauzon. 
The support of the Quebec government to the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) released last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
