Laval- The member for Laval-des-Rapides, Mr. Leo Bureau-Blouin, is proud to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne , that a project has been selected in the Montreal Metropolitan Area as part of the Universities-Collegeset lashing program will receive grants totaling $ 370,000. 
"This project will provide educational support to teachers who have to deal with a diversified student population. I find the idea of universal design of very interesting learning. Education, this gateway to a better quality of life, must be accessible by all means. Here we have proof of the vitality of our higher education institutions, "said Bureau-Blouin. 
Led by the research center for the school and professional inclusion of students with disabilities (Crispeh) of the Cégep du Vieux Montreal with the collaboration of the Cégep Marie-Victorin, of the Montmorency College, the University of Montreal and the Université du Québec in Montreal, this project aims to develop educational applications that will meet both the needs of students and students with disabilities as well as all students attending the same class. These Pedagogical Solutions proposals designed according to the CUA will focus on course planning rather than answers to individual needs. 
Today's announcement, which represents subsidies totaling $ 370,000, is part of the overall amount of $ 5 million announced by Minister Duchenele September 5th. The sums granted will allow 12 universities and at 26 colleges to carry out in partnership 16 projects in particular promoting the development of educational tools, the sharing of expertise as well as research. 
Thanks to the results achieved in the past and the importance of strengthening collaboration between higher education institutions, the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, and Minister Duchene announced, on the occasion of the Summit on Higher Education, , that the new program named Universities-College Securities Program will now benefit from a $ 15 million envelope in 2014-15. If the objective of increasing synergy between universities and public or private colleges remains the same, new guidelines have been added to the program, including DEC-Bac, integrated programs and cooperative studies, which will do now. part. 
"The stowage between universities and colleges is a generator of greater synergy whose environments can benefit because of the complementary expertise of these two teaching orders. That's why we decided at the top of higher education to triple the envelope for this program. This better cooperation between college and university research groups will facilitate the progress and transfer of knowledge, "said Minister Duchesne. 
Through its policies and actions, the Department supports the development of higher education, research, science and technology, including the coordination and consultation of the various actors working in these areas of competence. It also encourages the increase in the level of education of Quebeckers and facilitates access to the highest forms of knowledge and culture, among others by programs related to financial assistance to studies. Finally, the ministry supports and values the progress of research, science, innovation and technology in academic, industrial and social environments, from a sustainable development perspective. 
For more information on departmental programs and services, visitwww.messt.gouv.qc.ca. 
