Girardville- Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as the hon. Member for Roberval and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (Forest Fund), Mr. Denis Trottier, are pleased to announce that the municipality of Girardville could benefit from government financial assistance up to $ 2 million for the Range St. Joseph Range North and for the installation of cellular telephony tours. This assistance comes from the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM) program. 
"My government is aware of the major challenge posed by the immensity of the Nordic territory in terms of access and transport infrastructure and communications. That's why I am very proud of our participation in the implementation of these two municipal infrastructure projects, which are a critical contribution to the development of the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region. By supporting these projects, my government demonstrates its commitment to supporting Nordic development, both at the level of transport and at telecommunications, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"Improving transport and telecommunications will promote the economic development of the region and job creation. It will allow the Municipality of Girardville to develop and offer quality public services to its people. Accessibility to these services will contribute to improving the quality of life of the entire community, "said MP Denis Trottier. 
The project aims to refurbish Saint-Joseph Nord to improve and strengthen this route in anticipation of an increase in the circulation of vehicles and heavy trucks attributable to the implantation of the MNE MNE in this sector. The work will improve this stretch of road and make it safer for users, in addition to facilitating the movement of goods in the territory. 
It should be noted that the rank Saint-Joseph Nord is a route taken mainly for forestry and resort activities, and that it gives access to the public territory located north of Girardville. 
As for the installation project of cellular telephony towers, this project brings up a void in this region. No cellular telephony service is currently available. Two towers will therefore be installed to meet the needs of the companies and the population of this Nordic region. These towers consist of antennas and electronic equipment that serve as pivot stations for cell phones and local wireless networks. 
This project will contribute to the economic and social development of Northern Quebec and guarantees accessibility to a range of services for residents of this municipality and the region. 
Under the rules and standards in effect Dovolet 4 of the PIQM, the financial assistance for the completion of these two projects of the Municipality of Girardville is estimated at $ 2 million. 
This component aims to allow municipalities in northern Quebec to carry out infrastructure projects to meet the development needs generated by Nordic development. Thus, municipalities will be able to benefit from specific help for the realization of their project. 
Remember that the Government of Quebec released, on 7 May 2013, the new 2013-2018 staffing of public investments financed by the Nordic Development Fund. This fund will finance investments of $ 867.7 million. Investments will include the construction of road infrastructure, social housing, national parks and multifunctional centers for vocational training. North for all is defined according to a northern development strategy focused on the social development of Nordic communities, respect for the environment and biodiversity and economic development. 
