Quebec- The Honorable Denis Lebel, Minister of Infrastructure and Communities and Minister of the Canada Economic Development Agency, and the member for Roberval, Mr. Denis Trottier, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Agriculture, Fisheries, and Food, Mr. François Gendron, are pleased to announce the allocation of nearly $ 28,000 financial assistance to the Quebec Blueberry Producers Union for the project " Strategic Planning for the Quebec Wild Blueberry Industry ". Financial assistance is granted under the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, which is linked to Agri-Flexibility Fund for Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada. 
The project concerns the achievement of strategic planning for the entire Québec Wild Blueprint. Interested parties have agreed to work together to meet common challenges and ensure the growth of their sector. This is a mobilizing project that will allow the wild blueberry industry to give themselves a clean vision, to define strategic directions and to identify priority actions to support its development for the next five years. 
"It's good news for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region, which is recognized for its blueberry. A common strategy will ensure a concerted development between all entrepreneurs and will certainly contribute to the expansion of the market, "said Minister Lebel. 
"The wild blueberry sector is growing and plays an increasingly important role in Quebec's economic activity. In this context, it must plan its development in order to innovate and remain competitive. The valuation of the economic potential of the bioalimentary sector represents one of the axes of the Government of Quebec's food sovereignt policy, and that is why we support such initiatives with confidence, "said Denis Trottier. 
Recall that the governments of Canada and Quebec announced on March 25, 2011 the signing of the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, which includes an investment of $ 16.7 million over a period of 4 years. This program aims to promote both adaptation and the growth of agri-food sectors with regard to a competitive mutation competitive business context. 
For a full description of the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, we can visit the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food website: www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/strategiesectoral. For more information on the policy of food sovereignty, it is possible to regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.politiquesa.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and the 'Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa). It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
