Quebec- At the request of the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, the Office of Public Hearings on the Environment (BAPE) makes public today its report public survey and consultation on the projects of biodiversity reserves for seven territories and aquatic reserve for a territory in the administrative region of Abitibi-Témiscamingue *. This mandate began on September 27, 2012. The commission of inquiry, responsible for the review of the project, was chaired by Anne Marie Parent who was seconded by Commissioner John Haemmerli. 
At the end of the public consultation on the Marais Biodiversity Reserves Project of Lake Parent, Lake Weetnagami, Lake Saint-Cyr, Dunes-de-Lavière-Attic, Wanaki, Bass-Hills-of the -Ruisseau-snake and valley-de-la-rivière-maganasipi, as well as on the aquatic reserve project of the River-Dumoine, and their enlargements, the BAPE Commission of Inquiry concludes that the allocation of A permanent protection status by the Government of Quebec to the eight projected reserves would contribute to the governmental targets for the protection of biodiversity by consolidating the network in the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region. 
Following the Commission's analysis, it appears that these protected areas add a marked contribution to the representation of the physiographic sets of physiographic environments in which they are located without, however, to obtain satisfactory regional coverage. 12% of the protection of biodiversity on Quebec for 2015. 
Each of the projected reserves must be the most consistent and ecologically relevant to ensure the maintenance of the ecological integrity of each of the ecosystems that are protected. Although some oppose the simultaneous approval of the enlargements and territories currently benefiting from a provisional protection status, they also mentioned the weak areas of certain reserves and mentioning wanting to build around the territories currently put in reserve. In these circumstances, two years of government maturity for the achievement of its target, and given the deadlines for proceeding, the enlargements should not be postponed to a subsequent stage. The Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks should thus include reserves, with a few exceptions, the enlargements it proposes. 
The Minister should consider, inter alia, the inclusion of the proposed enlargements in the Parent Lake Marais Biodiversity Reserve to ensure the protection of marshes, the main objective of its implementation, and the inclusion of the three lakes and lands. surrounding in the biodiversity reserve of Lake Saint-Cyr to improve configuration and protection. The enlargements presented by the Department should be part of the Wanaki biodiversity reserve as soon as the permanent status is allocated, mainly to ensure better network representation and increase the size of the conservation core. In addition, the enlargements proposed by the participants to link it to the Aquatic Reserve of the Rivière-Dumoine feature ecological and cultural characteristics that justify the analysis of the possibility of including them, in whole or in part, in the reserve. 
Given the gains they offer in terms of protection of the Dumoine River watershed, the potential enlargements presented by the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks should also be integrated into the Aquatic Reserve From the River-Dumoine as soon as the permanent status is allocated. In addition, the enlargements proposed by the participants deserve a more in-depth analysis to assess the relevance of including them, in whole or in part, in the reserve. An assessment of the attendance of the Dumoine River and its ability to support it is required quickly to verify if this attendance is likely to degrade the environment and to compromise the achievement of the conservation objectives of the projected aquatic reserve of the River-Dumoine. . This assessment should also be used to determine whether activities on the river must be better framed. As it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks to develop the network of Quebec national parks and that it has the expertise to that effect, it is up to it to evaluate The demand for some participants to establish a national park. 
With regard to socio-economic repercussions, a study of the establishment of biodiversity reserves and the aquatic reserve should be produced by the Ministry of Natural Resources and the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks. and be available for public consultation. 
Finally, the implementation of the conservation plan, following the allocation of the permanent protection status, requires that the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks define, in an action plan, The management measures it intends to take to achieve its conservation objectives. In addition, the Department intends to include regional partners in reserve management, some of which could be highlighted. Given the imminence of the deadline, the Department should quickly develop a planning that allows it to respond, the time comes, to the required technical and financial needs. 
It should be remembered that during the first part of the public hearing, the Commission held three public meetings in Val-d'Or, as well as in videoconference rooms in Ville-Marie and Gatineau. In the second part, three public meetings that took place in Val-d'Or, Témiscaming and Campbell's Bay allowed the Commission to hear the presentation of twenty-two memories and a verbal opinion. In total, thirty-seven submissions were deposited by persons, groups, organizations and municipalities interested in this project. 
The Public Investigation and Consultation Report on Biodiversity ReservesProjects for seven territories and aquatic reserve for a territory in the administrative region of Abitibi-Témiscambording is now available. You can consult it in the BAPE documentation centers, in open consultation centers in the intended environment as well as on the BAPE website at www.bape.gouv.qc.ca. You can also apply to the BAPE office, either by communicating by email at the address communication@bape.gouv.qc.ca or by dialing 418 643-7447 or, at no cost, 1 800 463-4732 . 
