Québec- Its current source being contaminated, the city of Wakesha, Wisconsin, plans to tap daily 40 million liters of drinking water in the Great Lakes Basin and St. Lawrence. The situation greatly worries Quebec's spokesperson for sustainable development, environment and climate change, Mathieu Traversy. It requires Minister He Ham to be transparent by unveiling to Quebec now on the subject, as well as all the information and all the analyzes of the Government of Quebec in connection with this project. 
"Have all the possibilities been evaluated to avoid this massive water transfer project outside the Great Lakes and St. Lawrence Watershed? What are the cumulative impacts of this project? David Heurtel has the duty to pronounce, "said Mathieu Traversy. 
According to the hon. Member, the Waukesha project would create a dangerous precedent under the Sustainable Waters Resources Agreement of the Great Lakes Basin and the St. Lawrence River. If it were to be allowed with the Assent of Quebec, it would pave the way for similar projects. Already, other cities think very seriously. 
"David Heurtel said that the Quebec government would refuse to pronounce ... before the last stage of decision. This is unacceptable! Can the minister demonstrate leadership and transparency, as requested by several Quebec municipalities, including Quebec, Salaberry-de-Valleyfield, Sorel-Tracy and Now Montreal? , Added the member for Terrebonne. 
Currently, Quebeckers are only minimally consulted by the Regional Water Resources Council of the Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence River. "All that exists to inform the population of this consultation, it is four small paragraphs on a lost page of the Ministry of the Environment. Is this all the importance given by the minister to a project that threatens water resources? ", Asked Mathieu Traversy. 
The minister has the duty to do more to consult the population. It should be remembered that in the Water Act also register the principles of transparency and public participation. The government clearly contravenes these two key principles of sustainable development. By refusing to pronounce at this point, Quebec abdicates its responsibilities in the protection of water. "We are asking that David Heurtel file all the opinions produced by his department and those collected from other departments. He must also publish on his website all the information available on this project ", continued the deputy on Terrebonne. 
The Water Act provides that the Government of Quebec must remain "the guardian of the nation's interests in the water resource". "Minister He Hréttel has the duty to protect the protection, restoration, development and management of water resources. We want him to draw lessons from the Flushgate and that it will prove that it can handle the water properly, "concluded Mathieu Traversy. 
