Québec- The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois on the environment and the fight against climate change and MP from Terrebonne, Mathieu Traversy, deplores the dangerous previous created by the approval of the Great Lakes Water Transfer Project to the Municipality of Waukesha, located in the state of Wisconsin, the United States. Indeed, according to the information accessible to the public, there is every reason to believe that this project will be approved, in violation of the Sustainable Waters Resources Agreement of the Great Lakes Basin and St. Lawrence River , signed by Quebec in 2005. 
"The message sent by the Minister of Sustainable Development, David Heurtel, is simple: the environmental rules that one collectively can be circumvented, even if it goes against the precautionary principle. In addition, the authorities have only evaluated the options proposed by the City of Waukesha. This is a lack of obvious rigor since a study of 2015, entitled Non-Diversion Alternative Use Existing Water Supply with Treatment, has already shown that there would be other possibilities, including treating water, to respond To the needs of Waukesha, "denounced Mathieu Traversy. 
In addition, unlike Ontario, Quebec has never submitted technical advice describing its project analysis. No document, intelligence or explanation of the reasoning of the Ministry of the Environment has been posted on line to justify the support of Quebec to the Waukesha project. It is rather in silence that a few lines have been added on a page of the department's website. "After the Flushgate, Minister Heurtel once again acted in the greatest opacity. Quebeckers have the right to know why he agreed and allowed the Waukesha project to become a dangerous precedent, "continued the member for Terrebonne. 
Finally, remember that 122 local municipalities and governments in Canada and the United States, as well as a coalition of 40 environmental groups, expressed their opposition to the Waukesha project. "In Quebec, Montreal, Valleyfield, Sorel-Tracy and several other municipalities have positioned themselves against the project. However, despite their importance, the minister has not taken into account any of these points of view, "lamented Mathieu Traversy. 
