Montréal - The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb, today announced the payment of a non-refundable financial contribution of 5 million. Dollars to GMCR Canada, a subsidiary of the US company Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, specializing in the production and sale of coffee. Financial assistance will achieve a $ 55 million modernization project at its Montreal plant located in the Villeray-Saint-Michel-Park-Extension district, which the company has baptized the "coffee district". 
"Innovation is at the heart of GMCR Canada's success and its subsidiaries, and leads to significant benefits for the metropolis and all Quebec," said Pauline Marois. With this major project, the company will create 180 jobs, thus exceeding the 1000 jobs for its Montreal facilities. These investments will reduce the amount of imported products and even increase exports, which is part of the objectives of food sovereignty and strengthens the agri-food sector. But, above all, GMCR confirms its positioning on the North American chessboard, justifying the maintenance of its Canadian headquarters in Montreal. It is therefore proud that we support it in its growth strategy. » 
The investment project aims to improve the productivity of the Saint-Michel plant, to diversify its range of products and allow it to develop new markets. The company wants to modernize its roasting and packaging facilities to adapt to the new market realities, which tend towards the consumption of coffee coffee. The project also includes the creation of a flavored cafes processing room and adding new packaging channels for new products such as hot chocolate. 
"GMCR Canada is a model in terms of manufacturing revival," said Zakaïb. The company does not hesitate to invest in the modernization of its equipment, to increase its competitiveness, and in the development of new products, to adapt to the needs of consumers. These investments increase its competitiveness and strengthen its vitality. We are proud of its dynamism, which helps to enhance Montreal's reputation economically. » 
Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. and its subsidiary Holding GMCR Canada Inc. specialize in the production and distribution of known coffee and drinks, such as Van Houtte®, Timothy's World Coffee® and Barista Prima®. GMCR also offers infusion systems a cup at the same time of Keurig®. 
"The support of the Government of Quebec will help us increase our production capacity and modernize our facilities to meet the new realities of the market, particularly with regard to the increased demand for K-Cup® pods, the President of GMCR Canada said. , Touter Sylvain. The realization of this project testifies to our desire to distinguish ourselves in a market that has excellent growth prospects. » 
