The Government published on May 29 in the Official Lagazette of the 55-page (RPP) Protection (RPP) of 55 pages, including a section this extract in connection with hydraulic fracturing is relayed by the media and the opposition: 
Let's do a check in. Because the information disseminated by Radio-Canada in its article "Shale Oil: Quebec goes ahead with hydraulic fracturing" and by Quebec solidarity are not complete. 
What to know is that the Minister's authorization for hydraulic fracturing exploration is already required. This draft regulation (because not yet adopted) adds obligations to who want to make fracturing outside the St. Lawrence Valley. The Government therefore wishes to add an additional constraint to respect for the authorization of the Minister to be granted. 
It is a drinking water regulation referred to above, the presentation of which has not been carried out in Catimini! The draft regulation was the subject of a public announcement on May 15 and that A press release was broadcast the same day on this subject. 
Moreover, the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, as well as his Department, have done a whole media hype around the rules, even going to launch a website presenting the whole thing: http://protegeonsleau.gouv.qc.ca. On this website, we can read that: 
These measures are: 
Let's be clear. 
These are among the safest standards in North America, as revealed by the felling on the separating distances of a drilled well for the search for oil and natural gas. 
The government achieves significant environmental advance. Let's be proud and work together to always improve the quality of our environment, while exploiting our natural resources responsibly and lastly, for the benefit of all Quebeckers. 
For more information, consult the press releases issued by the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Yves-François Blanchet: 
On June 5, 2013, to appease concerns about hydraulic fracturing facility to biased and partial interpretations of the Regulation; 
