Quebec- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, strongly denounces the attitude adopted by the opposition parties to the parliamentary committee responsible for the study of the Law No 45Visant the Ministry's legal constitution. 
Submitted on May 15, Bill 45 is composed of 208 articles, most of which are concordance amendments. Since that date, nearly 28 hours have been devoted to parliamentary committee to the study of this bill. Just over half of the items have been adopted. At this rate, it will take several weeks of study in parliamentary committee so that the day the law creates the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology. 
"Obviously, the Liberals and the Caquists are indulging in Unfortibusteren rule for reasons I do not understand. It is not a matter of politics, but simply to give legal existence to a new ministry created by a democratically elected government in September 2012, "said Minister Duchesne. 
This dam in good standing is likely to complicate things quickly when bills will be filed this fall to set up reforms from the work of the Summit on Higher Education. Without legal existence of the department, these reforms may even be compromised. 
"I dare to believe that the goal sought by the Liberals and the Cavoists is to hinder as much as possible to the reforms we want to put in place, largely supported on the consensus that emerged at the summit of last winter. I dare to believe that the oppositions have gone an electoralist agenda. I ask the leaders of the two opposition parties to bring back to the reason its representatives to the Parliamentary Committee so that Bill 45 is rapidly adopted for the common good of Quebeckers, "said Minister Duchene. 
"My firm is always available to meet the opposition parties in order to consider their comments and, if necessary, prepare amendment proposals. However, the Liberal Party of Quebec has always declined our invitations. » 
VIEW LACONFERENCE OF PRESSSION Pierre Duchesne. 
Examples of similar bills 
Law on the Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities 
Law on the Ministry of Tourism 
