Quebec- Following the publication of the opinion of the Energy Régie on Natural Gas Supply in Quebec, including the impact of the TransCanada pipeline project on it, the member for Mary -Victorin and sentence of the official opposition in terms of energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, as well as the member for Jonquière and spokesperson for sustainable development and environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, exhort again again The Prime Minister to defend the interests of Quebec by opposing the TransCanada project. 
"In addition to the enormous risks it would entail for Quebec to the environment, the Energy Régie comes to confirm today that the energy project is equally risky for the economy of Quebec, our industries And our companies. Indeed, in its current form, the project does not ensure the availability of gas infrastructure nor the reliability of supplies for Quebec's natural gas consumers, "said Bernard Drainville. 
In its opinion, the Régie also expressed concern about the costs associated with the implementation of the TransCanada pipeline project, particularly because they will be borne by Quebec consumers. It notes that energy is primarily designed for the benefit of oil producers, and that the project component of the project introduces costs and risks that natural gas shippers do not have to bear. 
"The liberal management of TransCanada's file is extremely worrying; Think only with the statements by Philippe Couillard on the transport of oil oil and equalization, the decline in greenhouse gases, or the bad decisions of the Minister of the Environment, David Heurtel, with respect to at Cacouna. The Prime Minister must finally hear right, stop placing the interests of the oil oils in Western Canada in Quebec, stand up and say no to TransCanada, "added the member for Marie-Victorin. 
"The Couillard Government can only wait for the National Energy Board or that the Harper Government, Proptrole, take the decision in our place, especially since we have regularly been able to see that the federal government makes its choices without taking Counts even sometimes against - interests of the Quebec nation. The TransCanada pipeline file, with its negative impacts apprehended on the supply of natural gas, is a concrete example of necessity, for Quebec, to be the only one to make the decisions about what is happening on its territory ", insisted Bernard Drainville. 
"For this purpose, the Parti Québécois urges the government to call Bill 390 to affirm the primacy of Quebec's environmental competence," concluded Sylvain Gaudreault. 
