Québec- Following the final adoption of Bill 55, the Transparency Measures Act in the Mining, Petroleum and Gas Industries, the member for Matane-Matapédia and Quebec's Word of Party in terms of energy and Natural Resources, Pascal Bérubé, denounces the lack of courage and will of the Liberal government and the Coalition Future Québec when it comes to transparency. 
Remember that Bill 55 aimed to introduce transparency measures in the mining, oil and gas industries by making it mandatory for the companies of these sectors, the declaration of payments made in the context of projects related to the exploration and exploitation of our natural resources. 
"Bill 55 was a great opportunity to make Quebec a forward-thinking society in terms of transparency. Unfortunately, the Liberals and the Caquists have systematically voted against all proposals to provide Quebeckers with maximum information on the exploration and exploitation of their natural resources. The liberal will to bring more transparency has been limited to the Canadian will; We did not pick up a step more! The Government refused to extend the obligation of disclosure to all the exploration and extraction companies working on Quebec. It also refuses to mandatory the disclosure of any form of commitment made by the instigator of a project, despite an explicit request from the Quebec mining exploration association, which wants the thresholds to be lowered. For exploration SMEs to be subject to disclosure obligations. The federal government sets a minimum base, but why are content with the minimum still the industry was ready to go further? , Asked the spokesman. 
"The Liberal government has gone to ignore the Auditor General's warnings and recommendations, come to share his concerns in consultations on the bill. The Minister Delegate to the Mines has rejected all the amendment suggestions that followed the VG recommendations and aimed at clutching the breaches in the bill. All proposed improvements have been the subject of a systematic refusal, in the name of harmonization with Canada. The Liberals voluntarily chose to adopt a bill full of holes, with the help of the Coalition Future Québec, which voted against all our amendments. And note that again once, although being in favor of transparency, Quebec Solidarity has chosen not to participate in the work, "said the member. 
"The lack of courage and will of the Liberal government and the Coalition Future Québec, when it comes to transparency, is disconcerting. Why refuse to Quebeckers access to the maximum information on exploring and exploiting their natural resources? Unlike the Liberals and the Cavoists, we believe that all exploration and exploitation companies working on Quebec should be subject to disclosure obligations. Bill 55 remains a missed opportunity to file the best possible legislation for Quebecers. We will still support it because it's a first step. But we are disappointed that the government and the CAQ are content with half-measures, "concluded Pascal Bérubé. 
