Quebec - taking stock of the first week of Bill 20, the member for Taillon and the official opposition for the health and accessibility of care, Diane Lamarre, and the hon. Member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesperson for the status of women, Carole Poirier, denounce the intention of Minister Gaétan barrette to create a real brake on access to the assisted procreation program. Not only does the minister make a mistake by removing in vitro fertilization (IVF) from the state of services paid by the state, but he also err in acting, in a legislation, on the criteria of access and the standards of good practice medical to privilege in terms of IVF. 
"It is totally illogical that the Minister legislates on medical practices to adopt, while the latter should rather be registered in the guidelines preparing by the College of Physicians. These lines contain recommendations that, not included in a law, can be modified and adapted quickly according to the constant evolution of scientific knowledge. We agree to add tags to the program but, in its bill, the minister barrette goes too far and overshadowed his field of competence, "said Diane Lamarre. 
The association of the obstetricians and gynecologists of Quebec pointed out, rightly, that a 45-year-old woman could have a much more favorable medical condition for the success of an IVF than 35 years old less healthy . However, the bill renders unlawful for a woman over 42 years of recourse, even if she wishes to pay the fees. Recall that in its recommendations, in June 2014, the Commissioner for Health and Welfare had suggested that the decision to limit age being made in light of several parameters, in order to avoid the perverse effects of a Uniform age limit. 
In Parliamentary Committee on Wednesday, the patient's lawyer, Mr. Jean-Pierre Ménard, also expressed concerns about the minister's will to legislate on the number of sexual relations that an infertile couple should have before they can use legally. IVF. The Staff Regulations Council also raised the case of homosexual couples, for whom the prerequisite for having sex for a minimum of three years is a totally absurd access criterion. 
"These provisions constitute an infringement of the freedom of women and are inconsistent with our Charter of Rights and Freedoms. The Minister Barrette should stop attempting to engage all powers and leave care for clinical experts and women to judge relevant criteria to determine for use of IVF. To disassemble the service, it is a choice with which we do not agree, but it is legal. However, make the use of ILF illegal, it is unacceptable; This reflects a serious lack of judgment, "concluded Carole Poirier. 
