Quebec, February 17, 2020 - The member for René-Lévesque and spokesman for the Treasury Board as well as in the area of Finance, Economics and Digital Strategy, Martin Ouellet, warned the President of the Treasury Board, Christian Dubé: Bill 37, Act primarily to institute the Center for Government Acquisitions and Technological Infrastructures Québec, is likely to harm Quebec SMEs. 
IN SHORT 
Bill 37 aims, inter alia, the realization of economies of scale by the consolidation of government purchases, supplies and services. It comes to abolish the Quebec Shared Services Center to replace it with two entities, the Center for Government Acquisitions - responsible for providing public bodies for goods and services - and technology infrastructures Québec - whose mandate is to support public bodies In their digital transformation, among others. "Once again, the government is trying to bring a tote bill, which has spread and has many shortcomings. The first of things to do would have been from the split, "said Martin Ouellet. 
With regard to the Center for Government Acquisitions, a regulatory impact assessment of the bill, dated last September, clearly warns the Treasury Board: it indicates in every letter that "there is a risk that SMEs are not able to tender some calls for tenders because they will not have the resources to meet the demand. As a result, this could lead to a reduction in their access to public procurement. " And the bill does not provide for any action to counter this perverse effect. 
To illustrate its remarks, the hon. Member used a very concrete example. "A Baie-Comeau company, the side bookstore, fears to lose sales again, which has already made the costs of a first wave of purchasing centralization when creating CISS. » 
"I ask the President of the Treasury Board to amend his bill so that he does not represent a threat to Quebec's SMEs. Weaken what constitutes the heart of our economy, in all regions, it is certainly not a good idea, "concluded the spokesperson. 
