Quebec- The Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, denounces the decision of the Liberal Party and the CAQ to oppose the adoption of principle of the law on the mines. 
"We have witnessed a sad show, Liberal and Caquist deputies got up to deny the principle of one of the most anticipated bills. As much irresponsibility on the part of the opposition parties exceeds me. They sabotaged a necessary bill and contribute to fueling the uncertainty in this neuralgic sector of the Quebec economy, "deplore Martine Ouellet 
The CAQORTES who said they want a quick adoption have flown-face. "As for the CAQ, it's a major turnaround. Once again, the members of the CAQ betray their commitment by affirming one thing and voting its opposite, "added the Minister of Natural Resources. 
While provinces like New Brunswick, Nova Scotia and Newfoundland have already followed suit to modern legislation with regard to processing, the opposition condemns Quebec to the status quo. "We have been working since the beginning with mining stakeholders, environmental groups, municipalities and citizens' groups to enhance government action as much in the areas of exploration, operations and processing. We have proposed a realistic and modern project that meets today's reality. Unfortunately, Liberal MPs are advocating a priori the interests of their own party, while we defend the interests of all Quebeckers. This misunderstanding partisan hurts an industry and its workers for unjustifiable reasons, "said Martine Ouellet. 
For the Government of Quebec, it is important that clear rules are put in place. Bill 43 offered stability, predictability and acceptability. There is an unequivocal consensus in the population for the mines law to be modernized. "Requests for the opposition and several groups, I have repeatedly demonstrated my opening to make changes to improve the bill. In particular, on the issue of transformation, where I am committed to filing an amendment to clarify that it was an opportunity and market study we wanted. I also claimed my desire to see two committees set up, an environmental monitoring committee and a committee for the maximization of economic benefits. I also committed to reviewing the Minister's power as a result of the adoption of the Regional County Municipalities (MRC) development scheme. Finally, I reiterated my desire to better define consultations with Aboriginal communities by observing what the Forest Forest Management Act is in the field, "said Martine Ouellet. 
Remember that Bill 43 incorporates nearly 80% of the articles presented in Bill 14 and 79 of the former government to which are added elements for processing, for municipal and environmental power. The legislative process provides that, after the adoption of the principle, the detailed article by article study allows parliamentarians to exchange and propose amendments to the Minister. "What makes me desoles is to see this important debate being personalized. The attacks of oppositions in my place testify to a flagrant lack of arguments against what we proposed in the bill. The Liberals could not just agree to see us succeed where they failed twice. I believe that Quebeckers deserve better than the small policy that the Liberals and the Cavoists propose, "says the minister. 
Earlier this week, at the announcement Duplan of foreign trade development, the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade has very clearly devoted the mining sector as a strategic sector. The minister was the importance of this sector responsible for Québec's quarter of exports and which generates tens of thousands of direct and indirect jobs in all regions of Quebec. "To maintain our attractiveness abroad, we had the duty to adopt clear rules, however the oppositions decided otherwise. The government will therefore have to respond to the lack of vision inflicted by the economic obstruction of the Liberals, "concludes Martine Ouellet. 
