Quebec, February 21, 2019 - The member for Jonquiere and spokesperson for the Second Opposition Group on the Environment and Fighting Climate Change, Sylvain Gaudreault, introduced this morning to the National Assembly the bill Title Ansis aimed at ensuring compliance with Quebec's obligations relating to climate change. He now asks the Government and other opposition parties to immediately call the study in parliamentary committee. 
IN SHORT 
"The objective of a climate anti-discharge law is simple: to ensure compliance with our climate obligations. Among other things, the creation of a "carbon budget" - presented and filed annually, like the Québec budget - would force us to carry out an overall assessment of our greenhouse gas emissions and to ensure that a Follow-up of action plans for their reduction will be carried out, "first mentioned the spokesperson. 
According to Sylvain Gaudreault, it is also time that Quebec has an independent body resulting from the Office of the Auditor General, to assess the government's work in the fight against climate change and GHG reduction. "It's a question of coherence," he continues. We must not just recognize the existence of the climate crisis; We must also face it, attack us, with concrete and efficient means. » 
The member for Jonquiere rejoices that the idea of a climate anti-taxacit law - which he raised since COP22, in 2016, and then publicly proposed to the Government on the occasion of the march for the climate. Last autumn - Today obtained the unanimous support of the parties for the National Assembly to be seized. "I thought about the question of our climate deficit. I studied similar laws that exist around the world. This approach led me to the presentation of this bill, whose principle reaches the objectives put forward by the Covenant for the transition and all the experts who sound the alarm as to the climate crisis. It is time for Quebec to take action; I therefore invite all parliamentarians to call the study of this bill in committee right now, "he concluded. 
