Quebec- Following specific consultations on Bill 55, Transparency Measures Act in the Mining, Petroleum and Gas Industries, the member for Marie-Victorin and the Official Opposition Spokesman for Energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, is questioned as to the government's real desire to increase transparency in these industries. 
"Bill 55 aims to increase transparency in the mining, petroleum and gas industries. At present, it is known that there are secret agreements under which natural resource exploration or exploitation companies pay - municipalities, public bodies or to indigenous communities - contributions in cash or in kind. The government has announced its willingness to make payments public, but only those totaling more than $ 100,000, and only for some companies, "said Bernard Drainville. 
"If the government really wants to increase the transparency of the natural resource industries, all are all the amounts paid by all companies working in Quebec territory that should be made public. Citizens are the real owners of natural resources, which constitute a collective wealth. They have the right to know, "continued the door. 
RECULS already announced 
The Liberal government's desire is all the more doubtful as the minister has announced amendments to his own bill at the beginning of the consultations. Rather than requiring the disclosure of payments as soon as they total $ 100,000, the Minister has bent to the willingness of part of the industry and has indicated its intention to limit mandatory disclosure; Several contributions of less than $ 100,000, in various categories, could add up without being made public. For example, a company that would pay $ 90,000 in royalties, $ 50,000 in taxes and $ 75,000 in various costs would no longer be subject to the disclosure requirement, despite total payments of $ 215,000. In short, the minister increases the threshold by splitting it into categories. 
"By no longer considering the total payments, the Minister clearly indicates his willingness to limit the disclosed information. It looks like the fractionation of contracts in the public sector to avoid the obligation to hold a call for tenders. The minister goes to the wrong direction. On the contrary, we wish that the bill is tightened so that Quebeckers benefit from the maximum information on the exploration and exploitation of their natural resources. All exploration and exploitation companies operating in Quebec should be subject to the bill, and any contribution above $ 1 should be disclosed, "added the member for Marie-Victorin. 
"During special consultations, some stakeholders, including the Quebec Mining Exploration Association, the Coalition for Quebec to have better mine and the Auditor General of Quebec, have made interesting proposals to increase the scope of the bill. as to the control, disclosure and number of companies subject. I invite the minister to work in this direction to come to the greatest possible transparency, "concluded Bernard Drainville. 
Remember that the Parti Québécois has acted with force to increase transparency measures in the mining sector. The Mining Act, adopted in 2013, included the obligation to disclose data on the production and value of the extracted ore. 
