Laval- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb, announced the allocation of financial support in the form of a loan $ 7 million to the Viau food products company, which specializes in food processing. 
This government assistance will be used to carry out an enlargement and acquisition project of equipment estimated at $ 61 million. In all, 105 new jobs will be created over the next five years and 285 others will be consolidated. 
"The government's goal is to ensure that Quebec becomes one of the most prosperous places in North America, focusing on private investment. Since our arrival, we have been working to put in place an attractive business environment for investors, in addition to supporting the initiatives that are strategic for the growth of our economy. The benefits of the Via Food Products project, including the creation of more than 100 quality jobs, are more positive for Quebec. It is with great pride that we contribute to the rise of this food processing company. Food produced in Quebec must indeed be recognized as a whole as a flagship of our economy. It was in this spirit that we announced on May 16, our new food sovereignty policy, "said the Prime Minister. 
"Quebec needs the creativity of its entrepreneurs to maintain Cape Town on Growth in the current economic context. The company Viau food products shows us its understanding of productivity issues by investing in an expansion project that will allow it to take advantage of a booming market. The Government is present to support entrepreneurs at the height of their ambitions and according to their needs, as evidenced by the deposit of the law enforcement of the Quebec Economic Development Bank, which will be at the service of entrepreneurs and regions, "said the Deputy Minister Zakaïb. 
Created in 1977, the Via Food Products company specializes in food processing, such as Pepperoni, Italian charcuteries, sausages, pizza trim and meatballs. It holds two plants, one in Laval and another in Montreal North, and markets three distinct brands of products: Sila and Viau, intended for food professionals, including hoteliers and restaurant owners, and Fantino & Mondello, destined to the general public. The investment project announced today is to enlarge the Laval plant, to acquire strategic facilities and to redevelop certain spaces from the plant located in Montreal North. 
"Our reputation in the food industry is firmly established, due to the quality of our products that denote a great originality. The support of the Government of Quebec will allow us to increase our competitiveness, thanks to the manufacture of new products and the increase of our productivity. The realization of this project represents a unique opportunity to develop our markets and an important step in the growth of our company, "said the President and CEO of the Viau Food Products, Mr. Pat de Marco. 
