Here is an overview of the positive reactions following the deposit of the mines bill. 
"These are years that we plead for the transformation of natural resources, finally we feel that the government has heard. The bill gives a legislative handle to be respected in Quebec by the great companies that want to exploit our riches. " - Daniel Roy, Quebec Director of Metalos. 
"The FTQ and the Metal Union found in the new mining royalties regime Many of the principles they had put forward, in particular as to the importance of promoting the treatment of ore in Quebec, at the establishment of a minimum fee and capturing a portion of the overprofits. » 
"For the CSN, the Mining Bill, presented today by the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, includes interesting progress, including introducing measures to promote the transformation of our natural resources in Quebec rather than Simply export them. » 
"The presentation today of the Mines Bill by the Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, is welcomed by the Quebec Federation of Municipalities (FQM) which sees the result of its many representations made in the last For the municipalities to have the power to identify areas inconsistent with mining activities in their territory. » 
"We welcome the Minister's intention to respect the acquired rights, a fundamental demand for our sector, which was not taken into account in previous projects. This gesture will allow our SMEs to explore their activities in some cases in a reasonable framework, with the required transparency, predictability and stability, "said Philippe Cloutier, geologist and chairman of the board of directors. from the AEMQ. 
Rejoice that the government is attempting to provide powers to the RCMs, which could thus exclude mining activities in some areas of their planning scheme: "Now the mining will explain how they will start, will operate and close a project. So, I think some people will trust them. 
"It is necessary to emphasize the Minister's desire to propose, by this bill, an equitable compromis between the different stakeholders, in order to promote a development of the mining industry in Quebec, there is more account of the concerns expressed by certain actors, including the municipalities, in terms of social acceptability. Yves-Thomas Dorval, President 
"There are three weeks before the end of the parliamentary session and one prolong it.This is very important for the Quebec economy." - François Legault 
