Quebec- The member for Marie-Victorin and sentence of the official opposition in terms of energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, as well as the member for Jonquière and spokesperson for sustainable development and environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, require the Liberal government that it resumes leadership in the Energy project issue is TransCanada. 
"The abandonment of the oil port construction project is a great victory for the citizens of Quebec and Cacouna, with whom we have led this long battle. Nevertheless, this decision of TransCanada reminds us that after several months, Quebeckers still do not know the final route of the pipeline. The government must resume full control of the file. The situation has lasted enough, "said Bernard Drainville. 
In addition, the government has not yet been obtained TransCanada's documents, which prevents it from triggering the work of the BAPE. "We are asking the government to put pressure on the company so that it immediately deposits the Ministry of the Environment the comprehensive documents that are necessary for the triggering of BAPE consultations as they must be kept as soon as possible," declared Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The government must indeed put its foot on the ground and demand that TransCanada deposits, in particular, the definitive plot of the pipeline and the emergency plans in case of oil spill. "Until when will the government wait for TransCanada's plans? At this game of the cat and the mouse, it is to the Government of Quebec to impose its rules, because it is our territorial integrity referred to here. In this case, Quebec must stop being lagging behind TransCanada and the National Energy Board, "added Bernard Drainville. 
"We also ask the government to call Bill 390 for Quebec to become sovereign in environmental matters. It does not matter whether there is an oil port or not, it is in Quebec, so Quebeckers, to make decisions about what will happen or not on their territory, "concluded Sylvain Gaudreault. 
