Québec- As today the particular consultations on Bill 20, the member for Taillon and the official opposition for the health and accessibility of care, Diane Lamarre, denounces the attitude of the Minister of Health and Social Services, Gaétan Barrette, who refuses to file the draft rules giving the true portrait of Bill 20. 
"The consultations are barely started and the minister still blindly applies the same power game strategy by keeping the true scenario for him. The minister has already mentioned, on February 9, the possibility of gagging opposition again and all those who do not think like him. This morning, it is learned that the FMOQ and the Barreau du Québec have asked for more time to better prepare for parliamentary committee. The minister, for his part, does not see why we could not pass the bill before June. Always the same precipitation and the same bulldozer that operate. I invite the minister to take the time to listen to the groups who will speak to us in parliamentary committee. Perhaps he will discover that he does not hold the absolute truth, "said Diane Lamarre. 
In Bill 20, there are no less than 36 references to the future regulatory framework, and some of these regulations are not subject to the Regulations Act. Yet, this is, among other things, we will find the quota calculation equations and the attendance rate of doctors. However, these ratios, as their exceptions, are essential for measuring the scope of the bill. Remember that the minister has already escaped the publication of the regulatory framework when there has been a question of Bill 10, despite the criticism of the Protecteur du citoyen. 
"Bill 20 includes serious risks not to improve access, but to make it more difficult for very sick persons, especially seniors likely to need more time during a consultation and more often use the urgency. The minister once again tables an improvised bill that will have serious consequences, not only for doctors, but also for patients who are made of promises that do not rely on wackpower mathematical assumptions; We have no guarantee that the population will be better protected. Infertile couples will also make the expense of this bill, since it comes to brake, in Catimini, access to the assisted procreation program; Moreover, this question should be treated separately from the rest, and we ask that the bill be split, "has brought the hon. Member. 
Lack of transparency 
"In his opening speech, last May, the Prime Minister pledged to transparency. We see again once this promise was only wind. Last week, I filed a motion to ask the government to make public settlement drafts that derive from the quota bill for physicians and assisted procreation; We can thus be able to have a real informed debate and allow the groups to know the real content of the bill and to appreciate the impacts, "added Diane Lamarre. 
"Without this regulatory framework, we will play the riddle with the minister because the bill, itself, contains very little determining information as to its application. Adopting a bill, it is not to make a mystery word where we only discover at the last minute the end of the game. We have before us a government that refuses to give all the information necessary for parliamentarians so that they debate a major bill. We ask for promised transparency. The minister's refusal is a lack of respect for all the parliamentarians of this assembly and for all those who are directly affected by this bill, and they are numerous, "concluded the hon. Member for Taillon. 
