Quebec- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the spokesperson for the Quebecois on Transport, Alain Therrien, have lamented today that members of the Liberal government voted against the establishment of A parliamentary committee about the metropolitan electricity grid (REM), a project led by the Fund and Investment (CDPQ Infra). 
"In light of the testimony of experts, the elected officials of the National Assembly had the opportunity to discuss Quebec's largest investment project in the 21st century, the REM, a project of nearly $ 6 billion from the deposit box. A parliamentary commission would have allowed us to clarify the impacts of the project, especially for future users and taxpayers. But the government has decided that it would not happen. Does he try to hide the fact that the REM will finally be heavily subsidized, while it had promised the opposite? , Is questioned Jean-François Lisée. 
"Is it a good idea to invest in a major transit project in Montreal? Obviously yes!, Continued the leader of the official opposition. But do the Liberals manage the finances of this project? That's not clear. And refuse to hold a parliamentary committee on the REM, it is refusing to clarify the situation. We denounce this lack of transparency. » 
A new tax 450 
"We have been asking questions about the REM project for several weeks. At the National Assembly, the Ministers of Transport and Finance remain unable to respond. However, the project arouses several concerns, including that concerning financial assembly. Indeed, the government promised that the REM would not enjoy any grant from the Government of Quebec or municipalities; What about, then, from the new liberal tax imposed on 450? A $ 32 million will have to be borne by the citizens of the North and South suburbs of Montreal: It stands for $ 30 per capita in Laval, $ 66 in Chambly, $ 71 in Châteauguay. In short, not only will the REM be subsidized but, moreover, it will be by a new tax refiled to the citizens of the 450! The government must give up this idea, "added Alain Therrien. 
"All this is added the fact that Hydro-Québec must contribute $ 300 million, has brought the leader of the official opposition. So every Hydro user taxpayer, which he lives in Saguenay, Abitibi, or anywhere else in Quebec, will pay for the REM. Recalls: The first floor of the cake is Hydro? Quebec. The second, the liberal tax. Let's not forget the third floor, at the cost of about $ 200 million, that cities will share in order to subsidize the REM. In short, the questions are numerous; The Liberals must return to their decision and accept the holding of a parliamentary committee. » 
The motion rejected by the Liberal government reads as follows: 
"That the Transport and Environment Committee is reviewing as soon as possible the Metropolitan Electrical Network Project of the Deposit Fund and Investment; 
That for this purpose, the Commission hears all persons and all the organizations it deems necessary to convene; 
That the organization of the mandate is entrusted to the members of the Commission; 
Finally, that this motion is an order of the National Assembly. » 
