Quebec- The member for Jonquière and the official opposition spokeswoman in sustainable development and environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, requires the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment and the Fight Against Climate Change, David Heurtel , that he renounces issuing certificates of authorization to TransCanada until the company recognizes Quebec jurisdiction. At present, by not requiring the respect of Quebec environmental laws and setting up a facade baper, without notice of project or impact study, the Liberal government is abdicate His decision-making power for the federal government. 
The Parti Québécois believes, moreover, that by confiding the reins to a committee of experts, David Heurtel is reluctant to his responsibilities; It can be thought that he just does not want to repeat his mistake last year in Cacouna, an error for which he should have resigned, by the way. "There should be no certificate of authorization issued without a clear commitment of the company that it will respect Quebec jurisdiction. For this, TransCanada must file a project notice and an impact study to the Government of Quebec. Otherwise, what credibility will have this bupe? Asked Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The Parti Québécois notes that the energy project remains blurred, and that Quebec will benefit from it. "Some fundamental aspects of the project remain unknown to date, including the final route and the construction of a petroleum port in Quebec. David Heurtel must enforce the competence of Quebec on the environment, "continued the spokesperson. 
Besides, what did David Heurtel do in the energy record since his arrival? In particular, he authorized, against the precautionary principle, the holding of cocouna drilling at the heart of a belluga nursery, a species endangered. He also decided not to take into account the overall greenhouse gas emissions of the project. Then last week, recognizing the authority of the National Energy Board to evaluate the energy project is, it abdicated its responsibilities. And, now, he's short-circuiting the BAPE. "In the eyes of the Parti Québécois, all these mistakes explain why David Heurtel should resign or be removed from his duties," concluded Sylvain Gaudreault. 
