Quebec - In recent weeks, the Quebec government has done everything so that the conflict into construction is settled through negotiation. The result is convincing, since the employers' associations in the residential areas, roads and civil engineering as well as the union alliance has arrived at negotiated principle agreements, allowing nearly 100,000 workers to return to the projects. At the beginning of last week. Unfortunately, the discussion at the Table of the Institutional and Industrial Sector has failed; The representatives of the parties were unable to arrive at an agreement. 
Faced with this situation, the National Assembly has been convened and Bill 54, Act respecting the resumption of work in the construction industry, has been filed. 
In the first place, the bill obliges the reopening of the construction sites on July 2, 2013. 
Second, Article 11 extends the collective agreements, signed in 2010 by the two Parties until 30 April 2017. This date of end of the Convention is the same as that provided for by the principle agreements in the residential sectors, of the residential sector. Roads and civil engineering, and is consistent with the R-20 law governing the labor relations of the construction, adopted unanimously on December 2, 2011. 
Thirdly, this same article takes up the increases in the planned salary rate for the principle agreement on June 24 between a patronal association (ACRGTQ) and the union alliance at the road and civil engineering table, or 2 % The first year, 2.1% as follows, 2.2% the third and 2.3% the last year. This article also provides that these increases apply to the applicable travel expenses. 
In addition, the Government provides that the parties may agree at any time amendments to the collective agreement, which leaves all the room for maneuver necessary to continue to negotiate (Article 12). 
Finally, the bill contains civilian and criminal penalties for any person, whether on the employer or union side, which will not respect this law. 
The Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltese, said by depositing this bill: "It is not cheerfulness of heart that we proceed as well, But the impasse at the bargaining table imposes it. This bill is fair and reasonable, and we appeal to the responsibility of the opposition parties so that entrepreneurs restart next Tuesday sites and that workers can resume the job. » 
"I invite the elected representatives of this Assembly to make us quickly adopted this law back to work. For the good of the Quebec economy. For the property of construction workers and entrepreneurs. And for the general interest of Quebec. Let's do what is right and responsible. Let's make sure that the activity resumes on all the construction sites of Quebec, from Tuesday morning, "the Prime Minister, Pauline Marois concluded. 
