Quebec, November 14, 2019 -The member for René-Lévesque and Parliamentary Leader of the Parti Québécois, Martin Ouellet, as well as the member for Jonquière and Spokesperson in Energy, Sylvain Gaudreault, want to emphasize the importance of seriousness. Warning provided by the President of the National Assembly in Hydro-Québec, today, about Bill 34, on electricity rates. 
IN SHORT 
In a recent hearing of the Energy Régie, Hydro-Québec presented the adoption of Bill 34 as a fact accomplished, as the Government is the majority. "By doing so, Hydro-Québec sweeps the importance of the debates with the members of the Assembly and assumes the decisions that will be made, with the aim of subtracting the law currently in force. It is a flagrant lack of respect for deputies and their freedom of decision. On October 29, I wrote to the President of the National Assembly to ask him to recall Hydro-Québec on order, "said Martin Ouellet. 
However, the President of the National Assembly said today that he understands "very well the feeling of indignation of parliamentarians, who perceive a lack of consideration and a devaluation of the work" they perform in parliamentary committee, Even though it can not conclude, Prima Facie, that Hydro-Québec's argument is an outrage in Parliament. He added that he was "quite inappropriate to say that Bill 34 sets out some tariff," and Hydro-Québec has demonstrated a "blatant ignorance of the role of Parliament." He concludes with a serious warning to Hydro-Québec: he urges the Crown corporation to "act with respect against the Parliament and its members and never underestimate the essential role entrusted to them by the citizens. who elected them ". The President specifies even explicitly: "I hope this message will be well understood. » 
"There is nothing more mad, for a member of Parliament, to see that his vote, an essential exercise in our parliamentary democracy, is kept for granted by a third party. It is even worse when it comes to a state society, like Hydro-Québec, which belongs to all Quebeckers, "added Martin Ouellet. 
"Now, Hydro-Québec will have to show more respect for the National Assembly. I invite it to show humility in the analysis of the tariff application which is currently in front of the energy management and publicly transmit the necessary data. This serious warning of the President of the National Assembly is another mistake of the Government in the FIAsco of Bill 34. So we ask the Government again to withdraw this bill and repay all overpayments To Quebecers, without delay and without weakening the Régie de l'Energy, "concluded Sylvain Gaudreault. 
