Quebec, February 26, 2021 - The member for Jonquiere and spokesman for the Parti Québécois in terms of energy, Sylvain Gaudreault, is concerned about the impact that could have the Natural Gas Liquefaction Factory GNL Quebec on The electricity bill of Quebecers. Indeed, according to the consumer union, the industrial complex will require electricity that Hydro-Québec does not have, which, inevitably, will result in rising prices. In these circumstances, does the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Jonatan Julien continue to support the project? 
IN SHORT 
Through a letter, the Consumer Union has announced its opposition to the GNL Quebec project, arguing that the start of the natural gas liquefaction in 2027 will provoke a "tariff shock" for Quebeckers And Quebecers trendy at Hydro-Québec. The organization explains that the plant will consume around 5 terawatt hours (TWh) annually as soon as it commits, a huge amount of electricity that Hydro-Québec has not registered in its supply plan yet. 
"In clear terms, it means that Hydro-Québec will not necessarily have energy to fuel the factory - remember that the Crown corporation provides that in 2027, it will have no more electricity surplus. . What to do, then? In all likelihood, using calls for tenders to procure high price electricity, "said the member for Jonquière. 
According to the consumer union calculations, which take into account the fact that the plant would have access to a preferential hydroelectricity tariff, the shortfall that the Crown corporation or the government should be briefed. Some $ 300 million a year between 2027 and 2030. But, subsequently, Hydro-Québec will be allowed to reflect the invoice to consumers. The organization emphasizes that its prudent estimates, do not even understand the electricity needs of the 780-kilometer pipeline connected to the factory. 
"It's like suddenly, a city of 250,000 inhabitants were added to the network. Hydro-Québec's customers - it's hurting people, it - can expect to see their electricity bill increase by 4% from 2030. While normally the rise is capped at 2% annually, "a Recalled Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The member believes that it would be much wise to use our hydroelectricity to fuel future projects that will contribute more to the energy transition and the fight against climate change. "GNL Quebec will consume a huge amount of our clean energy to transform fossil energy, and may undergo Quebec consumers with a significant tariff shock. I want to know what the Minister Julien thinks; Does he still support this white elephant from another era? , "He concluded. 
- 30 - 
SOURCE : 
Laura Chouinard-Thuly 
Press Officer 
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois 
514 880-9594 
Laura.c After i's -t care liquid @as is NAT. Second. Wipe 
