Quebec, on December 8, 2019- The member for Jonquière and spokesman for the Energy Party, Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as the hon. Member for René-Lévesque and Parliamentary Leader, Martin Ouellet, denounced the adoption under the gag. Bill 34, An Act to simplify the process of establishing electricity distribution tariffs. 
IN SHORT 
Martin Ouellet qualifies the course of Bill 34 of "Fiasco". "The debate can not be more serious, but the CAQ government has made it a symbol of partisanship and arrogance. I would like to remind him that the three opposition groups, consumer associations, the bosses, the unions and even the FADOQ bloc against this bill. We proposed to split the bill in two, to avoid the gag, but the government is struggling, "said the member for René-Lévesque. 
"By doing a bock with a petition filed by the hon. Member for Saint-Hyacinthe as she was in the opposition, the CAQ had committed to repaying to Quebecers the overpayments of Hydro-Québec, estimated at $ 1.5 billion, chained his colleague Sylvain Gaudreault. But it is not at all what this bill does, despite what Minister Julien claims. The truth is that citizens will not surrender only one third of that amount next year, and that rising tariffs, for the years that will follow, will be substantially higher than what the Energy Régie authorized in the past. Another broken promise! And it will cost Quebeckers $ 600 million, "he denounced. 
The spokesman goes even further, accusing the Prime Minister not to tell the truth. "In reality, if he really wanted to reimburse the overpayments, François Legault would not have absolutely no need for Bill 34. In fact, the gagging only serves to impose the Calcist reform and to prevent the Régie Energy to give lower electricity tariffs, "he continued. 
" That is true; If the government had from the will, it would pay the billion and a half of overpayed to Quebec families before Christmas. He does not need the bill for that, and families know what to do with money. But he stubborn again, again, in addition to having misguided his parliamentary calendar, "brought Martin Ouellet. 
