Sherbrooke- The member for Sherbrooke and Vice-Chairman of the Public Administration Commission, Mr. Serge Cardin, on behalf of the Minister Delegated to the Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élain Zakaub , the award of $ 400,000 financial assistance for the realization of a thermoelectric center demonstration project estimated at $ 2,876,000. 
Thanks to the development support program for strategic sectors and niches of excellence, Rackam, the University of Sherbrooke and Cascades, all three partners of the project, will be able to develop and offer a clean, sustainable and profitable technological solution by putting from the before solar energy. This project is part of the Niche of Excellence in the Quebec Electronic Systems Industry (CISISQ), formerly known as Microteq-10. 
"I am very proud to highlight the efforts and engagement of businesses in our region who are actively involved in the Agreement," said Serge Cardin. "Today's announcement clearly proves the ability of our region to mobilize, innovate and distinguish themselves in a niche of excellence that will allow Quebec to become a leader in clean energy. » 
The project aims for three demonstrations of thermoelectric power plants and the creation of two combined potentially marketable solutions within two years. The whole will have as a unique profit to allow the generation of electrical energy that can be postponed in time, in particular by storing the heat, which opens the way for clean electrical production. The team in place will carry out the stage demonstrations and the first two facilities will be located on the University of Sherbrooke website. 
"In recent years, Quebec has embarked on sustainable development," said Zakaïb Élain. "Our government has adopted several policies and put in place tools to promote the use of clean and renewable energies and the development of a green economy. With today's announcement, Estrie is clearly part of the creation of a green and prosperous Quebec. » 
The Agreement (concerted action of regional development cooperation), created in 2002, is a priority of government action aimed at energizing the economy of the regions of Quebec. It relies on the regional forces, mobilization and dynamism of business people in the region as well as on the search for excellence in the key sectors of Quebec. It aims to build a competitive regional productive system on the North American and global level in each of the regions of Quebec, by the definition and development of niches of excellence that will become their brand image. 
"CISISEQ wishes to focus on the collaboration of innovative companies and state-of-the-art researchers to create new technological applications," said Erik Michaelsen, co-chair of the niche agreement. "A similar project, resulting from the consultation of partners, contributes to the vision we have for the niche, which is to ensure that Quebec is recognized as a cluster of global caliber excellence and in systems manufacturing. Electronic ", mentioned Mr. Normand Bourbonnais, co-chair of the niche agreement. 
The University of Sherbrooke hosts more than 30,000 students, including more than 14,000 full-time. The faculty has more than 2,300 people, including course loaders and clinical teaching teachers. The institution maintains the balance between its teaching and research missions. It manages by contributing to the evolution of Quebec society by the quality and innovative nature of its training programs, the high level of its research, the exercise of its critical function and its participation in socio-economic development of his community. 
Rackam is a company specializing in conducting innovative technical projects related to solar technologies and energy efficiency. Its team is responsible for the planning, design and promotion of promoting projects that promote the growth of companies, while offering them a global energy solution. Rackam builds the world of tomorrow by focusing on the development and implementation of clean, cost-effective and efficient technologies for today's needs. 
"We are very pleased to have the government's support for this investment project," said Mathieu Chagnon, President of Rackam. "One of our missions is to complete partnerships that promote a paradigm shift in large-scale production and energy consumption. The collaboration announced today will allow, once again, a continuous improvement of the systems and services we can offer. » 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
