Québec- A few days before the Court's adoption of the Bill 87, law facilitating the disclosure of wrongdoing against public bodies, the Quebec party spokesman for the Treasury Board, Nicole Léger, deplore The closure of the Liberal government with the necessary improvements in its bill. 
"The Parti Québécois strongly supported the creation of a general alert launcher protection scheme, recommendation for the report of the Charbonneau Commission. The adoption of Bill 87 is therefore a step in the right direction. However, we find that it is very below the expectations expressed by the Charbonne Commission and the Groups heard in parliamentary committee. It would have been preferable for the government to act globally and not to the Exhibit, by regaining only a bill at a time, "said the member. 
"Despite countless attempts to bonus the bill, we stopped at the repeated refusal of the President of the Treasury Board, Carlos Leitão. Among other things, we regret the lack of protective measures for warning launchers on the municipal scene. The government has made a blank check by promising to introduce a bill applicable to municipalities, but we fear the creation of a two-speed protection regime, which the Charbonneau commission wanted to avoid, "added Nicole light. 
"A second large gap in the bill is the lack of financial support for warning launchers, another recommendation by the Charbonneau Commission. The Québécois party proposed, in vain, the creation of a warning launcher aid fund, managed by the Protector of the Citizen, with the aim of financially supporting them in their judicial approaches. The minister even refused an amendment proposing the establishment of a mandated working committee to study the possibility of creating such a fund. This is the proof that there is no political will on the part of the government to support the alert launchers, "continued the spokesperson. 
Although the bill contains other important gaps, the Parti Québécois has still obtained significant gains in transparency and confidentiality for warning launchers. "We hope that the revision of the law, scheduled over the next few years, will draw lessons and enhance the protection of alert launchers because, to promote disclosure, it must be ensured to support the disclosers, To give them the necessary resources and protect them from any form of reprisals, "concluded Nicole Léger. 
