Québec- In anticipation of consultations on Bill 86 on the reform of the school organization, the Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the spokesman for the Parti Party in Education, Alexandre Cloutier , asked the Liberal government to correct the shot and agree to hear the key players of the education network, including school boards. 
"This is a fundamental bill for the education network and the Minister intends to carry out the exercise without consulting all the actors concerned. As soon as it was filled, the Parti Québécois asked for general consultations to ensure that all actors can speak in parliamentary committee. The government rejected this proposal from the reverse of the hand, instead of its intention to reduce the debate to a limited list of stakeholders. It is foolish that a government, whatever it is, carries out such a significant reorganization without hearing all the parties concerned, "said the official opposition. 
"" All actors ", it means school boards too. For example, the Montreal School Board and the Français-Montreal School Board account for more than 112,000 students in 191 institutions and more than 38,000 students in 89 institutions. The least of things would have been to give them the opportunity to be heard. Do not give them the chance to express themselves is representative of the rejection of the Liberal government, "added Alexandre Cloutier. 
"We are overthrown by the fact that the government refuses to dialogue with the English-speaking community. He rejects the participation of English-speaking school boards on consultations, it is a nonsense. If he wishes to reform the governance of school boards, the Government of Quebec must respect the rights of the English minority, and invite it to participate in consultations, "continued Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"We are calling for the government that it takes into account regional diversity. He must ensure that the school boards of each of the regions have the opportunity to regroup to expose the realities that are specific to them in parliamentary committee, "says Alexander Cloutier. 
The member for Lac-Saint-Jean reiterated that the priority of the Parti Québécois in Education remains the success of our students, and that this requires a reinvestment in the services offered to them, as well as the hiring of staff support to support our teachers. "Nothing, in the brewing of the structures proposed by Minister Blais, will not be able to compensate for the disaster that recent compressions in our network of education. If he wants to help our young people succeed, the minister must see his strategy again, "concluded the spokesman for the Parti Québécois. 
