Quebec- "The Prime Minister still demonstrates his lack of respect for institutions and closure to any discussion. That said the member for Rousseau and spokesman of the Parti Québécois in terms of finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, on the pressures of the opposition parties so that the project is quickly adopted Law 38, An Act to enable infrastructure by the Fund of Deposit and Investment of Quebec. His colleague MP for Chicoutimi and Parliamentary Leader, Stéphane Bédard, abounds in the same direction. 
"The Prime Minister surpasses. During the gagging bill 28, increasing the tariffs of child care and amending nearly 60 laws, there had been only a dozen hours of clause-by-clause. This time, there has not even been a single minute of study! "Pursued Nicolas Marceau. 
Indeed, Bill 38 has just completed the public consultation stage. About fifteen groups came to present their constructive recommendations. "Philippe Couillard is closed to any improvement in his bill. However, the groups have proposed several, which is thought to be transparent as to the pricing of future services, expropriations - which are permitted by the bill - or to stowage with existing transport systems. The government must be explained on some aspects of the bill that are unclear. That is the purpose of the article by article study, which, I remind you, has not started yet, "added the member for Rousseau. 
"Instead of listening to talk, the Prime Minister should hear citizens and groups who came to make their recommendations. Obviously, he did not bother to read the memories, "supported Stéphane Bédard for his part. 
Recall that before being endorsed, a bill must cross several stages: the filing, the public consultations, the article by article study, then the final adoption. However, the government 100% controlling the parliamentary agenda alone decides the moment when the study of articles begins, which has not yet arrived for Bill 38. "I will propose to the Prime Minister An information session on parliamentarism, "added the member for Chicoutimi. 
Caisse's independence 
By putting pressure for the rapid realization of collective transport projects by the Fund of Deposit and Investment of Quebec, Philippe Couillard clearly turned its independence. "When the one who appoints the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Fund and Investment requests the rapid realization of the projects and the equally fast adoption of the bill, he plunges with both hands in the internal management of the Caisse. How can she, now, refuse a project that would be unprofitable? ", Concluded the member for Rousseau. 
