Québec- As part of the work surrounding the study of Bill 62, on the religious neutrality of the state, the official opposition presents eight amendments to ensure that it corresponds to the expectations of Quebeckers on this issue. The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, made it the enumeration at a press briefing with the spokesman for the Partié Québécois in secularism, Agnès Maltese. 
"Bill 62 may constitute a first step towards secularism. Its current version, however, has a large number of gaps. We therefore propose eight significant amendments to strengthen the state's assertion of the state and to protect the principle of equality between women and men, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
This emphasizes that these amendments reflect a very broad consensus in Quebec society. Let us add that the overall position of the Partié Québécois on secularism will be debated and adopted at the September 2017 Congress. 
Include the principle of state secularism in the Quebec Charter of Rights 
First of all, we must register the principle of state secularism in the Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms, in order to strengthen the Quebec model of laity developed from the tranquil revolution, which differs a lot from the model conveyed by Canadian multiculturalism. 
"Then, there is the prohibition of the signs of convictions, including religious, for persons in the position of authority - police officers, judges, prosecutors and prison guards - as recommended by the Bouchard-Taylor's report. Then comes an amendment of adding the reserve duty of officials in the expression of their convictions, including religious, "said Agnès Maltais. 
The official opposition will also require municipalities to be subject to the application of the law. "In the current Quebec society, it would be incongruous that a law on the religious neutrality of the State does not apply to employees of municipalities, yet very many throughout Quebec, and which give public services to the citizens of All regions, "added the spokesperson. 
Protecting equality between women and men 
The Parti Québécois also calls for the abolition of the exception concerning the prohibition of the face covered in the delivery and receipt of public services. In addition, as claimed by several groups heard in parliamentary committee, the official opposition will request that the express prohibition of the port of Chador in the Quebec public service be added, particularly to protect the principle of equality between women and men. 
Resume control over demands for religious accommodations 
On the issue of religious accommodations, as many groups of education and health circles have also been expressed, the official opposition does not believe that the directorates of public institutions to themselves are allowed to manage to manage case by case. Moreover, the population has long since clarified that clear tags are drawn by the government so that the application of these accommodations is facilitated and uniform everywhere in the two major public service networks. "The challenge of religious accommodations is too important to be left on the shoulders of employees and directions, who face these demands that are increasing", continued Mr. Lisée and Ms Maltais. 
Finally, the Parti Québécois proposes to replace the "excessive constraint" criterion in respect of religious accommodation by that of "more than minimal constraint", to restore the balance between employers and employees in resolving accommodations. religious. 
