Quebec - "For its fault, the Liberal government has lost two years to fully rewrite the redesign of the Mining Act. The first version of the bill was so bad and cried that he had to start again! "," Said the member for Vachon and the official opposition on shale mines and gas, Martine Ouellet. 
"The Liberal argument that the Parti Québécois makes the systematic obstruction of the mines bill is an easy and dishonest exit door from the government that tries to hide its incompetence. Since the beginning of the study of this bill, we have been asking that Quebeckers derive maximum income from the exploitation of our non-renewable resources and each time, the Liberal Minister voting against, "said the member. 
Since last August, we have been working to improve the second version of the reform of the Mining Act. This bill does not go far enough. Nothing on royalties, nothing about transformation, nothing on orphan sites, no transparency. While the price of metals explodes, it is shameful that the Liberal government of Jean Charest brings us back to the time of the great darkness, when the companies were masters and enriched on the back of the Quebec population. 
"It is urgent that we take control of our natural riches. We are currently losing hundreds of millions of dollars a year because of a royalty regime inadequate to the reality of metal prices. In addition, the transformation of mining resources operated in Quebec must be maximized. It is shown that the transformation causes three to five times more jobs than extraction. How can the Liberal government knowingly harm the collective enrichment of Quebecers? Asked Martine Ouellet. 
Since the beginning, the Parti Québécois supports better protection of the territory, both for mines and shale gas. Article 91 of Bill 14, which was adopted with the support of the Parti Québécois, provides that RCMs will be able to exclude areas from mining activity. 
However, despite a battle led by the members of the Parti Québécois, the Government still refuses that these same provisions apply to the exploitation of gas and oil. "The RCMs claim the right to preserve parts of their territory of gas and oil. The government refuses to respect and listen to the citizens. At the Parti Québécois, we will continue to defend the interests of all regions and all Quebeckers, "concluded the member for Vachon. 
