Quebec- The member for Rosemont and spokespersons of the Parti Québécois on social services, protection of youth, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, said yesterday the end of the detailed study Bill 44, An Act to strengthen the fight against smoking. 
"This law is a desirable addition to what Quebec has to reduce smoking and its harmful effects. We know that in Quebec, one in three hospitalization is due to smoking, and a two-two tobacco consumer is one day dieing with its consequences. Quebec had fallen significantly compared to Australia, the United Kingdom, France and even other provinces. It was therefore important to make up for this delay. We also had the opportunity to make additional steps forward; Unfortunately, our beautiful momentum was slowed by the excessive timidity of the Couillard government, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
Several gains thanks to the work of the Parti Québécois 
The Québécois party has obtained several bonuses to Bill 44. "First, CEGEPs, universities and hospitals will have a certain time so that their land gradually become smoke-free places, and support for smoking cessation will be Free. In the same way, we got that tobacco companies can no longer retain convenience stores to make the sale of tobacco products. In addition, smokers will now have to provide a photo identity proof, which was not the case in the minister's proposal. We also wanted to protect the retailers and bar tenants: they no longer carry an exaggerated responsibility. Finally, the maximum fine that may now be imposed on a retailer for a first offense has been reduced by half, from $ 125,000 to $ 62,500, "illustrated the spokesperson. 
Missed opportunities 
Unfortunately, the overeat shyness of the minister and the government will miss Quebecers with great opportunities to move forward in the fight against smoking. "Our proposal for the imposition of a moratorium on any new tobacco product has been rejected, like that of prohibiting" slims "cigarettes, which attracts more girls. The government also refused to regulate electronic cigarettes and their content, "lamented Jean-François Lisée. It also recalled that public health budgets have been reduced by the third party in the regions of Quebec. "In the United States, using a permit system, tobacco companies finance smoking programs. We proposed to the government this self-financing system, but it refused, "he continued. 
In short, the law allows some great advances, but it will not do Quebec a leader in the fight against smoking. "The Liberal government has missed a great opportunity to give Quebeckers a state-of-the-art law that is really up to the real challenges in this area," concluded the member for Rosemont. 
