Montreal- The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, and the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb, announced the award Non-refundable financial support from Ericsson Canada, the Canadian subsidiary of the Multinational Ericsson, for the establishment of an Information Technology and Communications Center in Vaudreuil-Dorion, in the Greater Region from Montreal. 
The company will benefit from the Hydro-Québec Tariff, an advantageous tariff granted to high-power projects, and may also be entitled to 10-year tax holidays, announced during the budget speech, for investment projects. 'At least $ 300 million. 
The project announced today will create 60 new engineering positions and consolidate 200 jobs in the R & D sector. In addition, it will generate investments above $ 1 billion over the next three years. Recall that in January 2013, on the occasion of the Davos summit, as part of a work meeting with Mr. Hans Vestberg, World President of the Multinational Ericsson, the Prime Minister had defended the candidacy of Quebec as a place. 'Implementation of a new Information and Communications Center. 
"This decisive meeting has made it possible to highlight Quebec forces with Ericsson and today I look forward to the impact of the implementation of this new information and communications center for the metropolis and Quebec, said Pauline Marois. This project is a recognition of our assets and a brand of confidence in the strength of our economy. It demonstrates, without a doubt, the attraction power of Quebec for major investment projects. Quebec's development and economic influence are our priorities, and my government will take all steps to multiply private and foreign investment. " 
"The high availability of hydroelectricity, renewable energy, is out of any doubt one of the major assets of Quebec and makes it a privileged place for the implementation of this project, said Minister Nicolas Marceau. Combined with the expertise of our workforce in information and communications technologies, this energy richness contributes to the rise of a Quebec sector of competitive cloud and sustainable development for Quebec. » 
"The realization of this project will stimulate the development of the cloud in Quebec, a future domain that promises to make changes in several sectors of activity and which could become an important engine of the Quebec technology industry. Information and communications ", emphasized for its delegated minister Élain Zakaïb. 
The cloud is a computer model where treatments traditionally performed on local servers or client posts are outsourced on remote servers. 
