Quebec- The member for Taillon and spokesperson for the formal health and accessibility of care, Diane Lamarre, regrets that the Minister of Health and Social Services, Gaétan Barrette, has made the arbitrary choice of Remove the in vitro (IVF) fertilization treatments from the services provided by the public health insurance plan. 
The member recalled that the minister made several declines as a result of the representations of the experts, patients and official opposition issues: on the age limit of 42 years beyond which he rendered IVF illegal, Over the 3 years of mandatory sex and on elements under the treatment guidelines of the College of Physicians of Quebec. The spokesperson exhorts the minister to take another step. 
"In Quebec, currently 2.7% of births come from the IVF. The common sense, it would be that the minister allows at least to infertile couples to have access to a first cycle of IVF by now insured. Thus, we would avoid depriving many couples of hope to found a family. For many, advance $ 10,000 for treatment, it's an insurmountable obstacle that means renouncing forever to have a child, "said Diane Lamarre. 
"The minister can say that he tries to correct the gaps and drifts of the program, I would like to remind him that infertile couples are not at the origin. If he is looking for someone to blame, I invite him to turn to his predecessor, Yves Bolduc, who failed to include tags and ensure the planned control mechanisms, "she continued. . 
Diane Lamarre recalled that the Commissioner for Health and Wellbeing, who has been mandated to evaluate the assisted procreation program and make recommendations to reduce costs, has never mentioned the possibility of removing the FIV of the basket of insured services. On the contrary, even; Its report mentions that "[t] include positive impact [of the assisted procreation program], as well as the risks associated with maintaining the margin-based procreation activities of the health and social services system, make it necessary. Implement to maintain the program and improve performance. The Commissioner therefore recommends maintaining the program. " 
"By removing the IVF from the insured services, the minister made a personal choice, regardless of the opinion of anyone. Can he get a single minute in the skin of an infertile couple of the middle class? Today, we hand over his hand; He must accept our compromise and give up the idea of charging the infertile couples the bill of Liberal Laxism, "concluded the member for Taillon. 
