Quebec - "Bill 2 seeks to hide the incusion of the Ministry of Transport, to hide a comedy of errors for the extension of Highway 73 in Beauce. The Québécois party favors the extension of Highway 73: it is an essential project for the Beauce. However, with Bill 2, we can not support the Liberal government of Jean Charest in his attempt to gag citizens and remove them rights ". 
This is what the member for Gouin and spokesman of the official opposition on Transport, Nicolas Girard, in the press conference, claim to ask the Liberal government to withdraw Bill 2 and return to the route. initial for the portion between Beauceville and Saint-Georges-de-Beauce. 
He recalled that this bill is vigorously denounced by the Barreau du Québec and the Protector of the Citizen. Through this bill, the Liberal government wants to be legal, an illegality confirmed by the Administrative Tribunal of Quebec and the Superior Court who denounced, in turn, the abuse of power of the government. 
"The compressor roll policy wants to apply Minister Hamad is odious and inadmissible. Citizens have been victims of serious threats, even fearing for their safety; however, they are only defending their rights. It is unworthy from Minister Hamad of Badline in this way, "continued Mr. Girard. 
The initial and known route for years was consensus. However, the member for Gouin is referring to the motivations that have suddenly led to the Liberal government in 2004 to change the initial route with a single pencil. "The reasons mentioned by the minister for this change of trace are not convincing. There is something fishy. The minister does not tell us all the truth, "said the hon. Member. 
"Instead of blaming the citizens, Minister Hamad must apologize for the repeated blunders of his ministry who cause immense wrongs to citizens who, legitimately, have rights today the minister wants to take away them. He has only to blame him for the delay that this currently occurs: if the Liberal government has not changed the route in 2004, Beauceons could roll on Highway 73 today, "concluded Nicolas Girard. 
