Québec- The member for Sanguinet and the official opposition spokesman for the Treasury Board, Alain Therrien, deplores another aberrant consequence arising from the improvisation of Minister Gaétan barrette with respect to Bill 10, adopted under gag. 
Indeed, the severance benefits of the 1300 executives of the health network, whose positions are abolished by the reform of the structures, have poorly been managed by Minister Gaétan barrette. It has forgotten to indicate, in the last article specifying the date of entry into force of the law (on 1 April), that Article 136 should enter into force from the date of sanction (February 9) , so that executives can obtain a start of 12 months instead of 24 months, as the minister wished. 
"Barely one month after the passage of the law, and even before its official entry into force, the minister is preparing to modify it by decree. He introduced a badly tied bill, written on a corner of table, adopted in precipitation, under gag. It realizes too late, thanks to the sharp look of the groups, that it was wrong with the date of entry into force of certain provisions of its bill. Once again, the minister shows contempt for managers and has no consideration towards them. These, however, are dedicated to health and believe in our network, "said Alain Therrien. 
"Do the savings promised by the minister will be real? On the contrary, we believe that this reform of structures will generate costs of more than half a billion dollars. What will be his upcoming "forgetfulness" causing fees or leading to legal challenge? The minister has never understood the importance of respecting the stages leading to the adoption of a law. His ways of doing things are deplorable; Once again, we realize that the gripped gag prevented the study of important items in which there were inconsistencies. Short circuiting the democratic process and the path of a bill can only generate such consequences. Instead of interfering in the management of institutions, the minister should focus on the sharing of his bills and take the time to write them with rigor, "added the member. 
The minister must leave office 
"This is another proof that the minister must leave his duties; His "bulldozer" methods only entail clashes and errors that he must correct afterwards. When it is not blackmail and threats, it is improvisation as well as precipitation, and it hurts greatly to our health and social services network, "concluded Alain Therien. 
