Québec- By allowing the TransCanada company to perform seismic surveys with explosives close to a protected nature reserve of the St. Lawrence River, or the Freights of Saint? Augustin? De? Desmauures, David Heurtel has just proved once again that it does not have the judgment required to exercise the important functions of Quebec Minister of the Environment. Mathieu Traversy, Quebec's Word of the Party for Sustainable Development, Environment and Fighting Climate Change, can not explain how David Heurtel has been able to make such a foolish decision. He asked him to suspend the certificate of authorization granted to TransCanada. 
Remember that the batures of Saint-Augustin-de-Desmaures are home to extremely rich biodiversity, including 200 species of birds, a significantly diversified flora, and three endemic species of endemic plants, that is? To say that we find. nowhere else in the world. 
The BAPE, it has still not started its work and remains pending the announcement of the final pipeline route. "There will soon be explosions near Saint? Augustin? DESMAURES, but the BAPE has not even completed its environmental assessment. TransCanada will perform seismic surveys in a nature reserve, but it refuses to provide a project notice and an environmental impact study. And we still do not know if there will be a petroleum port somewhere on the shores of the St. Lawrence! Does the minister realize that the steps are not in the right order, and that he makes him laugh by TransCanada? The spokesman is questioned. 
On the other hand, it is unacceptable that the Liberal government authorizes work, while TransCanada does not even recognize the power to decide on Quebec on the environment on this pipeline project. "Decidedly, David Heurtel is unable to protect environmental interests and enforce the laws of Quebec. Let us remember: he authorized drilling in a belluga nursery, he refuses to evaluate the overall GHG emissions of the Energy project is TransCanada, he gave a façade mandate to BAPE and today we learn that He authorizes preliminary work to advance a project that is still unknown all and whose Quebeckers do not want. We are entitled to ask if the minister works for the interests of the citizens, or for those of TransCanada, "said Mathieu Traversy. 
"David Huttel, for several months and in all the files that concern him, does the exact opposite of what Quebeckers are entitled to expect their Minister of the Environment. It is not credible and has no authority. The ideal would be leaving his duties, immediately after suspending the certificate of authorization granted to TransCanada, "said Mathieu Traversy. 
