Quebec- The member for Vachon and sentence of the official opposition on transport, maritime strategy and electrification of transport, Martine Ouellet, as well as the member for Vérchères and spokespersons in the field of Canadian intergovernmental cases , Stéphane Bergeron, announce the beginning of a tour of the dangers of the transport of oil by train, to which the member for Rimouski will join, Harold Lebel, and the member for Matane and spokesperson on public safety, Pascal Bérubé , during his passage in the Bas-Saint-Laurent and the Matapédia Valley. 
This series of meetings with municipal elected officials and groups of citizens will take place from 17 to 31 August, and will focus more specifically on the Belledune Project, which aims at the export of oil sands oil from Alberta. 
"I wanted to meet the citizens and elected municipal elected communities that will be affected by this important oil transport project. If he sees the day, 240 tank wagons, about 170,000 barrels of oil, would cross municipalities each day such as Longueuil, Mont-Saint-Hilaire, Saint-Hyacinthe, Drummondville, Lévis, River-du-Loup, Rimouski , Mont-Joli and Amqui, which would not be without bringing a significant risk of accident, "said Martine Ouellet. 
"In this case, the Government of Quebec remains the arms crossed. If Quebec was sovereign, Quebeckers would have the last word. Instead, the passive or even complacent attitude of the Couillard government condemns us to have to assume all the risks, without the slightest positive impact. The oil and rail companies should ask for permission before moving from oil cars in the heart of our territory, "continued Stéphane Bergeron. The member added that in the context of the federal election campaign, he hoped that the candidates and the leaders of the different parties will have a particularly attentive ear to the concerns and reality of the communities who are very worried about the potential impacts, and that they will take them into consideration. 
Remember that the oil transport project to Belledune has already started damage; In particular, the Sainte-Florence Salon Pit, which last April was filled with more than 6000 tons of unwashed stone, without permission. "This Canadian Canadian error will have serious long-term consequences on salmon and tourism industry in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region. The confidence of Quebeckers to the railways and Transport Canada is at its lowest. Citizens and elected officials must make their concerns heard from now on, before other unfortunate consequences occur, "concluded Martine Ouellet. 
Watch the press. 
