Quebec -The law limiting oil and gas activities that has been adopted yesterday grants a nice gift to the shale gas industry. "This bill initially targeted to permanently prohibit any oil and gas activity in the St. Lawrence Estuary as well as in the river and on the islands there, what we were quite from 'agreement. However, the Minister of Natural Resources, Nathalie Normandeau, took the opportunity to introduce an article that extends the duration of all gas and oil research permits in Quebec, including those issued for research. shale gas. In our opinion, this article has no relation to the initial objective of the bill, "said Sylvain Gaudreault, Member of Parliament for Jonquiere and sentence of the official energy opposition, and Scott McKay, Member of Parliament for The Assumption and Spokesperson for the official opposition in terms of mines. 
"On the one hand, the minister tells us that it extends the duration of these licenses since their holders will no longer be able to carry out their mandatory exploratory work, including hydraulic drilling and fracturing, during the strategic environmental assessment on shale gas. . On the other hand, it tells us that this work will be allowed if they are authorized by the Strategic Environmental Assessment Committee. However, the bill is quite silent on the latter aspect, which is at least troubling, "added Scott McKay. 
"Minister Normandeau must connect: either it allows hydraulic drilling and fracturing, or it does not allow it. While a gas like Questerre says unambiguously that the Government of Quebec does not interfere with its exploration work, the bill extends the duration of its three-year licensing! It's really the height! Once again, the introduction of this article demonstrates that the minister defends first and foremost private interests in the schist gas file, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
Members have tried to make the minister's right, but she categorically refused to withdraw this problematic article that has no place in this bill. "Instead of giving gifts to the gas industry, the minister should be listening to the population who claims a real moratorium on shale gas", have concluded members. 
