Thetford Mines- Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, confirmed the award of $ 57,200 financial assistance to LDETEK for the development of A prototype device for measuring gases. The project is estimated at nearly $ 143,000. 
Created in 2009, LDETEK designs, manufactures and markets systems and equipment for gas analysis, a chemical analysis method of the components of a mixture. The proposed prototype will allow, thanks to a new method of analysis, to measure the presence of several types of gases according to different degrees of concentration. 
"LDETEK is a successful technological company that evolves in a state-of-the-art field," said Élain Zakaïb. "His expertise contributes to the influence of the city of Thetford Mines as a place of high knowledge, and his project promotes the economic diversification of the Appalachian MRC. Our government is present to support talented entrepreneurs and their initiatives for the regional economy. » 
Currently, LDETEK offers its products to a variety of clients from the industrial sector, the health and field of electronics. Its head office is located in Thetford Mines and the company has sales offices in France and China. It also has several partners, which distribute its products around the world, especially in the United States and several countries in Europe and Asia. 
"We are working to design new devices that will meet the needs of our current clientele, in addition to reaching new markets," said Louis Paradis, President of LDETEK. "Research and development are at the heart of our activities and the support of the Quebec government will help us diversify our products and promote our growth. » 
Minister Zakaïb was in Thetford Mines today to meet the elected officials and draw up a positive assessment of the Appalachian MRC Interdepartmental Table, as well as to submit three new priorities for action. The table has been set up to propose innovative solutions with the social and economic consequences arising from the cessation of mining activities in the region. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
