Québec- The member for Gouin and spokesman of Quebec Solidaire, Françoise David, as well as the member for Saint John and spokesman for the Parti Party in employment, social economy, the fight against poverty and Solidarity, Dave Turcotte, allowed groups that were excluded from the particular consultations and public hearings on Bill 70 to tell Minister Blais what they thought of his bill. 
Denise Boileau, Vice President of the Public Service Union and Parapublic of Quebec (SFPQ), which represents employees of the local employment centers, Claude Leblond, President of the Order of Social Workers and the Conjugal and Family Therapists of Quebec , and Jean-François Mary, Network Coordinator Solidarity Roaming Quebec (RSIF), have been categorical: this bill will make more harm than good for social assistance beneficiaries. "Bill 70 will produce homelessness in Quebec, making a critical situation outright undivable. It goes against the national roaming policy and the resulting interdepartmental plan of action, "Mary said. 
"For several years, the cuts have multiplied in local employment centers and have had a direct impact on services. Rather than applying sanctions, the government should commit to ensuring access to appropriate measures and sustained support, to truly promote sustainable social and professional integration, "said Denise Boileau. 
"For social workers, a bill that directly affects the most vulnerable people must not only draw inspiration from the law to combat poverty and social exclusion, but especially contribute to its realization. It's a matter of fairness and coherence. However, Bill 70 does not go in this direction, on the contrary. That's why we are asking for its withdrawal and implementation of the full integration of vulnerable people in society, "added Claude Leblond. 
"We were asking general consultations and we find regrettable that some groups were set aside. Many of them, such as the SFPQ and the RSIF, are the first concerned by the bill. It is the ones who, for the most part, will reap the broken pots, "said Dave Turcotte. 
"After hearing the testimonies of stakeholders who work directly with social assisted persons, we understand why the minister did not want to receive them in parliamentary committee! Those who know the reality of the poorest people denounce the workfare with full knowledge of the cause. I invite the minister to recover: Bill 70 presents a simplistic solution to complex problems. Worse, the minister hopes to save money. However, he is the Minister of Social Solidarity! Its mission is to help impoverished people to live decently and to find the path of employability in a voluntary approach, with all the necessary resources, "says Françoise David. 
