Saguenay- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, accompanied by the Minister responsible for the Government Administration and Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean Region , Stéphane Bédard, announced, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to the Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élaine Zakaib, the payment of a grant of $ 600,000 to Nordia inc. For the establishment, in the city of Saguenay, from a customer service center whose opening is scheduled for the spring of 2014. This project, estimated at more than $ 7 million, will allow the creation of 462 jobs in The Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region. 
"I welcome with great enthusiasm the next coming, downtown Jonquière, a Nordia Customer Service Center. This company is one of the leaders in the establishment of call centers and its presence here will contribute to the economic dynamism of the region, in addition to creating hundreds of jobs likely to interest workers of all ages Sylvain Gaudreault said. 
Created in 1999, Nordia is evolving in the telecommunications sector. A subsidiary of Bell, it offers support telephone services for its parent company. Nordia currently operates seven centers in different regions in Quebec and elsewhere in Canada. 
"What is announced today, these are jobs for families here. The establishment of this company in the field of telecommunications is a very good news for the creation of wealth at Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean. We are very pleased with the concerted efforts made by Bell's subsidiary, government and other partners. We salute the choice of the company, and the work of Mr. Luc Vandal and his team who has made the project today, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
"Our government supports the realization of job creative projects, such as the future Nordia Customer Service Center in Saguenay," said Zakaïb Élaine. 
"By making it public economic- priority employs its four flagship measures, including the one that aims to comply with the investments of individuals and businesses, our government has reaffirmed forcefully that the creation of sustainable jobs throughout Quebec was a priority," added the minister. 
"Bell continually invests in Quebec and is extremely proud to increase his presence in Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, in accordance with his commitment to offer the best communications networks and an unparalleled customer experience," Ms. Martine Turcotte said, vice -President Executive, Quebec, Bell. "Thanks to the excellent collaboration of all government orders, we are now creating more than 450 new positions in Saguenay. Bell, which currently employs 18,000 Quebeckers, continues to grow in Quebec. » 
To learn more about Economic Policy - Priority Employment, consult the www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politiqueEconomique. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
