Boisbriand- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Deputy Prime Minister of Quebec, Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and Minister responsible for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue Region, François Gendron, Announced the allocation of $ 5.5 million refundable financial assistance to O'Sole Mio Inc. Foods. In order to support the completion of an expansion project estimated at $ 55 million. In all, 104 jobs will be created, while 96 others will be consolidated. 
In addition, the Prime Minister has confirmed the payment of employment financial assistance-Québec, approved by the Labor Market Partner Commission, up to $ 579,914. This assistance will support the training of 177 employees, including 98 new. The company will also invest $ 1,739,742 in carrying out its training plan. 
"My government is committed to promoting the prosperity of all Quebeckers," said Pauline Marois. However, this prosperity goes through the creation of sustainable jobs, a priority for us. Economic lapolitics Priority will also use the creation of more than 43,000 jobs and generate investments over $ 7 billion in Quebec over the next four years. The project submitted by Foods O'Sole Mio is one of the structuring initiatives for the Quebec economy and it is without hesitation that we have decided to support it. » 
Founded in 1994, the company Foods O'Sole Mio specializes in the manufacture of food and sauces. In order to meet the growing demand for its products and to take advantage of the development of the North American Food Market, the company will highlight a project to build a new plant and acquire new equipment customized for the manufacture of pasta. 
"For almost 20 years, Foods O'Sole Mio puts its expertise in favor of Quebec's economic growth," said Franco Gendron. Its investment project will create a hundred specialized jobs, in addition to contributing to increasing the competitiveness of Quebec in the food manufacturing sector. This is a promising area for our economy and the company has all the potential to grow steadily. » 
To learn more about the Employment Priority Economic Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/PolitiqueEconomique. 
For more information on Quebec Industrial Policy 2013-2017, appointment atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicidustrielle. 
