Quebec -The Liberal Minister Serge Simard is a systematic blocking in the study of bill 14 on mines. He rejects again that the government gives itself the means to create wealth for Quebeckers. "Instead of ensuring that the private companies that are put in the pockets the profits obtained by the exploitation of our natural resources, the Liberal government should lead to the interests of Quebeckers," said Game The member for Vachon and spokesperson for the official opposition on shale mines and gas, Martine Ouellet. 
"The Parti Québécois proposes that the government is the means, within the mining lease or gas, contract that binds the government and the private enterprise, to include conditions to create the maximum wealth", has Affirmed the member for Duplessis, Lorraine Richard. 
"It's important for all Quebeckers, even more for northern workers who see the development of mines as a way to enrich collectively, that these means are taken. We do not understand that Minister Simard does not understand the population, "she continued. 
"An amendment like the one we proposed yesterday would allow the Government to include conditions for training the local labor force, the processing of ore, royalties, the creation of a regional economic diversification fund that would be profitable For the regions, but also for the whole Quebec, "added Martine Ouellet. 
"The Liberal government takes all the means imaginable to prevent the Parti Québécois from improving the mines bill. We are in good faith and Minister Simard goes from procedural wars having the sole purpose of gagging all our proposals to regain control of our natural riches. What interests are he served? Very clearly, not those of Quebecers, "added the member for Ungava Luc Ferland. 
"It is still incredible that a minister refuses to give themselves the means to enrich Quebec. Does Jean Charest prefer that the billions obtained through the exploitation of our natural resources are found in the pockets of private companies rather than making a fair and equitable sharing between the private and the community? For the Parti Québécois, it is essential to act now. Quebec can not look at the train pass with the prices of metals that reach high peaks and mining boom. It's time to change and enjoy Quebeckers from the exploitation of our natural riches, "concluded Martine Ouellet. 
