Quebec- The Minister of Public Safety, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, today tabled a bill to introduce an independent investigative office. 
This office will investigate when a person, other than a police officer, dies or is seriously injured or by a police weapon used by a police officer during a police intervention or during his detention by a police force. The purpose of independent investigations is to determine whether evidence demonstrates that a criminal offense has been committed by the police involved in the event. 
"This bill responds to our government's commitment to review the current mechanism by focusing on the participation of civilians in conducting investigations. Our challenge was to create a system that is both independent and impartial, while being able to rely on the necessary expertise in criminal investigations. With the proposed model, we note this challenge, finally putting a term to the doubts that remain in some as to the impartiality of the current process, which provides that a police force investigate police of another police force ", said Minister Bergeron. 
The Bureau will be responsible for the conduct of all independent investigations ordered by the Minister of Public Safety. Led by a civilian who has never been a peace officer, the Bureau will be a permanent and civil entity whose investigators will have a relevant expertise in investigating major crimes or, in the case of civilians who have never been Police, will have held functions that led them to acquire relevant skills to the Office's attributions. 
Minister Bergeron wanted to reiterate his confidence in the work of the police and to highlight the excellent work they do on a daily basis. He said that this bill will be able to strengthen the confidence of the population in respect of our institutions, in particular those who ensure the safety of Quebecers and Quebeckers. "The police with significant powers, their activities must be supervised by fair and rigorous mechanisms in the eyes of all. Today we propose a model that incorporates the recommendations of several stakeholders, including the Protector of the Citizen, and who will ensure the confidence of the population, "concluded the minister. 
Consult the technical sheet (PDF) on the bill amending the Police Act regarding independent investigations. 
