Québec- "The initiative of the member for Borduas, Pierre Curzi, is significant. This is a costly work and a useful approach. We share the same concerns and the same goals. It is necessary to make significantly more daring gestures than those put forward by the Liberal government that is negligent and complicity in the Anglication of Quebec. » 
Credo-provote The Enpendation in The Deficious Oppitition in the Uponious Fly, Yves-François Flacet, Aids Du Prejèd de Loi 593 Disposed of Loustore in the Assembly Nationalale by the independant inspend deal of Borduas, Pierre Curzi. 
Like Pierre Curzi, the Parti Québécois is very concerned about the situation of French in Quebec and especially in Montreal. The member for Drummond notes that most of the proposals contained in this bill are included in the Congress Parti Québécois program in April 2011. Other proposals are new and, according to Yves-François Blanchet, could deserve a possible more in-depth reflection on the share of government lawyers. 
"The situation of French does not cease to deteriorate in Quebec, in view and the Su of the government. Our language goes back at the level of display and work in addition to being still not the main language of convergence of new Quebecers. Without the slightest fear of sanctions, municipalities and state societies knowingly circumvent the law 101. As if it were not sufficient, the file presented by the magazine the news on the report of the English-speaking community with French. Throwing a cold shower on those who were still rocking illusions: French is still not common language in Quebec and the minister refuses to share an obvious obvious obvious, "said Yves-François Blanchet. 
Remember that the Parti Québécois is committed to rewriting the Charter of the French language, to strengthen it and restore its mind. "After 35 years of evolution of Quebec society and a balance sheet that is strongly marked by the repeated assaults of the Supreme Court of Canada, the exercise is as legitimate as necessary. In the best interests of all Quebeckers, the Charter of the French language must be rewritten, and above all, applied, "concluded the member for Drummond. 
