Quebec- The member for Lac-Saint-Jean and sentence of the official opposition in terms of justice, Alexandre Cloutier, and the member for Verchères and spokespersons in Canadian intergovernmental affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, ask the government From Quebec to intervene to protect the rights and freedoms of Quebecers, as part of the study of Bill C-51 by the House of Commons in Ottawa. The Government of Quebec must in particular ensure that the new anti-terrorism law is only aimed at terrorists, so that groups claiming ideals different from those of the federal government do not become the target of the Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS). 
Sharing the firm goal and willingness of the federal government to fight more effectively against terrorism, the Parti Québécois, however, questions certain means used to achieve this. 
"Bill C-51 opens the door to dangerous drifts for respect for Quebeckers' rights and freedoms. The right to dissent of citizens are challenged and we go well the raison d'être of the law, that is, to fight against the terrorist threat. Individuals could be stuck by CSIS and 16 other federal agencies at the mere fact that they militate against climate change, for Quebec to become a country or more justice for Aboriginal people, students or workers. This is unacceptable! ", Mentioned Alexandre Cloutier. 
According to the member, amendments are necessary for the Canada Security Information Communication Act introduced by Bill C-51, which will allow CSIS and 16 other federal agencies to provide information on any "Activity undermining Canada's security", particularly in connection with the "detection, identification, analysis, prevention or disruption of these activities or investigation". 
In its current wording, the law expands this notion to any "activity that affects Canada's sovereignty, security or territorial integrity", including "hinder the federal government's capacity [...] in economic stability. or financial from Canada ", or" lead to a change of government or unduly affect such a government ", or" hindering the functioning of critical infrastructure ". 
"A definition as wide and arbitrary opens the door to very serious slippages. The fight against terrorism must not become a witch hunt. The Government of Quebec must put pressure to review the wording of the bill and ensures that sovereigntists, workers and other movements that claim political ideas in a completely legitimate way are not tracked. Unjustly by intelligence services, "continued Alexandre Cloutier. 
Defend the freedoms of Quebecers 
The extent of the new intervention powers entrusted to CSIS and the few monitoring mechanisms to be counterweight also raise serious questions for the Parti Québécois. Former prime ministers and judges of the Supreme Court, as well as many experts and lawyers, have already expressed concern about the scope of Bill C-51. 
"Again, the Liberal government leaves the federal government to decide in its place. The Ministers Fournier and Valley have not even worried about the effects of Bill C-51 on Quebecers' rights and freedoms. There will be major impacts if this bill is adopted. The government must measure the extent of these and act accordingly, "said Stéphane Bergeron for his part. 
In the circumstances, the Quebec party asks the Government of Quebec to take a position and to require amendments to Bill C-51, whose study will begin next week in Parliamentary Committee in Ottawa. 
"Our history has taught us the extent of the drifts that can lead to the use of law enforcement forces. The Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister are responsible for acting to prevent the errors and injustices from the past to be repeated, "concluded Alexander Cloutier. 
