Quebec- While the detailed study of Bill 10, the member for Taillon and spokesperson for the formal objection to health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, recalls the applications and concerns that It will continue to formulate at the Parliamentary Committee. 
"While Minister Gaétan Barrette continues to qualify our parliamentary work, I would remind him that grove, it is not to obstruct; It is representing the concerns of the health and social services network. If he had consulted this network before writing his bill, it would include much fewer ambiguities, random elements, and fewer fixes should be made. The minister has filed 160 pages of amendments, which respond little to the concerns, founded, which have been expressed. His draft, written quickly on a corner of the table and without consulting anyone, he wishes to implement him precipitately, in less than 4 months; This will upset the whole network, "said Diane Lamarre. 
"The hypothetical savings predicted by the minister will never arrive, on the contrary. This reform will cost at least 500 million, particularly for change management, salary insurance and signage. We will not do any economy. It will only result in a great disturbance of the network, and this one, for a few years, can not focus on the essentials, the improvement of services and care, because its energy will be monopolized by this reform of the Structures and unprecedented centralization that she proposes, "added the member. 
Requests aimed at improving access to care and services for Quebecers  The member reminds the gains that the Parti Québécois has obtained after long discussions and taking into account the limited opening of the minister to amend his bill: first, there will be three CISS in Montérégie; Then, the General Managers will be appointed by the Government and not by the Minister alone; Finally, the institutions with academic mission of the social domain will be recognized. 
Diane Lamarre also reiterates the requests of the official opposition: 
the maintenance of local advisory bodies, respect for the citizen voice and the integration of local and regional actors in the management of institutions; 
the balance between "health" and "social services" fields of competence for each of the Duos "CEO and Assistant CEO"; 
preserving the current expertise and autonomy of the youth protection network; 
the realistic and balanced distribution of powers between regional and ministerial authorities; 
the consideration of regional peculiarities, including geographical and demographic aspects, in the division of the proposed territory; 
Midwives must have a place within the boards; 
"Our only goal is to improve access to care for Quebeckers, and we will continue our constructive work to ensure that worries and critics are heard and understood by the minister. Each of our interventions is documented and reflects concerns from citizens and groups. The minister, for his part, responds only in a superficial and contempt, "she concluded. 
