Quebec- reacting to the deposit, by the future Coalition Quebec (CAQ), a bill on the appointment of senators by the National Assembly, the spokesman for Quebec's Quebec Relations Québec, Stéphane Bergeron, sorry for the lack of realism of the Calcist proposal. 
"After serving the fate of Quebec in the hands of the Government of the Judges, established by the 1982 Inique Constitution - which was broken down into the Gorge by the Father of the current Federal Prime Minister - now The CAQ offers to reform the Senate ... without reforming it! Because, in fact, what the CAQ suggests is to develop a complex process introducing a committee that will recommend a list of names that will be submitted to a vote of the National Assembly. The problem is that despite this procedure that is theoretically seductive, the selected candidates will always be subject to the approval of the Canadian Prime Minister, "said Stéphane Bergeron. 
Indeed, without a constitutional amendment, the power to appoint senators is always the responsibility of the Governor in Council, that is, ultimately, the Federal Prime Minister. "By proposing a process based on the good goodness of the Canadian Prime Minister to accept the choices of Quebec, the CAQ shows a naivety that would have more place in a jovialist conference on the virtues of federalism than. 'National Assembly. It would be likely, if it were not so distressing ... The story has repeatedly demonstrated that Quebec's interests and demands do not weigh heavily in Ottawa, "said the member for Verchères. 
The Liberal Party of Quebec, meanwhile, had expressed a similar wish, that the list of candidates be submitted to Ottawa by the Quebec government. "On the side of the Liberal government, it's hardly more edifying! The Liberals lose their time to defend and attempt to reform this obsolete institution, which has never played the role of Chamber of the regions, which should be purely and simply abolished. The verdict of the population is clear and without appeal: the Senate is a nest with dilapidated patronage and gnawed by corruption. It seems that there is only Justin Trudeau, Philippe Couillard and François Legault who still want to keep him and who try to give him an appearance of respectability. The only reason the Senate still exists, it is because the federalists are afraid to negotiate his abolition, knowing that it would open the door to a constitutional round that would update the irreconcilable divergences between Quebec and Canada " , concluded Stéphane Bergeron. 
