Quebec- The member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and sentence of the official opposition in terms of women, Carole Poirier, as well as the member for Beauharnois and spokesperson in terms of work, Guy Leclair, are pleased to announce Thanks to their work, and in front of an inevitable merger, changes protecting the independence of the pay equity commission (CES) were made to Bill 42. 
At present at the detailed study stage, the draft law provides for the merger of the activities of the CES, the Commission on Labor Standards (CNT) and the Commission on Health and Labor Safety (CSST) ) to create the Commission on Rights, Health and Labor Safety. However, this willingness of the government causes concern within employers' and trade union associations as well as women's groups. 
"Unlike the government, who does not consult anywhere before submitting his bills, we have been listening to groups, workers and employers. We obtained gains to ensure the maintenance of the activities and mission of the CES. The Liberals wishing to proceed at all costs to its merger with the CNT and the CSST, we had to ensure that issues affecting pay equity continue to be treated with all the importance. In Quebec, pay equity, it is a law, "said Guy Leclair. 
"Our work has been particularly effective. First, we obtained the maintenance of three Commissioners for decision-making, which will have an exclusive mandate on pay equity. Same thing for the vice-president, who will take care of full time issues relating to the pay equity law. In addition, budgets dedicated to pay equity will now be under the responsibility of the Minister, to preserve the mission and maintaining the activities of the CES. In short, we placed salary fairness from an amalgam with the CNT and CSST mandates, "added Carole Poirier. 
MEPs pointed out that this is the third time the Liberals try to abolish the Caes. They are committed, for the rest of the detailed study, to maintain the pressure to avoid the loss of the expertise of merged organizations, and to ensure that the rights of workers and the services offered to them are not threatened by the austerity measures of the government. "We will not tolerate a decline in pay equity or in terms of labor law," they concluded. 
