Quebec- The member for Taillon and sentence of the official opposition in terms of health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, judges that Bill 20, deposited by the Government, is a new chapter in the quest for power that the Minister of Health and Social Services has undertaken, Gaétan barrette. On two important topics - assisted procreation, on the one hand, and access to the services of a family doctor and specialized medicine, on the other hand - this bill must be split, and is the member asks the government. 
"Again, the minister gives himself a lot of power and it's very disturbing. As in the case of Bill 10, he worked alone, without collaborating with the network professionals, the doctors in this case. He chooses to impose a coercive approach. Several cases of press point, earlier today, let us have difficulty believing in the applicability of this bill, in which one seems to want to promote quantity to the detriment of quality and results. Patients are humans and not numbers. We do not treat a depressive or suicidal patient as a fractured finger or another physical injury are treated. Patients and the health system are not handled with columns of numbers! Diane Lamarre said. 
What is the government against families in Quebec? 
As for assisted procreation, even if the hon. Member considers that some tags that the minister of the time, Yves Bolduc, had not put in place are necessary, it is clear that access to the program will be greatly reduced. 
"In the current situation of Quebec, family policy and its measures must be supported. Instead of taking into account the reflected recommendations of the Commissioner for Health and Wellbeing, Minister Barrette withdraws in vitro fertilization of insured services. What is the next service or health care that the minister will unilaterally exclude from the basket in the name of liberal austerity? It is very worrying, and it is a more attack on Quebec families. From now on, the amounts to pay for an in vitro fertilization cycle will be very important for parents. Who will have the means to pay several thousand dollars while waiting for the tax credit? It is a real obstacle to access to service, "concluded Diane Lamarre. 
