Quebec- The member for Jonquière and official opposition spokesman in sustainable development and the environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, and the member for Marie-Victorin and spokesperson for energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, support the request for suspension of the Energy Energy Analysis is TransCanada, formulated by the Montreal Metropolitan Community (CMM) and the Union of Quebec Municipalities (UMQ). They therefore require the Minister of the Environment the filing of the comprehensive documents and updated by TransCanada, with a view to the public hearings of the BAPE. In addition, the Parti Québécois asks the Government of Quebec to put pressure on the National Energy Board (NEB) to immediately suspend the study of the energy project is, the time the company fulfills this condition. 
"The Minister of the Environment must refuse the filing of incomplete documents to BAPE. We join the CMM and the UMQ to require all the documents necessary to fulfill the mandate of the BAPE are filed. In particular, a comprehensive environmental impact assessment is needed and meeting the seven conditions sent by the Minister and the wording of the motion adopted unanimously by the National Assembly. This is essential if we want to analyze adequately and in relevant way the overall contribution of the energy project is to greenhouse gas emissions, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
On the other hand, it is learned that TransCanada does not want to make public its emergency plan before having a final route and the green light of the NEB. "It is unacceptable that TransCanada does not care about the legitimate concern of citizens. It is now that the BAPE must look at the environmental safety of the Energy project, not in 15 months! The government must obtain all the details of the intervention plan as soon as possible, emergency measures in land and maritime circles, as well as the financial guarantee, among others, "added Bernard Drainville. 
Finally, the Parti Québécois reiterates that it is in Quebec to have the last word on the energy project is. 
