Quebec, on March 17, 2021 - The day after adoption - in accelerated form - of the bill to cap the expenses required for restaurateurs by the big players of the field of delivery, the member for Gaspé and spokesman of the party Quebeckers for SMEs as well as economy and stimulus, Megan Perry Melançon, is still interloaded by the responses it has received from the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, André The mountain. 
IN SHORT 
- Bill 87, adopted in disaster, includes only one of the restaurants, while all suffer from the pandemic.- What's more, its duration is far too short.- The proof is now Made: CAQ cares very little restaurateurs, although they are among the most dynamic of our entrepreneurs. 
Indeed, the measures that will come into effect next Monday - while they have been claimed for months - are limited to restaurants whose hours of operation are restricted by the application of the curfew. It is therefore to say that, on the one hand, the restaurants in yellow areas, whose capacity is restricted according to the sanitary rules, are excluded from the outset of the bill and that, on the other hand, from The curfew, the predatory practices of the multinationals of the delivery will come back in force. 
The member for Gaspé has questioned the minister at extension about this iniquity. She also filed an amendment to expand the scope of the bill to all restaurants, as well as to expand its provisions over time. But she stopped at a categorical refusal on the part of Minister Lamontagne. 
"First, when I asked the minister what we had to lose to include all the restaurants, he stupidly answered me that no one had asked him. This non-response raises a question: between the submission of the bill, last Thursday, and its adoption, five days later, did the industry have time to assert its points? He said Méganne Perry Melançon. 
"Then I suggested that the measures apply for a period of two years after the lifting of the health emergency, the question of giving the restaurators the time to get up and reconnect with profitability. Once again, it was an end of non-reception. Still, Mr. Sylvain Charlebois, professor in distribution and agri-food policies at Dalhousie University, said in an open letter that the sums devoted to restaurants by households could take several years to return to their pre-parameal level - about 35% of Their expenses, "said the hon. Member. 
"After months to tabling the Minister of the Economy so that it improves the restorative assistance programs, I would have thought that the Minister of Agriculture would be more sensitive. I am stupefied that the lack of consideration towards these SMEs found everywhere in Quebec is generalized within the CAQ. What would have been lost to include all restaurants? Nothing. Instead, the government has spared an oligopoly whose biggest players do not even pay tax at home, "concluded Méganne Perry Melançon. 
- 30 - 
SOURCE : 
Laura Chouinard-Thuly 
Press Officer 
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois 
514 880-9594 
Laura.c After i's -t care liquid @as is NAT. Second. Wipe 
