Quebec- "Masks fell: The Liberal government is in favor of the aerodrome project in Neuville. MP Michel Matte will have to do to explain to the citizens of Neuville the major rebuff, which he deals with his fellow citizens, having been unable to convince his Prime Minister and his Liberal members of Parliament to vote a motion of the National Assembly which could have been able to End the controversial project of the aerodrome ". 
That said the member for Taschereau and the official opposition spokeswoman for the Capitale-National, Agnès Maltese, denouncing the government's refusal to support a motion to prevent Hydro-Québec from connecting the government. Aerodrome project. 
The motion was read as follows: 
"That the National Assembly orders Hydro-Québec not to provide or deliver electricity to the Neuville aerodrome operated by the company Neuville Aero. That this motion becomes an order of the Assembly. » 
It is at the invitation of the President and CEO of Hydro-Québec, Thierry Vandal, that the Parti Québécois presented this motion today. Mr Vandal said in Parliamentary Committee last week that with a motion of the National Assembly in hand, Hydro-Québec might not connect the aerodrome, a project rejected by a majority of citizens. 
"Unlike the affirmations of the Minister of Laval-des-Rapides, Alain Package, the current law authorizes Hydro-Québec not to provide electricity a customer or a possible client. The Liberal government refuses to use the law. It is inexplicable, "said the member for Marie-Victorin and the official opposition for the Canadian energy and intergovernmental business opposition, Bernard Drainville. 
It cited paragraph 1 of Article 12.3 of the conditions of Hydro-Québec of electricity service which states: 
_ "(...) Hydro-Québec refuses to provide or deliver electricity or interrupt the service or delivery in the following cases: 
1O a federal, provincial or municipal agency with jurisdiction in the matiral. »_ 
"The motion was clear: it was meant that the ParliamentAà Hydro-Québec did not provide electricity, as provided for by law. The Liberals refused. It must therefore be concluded that they are now favorable to the aerodrome project. Once again, private interest passes before the collective interest. It is shameful, "said Agnès Maltais and Bernard Drainville. 
