Quebec- The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, the Minister of Transport, Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault , and the member for Ungava, Mr. Luc Ferland, confirm that a new agreement came between the Government of Quebec and the company Stornoway Diamonds (Canada) inc. To complete the work of Highway 167 leading to the Otish Mountains in Nord-du-Québec. This agreement thus ensures the realization of the Renard diamond project. 
The Quebec government is therefore committed to finalizing the construction work of the regional road on a 143-kilometer section, while Stornoway will take care of a mining path over a 97-kilometer stretch. 
This decision will result in a $ 124 million reduction in the Government of Quebec's contribution to carry out this road project. This substantial economy is partly based on a modification of the vocation of the latest segments of Highway 167, which become a mining path rather than a regional road. 
Remember that the project was initially announced in 2009 in the amount of $ 260 million. In August 2012, the projected costs of the route extension were estimated at $ 472 million. Thanks to the government's intervention, the announced agreement today reduces the maximum total costs to $ 304 million. 
"This decision is the most economical thanks in particular to an increased involvement of Stornoway in the realization of this road project, Minister Nicolas Marceau indicated. This allows us to ensure the extension of Route 167 so that the company can undertake the construction of the infrastructure required for the development of the first diamond mine in Quebec, the Fox project, a private investment of $ 800 million that should Create about 450 jobs in the Nord-du-Québec region. » 
The company Stornoway Diamonds (Canada) inc. Supports the completion of the second portion of the road at a cost of up to $ 85 million. The Quebec government will finance the company for this achievement by a loan bearing interest. 
"We have found the best solution for both parties to give access to this territory while respecting viable and realistic schedules. This is an advantageous proposal that significantly reduces costs. This agreement clearly demonstrates our government's desire to support major private investment projects in Quebec, thus promoting job creation and economic development in Northern Quebec, "added Minister Martine Ouellet. 
"Our government has made a responsible decision by negotiating this new agreement to complete the work of the road 167. Not only do we enable the realization of an important project, but we also have a $ 124 million saving, in a Context where infrastructure spending put tremendous pressure on Quebec's finances, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
"This is an excellent news for the population of Nord-du-Québec. This new road, once completed, will support the economic development of the entire region, "concluded the member for Ungava. 
