Quebec- Federal Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Gerry Ritz, and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, are pleased to announce the allocation of Financial support of $ 68,500 in the niche Nordic agriculture-oriented bracketing of bovine production. Granted under the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, which is associated with the Agri-Flexibility Fund for Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, the aid granted will ensure a project in Notre-Dame-du-Nord, Abitibi -Temiscamingue. 
The purpose of this project is to develop pasture techniques so as to allow all cattle herds to enjoy an average pasture season of more than 200 days. Such an increase in the length of the season will have a positive impact on the quantity and quality of forage, will increase the productivity of existing pastures and will ultimately reduce the costs of feeding cows and calves. 
"We are committed to the prosperity of the agricultural sector, which is an important driver for job creation and economic growth in the region," said Minister Ritz. Our government is proud to provide support for the realization of this project as Canadian agroclimatic areas in Canada lead to significant challenges for agricultural producers. » 
"Bovine production is important for Abitibi-Témiscamingue, but climate conditions are not always at the rendezvous. The implementation of this project will therefore help businesses in the region to improve their competitiveness, which fits perfectly with the objectives of the food sovereignty policy, "said Gendron. 
On March 25, 2011, the Governments of Canada and Quebec announced the signing of the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies. This program, which takes advantage of an investment of $ 16.7 million over a four-year period, aims to support the development and adaptation of the agri-food sectors in a context of competitive and constant mutation affairs. 
For a full description of the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, we can visit the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food website: www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/strategiesectoral. For further information on the policy of food sovereignty, one can regularly consult the blog dedicated to it (www.politiquesa.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and the Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politicsa). It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following email address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
