Quebec- As a result of meetings with different associations of traders who have to administer the increase in the specific tax on alcoholic beverages announced in the 2013-2014 budget, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, announced Today the time allowed for the Revenu Québec payment of the amount established as a result of the inventory intake of alcoholic beverages in stock is prolonged. The traders will now have until November 21, 2013 to pay this amount. 
The minister recalled that the increase in the specific tax on alcoholic beverages operates according to the principle of preperception. "This is the increase in a tax imposed on consumers and not traders, in the same way as specific taxes on tobacco products and fuels. To simplify the application of these taxes, an amount equal to the specific tax is perceived in advance with traders. They then recover this amount with consumers by receiving the specific tax at the time of sale at the latter, "he explained. 
The minister said that in a specifically preferred tax system, the inventory taking in stock at the time of a tax increase is a basic principle that would be perilous to question. "The lack of inventory-in-stock intake could have the effect that consumers pay taxes that would never be paid to the government," said the minister. 
In addition, in order to respond to the concerns raised by some representatives of the traders, he stressed that following the increase in the specific tax on alcoholic beverages, traders are not required to immediately modify their price lists or their Menus to reflect the amount of this increase. They must mention to their clients that the amount of the increase will be added at the prices indicated, for example by means of posters at the entrance of their establishment or on the cash register or inserts in the menus, until that their lists or menus are subject to modifications. 
Traders who would have questions about the application of the specific tax on alcoholic beverages or inventory inventory taking can contact Revenu Québec's Customer Services at 1-800-567 -4692. 
