To those who believe that the promise of the CAQ to lower school taxes is supposed and guarantee of equity, the candidates of the Parti Québécois Jean-Martin Aussant (Pointe-aux-Trembles) and Paul St-Pierre Plamondon (Prévost) have launched The following question: Do you know who it will take, really? 
IN SHORT 
"Since the beginning of the campaign, François Legault has shimmered school taxes to Quebec owners. But he does not say everything. He refuses to say, for example, that his promise will first benefit the multimillionaires, like him, "denounced Jean-Martin immediately. 
Indeed, while the check that the owners will receive, on average, $ 225, are thousands of dollars that people affect a house worth in the seven digits. François Legault, for example, will receive more than $ 3200 himself. Philippe Couillard, nearly $ 1000. Jean-François Lisée? About $ 350. An amount of which he would be willing to make it for the benefit of schools that fall into ruin. 
"Also specify that for tenants, nearly 40% of Quebecers, this promise of the CAQ does not mean anything. In some cities, like at home, in Sainte-Sophie, it's a big zero too. So that François Legault ceases to say that his promise will restore equity, "pursued Paul St-Pierre Plamondon. 
"Our schools are full of mold. Nearly half of them are judged in bad, even in a very bad state. Why, then, does François Legault be stretching to deprive the education network of $ 700 million? Does it find that students in difficulty have enough services, that teachers are sufficiently supported in their tasks? He must tell the truth to Quebeckers: cumulative to that of the Liberals, his promise to lower school taxes will deprive the network of 10% of his resources, for the benefit of people who certainly do not fail, "continued Jean-Martin immediately . 
"To the Parti Québécois, we have made other choices. We will facilitate access to property by boning the tax credit associated with the famous "welcome tax", but we will not lower school taxes because we give priority to services: for children, but also for Families, seniors. We will remove the family tax, to return to the single rate in CPEs. We will give seniors whose income does not exceed $ 35,000 an additional tax credit of $ 350. And all Quebeckers will benefit from the actions of the future consumer protection office. True equity, she is here, "concluded Paul St-Pierre Plamondon. 
