Quebec- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the Quebec Party spokesman for Quebec-Canada relations, Stéphane Bergeron, and the spokesperson for energy and natural resources, Alain Therien, denounce the silence of Prime Minister Philippe Couillard before the interference and attacks of the prime ministers of Western Canada at the place of Quebec elected officials, and they question his ability to defend the interests of Quebecers. 
Recall that following the rejection, by the elected officials of the Montreal Metropolitan Community (CMM), the Energy Pipeline project, the Prime Minister of Saskatchewan, Brad Wall, demonstrated contempt to the Quebec elected officials by suggesting To the mayors to repay their share of equalization "paid" by the West. Alberta Prime Minister, Rachel Notley added by qualifying the position of the Mayors of the CMM of "Short Term Vision". 
"It is only in Quebec to make its choice as to the passage of the energy pipeline is on its territory. The interference of the first ministers of Saskatchewan and Alberta in Quebec's affairs is unacceptable. They do not have to question Quebecers' decisions. That said, in front of the raging debate, it is very surprising that we still have no idea what the Prime Minister of Quebec thinks, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"British Columbia and the United States refused the passage from a pipeline to their territory, and were not entitled to such manifestations of contempt. Why a different attitude when Quebeckers also express an unfavorable opinion? Would this opinion be less valid or less legitimate when expressed by Quebeckers? Will the prime minister finally stop folding the coin in front of Canada and enforce the choice of Quebeckers, whether or not they agree with the rest of Canada? Stéphane Bergeron added. 
"Quebeckers refuse that their territory serves as highway for the export of oil sands oil. The Mayor of Montreal and the mayors of the CMM have clearly rejected the pipeline project. What is the Prime Minister waiting for a position in this case? Does his silence be explained by the fact that his adherence to the Canadian energy strategy binds his hands? ", For his part, asked Alain Therrien. 
