Press conference where yes-Quebec presented the agreement in principle between the four independent parties: 
Live: presentation of the agreement in principle concluded between the four independent parties 
Review, amended and adopted version dated April 10, 2017 
INTRODUCTION 
The delegations of the Parti Québécois, Quebec Solidarity, National Option and Bloc Québécois, whose parties are committed to promoting Quebec's independence, meets, between the months of January and April 2017, around the table of Concertation of United Nations Organizations for Independence (yes Quebec) Together for a common approach to independence accession, whose contents are contained hereinafter. 
VARIOUS COMPONENTS 
1. Common approach to independence accession 
The approaches to the independence of Quebec is based on the principle of popular sovereignty and includes: 
The adoption of a transitional fundamental law that will serve as a legal framework in Quebec and which will mark its approach towards independence 
the establishment of a constituent assembly responsible for developing a draft constitution of an independent Quebec following extensive public consultation; 
These elements are now an integral part of any approach leading to the independence of Quebec. 
2. Creation of the Constituent Assembly 
The Constituent Assembly is put in place by a law of the National Assembly which determines the duration, the mandate, the modes of designation, the modalities of operation and the powers.  This project, which must be carried out within a single government mandate, will have previously been the subject of a strong electoral commitment on the part of the political parties independentists which, in such a scenario, constitute a parliamentary majority. 
3. The mandate of the Constituent Assembly 
The Constituent Assembly has the following mandate: 
Organize extensive public consultation, hear the specialists it deems appropriate and draft (1) a draft constitution of an independent Quebec that resumes the following topics: 
Values, principles, rights and responsibilities to be expected in a Quebec constitution; 
Sharing powers between the Quebec state and regions to ensure the development and development of Quebeckers; 
Institutions and political regime of the Quebec State; 
Relations with First Nations and Inuit. 
At the end of the process, the National Assembly undertakes to make public the draft constitution, the report and the recommendations of the Constituent Assembly within a period provided for by law, and requests the Chief Electoral Officer of Quebec. Organize a referendum consultation that will allow Quebeckers to decide both on the political status of Quebec and on the draft constitution of an independent Quebec developed by the Constituent Assembly. 
4. Composition of the Constituent Assembly and appointment of its members: 
The composition of the Constituent Assembly must ensure a fair representation of the Company that takes into account the following criteria: 
Men's / Women Parity (50% women's threshold) 
Representativeness of administrative regions 
Representativeness of social groups 
Representativeness of diversity 
In the extension of the resolutions of the National Assembly of 20 March 1985 and 30 May 1989 recognizing the rights of First Nations and Inuit, they are respectively invited to participate in the work of the Constituent Assembly according to a status and a role. to be determined with them. 
The designation of the members of the Constituent Assembly will be made according to the following modes: 
In order to guarantee the equitable representation of the planned company above, the National Assembly launches a broad call for nominations to proceed with the appointment of constituents and constituents (3). 
The delegations of the following political parties agreed on this proposal that they agreed to submit for adoption to their respective congresses: 
For the Parti Québécois: Véronique Hivon and Alain Lupien 
For Quebec Solidaire: Andrés Fontecilla and Monique Moisan 
For National Option: Soil Zanetti and Viviane Martinova-Croteau 
For the Bloc Québécois: Kedina Fleury-Samson. 
This work was conducted under the aegis of the Yes Quebec represented by Claudette Carbonneau and Jason Brochu-Valcourt, President and Vice-President of the Organization respectively. 
Signed at Montreal on April 10, 2017 (2) 
(1) The drafting of the draft constitution shall be carried out according to the rules of epicane writing defined by the Québec Office of the French language. (2) The original version signed by the representatives and the representatives of the delegations mentioned above? Faith. (3) The number and proportions of the members of the Constituent Assembly designated by one or other of the expected above modes remain to be determined. In addition, the members of the deputation are excluded from the work of the Constituent Assembly. 
