Quebec - the member for Marie-Victorin and the official opposition to the Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Bernard Drainville, is stunned that the Liberal government has chosen to endorse the words of Stephen Jarislowsky who affirmed that the sovereignist movement Is not "maybe not Nazi ... but it's fascist! » 
The Québécois party has filed a motion this morning, supported by all opposition parties and the independent members, which read as follows: "That the National Assembly of Quebec recognize the legitimate and democratic character of the sovereignist movement and dissociates About Stephen Jarislowsky who claims that the sovereignist movement would be fascist. " 
Upon reading this motion, the Deputy Leader of the Government has risen to affirm "do not have a problem" with the first part of the motion. "By saying in agreement with the first part of the motion, the government implies that it endorses the words of Mr. Jarislowsky. Why does the Liberal government refuse to dissociate themselves from remarks that associate several million Quebecers with fascists? Asked Bernard Drainville. 
The member was relieved that Mr. Jarislowsky no longer participates in the adequate General Council, but is nevertheless surprised that Gérard Deltell continues to inward him in the statement issued earlier by the ADQ. "Since the arrival of Gérard Deltell at the head of the ADQ, the party is radicalized and" federally "a little more every day. Moreover, the new President of the ADQ Political Committee, Claude Garcia, is the one who said at the 1995 referendum wanted to "crush" the sovereignists, "sorry Bernard Drainville. 
The member stated that the sovereignist movement wants the independence of the Quebec nation, including all Quebeckers regardless of their language, origin or religion. 
"Quebec is a unique, democratic, pluralistic and open world. For the Parti Québécois, the best way to ensure the sustainability of our difference goes through the sovereignty of Quebec, "concluded the member for Marie-Victorin. 
