Sainte-Catherine-de-la-Jacques-Cartier- On the occasion of the 2013 Cohort Graduation Ceremony for wildlife protection officers, the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announced $ 9.3 million investments at the Duchesnay Tourist Resort, which houses the Wildlife Protection Agent Training and Development Center. 
"We invest with the aim of pursuing the standards of public service infrastructure and ensuring the sustainability of built heritage. In doing so, our government creates jobs that will accelerate Quebec's economic growth, "said the minister. 
This announcement is of great importance for the wildlife protection officers and the Duchesnay tourist resort and the city of Sainte-Catherine-de-la-Jacques-Cartier. In wildlife cases, the center renovation is one of the priorities of the Minister Blanchet, for whom "training of agents must be done in the best possible environment". 
Of these $ 9.3 million, $ 5.3 million will be devoted to the modernization of the CERF flag so that it can ensure its educational, administrative and accommodation functions. "This money will provide facilities and conditions for the protection officers with the importance of our government," said Blanchet. 
Remember that the training and development center offers future wildlife protection officers a complementary training that allows them to consolidate their skills through practical exercises. Thanks to this amount, the Society of Outdoor Institutions of Quebec (separate) may launch a call for tenders to entrepreneurs no later than the fall of 2014, for full delivery of modernized facilities in 2015-2016. 
In addition, Minister Blanchet announced other investments in the infrastructure used more specifically by the clientele of the tourist resort. An envelope of $ 4M will allow to renovate chalets on the edge of Lake Saint-Joseph and other pavilions of the Duchesnay tourist resort, a four-seasons resort managed by the sepait. 
All of these investments is part of the Government of Quebec's economic policy entitled Employment Priority and unveiled by the Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois on October 7. 
Recall that the first component of this economic policy is based on four flagship measures to stimulate job creation now, including the acceleration of government investments in the renovation and modernization of public infrastructure. As part of this component, $ 55 million is granted by the Quebec government for the realization of immobilization work to improve the separate facilities. Overall, these investments are expected to create 377 jobs, including 200 direct jobs, and report $ 5.5 million in tax revenue coffers by 2016. 
"These investments confirm the role of separiba as a lever for economic development in the regions", welcomed the President and CEO of the Sépaq, Mr. Raymond Desjardins. 
