Quebec, on November 26, 2019- In anticipation of a work meeting to be held today, the hon. Member for Matane-Matapédia and parliamentary leader of the Quebecois Party, Pascal Bérubé, as well as the member for René-Lévesque, a parliamentary leader and spokesperson in the field of finance and economy, Martin Ouellet, have unveiled their expectations as to the recommendations that will be made as a result of the particular consultations and public hearings on the question of the escape of personal data, among others, at Gardens. 
IN SHORT 
To improve the safety of personal data, the Parti Québécois claims: 
As Pascal Bérubé recalled, the Parti Québécois was the first to claim the holding of a special parliamentary committee (from the Public Finance Commission) on the issue of personal data leaks. "As of July, we have asked for hearings and consultations, to better understand and, above all, find ways to prevent theft of personal data. The government has finally decided, but not without having reduced the scope of the year - in particular, it refuses to look in its own court. He therefore has a huge obligation of result: among other things, he must be able to guarantee Quebeckers than the negligence on the protection of personal information will now be severely punished, "he insisted. 
During hearings, several ways to improve the safety of personal data have been identified. In addition to the imposition of more salty fines, the Parti Québécois retains three main. "First, the creation of a Quebec digital identity. The use of the social insurance number is exceeded. We are in the 21st century! We must better secure our identification. Secondly, we must force the companies and the state to remove any obsolete data, as soon as the person concerned makes the request. The fines should also be much more severe, and modulated according to the shelf life of said data, "said Martin Ouellet. 
In addition, in one year, the Commissioner for Privacy Canada has identified 28 million cases of individual data leaks. Ten millions of these affect customers of Desjardins and Capital One, but we do not know who are the 18 million other injured people. "Third, any flight should be publicly disclosed; Not only have the citizens have the right to know if their personal information is prominent in nature, but it is only how they can, if necessary, react adequately to the situation, "continued the Party's parliamentary leader Quebecers. 
"The conclusions and recommendations of the Commission must above all dispel the doubt in the spirit of Quebeckers. Beyond any other consideration, it is essential that citizens regain confidence in companies and their institutions, "concluded Pascal Bérubé. 
