Quebec- Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, Announces Publication for Public Consultation of the Protection of Water Collaboration and Protection In order to effectively protect sources drinking water. This regulation implements a set of measures that will include supervising oil and gas exploration and exploration projects by virtue of the safest requirements in North America. 
This regulation aims to meet the expectations of citizens, municipalities and industry by deciding clearly and predictable the exploration and exploitation activities of hydrocarbons. Thus, it will now be forbidden to proceed with any drilling less than 300 meters from a water removal. It is a minimum distance that can be increased according to the potential risks determined by the hydrogeological study that will be required for each drilling. In addition, it will also be forbidden to carry out such boreholes in the protective area remote from a municipal ground water removal and in the intermediate protection area of a municipal surface water. 
Indeed, companies will have an obligation to carry out a hydrogeological study and knowledge of the environment within a radius of two kilometers of the drilling site. They will also have to have a minimum of three groundwater observation wells within 100 meters of such a site. The Government requires water monitoring measures before, during and after exploration and exploitation activities, where appropriate, to intervene quickly to correct situations that may present a risk to the health and safety of citizens. 
"If Quebec chooses to move forward with the exploration or exploitation of its hydrocarbon resources, it will now make it by ensuring rigorous protection of the quality of its drinking water. All the measures provided for by the draft regulation could help protect this wealth without preventing the development of our hydrocarbon resources. Thus, our government once again demonstrates that it is at the forefront of environmental matters, "said Minister Blanchet. 
The regulation also allows the implementation of a new water levies authorization regime that strengthens the protection of this collective resource. This new regime recognizes the need to meet the drinking water needs of the population and then reconcile the needs of ecosystems and economic activities. 
"Quebec has tremendous resources that must be exploited in respect of the environment and for the well-being of citizens. We are committed to being exemplary and demonstrating that economic and sustainable developments do not oppose. They must complement each other, "concluded the Blanchet minister. 
