Quebec- The member for Rosemont and spokespersons of the Parti Québécois on social services, protection of youth, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, returns to the expense and requests the Government to develop urgently a standard of manufacturing liquids used for electronic cigarettes. Because, for the moment, given the lack of regulation, these can threaten the health of users. 
"Last fall, we alerted the government about the danger of leaving the freedom to sell anything to consumers," said the member, who had filed an amendment in November in November. Tobacco demanding the government that it enjoys a manufacturing standard over the coming months. "The refusal of the Minister delegated to Public Health to accept our amendment was, and remains, incomprehensible," said Lisée, after a devastating report of the show I on the "Far West" prevailing In this industry and the existing dangers for users. 
"We wanted to make sure that the contents of electronic cigarettes be regulated. What is on the label must match the content. Currently, we find all kinds of things and sometimes the labels are misleading. We were demonstrated as the nicotine level, for example, is not equivalent to what is written on the label. Sometimes it's written that there is no nicotine, while there is. We know that regulations, standards are being developed, and this, everywhere around the world. We have filed some examples, and we wanted to give some time to the Quebec government so that it conceives its own standards, without waiting for those of others. But the Liberal government refused to go in that way, "added the spokesman. 
"We believe that the traditional tobacco passage to electronic cigarette is a good news for the health of smokers. But still need to be reassured about the quality of this new product. The Parti Québécois believes that the government must take responsibility and act without delay, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
The text of the amendment proposed by the Parti Québécois for Bill 44, An Act to strengthen the fight against smoking, is as follows: 
"29.0.1. The Government determines by regulation by 1 January 2017 the standards to be followed in relation to the composition of the substances used in electronic cigarettes as well as any device or accessory necessary for its use. » 
One can see an extract from the advocacy of M. Lisée in parliamentary committee on this subject auhttps: //youtu.be/uvwu_1e_ilo. 
