Saint-Jean-de-Matha- with the head of the Party Party, Pauline Marois, and several members of Caucus in Joliette, the members of the Quebecois Particis of Berthier have again designated the current MP André Villeneuve in order to Represent at the next election campaign. 
"I have rarely seen a deputy as well anchored as André in his riding. He knows everyone or almost and he is personally known by everyone or almost. His experience of ancient mayor of the municipality of Lanoraie and his deep knowledge of the municipal world make it a valuable asset for our team. As head of the regional development and occupation files, he performs a vital work for Quebec. I need André Villeneuve in my team, the Quebec party needs him, Quebec needs him, "said Pauline Marois. 
Members, members and party sympathizers responded with fervor and enthusiasm with the gathening speeches of their leader and the member for Berthier. André Villeneuve stressed the importance of bringing together the forces to achieve sovereignty. "Sovereignty always remains the target to reach. The goal that René Lévesque has entered in the formation of our political formation, sovereignty will give us the levers necessary for the realization of our full development and our full emancipation. And to reach this goal, we still have, and more than ever, need all of us to look and advance in the same direction. We have a historic duty to gather together since this cause transcends all the vells, all personal ambitions, all the dissensions. It's our common denominator. We have the best team to advance Quebec. We have the best leader to lead this team and lead Quebec. 
"The stake of the next campaign will be clear. Who will train the best team to embody the change as Quebeckers want? Who will train the most honest team and who will have the only goal the defense of the interests of Quebecers? This team is the Quebecois party that will present it and it is to her that Quebeckers will give their confidence, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
