Montreal - The Leader of the Parti Québécois has welcomed today in his team of candidates the well-known and founding ecologist of the master group at us - 21st century, Daniel Breton. "I am delighted that Daniel Breton joins my team. His experience, his convictions and his reputation make him a major candidacy, "said Pauline Marois. 
"If I join the Parti Québécois, it is because I believe that Pauline Marois is the most part and the best leader to lead Quebec and make energy independence. Inspired by the great project initiated by René Lévesque and Jean Lesage titled Masters at home, I founded the master company with us - 21st century with a group of energy experts, economics and transport so that we do Phase 2 which will take us to the control of our energy future. Quebeckers must enrich themselves through the 21st century energy projects initiated by Quebeckers. As Jean Charest betrayed both the inheritance of Jean Lesage and René Lévesque and the people of Quebec by disposing of the control of our resources in order to make it take advantage of the enthus of the whole of Quebeckers. I decided to achieve the master's phase 2 with us with those who support this vision: the Parti Québécois and Pauline Marois, "said Daniel Breton. 
Former Director of the Quebec Atmospheric Pollution Association, Daniel Breton is a long-standing activist. Co-founder of the Quebec Green Party, Important activist in the files of the About, Bécancour and Rabaska within the Quebeckyoto Coalition, it is now president of the master group at home - 21st century that is interested in energy issues and transport. In particular, he collaborated with Le Duty and Radio-Canada. 
"The real change team is the Québécois party that offers it. At the time of the election campaign, we will present the best team, a team composed of men and women from all walks of life with unshakeable convictions. What we will offer to Quebeckers is a government in the service of Quebecers for Quebeckers, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
