Quebec- The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, today presented a part of his team of the Capitale-Nationale for the next general election, the candidates of Chauveau, Jean-Talon and Charlesbourg, Marie-Eve of Ascola , Neko Likongo and Christophe Fortier-Guay. "Our team of candidates is set up quickly and all public affairs sectors are represented by quality people with extraordinary expertise. In all areas, the Parti Québécois is very well represented, "said Pauline Marois. 
Because center en éducation préscione primaire prima work and marcor to under the head of a effect by the Commission of the capital commission. He is east, Out, conseillère Municipal in La municipality of leam de Stoneham-et-tewkesbury bypuis 2009. 
For its part, NEKO LIKONGO is advisable at the Ministry of International Relations of Quebec. Graduate in Political Science, a specialist in international affairs, his experience has led him to be observant during the elections in Haiti in 2006. 
Christophe Fortier-Guay is a graduate of the Université de Montréal and the Institute of Political Studies of Paris. Despite his young age, he is the founding president of the FGP Partners International Consultation Society. This company helps small and medium-sized businesses to develop their markets on the international scene. In 2009, he held the position of International Press Officer at the Thales Group Communication Branch (Aerospace, Defense and Security). Christophe was also a lecturer at the Paris Political Studies Institute from 2009 to 2011. 
"There are elections that approach and Jean Charest wants to divert attention. The central issue of the coming elections is to change prime minister, change government, change direction and change countries. That's the stake! We will be called to make decisive choices that will hire us for a long time. There is one thing I'm sure I'm sure, it's not up to others to choose in our place. The challenge is not to oppose each other by creating a social crisis, but to find ways to unite to be stronger, "said the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
"With a government of the Parti Québécois, we will enrich ourselves. First, going to seek our fair share of the wealth created by the exploitation of our natural resources. We will also enrich us by building on higher education, research, innovation and the success of our children. We will invest heavily in the electrification of transport by launching the energy of energy independence and we will put in place a policy of food sovereignty. And that, we will do it with intelligence, taking care of our main wealth, Quebeckers, "added Pauline Marois. 
These three applications are added to a strong team of candidates in the capital-national with Pauline Marois in Charlevoix, Agnès Maltese in Taschereau, Pierre Châteauvert in Jean-Lesage and René Perreault in Portneuf. 
Remember that the Parti Québécois is the greatest political force in Quebec with its 90,000 members. 
