Montréal - The leader of the Parti Québécois, today announced the candidacy of the agricultural world specialist, André D. Beaudoin, to the nomination of the party in the riding of Laviolette for the next election campaign. "I am very happy to welcome in my team an application for André D. Beaudoin's quality. His knowledge of the agricultural world and his experience will be an incredible asset for Quebeckers. With André Simard and Marie Bouille, he will complete an already very strong agricultural team, "said Pauline Marois. 
"Many challenges expect Quebec in the agricultural sector as in all areas. I chose the Parti Québécois because it has the best team to meet all these challenges that await us. I chose the Parti Québécois because he has the best leader to lead Quebec and make the changes that Quebeckers expect from their leaders. I do the jump in politics especially because Quebeckers need more than ever to regain confidence in their elected officials and institutions. I want to help fight cynicism, "added André D. Beaudoin. 
Secretary General of the UPA International Development, he has been a breeder of grain calves and grain producer for more than 30 years. Graduate of the Institute of Agri-Food Technology of Saint-Hyacinthe, he was President of the Federation of Quebec Management Trade Unions for seven years and member of the Executive of the Confederation of the Union of Agricultural Producers (UPA) for four years . 
In 1992-93, Mr. Beaudoin was responsible and cooperative for the first UPA project abroad in Doudougou in Burkina Faso. From 1994 to 2006, he was Director General of the UPA International Development. In his professional setting, Mr. Beaudoin participated in several missions overseas. Its involvement in international cooperation and farmers' solidarity with countries in West and Latin America has earned it a significant place with aggregation of land peasants. He delivered several conferences and signed many publications on the place of agriculture in international trade. He is also the author of four pounds. 
"André D. Beaudoin embodies the determination, competence and audacity that characterize our party. He joins the true change team, a team composed of men and women from all walks of life with unshakeable convictions. A team that will offer a government serving Quebeckers for Quebecers, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
