Laval- "I have a lot of admiration for Marc Demers, who has been holding the fort in Laval-des-rapids for several years as an activist, but also as a candidate. He was ready to go back to fight again because he was a man of conviction, an exemplary man, a dedicated activist of the Parti Québécois and the sovereignist project. The gesture posed today Marc Demers, by giving up his place and offering his full support for the new candidate of Laval-des-Rapides, deeply honors. This is because he believes in the Parti Québécois, the strength of the team and the youth of Quebec. » 
This is what the leader of the Party Quebec, Pauline Marois said alongside Marc Demers, announcing that Leo Bureau-Blouin will be the candidate of the Quebecois party in the riding of Laval-des-Rapides in View of the next general election. 
"Leo Bureau-Blouin has been particularly illustrated last spring during events that marked Quebec. Quebeckers have noticed how much, its understanding, its intelligence and common sense, it embodies this fiery youth that believes in the potential of the new generation and equal opportunities. Without the shadow of a doubt, he has the stuff of a real leader and I am delighted to see him join the Quebec party team, a solid team that is built from day to day and who wants to offer his experience And his dedication to Quebecers, "said Pauline Marois. 
For his part, Marc Demers explained his choice to give way to a new candidate. "This decision is mine and I fully assume it. I took it with the members of the executive because we believe that Leo Bureau-Blouin, joining the team of the Quebecois party of Laval-des-Rapides, will be a major asset for the team of Pauline Marois and for All activists who aspire to a prosperous, solidarity and free Quebec. Without any hesitation we will support Leo to put an end to the liberal regime and offer a wind of freshness to the Lavallois, but also to all Quebeckers, "said Marc Demers. 
For its part, the new candidate of Laval-des-Rapides, Leo Bureau-Blouin, made the decision to engage in politics because he believes Quebec deserves better than cynicism and social inequalities, two things that characterize The Liberal Party of Quebec. "The values of the Parti Québécois join me and with Pauline Marois and all his team, I choose to build a more just, green and stronger on the international scene. With the people of Laval-des-Rapides, I want to help improve the quality of our schools, develop our infrastructure, to increase the efficiency of our health system. I want Quebec to become a country and I want to build a more participative democracy, "backed Leo Blouin. 
"We feel it, Quebeckers are thirsty for change. They want an honest government, a government attentive, a government that defends the collective interest rather than private interests. They want a talented, dedicated team that combines youth and experience. The Parti Québécois is there for them, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
