Montreal- The leader of the Parti Québécois today proceeded to the announcement of the candidacy of Dr. Réjean Hébert to the nomination of the party in the riding of Saint-François for the next election campaign. "I am very happy to be able to count on Réjean again. It is a doctor recognized by his peers and the population. At a time when health is one of Quebec's priorities, his candidacy adds important experience and knowledge to our team, "said Pauline Marois. 
"I choose the Parti Québécois because it is the party that most about the needs of Quebecers. I choose the Parti Québécois because it is the only one capable of responding to the will of change of Quebecers. I choose Quebec's Party because Pauline Marois is the most suitable and the most competent to lead Quebec, "said Réjean Hébert. 
Réjean Hébert is a geriatric doctor, gerontologist and epidemiologist. He was the Dean of the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences at the University of Sherbrooke from 2004 to 2010. He was the founding director of the Aging Research Center of the Sherbrooke University Institute of Gerbrooke, of the Quebec network of research on aging and the aging institute of the Canadian Institutes of Health Research. It has designed and validated the functional autonomy measurement (SMAF) system for measuring the needs of the elderly and disabled. It leads the Prisma group (research program on the integration of autonomy maintenance services) that has developed and validated an original model of coordination of services that improves the efficiency of the health system, while preventing the loss of Senior autonomy. He was the co-chair of the public consultation on the living conditions of seniors in 2007. 
Over the past year, he has been a scientific advisor to the National Solidarity Fund for the autonomy where he studied European long-term care funding systems. He also acted as an international expert in the debate on the dependency set up by the President of the French Republic. In addition to being a professor at the University of Sherbrooke and researcher at the Aging Research Center of the Sherbrooke University Institute of Geriatrics, he now acts as a medical consulting at the National Institute of Public Health of Quebec and with of the Commissioner for Health and Wellbeing of Quebec. 
"Réjean Hébert is a competent and committed man to improve our health system and adapt our company to the needs of seniors. It embodies the determination and audacity that characterize our party. He joins the true change team, a team composed of men and women from all walks of life with unshakeable convictions. A team that will offer a government serving Quebeckers for Quebecers, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
