Montréal- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb, as well as the Minister of Public Safety and Deputy of Verchères, Stéphane Bergeron, Confirmed a $ 20 million government investment within Quebec Enerkem, in the form of participation in its share capital. 
Enerkem manufactures biofuels and green chemicals from non-recyclable residual materials. The participation of the Quebec government announced today will support the company's growth strategy, as well as the beginning of the commercial phase of large-scale deployment of its technology in Quebec and elsewhere in the world. 
"Enerkem is a promising company of the Quebec technology sector, highlighted the Prime Minister. By becoming a partner of this company, the government reiterates its commitment to support the growth of a greener and sustainable economy, which will benefit all Quebeckers. Our participation in Enerkem's financing will promote the maintenance of its activities in Quebec and the creation of hundreds of specialized jobs. » 
By building in Quebec many of the modules that make up its biofuels factories, Enerkem helps build a new green manufacturing infrastructure in Quebec. For its Edmonton plant, Alberta, whose construction will be completed shortly, the economic benefits in Quebec are estimated at $ 29 million. The company also develops a project similar to Varennes, Montérégie. By 2015, so 390 direct and indirect jobs will be created in Quebec thanks to the various Enerkem projects. 
"Enerkem is a Quebec international company, whose ability to innovate has a positive impact on a number of strategic sectors of our economy, including the manufacturing sector," said Elale Deputy Minister Zakaib. The Government intends to promote the greening of this sector, particularly through its industrial policy that will emerge in the coming months. In this sense, Enerkem is a valuable ally of the growth of the Quebec economy based on the principles of sustainable development. » 
"With the Ethanol Greenfield plant, the biomethanization project of the Eastern Crown Mixed Economy Society Inc. and the Enerkem factory, which is mentioned today, the city of Varennes is positioning itself to become a reference in the field of sustainable development and a true pole of innovation in terms of green and renewable energy, S ' The Minister of Public Safety and MP for Verchères, Stéphane Berchardon is delighted. It is with great pride that we contribute to the growth of this company that evolves in a key sector of our economy. Enerkem will participate with strength at the economic growth of Varennes, including the creation of many specialized jobs. » 
Enerkem operates a research center and a pilot plant in Sherbrooke, as well as a demonstration plant located in Westbury, Estrie. The company uses more than 120 people in Quebec, about fifty at its head office in Montreal. It has developed and perfected an exclusive technology that allows it to produce methanol and ethanol from non-recyclable and non-compostable residual materials. 
This technology can be applied to any biomass residue, including urban biomasses (such as waste) which, otherwise, would be buried. For example, a ton of waste transformed according to Enerkem technology makes it possible to produce about 380 liters of ethanol. 
"Enerkem is one of the few companies in the world to have developed a technology paving the way for the valorization of non-recyclable residual materials by converting them into ethanol and renewable chemicals, mentioned the President and Chief Executive Officer of 'Enerkem, Vincent Chornet. Enerkem's technology and factories contribute to the diversification of energy sources and the manufacture of greener products, while offering a sustainable landfill alternative. The support of the Government of Quebec will allow us to continue our growth in Quebec and elsewhere in the world, and to increase our contribution to the environment. » 
