Lac-Mégantic- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, today proceeded to the inauguration of the new premises of the Lac-Mégantic College Center (CECLM). The new premises were converted into the old Canadian plant acquired by the City of Lac-Mégantic and will make room for the new municipal library. 
"Our teaching places are the hearts of our communities, their future. It is with great emotion and a great pride that I have these premises today. This inauguration, after the tragedy experienced Lac-Mégantic, is a powerful symbol of hope and renewal. I wish many students to take advantage of these new infrastructures. Their talents, dreams and ambitions are all engines for the region, "said Minister Duchesne. 
The minister took advantage of the inauguration of the new premises of the Lac-Mégantic College Center to honor the memory of two students missing in the terrible tragedy of July 6th. 
In the presence of the relatives of the victims, the Mayor of Lac-Mégantic, Ms. Colette Roy-Laroche, and the authorities of the establishment, the Minister proceeded to the unveiling of a commemorative plaque and the planting of two trees that will recall to Even never the disappearance of Jo-Annie Lapointe, 20, and Andrée-Anne Sévigny, 26, students at the CECLM. 
During the renovations at the CECLM, the Library of the College Center was temporarily accommodated in the Municipal Lac-Mégantic Library. It is therefore all the works of the CECLM that were destroyed during the gigantic fire of July 6th. Minister Pierre Duchesne announced that his department would fulfill the gap of damage from what will not be covered by the insurance company. This amount could reach $ 85,000. 
In addition, in order to ensure that CEML students have access to adequate psychosocial aid, the minister has also generated $ 65,000 to enable the College Center to provide support services. Psychosocial throughout the 2013-2014 school year. 
The relocation and redevelopment of the premises of an area of 1500 m2 and the acquisition of equipment are financed by the Ministry through aid paid to the CEGEP Beauce-Appalaches, to which the CECLM is attached. This help, which allows Cégep to rent these new spaces and to make the necessary amenities, is distributed as follows: 
The city of Lac-Mégantic welcomes enthusiastically the inauguration of the new Center for Studies. "Since its founding, the CECLM allows young people in our region to pursue graduate studies in their environment, notes the Maullette Mayor Roy-Laroche. The best facilities they will benefit from addressing their exodus. The two or three years of additional studies in Lac-Mégantic will encourage them to remain at the end of their technical program or to return after possible university studies. " 
The Chief Executive Officer of Cégep Beauce-Appalaches, Mr. Mario Landry, held, for their part, to thank all the partners for their collaboration on this issue. "The development of the College Center and its relocation would not have been possible without the support of the City of Lac-Mégantic, from the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology and Many organizations and stakeholders in the region, he says. Knowledge is the instrument of economic development. The transmission of knowledge in better facilities will make our students future actors in the granite region's economic development. 
"We are very happy to occupy these new premises. Improving the quality of the educational environment will facilitate the success of students who choose our center. Easy access to the municipal library that will soon be installed in the same building will also constitute added value for our students, "said Deputy Director of Cégep Beauce-Appalaches and Head of the Center for College Studies. Lac-Mégantic, Mr. Jean Hamel. 
The Lac-Mégantic College Center has been in 1998, hosted in the premises of the Hauts-Cantons School Board. The CECLM offers the DEC DEC journey as well as pre-university programs of Nature and Human Sciences. The following technical curricula: nursing, child education techniques, specialized education techniques and accounting and management techniques are also offered in rotation. 
In 2012-2013 the workforce of the Center of Studies reached 155 students. 
