St-Jean-Baptiste-de-Rouville- Parliamentary Secretary to the Prime Minister for Official Languages and for the Economic Development Agency for the Regions of Quebec, Jacques Gourde, on behalf of the Federal Minister of Agriculture, M . Gerry Ritz, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, and the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, And Member of Parliament for Borduas, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, today announced the new Lever Financial Assistance Program, on the occasion of the inauguration of the new Vergers Warehouse Paul Jodoin, located in Saint-Jean-Baptiste in Montérégie. This new program, with an envelope of $ 19.37 million over five years, will aim to support Quebec food processing companies. It is funded under the Canada-Quebec Agreement Grow the Future 2. 
"Our government is proud to support the food processing sector in Quebec, an important economic motor of the Quebec economy," said the parliamentary secretary gourd. "The program will encourage the growth and development of a diverse sector of food processing in Quebec, capable of competing abroad and create jobs with us. » 
The Lever Financial Assistance Program emphasizes the implementation of structuring projects that can improve the competitiveness of the food processing sector and supports it in its continual quest for high quality products. In addition, the objective of ensuring the sustainability of the sector, the program also supports projects for the establishment of a sustainable development and planning planning entrepreneurial. 
"The Leverage program fits perfectly into the orientations of the food sovereignty policy. The development of a prosperous bioalimentary sector, employment generator, environmentally friendly and contributing to the dynamic occupation of the territory represents a profit for the whole of Quebec society. Food processing companies must exploit their full potential so that we can preserve our collective pantry. The Leverage program will allow them to put in place the winning conditions to achieve this, "said Minister Gendron. 
Companies that wish may apply by contacting the Department of Region's Food Transformation Counselor or consult on this page www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/levier of its website. 
Remember that the governments of Canada and Quebec have entered into the Bilateral Agreement Growing the Future 2, for which they have funded $ 293 million over a five-year period. This importance agreement aims to support strategic initiatives in innovation, competitiveness and development of markets, for the benefit of both agricultural and food processing. 
For more information on the Government of Quebec's Food Sovereignt Policy, interested persons may regularly consult the blogww.politicalsa.gouv.qc.caou Page www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesadu website of the Ministry of Agriculture, fisheries and food. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter, at the addresssetwitter.com / Mapaquebec. 
