Quebec, November 6, 2014 - The member for Vachon and the official opposition on the transport, Martine Ouellet, the member for Jonquière and spokesperson on the environment and sustainable development, Sylvain Gaudreault, and The member for Marie-Victorin and spokesperson for energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, say again the opposition of the Quebecois party to the reopening of the shale gas sector. Martine Ouellet has also supported the National Assembly today, the deposit of 30,000 refusal forms signed by citizens opposing the gas to the territory. Taking into account the 37,000 other forms filed in April 2012 is more than 65,000 citizens who say non-shale gas.

"It has become very clear: the Liberal government persists and signs. It tries to put in place the conditions that would allow a return of the shale gas sector to Quebec. Industry and Liberal government walk hand in hand to impose a reopening scenario of this sector. The obstinacy of the Liberals to support, against all common sense, the development of shale gases is very harmful. The citizens of the St. Lawrence Valley still say it today: the shale gas industry is not welcome on their land, "said Martine Ouellet.

Sylvain Gaudreault emphasizes that the Liberal government ignores the severe conclusions of the strategic environmental assessment (EAS) on shale gas. "The government has evidenced by the disturbing observations of the EAS on the industry, the risk of water contamination, the toxicity of hydraulic fracturing, and the rise in CO2 and methane emissions. EAS also concluded that the main environmental and social impacts of the shale gas industry occur in the exploratory stage. That is why the Parti Québécois had filed a moratory project, which was unfortunately blocked by the Liberals and the CAQ, "he added.

"The Liberal government does not listen to the voice of Quebecers, particularly that of the population living in the St. Lawrence Valley. With the Liberals, the Quebec territory is an open bar. Everyone can use it as good to make profits, regardless of the consequences and will of Quebeckers. We, the Parti Québécois, we have chosen to listen to the citizens and to favor the precautionary principle, "concluded Bernard Drainville. 
