Bécancour- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, believes that the establishment of the Center-du-Québec Economic Diversification Fund and Mauricie is a success that allowed To consolidate nearly 1,900 jobs and create more than 270 others, especially in the manufacturing sector. Since the funding of the Fund in 2013, financial support totaling more than $ 15.2 million has been granted to 25 projects estimated at nearly $ 73 million. 
"The economic diversification of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie, we support our successful and innovative businesses, which diversify and boost the economy of these two regions," said Élaine Zakaïb. "The 25 announced projects are real creators of wealth and jobs for Quebec. In particular, they promote the development of innovative products, and contribute to the growth of our companies, which are eloquent demonstrations of our immense potential. » 
Through this fund, 9 subsidies totaling $ 3,253,889 and 16 loans without interest amounting to $ 11,952,536 were allocated to 25 projects (see the list of companies that benefited from this support for the Annex I). The latter were authorized by a project review committee set up in 2013. 
Over the past year, members of the Center-du-Québec Economic Diversification Table and Mauricie have developed a strategy for mobilizing and implementing the Center-du-Québec's Economic Diversification Plan and Mauricie, in collaboration with the two relevant regional directorates of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy. Information sessions on the terms of the Fund, intended for companies and economic partners, have thus taken place in each of the regional county municipalities (MRC) of the Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie. 
The Ministry of Finance and the Economy also plans to organize a sensitization activity for SMEs in relation to the Economic Diversification Plan of these two regions. This activity would aim to publicize the techniques used in collegiate technology transfer centers (CCTTs) and to further stimulate the application of these in companies. 
In addition, the systematization of the strategic consultant by the department will make it possible to designate in a more targeted way the carrier projects, which would be eligible for financial support under the Center-du-Québec Economic Diversification Fund and of Mauricie. 
Finally, the Regional Directorate of Center-du-Québec is actively involved in the 2014 Bécancour Economic Project, which began on January 8th. 
"We rely on the mobilization of socio-economic actors to generate the interest of SMEs and stimulate investment projects," added Élain Zakaïb. "Our initiatives to promote the Fund already bear their fruits. Currently, we have 43 projects under consideration for 2014. This is a good example of the determination and commitment of our companies to ensure the economic vitality of their regions! » 
For more information on the Fund, the Table and Plan for the Economic Diversification of Center-du-Québec and Mauricie as well as on supported projects, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
Annex I 
List of companies that have benefited from the support of the Diversification Fund  Economic of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie 
Projects announced in 2013: 
Projects announced from February 3 to 7, 2014: 
