Asbestos- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, has set up a positive assessment of the RCM Economic Diversification Fund of the Sources, which, in 2013, allowed to consolidate nearly 130 jobs, especially in the manufacturing and tertiary engine sectors. 
"The MRC Source Economic Diversification Fund is an essential tool that allows the growth and growth of our businesses, while fully contributing to the dynamism of the Estrie region," said Élain Zakaïb. "The projects announced in 2013 under this Fund also promote the development of our entrepreneurial culture and stimulate job creation. » 
Through this fund, four subsidies totaling $ 167,585 and two interest-free loans amounting to $ 940,000 were granted to six investment projects estimated at nearly $ 2.4 million. Companies that have benefited from it, Canada's Greenhouses, Natur'Eau-Lake, Solutech, VR2 Distribution and Groll Products packaging systems. 
Over the past year, members of the Economic Diversification Table of the Sources also presented the Economic Diversification Strategy of the RCM Sources. Not only does this strategy aim to make the MRC's industrial supply more competitive, but it also meets a vision of sustainable development for the Estrie region. 
Several actions unveiled under this strategy are in progress, such as developing development plans for each company, based on the challenges facing and its growth opportunities, as well as support for entrepreneurs premises in the implementation of targeted projects. Members of the Economic Diversification Table of the Sources also ensure the participation and support of regional and national actors as well as different ministries associated with the diversification process. 
An interministerial committee has also been trained to ensure economic revitalization in the region through structuring projects. Initiatives related to the Economic Diversification Strategy and implemented by this Committee and the various regional partners have also been identified during a pre-summit meeting held last October. These will be unveiled in the spring, on the occasion of the Summary Summit on the Economic Diversification of the Sources, where the fruit of the interdepartmental committee and the regional partners will be presented. 
In addition, Investissement Québec is making its collaboration in search of international business opportunities. 
"The work continues: thirteen projects are currently under study," added Zakaïb Élain. "Our government is particularly proud to be able to count on a real mobilization of economic actors and specific businesses to grow and thrive their region by future projects that diversify the economy of the Sources. Sources. » 
For more information on the strategy, the Table and the Fund for the Economic Diversification of the Sources and on supported projects, consult the www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/strategiemrcsources. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
