Quebec - Here are the parliamentary deputies that will support the work of ministers. 
Mr. Leo Bureau-Blouin, a member of the riding of Laval-des-Rapides, is appointed Parliamentary Assistant to the Prime Minister (youth). 
Ms. Jeannine Richard, a member of the riding of the Islands of La-Madeleine, is appointed Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Fisheries). 
Mr. Gilles Chapadeau, Member of Parliament for the riding of Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue, is appointed Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women (Labor Relations). 
Ms. Diane Gadoury-Hamelin, Member of the House of Masson, is appointed Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women (Status of Women). 
Mr. Sylvain Pagé, a member of the Labelle district, is appointed Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport (Leisure and Sport). 
Mr. Alain Therrien, Member of Parliament for the riding of Sanguinet, is appointed Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade (Foreign Trade). 
Mr. André Villeneuve, Member of Parliament for the constituency of Berthier, is appointed Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory (municipal affairs). 
Mr. Denis Trottier, Member of the riding of Roberval, is appointed Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (Forest). 
Mr. Luc Ferland, a member of the Ungava constituency, is appointed Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (Nordic Affairs). 
Ms. Suzanne Proulx, a member of the riding of Sainte-Rose, is appointed Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language (Integration of Immigrants). 
Mr. Scott McKay, Member of Parliament for Repentigny, is appointed Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (Wildlife and Parks). 
Other parliamentary functions 
Mr. Stéphane Bédard, Member of Parliament for the riding of Chicoutimi, is appointed Parliamentary Leader of the Government. 
Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, Member of Parliament for Chambly, is appointed Deputy Parliamentary Leader of the Government. 
Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, member for the Johnson riding, is appointed Chief Government whip. 
Mr. Dave Turcotte, Member of Parliament for the riding of Saint John, is appointed Deputy Whip of the Government. 
Mr. Mathieu Traversy, Member of Parliament for the Terrebonne riding, is appointed Deputy Whip of the Government. 
Mr. Marjolain Dufour, Member of Parliament for René-Lévesque, is appointed Chairman of the Government Caucus. 
