Quebec, April 13, 2017- The spokespersons of the Parti Québécois in public health and justice, Sylvain Pagé and Véronique Hivon, find that the bill today filed by the federal government, which legalizes marijuana consumption For recreational purposes, raises many questions about its concrete application. As a result, they say, a debate on the issue must be held in Quebec. 
In short - this bill raises many questions about its application in Quebec (distribution, health and public safety ...) .- The Couillard government had 18 months to prepare Quebec, but did not do it. Parti Québécois wishes that a mandate of initiative, accompanied by a public consultation, quickly puts itself in question to conduct a Quebec reflection on the subject. The health and safety of young people and the general population must guide all Our decisions. ** 
"In the field, Quebec, which will have to handle the consequences of this bill, particularly with respect to the distribution of cannabis and the effects of its legalization on public health and safety. Today, projectors are focused on Ottawa, which files a bill; However, in the future, Quebec will have to handle the consequences. Quebeckers are worried and the corporate debate never took place. It's very worrying, "said Sylvain Pagé. 
"Will we confide the distribution of the product to a public entity such as the SAQ, or will turn to the private sector? How will the product be taxed and according to what percentage? What will revenue related to taxation? What should we do to prevent young people from deduce that it does not matter? The minimum legal age must be set at 18 or older? In our view, we can not save a non-partisan consultation that could move to listen to Quebeckers and experts. Finally, we must not lose sight of the municipal landing, which is often responsible for ensuring peace and the good order on its territory. It will be necessary to evaluate the possibility of ensuring a uniform framework, "added the member. 
In addition, the coffering that surrounded the bill concretely illustrates the dysfunction of Canadian federalism, says Véronique Hivon. "Quebec has been completely excluded from Ottawa's approach. He was confiscated the debate. We are put in front of the fact accomplished, without any collaboration or consultation, while Quebec assumes all impacts, whether in the field of public health, social issues or public safety. We must not forget the costs of all this organization. In short, it is time for Quebec to make all its decisions! She concluded. 
