Québec- The member for Gouin, Françoise David, the member for Masson and Parliamentary Assistant of the Minister Delegate to the Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Diane Gadoury-Hamelin, as well as the hon. Member for Saint-Henri-Sainte-Anne, Marguerite Blais, join their voices to ask the members of the Parliamentary Commission on Health and Social Services to look at the petition asking for a reform of services for deaf and hard of hearing 
"It's an honor for me to present this petition to the National Assembly. My colleagues and I want to familiarize the population with the reality of the deaf people and to raise awareness of the problems of access to a quality interpretation service so that the petition is studied in parliamentary committee, "said David. 
Constructing the time from a press briefing, parliamentarians have been concerned about the difficulties incurred by the deaf and hard of hearing persons with regard to the lack of access to quality interpreters. 
"My Colleague Minister Delegate to Social Services and the Protection of Youth and I are sensitive to the needs and concerns of the deaf and hard of hearing community. We receive with open their requests and believe that the collaborative work of parliamentarians will identify interesting leads to improve access and quality of interpretation services, "said Gadoury-Hamelin. 
"There is still a long way to travel in Quebec to recognize the essential role of trained and accredited interpreters that serve as a relays in the communications level for deaf and hearing impaired in their essential needs. There is also a lot of way to go to recognize the LSQ as the language of the deaf of Quebec. Quebec is lagging behind in the recognition of the rights of the deaf and for these reasons, I support this petition. This cause transcends the parties and touches us all and I sincerely hope that the National Assembly will agree to seize this petition in parliamentary committee, "said Ms. Blais. 
For the instigator of the petition, herself hearing, Marie-Andrée Boivin, the right to accessibility for the deaf who form 10% of the population needs a boost. "The interpreters, essential pivots of communication, practice a profession where training and bilingualism are not required. The scandal of the communication break of the impressor interpreter at the funeral of Nelson Mandela is part of the daily lives of Quebec. » 
"To avoid a person to have to dial every day with an untrained and unrated performer, which we need is above all tags to avoid the duplication of the structures and promote the standardization, whether for the 'offer of service, professional assessment, training or development of an accessible interpreter bank, "said LSQ Linguistics Professor and Linguistics of the UQAM, Anne-Marie Parisot. 
Vincent Bilodeau, a comedian involved with the Foundation of the Deaf of Quebec, summed up his thoughts with a quote from the Dictionary of the Sign Language: "In any society, the language is a privileged tool since it allows the communication of some with others. The deaf also have a language, that of the signs, which allows them to communicate not only between them, but also with the "hearing" environment. 
