Québec- The spokesman for the Parti Québécois on transport, maritime strategy, electrification of transport and digital strategy, Martine Ouellet, as well as the spokesman responsible for the Boiler Area? Appalaches, Harold Lebel, Support the group "No to a black tide in the St. Lawrence", which has filed a petition of more than 10,000 signatures against the Oil Petroleum Transportation Project of the Company Terminals. The Group asks to be heard by the members of the Committee on Transport and the Environment, as provided for in parliamentary rules. 
"Since the Lac-Mégantic disaster, citizens, everywhere in Quebec, are worried about the impacts that can have hydrocarbon transport by train. This is the smallest thing that the government agrees to meet with the Group's representatives and to hear them in parliamentary committee. This transport project of millions of oil barrels on our rails puts our at-risk populations, "says Martine Ouellet. 
The Parti Québécois refuses that Quebec is being transformed into highway for the export of oil to international markets, whether by train or by pipeline, and that it must assume all environmental risks without being able to learn from it would be. The Prime Minister must finally stand for the safety of Quebeckers and cope with the oil lobby of Canada and the Western Provinces, instead of hiding behind equalization to justify his complicity. 
"Citizens are asking for a BAPE, but the Minister of the Environment opposes it so far. In these circumstances, the Group should at least have the opportunity to present and defend its petition in parliamentary committee. The citizens of the Montérégie, the Chaudière-Appalaches and my region, the Bas-Saint-Laurent, are right to be worried and oppose this project that provides transportation, through their territory, of 170,000 Barrels of oil a day. Quebeckers would not benefit any profit and assume all risks? It is absolutely not question, "added the hon. Member for Rimouski, Harold Lebel. 
