Quebec- While the largest consolidation of Quebec real estate owners is pronounced against Ottawa's decision to impose a toll on the new Champlain Bridge, the member for Vachon and the official opposition spokesman for transport, Martine Ouellet, the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the metropolis, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the member for Verchères and Spokespersons in Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, ask the Minister of Transport, Robert Poti, To clarify what it made concretely to defend, facing the federal government, the Quebec consensus against the toll. 
"Several speakers are pronounced against toll; Today, it is the turn of the Quebec Urban Development Institute. According to the organization, whose members hold real estate assets estimated at $ 30 billion, the toll would have the effect of isolating Montreal even more. The minister can not afford to take the situation lightly; The toll would generate too much negative impacts for the south shore and the metropolis. At the end of the lips, Robert Poëti opposes the toll, but what did he do, concretely against Ottawa? No matter what it claims, it is clear that the federal government continues to ignore it, almost a year after its appointment, "said Martine Ouellet. 
"Several studies have demonstrated: a toll on the new Champlain bridge would have catastrophic effects on other bridges connecting the island to the South Shore and, ultimately, on the Montreal economy. On the one hand, the federal government is in a decision that will be harmful for the metropolis and, on the other, the Quebec government is only opposed with words. Who will rise to defend the interest of Quebeckers in this file? Who will understand the federal government that a toll on the new Champlain bridge would be completely foolish? Added Jean-François Lisée. 
"Philippe Couillard has funny priorities. For him, fighting the unilateral policies of Ottawa, it's just chicane, but cut in support for families, health and education is to be courageous. The Liberals should realize that it is not enough to pronounce against the toll; They must now spend speech on the actions, and put pressure on the federal government to meet Quebeckers' concerns. Because it was found in the Firearms Registry record: the liberal method of the flat-ventry against Ottawa does not give any results, "concluded Stéphane Bergeron. 
