Quebec - The member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesman for the official opposition for seniors, Carole Poirier, has arrested the minister responsible for seniors, Marguerite Blais, this morning at the Blue Fair of the National Assembly. "Without demonstrating a complete insensitivity to the quality of life of seniors in Quebec, the minister refuses to act. It does not take any concrete way to ensure that our elderly people improve their quality of life and it is deplorable, "denounced Carole Poirier at the end of the two-hour debate. 
"In Ontario, the minimum amount granted to the preparation of seniors' meals is $ 7.31 / day by eldest and is entered into the law. In Quebec, nothing is provided for in the law, which opens the door to significant differences between institutions and may result in unfortunate cases of malnutrition among our elders. It's intolerable. Why so great disparity? The minister has the power to have a minimum amount in the law and refuses to do so, "continued the hon. Member. 
"Same principle for the temperature of the water in the residences. After seeing many cases of elderly scalded, does not the minister think that it would be time for the building board to impose a maximum water temperature in the residences? Does she wait for other cases before acting? It's aberrant and the minister has to put a gesture from here Christmas, she has the means to do it, what does she expect? » 
Carole Poirier also asked for a parliamentary committee to take stock of CHSLD's first PPP project. "The Savoie Group, which got the first CHSLD contract in PPP mode, is also a generous donor at the Liberal Fund. We feel like reliving the scandal of liberal daycares and construction contracts, but at what price for our elders? The member questioned the member. "Why does Marguerite Blais tolerate more than the beneficiary who work in this type of CHSLD do not have the training that is required in the public network, all that, to the detriment of seniors who live there? » 
The member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve took advantage of this interpellation to testify to the Minister the declaration of the national appointment of the generations organized by the Institute of the New World which calls for "a real policy of the ages which [...] will allow to tame aging, for the common good ". 
