It is to admit that the liberal government leading the Quebec boat is inevitably leading us towards a vertiginous fall with respect to the protection of our environment. Since the Minister HROLETEL holds the rudder of the environment, green projects fall into the water and examples rain with the disastrous management of the wastewater spill in Montreal last fall and immobility anchored in the project. Derivation of the Great Lakes of the City of Waukesha where Admiral Heurtel has not positioned, threatening these rivers, economic maritime vectors of Quebec. 
Unfortunately drift does not stop there, there is a serious lack of leadership in the protection of our wetlands as well as evident laxity in the filing of a new Quebec water strategy 2016-2030 to replace the policy national water. 
If these findings splash the Liberal Party, the figures drown the government in its own storm: less than 0.2% of the state budget is granted to the Ministry of the Environment and, in 10 years, the Ministry's budget was reduced by more than 5%. So it seems imperfect to talk about wave hollow: the Liberal Party gets bogged with their mismanagement of the green background, their cuts, especially in supporting the mission of watershed organizations and in the environmental inspections of the center of Environmental monitoring of Quebec, while presenting targets in terms of reduction of greenhouse gases, without however put the necessary means to reach them. Quebec must change course. 
As a spokesperson for the official opposition in terms of sustainable development, environment and climate change, it is my duty to emphasize this shortfall and the tribune allows me to put on the surface the ideas Durable for a green and blue Quebec. With the Quebec party at the Quebec bar, we will be on the rails of the electrification of transport, renewable energies and collective and alternative transport while being sovereigns of what flows in our rivers. Quebec is distinguished from other provinces, including its position in the face of oil and it is time to act accordingly. 
Independence is to take control of its territory and open all the doors of development that Quebec wishes for its economy and jobs. Independence is the freedom to affirm our environmental skills without detour on our infrastructure and territory. Making a country is to be a committed voice and active in favor of fighting climate change and environmental protection around the world. 
The PLQ does not protect our blue wealth, put the course on the PQ. 
