Quebec- Sylvain Gaudreault, Member of Parliament for Jonquière, Leader of the Official Opposition and Spokesman for Sustainable Development, Mathieu Traversy, MP and Spokesperson for the environment, as well as Martine Ouellet, MP Vachon and spokesperson for transportation and electrification of transport, strongly denounce the refusal of the Government of Philippe Couillard to take the turn of sustainable mobility. 
"In terms of sustainable development, without major restructuring, the Government of Quebec is moving towards a secure failure; It will not respect its commitments to reduce GHG emissions. It is well known, the transport sector represents the main emitter of greenhouse gas in Quebec, cumulating, for the year 2013, almost half of these emissions. Sustainable mobility is therefore an essential solution to combating climate change, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"Since the Paris Conference, the Prime Minister has never converted his" green "speech into concrete gestures. The Parti Québécois has demonstrated: beyond the words, the programs funded by the Green Fund are poorly designed, often do not have measurable goals and, above all, do not reach the expected results. This is particularly the case for the programs managed by the Ministry of Transport, "says Mathieu Traversy for his part. 
"In the dossier of sustainable mobility, it is the crisis of perpetual trust; This government has mainly characterized by chronic instability, with three successive transport ministers, and an underfunded transport electrification plan that will return its target of 100,000 electric vehicles by 2020 by at least 20%, of His admission, "added Martine Ouellet. 
MPs are categorical: cosmetic adjustments under the Ministry of Transport, to add "sustainable mobility" and "electrification of transport" will change nothing; No long-term vision of sustainable mobility has emerged in this government with mid-term. "The Ministry of Transport must abandon its losing strategy for the" case by case ". We demand from the government that it develops a Quebec plan for sustainable mobility with ambitious and consistent targets, and which will be supported by enhanced funding for mass deployment of the public transport supply. It is needed to reach our GHG reduction targets, "they asked. 
Remember that the Parti Québécois, during its newest passage in power, posed structural gestures. In 2013, he tabled the 2013-2017 Transport Electrification Strategy, with much more funding than the current Liberal Transport Electrification Plan. In 2014, the Parti Québécois also tabled a national sustainable mobility strategy that included a $ 1 billion transfer to collective transport infrastructure. 
