In a letter of opinions published on April 11 in the press, the Minister responsible for the Canadian Relations and Francophonie, Jean-Marc Fournier, proposes, in the image of his Prime Minister, a jovialist portrait of the situation of French, both in Quebec and Canada. I invite him rather to remove his pink glasses and watch reality in front. 
Mr. Fournier is pleased to see that "85% of the newcomers knew French on their arrival or learned it in our schools, for children, or by the Francization Department of the Ministry of Immigration, for adults.". 
Nevertheless, it means that 15% of newcomers do not speak a word of French, do not take any steps and get no service to get there. Moreover, a study of the Institute for Research in Contemporary Economics, published last January, demonstrates that more than 50% of immigrants who do not know French do not register with any French class. However, in one case as in the other, statistics should rather near zero percent. 
In Montreal, the proportion of people whose mother tongue is French is now less than 50%. Meanwhile, the Government of which Jean-Marc Fournier is part of the francization programs. As for the workplace francization, for example, the available amounts declined by half, from $ 8 million to $ 4 million. While the minister becomes awarded, the situation, she continues to worsen. 
On the Canadian side, the minister exults by seeing flags, or common statements with other provinces to be agreed. So many purely symbolic gestures that hide the sad reality: the proportion of households whose mother tongue is French decreases inexorably. According to the last census, this proportion increased from 4.3% in 2006 to 4.2% in 2011. Even in New Brunswick, only officially bilingual province, for the same period, the proportion of persons stating that they have the As a mother tongue decreased by 0.5%. Little by little, French is stretching across Canada. 
Jean-Marc Fournier tells us that "fostering the resonance of our language, in Canada is to promote the emergence and development of our belonging within it". What this pompous sentence hides is that the petticoat exceeds. On the one hand, the minister instrumentalizes the language and his speakers to fumble his option to make Quebec a "province like the others", while the fact is, on the contrary, no matter whether we are independentist or federalist The defense and the promotion of French must constitute priority objectives in itself and not secondary issues subject to political and partisan considerations. On the other hand, Mr. Fournier envisages the linguistic debate only in the sole Canadian framework, while this question arises with the same acuteness for all French-speaking communities in America who strive, good, good, of Do not be swallowed by the English-speaking ocean in which they bathe. 
I do not recognize myself more in the narrow reading that the Minister of Claims and the acquis of the tranquil revolution, when he sets out his Manichean vision of "at home", as opposed to "at home". I think, however, that it is fully "we" that we can better initiate, develop and maintain an open and constructive relationship with the other, these "them" to which the minister referred. 
We must imperatively drop the pink glasses as well as the blinders, because the responsibility to defend with pragmatism our common language goes hand in hand with its radiation beyond our borders. 
Before this observation, which seems to escape the Minister Fournier, the answer should not be to welcome the results that should, on the contrary, make us snap, but rather to redouble his ardor, to reinvest in francization and to go new Efforts for the French language to be growing, in Quebec as elsewhere in America, rather than declining, as is currently the case. That's what the minister and the entire Liberal government should do, rather than getting excited by preparing the Federation's 150th anniversary of the 150th anniversary, while the signing of Quebec is still absent at the bottom of the Canadian Constitution. . 
Stéphane Bergeronde MEP of Québécois Party for Quebec's Quebec-Canada and Francophonie Relations of America 13 April 2016 
