Québec- The Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, traces a very positive assessment of the Quebec Mines 2013, where nearly 5,000 participants appeared at the Quebec Congress Center from 11 to 14 November. 
On the science-innovation-society theme, 1,900 delegates exchanged on the importance of research, new practices and social responsibility in mining development. "We want Quebec to be an example of responsible development, respectful of the environment and in dialogue with communities. And that's what a mobilizing event such as Quebec Mines allows us to do, "said Martine Ouellet. 
The addition of an international component has highlighted Quebec expertise in mining and mining development with foreign delegates. This has also concretized the will to make Quebec Mines the most important mining congress of La Francophonie. Indeed, delegates from 20 countries responded to the invitation of Quebec. Delegations of Burkina-Faso, Cameroon, France, Gabon and Russia were present. 
The Ministry of Natural Resources has unveiled the results of its annual work acquisition of geoscience knowledge. This year, this work has made it possible to locate 45 new exploration targets. Their unveiling sparked the capture of a hundred claims in the minutes that followed. 
QUEBEC MINESPOUR ALL, THE YOUTH YOUTH AND YOUTH COMPANY OF QUEBEC MINES, has been a great success! Some 2,000 elementary and high school students, accompanied by their teachers, were captivated by the M4S show. This interactive exhibition allowed them to make an incursion into the world of geosciences and minerals, to read the novelties of the mining sector, to meet the passionate who work there and to discover the importance of this sector in their daily lives. "This exhibition gives the taste to our young people to go to mining sector jobs that are jobs for the future for Quebec," said Martine Ouellet. In addition, 600 citizens took advantage of the open day. 
More than 250 job seekers have presented at the crossroads of employment and teaching. Participants were able to exchange with Employers in the Quebec mining sector and educational institutions. They also had the chance to learn more about jobs related to mining cycles and the skills sought. 
The Ministry of Natural Resources will hold its next Congress from 17 to 20 November 2014. 
Quebec Mines is organized by the Ministry of Natural Resources in collaboration with the Quebec Mining Association, the Canadian Institute of Mines, Metallurgy and Petroleum, the Mining Industry Labor Sectoral Committee, Quebec International, the National Institute of Mines and 48th North International. 
