Saint-Alexis-des-Monts- Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Mr. Élain Zakaïb, on behalf of the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announcing $ 2.4 million investments to improve the Company's infrastructure of Quebec Outdoor Institutions (Sépaq) in the Mauricie region. "We are investing in order to improve accessibility to these territories, to continue to set up public service infrastructure standards and ensure the sustainability of built heritage. In doing so, our government creates jobs that will accelerate Quebec's economic growth, "said the minister. 
The wildlife reserves of the region obtain $ 2.4 million for the improvement of the road network and the implementation of the infrastructure dedicated to the clientele of wildlife reserves, including chalets. The Saint-Maurice Wildlife Reserve is investment totaling $ 1.4 million, while the Mastigouche Wildlife Reserve is $ 2.2 million, of which $ 1 million will be used to perform refurbishment work in this region. 
All these investments are part of the economic policy of the Government of Quebec, entitled Priority Employment and unveiled by the Prime Minister of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, last fall. 
Remember that this target economic policy, in its first component, four flagship measures to stimulate job creation now, including the acceleration of government investments for the renovation and modernization of public infrastructure, including those of the sepait. 
The second part of the Employment Priority Economic Policy aims in particular to stimulate the strength of successful companies, such as the tourism industry in Quebec, in order to compete on the international scene. From this component, structuring investments will allow the sepaQ to participate in the tourism strategy as part of the development of the St. Lawrence River and the development of winter tourism in different regions. 
Overall, the investments associated with the Priority Employment Policy on the Wildlife Reserves of the Sépaq of the Mauricie region will create 22 jobs, including 12 direct jobs. Across Quebec, the investments associated with the two components of this policy should create 702 jobs, including 384 direct jobs, and report $ 10 million in tax revenues and parafiscal in the Caps of the State by 2017. "These Investments confirm the role of separiba as a lever for economic development in the regions of Quebec, "said the President and CEO of the SEPQ, Mr. Raymond Desjardins. 
