Saint-André-Avelin- The Minister responsible for the Outaouais Region, Stéphane Bergeron, has announced $ 3.11 million investments to improve the Infrastructure of the Society of Outdoor Institutions of Quebec (SETAQ ) in the area of the Outaouais. "We are investing in order to improve accessibility to these territories, to continue to set up public service infrastructure standards and ensure the sustainability of built heritage. In doing so, our government creates jobs that will accelerate Quebec's economic growth, "said the minister. 
The wildlife reserves of the region obtain $ 2,11 million for improving the road network and the highlighting of customer dedicated infrastructure, including cottages. The Papineau-Labellebrequest Revival The subject of investments totaling $ 1.75 million, of which $ 742,000 will be used for work in Outaouais. For its part, LaReserve La Vérendryerecevra $ 3 million, including an amount of $ 1.372 million will be devoted to its infrastructure in this region. 
As for the tourist tourism of Lac-Simon, important tourist call for the Outaouais, will benefit from $ 1 million for the development of a children's playground and for the setting up to its networks of its networks. aqueduct, sewer and electricity as well as for the refurbishment of a bridge. 
All these investments is part of the Government of Quebec's economic policy, Employee and Prime Minister of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, on October 7th. 
Remember that this target economic policy, in its first component, four flagship measures to stimulate job creation now, including the acceleration of government investments for the renovation and modernization of public infrastructure, including those of the sepait. 
The second part of the Employment Priority Economic Policy aims in particular to stimulate the vigor of successful business, such as the tourism industry in Quebec, to support competition on the international scene. From this component, structuring investments will allow the sepaQ to participate in the tourism strategy as part of the development of the St. Lawrence River and the development of winter tourism. 
Overall, the investments associated with the different components of the Priority Employment Policy in the Outaouais Region's separate establishments will create 16 jobs, including 12 are direct jobs. At the Quebec scale, these investments will create 702 jobs, including 384 direct jobs, and report $ 10 million in tax revenues and parafiscal in the Caps of the State by 2016. "These investments confirm the role of sepait. Economic development lever in the regions of Quebec, "said the President and Chief Executive Officer of Sépaq, Mr. Raymond Desjardins. 
