Mont-Tremblant - The member for Labelle and Government Manager of the Laurentians Region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, announces investments of $ 9.03 million in national parks and wildlife reserves managed by the Society of Outdoor Institutions of Quebec (Sepaq) in the Laurentians region. "We are investing in order to develop winter tourism, improve accessibility to these territories, to continue to set up public service infrastructure standards and ensure the sustainability of built heritage. In doing so, our government creates jobs that will accelerate Quebec's economic growth, "said the member. 
Identified as one of the major partners of the new tourist development strategy of the region, the Mont-Tremblant National Park already offers a winter offer that will be developed in connection with certain regional projects. The sepait will deploy a circuit of high mountain peaks promoting Nordic skiing and off-piste racket. The project also aims at the development of a multifunctional trail that will complement the large loop for the portion between Monroe Lake and the entrance to the park. This trail will link to several attractions in the area such as Mont-Tremblant, Domaine Saint-Bernard and the Fraternity-sur-Lake project. These $ 3.5 million investments complement the existing supply of winter activities as well as the recent development phase that has seen the development of a new discovery and service center. 
Also in the Mont-Tremblant National Park, an additional $ 3.4 million will be invested, including $ 1.38 million in the Laurentides region for setting up campsites in the devil and hidden sectors. 
The wildlife reserves of the region also get significant amounts for the improvement of the road network and the implementation of infrastructure dedicated to their customers, including chalets. The Papineau-Labelle Wildlife Reserve is investment totaling $ 1.75 million, including $ 1 million in the Laurentians region, while the Red-Matawin Wildlife Reserve is $ 1.1 million, including 600,000. $ will be used for work in this region. 
At the end of these announcements, the member for Bertrand, Claude Cousineau, was very happy with these investments and the economic benefits they generate in the region. 
All these investments is part of the Government of Quebec's economic policy, Employee and Prime Minister of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, on October 7th. 
Remember that this target economic policy, in its first component, four flagship measures to stimulate job creation now, including the acceleration of government investments for the renovation and modernization of public infrastructure, including those of the sepait. 
The second part of the Employment Priority Employment Policy aims in particular to comply with the vigor of successful enterprises, as Québec's tourism industry, to support competition on the international scene. From this component, structuring investments will allow the sepaQ to participate in the tourism strategy as part of the development of the St. Lawrence River and the development of winter tourism. 
Overall, investments associated with the various components of the Priority Employment Policy in the Laurentian Region's separate establishments will create nearly 45 jobs, half of which are direct jobs. At the Quebec scale, these investments will create 702 jobs, including 384 direct jobs, and report $ 10 million in tax revenues and parafiscal in the Caps of the State by 2016. "These investments confirm the role of sepait. Economic development lever in the regions of Quebec, "said the President and Chief Executive Officer of Sépaq, Mr. Raymond Desjardins. 
