Quebec- As a result of the Council of Ministers' meeting, the Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, said, "All Quebeckers are affected by the drama that hit the community of Lac-Mégantic. We are invaded by a sense of devastation, but also by great solidarity. It's all Quebec that has been mourning since that fateful night. She announced that the government made available $ 60 million to help the Lac-Mégantic community get up. 
A first $ 25 million - immediately available - has been unlocked for emergency help. "As early as Monday, evacuated families will be eligible for lump sum first appeal, an amount of $ 1,000," said the premier. 
In all, $ 8 million will be dedicated to emergency assistance for people and $ 7 million will be allocated to the municipality to help it at most pressing. The direct costs incurred to meet the incident will be refunded at 100%. The city will be offset over a period of two years for the loss of tax revenue due to damaged or destroyed buildings for which it will not affect taxes. 
For the affected companies and their employees, the government has planned $ 10 million, always for emergency assistance, which will allow their relocation as well as the resumption of their activities. "These 25 million emergency assistance will be quickly paid, which will allow the Lac-Mégantic community to move forward," added the Prime Minister. 
A second $ 25 million is available to help the municipality. This amount will be used to plan the reconstruction of the city center and its infrastructure to make it a place where it will be a good way. A modern, dynamic and safe city, where green and commercial areas will rub shoulders. 
The first minister stated that it was "a first helping hand. It's a slim consolation, but we will help Lac-Mégantic rebuild a beautiful and attractive city center. What I want is that this reconstruction becomes a mobilizing project, both for the municipality and for its citizens. » 
Quebec's efforts have been coordinated since the first hours by the Quebec Civil Security Organization, which is setting up an aid and information office that will be open from Monday morning. 
The tragedy that hit this community has also had serious repercussions on the economy. To assist in its rapid recovery, the Council of Ministers has decided to create a $ 10M economy aid fund, whose parameters will be defined later, in collaboration with the Community. 
To signify the deep sadness and solidarity of the whole Quebec nation, the Premier requested that the Quebec flag be in the half of all public buildings for a week. The flags will be in Bern from tomorrow morning, July 11, until Wednesday, July 17 at the end of the day. 
The Premier concluded by affirming "that in addition to our sadness, we feel a feeling of legitimate anger. In time and place, both the company and the authorities concerned will be accountable. Ever such event should have happened. The questions are numerous and all the answers will have to be given. But today, our concerns are turned towards the community, the municipality and the environment. » 
For more information, see Governmental Action LePlan on a railway accident occurring on July 6, 2013 in the city of Lac-Mégantic (PDF) 
Watch press clause. 
