Paris- At the invitation of President François Hollande, Certificate mission in France of the first Minister to contact the French political authorities. On his arrival, Monday, Pauline Marois spoke with President Hollande. 
"I am very satisfied with this first visit to France. We were warmly welcomed. Our relationship with France is based on a common history, but also on ties of deep friendship. Quebec and France have been maintaining a direct and privileged relationship for more than 50 years. This tour has allowed us to start a new phase that will deepen this political, cultural, social and economic relationship, "rejoiced the Prime Minister. 
On this occasion, the two Governments launched the basis for a new stage based on innovation and creativity concerning in particular youth, culture and the economy, in order to concretely devote the uniqueness of the Franco relation -Webecoise. 
Ms. Marois also met with his French counterpart, Mr. Jean-Marc Ayrault, who will visit Quebec as part of the alternating tours of prime ministers at the beginning of 2013. 
In addition, she spoke with the Minister of Economy and Finance, Pierre Moscovici, the Speaker of the Senate, Jean-Pierre Bel, as well as the President of the National Assembly, Claude Bartolone . Ms. Marois also spoke to the French Institute of International Relations (IFRI), one of the most influential research institutes in France. 
At the last day of his mission in France, the Premier also met with Mr. Alain Juppé, Mr. Jean-Pierre Raffarin and Mr. François Fillon, three former prime ministers of France. 
These meetings were preceded in the morning by an exchange before a group of business people gathered at the initiative of the France (MEDEF) International and Investissement Québec, during which it emphasized the Importance of economic relations between France and Quebec. 
"France is a natural and unavoidable economic partner for Quebec. In fact, this country ranks second for the number of foreign companies located in Quebec, which represents some 300 français subsidiaries that contribute to the development of our economy. In addition, nearly 150 Quebec companies are present in France, "said the premier. 
It further emphasized that joint actions related to the Global Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union, as well as the Quebec-France Agreement on the Mutual Recognition of Professional Qualifications, illustrate the Innovation capacity of Franco-Quebec cooperation. 
Finally, the Prime Minister presented certain measures that Quebec was planning to put forward in economic development, including the creation of an economic development bank as well as the development of a manufacturing development strategy and a Entrepreneurial succession aid program. 
In 2011, trade with France totaled $ 4.1 billion, making it the fifth trading partner of Quebec abroad. 
