Chicoutimi- Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean Region, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, announces investments of $ 4.2 million for the infrastructure improvement of the Quebec Outdoor Institutions (Sépaq) In the national parks of the Monts Valin and Fjord-du-Saguenay, in the Saguenay-Saint-Laurent Marine Park as well as in the wildlife reserves of the Laurentians and Ashuapmushuan. "We are investing in order to highlight the St. Lawrence and also in order to improve accessibility to these beautiful territories, to continue to set up public service infrastructure standards and ensure the sustainability of built heritage. In doing so, our government creates jobs that will accelerate Quebec's economic growth, "says the minister. 
The Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region has several separate establishments, many of which have international reputation. The Monts Valin National Park, famous for its ghost valley, will see its asphalt entry route with $ 500,000. Further south, in the Fjord-du-Saguenay National Park, $ 300,000 will be invested to restore a youth cure to the fjord path that many hikers borrow each year with the purpose of meeting this beautiful landscape. The improvement of the Sainte-Marguerite gateway will be part of this trail rehabilitation. 
In addition, a total amount of $ 4.3 million has been authorized for work involving the Laurentian Wildlife Reserve, of which $ 812,000 will be allocated to the area of the reserve in the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Saint- Saint-Saint-Saint-Saint Region. Jeans. As with those of the AshuapMushuan Wildlife Reserve, which will amount to $ 1.1 million, this work will affect the road network and putting the infrastructure standards dedicated to the reserve, including chalets. 
Saguenay-Saint-Laurent Marine Park, jointly managed by Parks Québec and Parks Canada, will be given $ 1.5 million to implement the new "Parks Course" technology application, developed by Parks Québec in the Various areas of discovery highlighting the peculiarities of this marine environment, recognized worldwide. 
All these investments is part of the Government of Quebec's economic policy, Employee and Prime Minister of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, on October 7th. 
Remember that this target economic policy, in its first component, four flagship measures to stimulate job creation now, including the acceleration of government investments for the renovation and modernization of public infrastructure, including those of the sepait. 
The second component of economic policy will include stimulating the strength of successful businesses, such as the tourism industry in Quebec, in order to support competition on the international scene. From this component, structuring investments will allow the sepaQ to participate in the tourism strategy as part of the development of the St. Lawrence River and the development of winter tourism. 
In total, the investments associated with these two components should create 702 jobs, including 384 direct jobs, and report $ 10 million in tax revenues in the Caps of the State by 2016. "These investments confirm the role of sepait. Lever for economic development in the regions of Quebec, "says the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Sépaq, Mr. Raymond Desjardins. 
