Boucherville- The Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Yves-François Blanchet, and the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport and Minister responsible for the Montérégie Region, Ms. Marie Malavoy, announced $ 8.2 million investments in the Boucherville Islands National Park managed by the Society of Quebec Outdoor Institutions (Sépaq). 
"We are investing in order to highlight the St. Lawrence. In doing so, our government creates, on a three-year horizon, jobs that will accelerate Quebec's economic growth, "said Minister Blanchet. 
For its part, Minister Malavoy has been satisfied with confirming these investments. "The Boucherville Islands National Park, with its facilities, is both a remarkable tourist product and a place of conservation and education with exceptional environmental value near the metropolis. » 
Investment projects already in progress in the Boucherville Islands National Park, which will allow the construction of a new center of discovery and services and a river reception station, a sum of 8 $ 2 million is added to facilitate access to the entire archipelago: discovery stop planning to increase contact with the river, a bridge development to optimize access to the archipelago Developing an original hosting offer and improvement of Montreal transportation opportunities to the park by borrowing the river. Thus, the Boucherville Islands National Park will become a very accessible nature getaway, a single outdoor initiation and a promotional showcase for the other national parks in Quebec. 
All these investments is part of the economic policy of the Government of Quebec, Employee and Prime Minister of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, last fall. 
Remember that this target economic policy, in its first component, four flagship measures to stimulate job creation now, including the acceleration of government investments for the renovation and modernization of public infrastructure, including those of the sepait. 
The second part of the Employment Priority Economic Policy aims in particular to stimulate the strength of successful enterprises, such as the tourism industryDu Québec, in order to support competition on the international scene. From this component, structuring investments will allow the sepaQ to participate in the tourism strategy as part of the development of the St. Lawrence River and the development of winter tourism. 
Overall, the investments associated with the various components of the Priority Employment Policy in the separate establishments of the Montérégie region will create 81 jobs, including 30 are direct jobs. At the Quebec scale, these investments will create 702 jobs, including 384 direct jobs, and report $ 10 million in tax revenues and parafiscal in the Caps of the State by 2016. "These investments confirm the role of sepait. Economic development lever in the regions of Quebec, "said the President and Chief Executive Officer of Sépaq, Mr. Raymond Desjardins. 
