Quebec- The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale Region, Agnès Maltais, has announced investments of $ 27.6 million for the development and consolidation of the tourism offer in The Capitale-National Region. These projects, which affect a national park, two wildlife reserves and two tourist centers managed by the Society of Outdoor Establishments of Quebec (separiba), will help to distinguish Quebec on the international tourist scene. 
"In the unveiling of the Employment Priority Policy, we announced significant amounts for tourism development. The investments we present today are registering in line with our government vision. They will use the development of winter tourism and the development of the St. Lawrence. In addition, this will improve the accessibility of the targeted territories, to continue to put the standards of public service infrastructures and to ensure the sustainability of the built heritage, "said the Prime Minister. 
To the projects already underway at the Fall-Montmorency Park, for the development of a pole of international tourism activities, is added a sum of $ 8 million for the development, over three years of development From a passage behind the Montmorency Fall. In addition, to further enhance the sensory experience of visitors, a boat falling approach project is also under development for $ 1 million. Note that the Park of Fall-Montmorency is the second most visited attraction in the Capitale-Nationale region, after Old Quebec. 
"The development of our river is a way of expressing our fundamental nature and railing Quebec on international tourism markets," added the Prime Minister. 
"The St. Lawrence River is an integral part of the landscape of the Capitale National Region. It is the foundation of our identity and the thread of our history, "said Minister Maltese. 
The Jacques-Cartier National Park, located approximately 45 minutes from Quebec, will be granted $ 2 million to consolidate, within three years, its winter offer. A snow cruise and a nature discovery program are part of the projects. 
"The Capitale-Nationale Region is one of the most snowy in the world. This is why the development of winter tourism is naturally part of our intervention priorities to consolidate our positioning as a destination of choice for winter activities, "said Agnès Maltais. 
An amount of $ 2.7 million is also granted to Jacques-Cartier National Park to rebuild the main road. For their part, the wildlife reserves of the Laurentides and Portneuf will benefit from $ 3.49 million and $ 1.1 million for the repair of wastewater systems as well as for the setting up of road networks and infrastructures dedicated to the clientele, including that of the chalets. 
Added to this is $ 9.3 million for the Duchesnay tourist resort, of which $ 5.3 million will be devoted to the modernization of the Cerf Pavilion, which hosts the training and development center for the protection of the protection of the protection of the wildlife. Remember that the Center offers future wildlife protection agents a development training. 
In total, the investments associated with these two components should create 702 jobs, including 384 direct, and report $ 10 million in tax revenues and parafiscal in the Caps of the State by 2016. "These investments confirm the role of sepa. As a lever for economic development in the regions of Quebec, "said the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Sépaq, Mr. Raymond Desjardins. 
