Baie-Comeau- The member for René-Lévesque, Chief Whip of the Government and Head of the North Shore Region, Mr. Marjolain Dufour, on behalf of the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais announces the creation of the Regional Table on the Workforce in the Industrial and Construction Sectors. 
"By creating this table, the Quebec government demonstrates its desire to support employment in the region. There are currently major investment projects on the North Shore and we need to make sure that workers in the region contribute to their success and that the expected benefits benefit both citizens and citizens, to people. business and different communities. We are listening to the concerns expressed by labor and north-coastal actors and we are aware of the issues experienced in the territory, particularly those related to the phenomenon of commuting. The government acts responsibly by setting up a new consultation and mobilization body, "said Maltese minister. 
"The establishment of this new instance responds to a major issue that we live in the region in specific business sectors. Regionally, we need to tell us about the solutions to be put in place to ensure a promising future, both to our economy and citizens and their families. With this new place of exchanges, which brings together the actors of all circles, both the elected officials, the unions that employers, we increase the regional consultation level. We can say that we are all together mobilized for employment on the North Shore, "said MP Dufour. 
The table, which is under the responsibility of the Regional Council of the North Coast and Coordinated Labor Market Partners, a mandate to address the issues of the workforce, mainly in the sectors. industrial and construction. It will have to shed light on the difficulties that have contributed to the current situation and propose sustainable solutions to be implemented to remedy it effectively. 
The table is composed by: 
