Port-Daniel-Gascons- On behalf of the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, of which he is the Parliament Assistant, Mr. Sylvain Roy, also a member of Parliament for Bonaventure, Announced investments of $ 0.5 million in the Port-Daniel Wildlife Reserve, managed by the Society of Quebec Outdoor Institutions (Sépaq). 
"We invest with the aim of pursuing the standards of public service infrastructure and ensuring the sustainability of built heritage. In doing so, our government creates jobs that will accelerate Quebec's economic growth, "said the member. 
It should be noted that this $ 0.5 million is added to $ 12.05 million for several separate establishments in the Gaspésie region, including the Gaspésie National Park, the Cottage of Mont-Albert, the Chic-shock mountain hostel and the Chic-Chic Faunic Reserve. 
The Port-Daniel Wildlife Reserve, this 57 km2 territory where there are 25 trout lakes and a salmon river to dream, will benefit from $ 0.5 million to achieve infrastructure rehabilitation dedicated to the clientele, including the improvement of the road network and built heritage. The reconstruction of the bridge at the entrance of the reserve is also the program of the work to be carried out. 
All of these investments is part of the Government of Quebec's economic policy entitled Employment Priority and unveiled by the Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois on October 7. 
Remember that this target economic policy, in its first component, four flagship measures to stimulate job creation now, including the acceleration of government investments for the renovation and modernization of public infrastructure, including those of the sepait. 
The second part of the Employment Priority Economic Policy aims in particular to stimulate the vigor of successful business, such as the tourism industry in Quebec, to support competition on the international scene. From this component, structuring investments will allow the sepaQ to participate in the tourism strategy as part of the development of the St. Lawrence River and the development of winter tourism. 
Overall, the investments associated with the various components of the Priority Employment Policy in the separate establishments of the Gaspésie region will create 43 jobs, of which 38 are direct jobs. At the Quebec scale, these investments will create 702 jobs, including 384 direct jobs, and report $ 10 million in tax revenues and parafiscal in the Caps of the State by 2016. "These investments confirm the role of sepait. Economic development lever in the regions of Quebec, "said the President and Chief Executive Officer of Sépaq, Mr. Raymond Desjardins. 
