Témiscaming- The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, and the member for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue and Parliamentary Assistant of the Minister of Labor, Mr. Gilles Chapadeau, announce the allocation of $ 1,224,000 in three years to Tembec's Tembec company for the implementation of a workforce training plan. 
Employment support-Québec, endorsed by the labor market partners, is complementary to an investment of $ 2,894,364 in the company. The training plan will create 88 new jobs and will consolidate the jobs of 65 other workers. 
"For the Quebec government, it is important to support industry and forest workforce. In this sense, the investment of Jobs-Québec is a good example of this commitment since it allows, thanks to the improvement of the skills of workers, to help Tembec create and maintain quality jobs In the region. Ultimately, this assistance supports the corporation's turn to the niche of specialty cellulose and the extensive modernization project of its causing Témiscaming facilities, which will improve its competitiveness and To promote long-term prosperity, "said Maltese minister. 
"As the most important employer in the region, TEMBEC plays a leading role in regional economic dynamism. The Government of Quebec is not only proud to support the company's growth and diversification projects, but also invest in the talent and knowledge of people from here. The implementation of the labor skills development project will have positive benefits for workers in the region, their families and our economy. It will also retain forest expertise in our region, "said MP Gilles Chapadeau. 
While the paper industry is going through a restructuring period, TEMBEC has decided to focus on developing a growth-supported niche, that is specialty cellulose, to become one of the largest producers in the world. The manufacture of this dissolving paste, whose demand is very strong market growth, requires significant investments in the Industrial Témiscaming complex and further expertise on the part of the workforce. That is why TEMBEC will deploy a training plan for a total of 153 employees where each one will receive an average of 300 hours, followed by a training at the task of the companionship. The trained personnel comes from a variety of trades, including machinery operators, mechanics, electricians and instrumentalists. 
"I am pleased to see that we have the support of the Quebec government in our efforts to increase Tembec's performance in Témiscaming. Already, the allocation of an investment-Québec loan has allowed us to put a vast modernization project for our facilities. These improvements will enable us to increase our production capacity and become one of the largest global players in the pulp and paper sector. With the training plan of our staff, it is the growth of our company and the maintenance of our workforce we can ensure. One of the great challenges of our company will certainly be that of ensuring adequate labor management allowing us to cope with the scarcity of human resources and the aging of the population, "said Linda Coates, vice -President of human resources and corporate affairs at TEMBEC. 
Tembec is an integrated forest product manufacturing company with some 3,400 employees in Canada, the United States and France. The Industrial Témiscaming complex includes four factories. 
