Amos- The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister responsible for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue Region, François Gendron, announces investments of $ 2.63 million to improve the infrastructure of the Society of Quebec Outdoor Institutions (Sepaq) in Aiguebelle National Park and in the Wildlife Reserve La Vérendrye. "We invest with the aim of pursuing the standards of public service infrastructure and ensuring the sustainability of built heritage. In doing so, our government creates jobs that will accelerate Quebec's economic growth, "says the minister. 
A real natural jewel of the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region, Aiguebelle National Park will receive $ 1 million for the consolidation of its built heritage. The work will particularly affect the discovery center, this very place where the visit of a national park often begins. This work will also implement the new park course technology, developed by Parks Québec in the various areas of discovery highlighting the particularities of a natural environment. From this same amount, the park will also proceed with the standards of its wastewater system. 
In addition, a total amount of $ 3 million was authorized for work in the Wildlife Reserve La Vérendrye, of which $ 1.63 million will be allocated to the area of the Reserve in the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region. This work will affect the road network and putting the infrastructure standards dedicated to the customer's clientele, including chalets. 
All of these investments is part of the Government of Quebec's economic policy entitled Employment Priority and unveiled by the Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois on October 7. 
Remember that this target economic policy, in its first component, four flagship measures to stimulate job creation now, including the acceleration of government investments for the renovation and modernization of public infrastructure, including those of the sepait. 
The second part of the Employment Priority Economic Policy aims in particular to stimulate the vigor of successful business, such as the tourism industry in Quebec, to support competition on the international scene. From this component, structuring investments will allow the sepaQ to participate in the tourism strategy as part of the development of the St. Lawrence River and the development of winter tourism. 
In total, the investments associated with these two components should create 702 jobs, including 384 direct jobs, and report $ 10 million in tax revenues in the Caps of the State by 2016. "These investments confirm the role of sepait. Lever for economic development in the regions of Quebec, "says the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Sépaq, Mr. Raymond Desjardins. 
