Montréal - Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, announced an investment of $ 84 million for the addition of 208 km of reserved lanes in the great area of Montreal. For the occasion, it was accompanied by the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport. and Minister responsible for the Montérégie Region, Mrs Marie Malavoy and the Minister of Family and Minister responsible for the Laval Region, Ms. Nicole Léger. 
"The addition of collective transit measures in the Greater Montreal area is part of the vision of our government to facilitate the movement of road network users. The reserved routes will increase the efficiency of collective transport and make it more competitive by improving the speed, punctuality and regularity of buses, "said Minister Gaudreault. They will be added to the 209 km of existing reserved routes in the metropolitan area. 
Minister Gaudreault also indicated that "the financing of these measures by the MTQ will increase from 75% to 100% and that all of Quebec's public transit companies will be able to benefit from it. I thought I thought about the Mobility Montreal Committee to coordinate the implementation of these reserved routes, which it has already realized for a few years now. We also heard the demands of the citizens of Ahuntsic and my colleague, Diane de Courcy. A joint committee will be created between the MTQ and the Secretariat in the Metropolitan Area (SRM) to answer the questions of congestion on Papineau Street and the surrounding streets. » 
This committee also established, with transport companies in the Montreal region, an inventory of measures envisaged by these organizations. "The game plan we have given has the advantage of allowing better integrated planning of public transport interventions. In this sense, I welcome the work of the members of the committee who acted in the direction of government expectations and the population. By setting up preferential measures, today we go to action, "said the minister listed. 
According to the light minister, "Laval has several transport issues, including collective transport. The new measures announced today, as well as those put in place in the last year, will improve the quality of life of families by reducing the travel time between their home and their work. » 
"Collective transportation is a priority for the Montérégie. The addition of reserved routes and various congestion mitigation measures on the South Shore complements the significant investments discounted in recent months in transportation in our region. This is a clear answer from our government to the major transport challenges that the citizens of the South Shore and a demonstration we work, with the stakeholders concerned, to put in place solutions to support the movement of citizens, " Affirmed Malavoy Minister. 
These new measures are added to the $ 26.5 million announced last spring, in the context of Mobility Montréal, to facilitate travel on the edge of major road projects. 
"To date, 70% of the Montreal mobility measures are carried out. The benefits are already being felt: there is a rise of 13,676 annual subscriptions at the STM and the AMT, 840 incentive parking spaces near the stations have been added and measures to facilitate carpooling have been developed, "a Note Mr. Gaudreault. 
"The results of all these measures, funded 100% by the Ministry of Transport, are very encouraging. These are immediate and targeted measures that mitigate traffic problems and facilitate the lives of users. In addition, the increase in public transport supply will reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote sustainable mobility in the Montreal region, "said the Minister of Transport. 
Today's announcement will also affect all Quebec transport companies. "All urban centers in the province are concerned with the phenomenon of road congestion. In the coming weeks, we will come into contact with the transport companies concerned to work with them to the establishment of reserved lanes in urban centers, "concluded Minister Gaudreault. 
