Mirabel- The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, and the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister Responsible for the Region of Montreal, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, highlight the award of financial assistance of $ 4 million over three years awarded to Bombardier aerospace for the implementation of two training plans for his workforce. Employment support-Québec, endorsed by the Commission of Labor Market Partners, is complementary to an investment of $ 12,438,935 from the company. 
From the amount invested by Jobs-Québec, $ 2 million were allocated to the second phase of Training on the commercial aircraft of the Cseriesen September 2012 program, and were to contribute to the creation of 850 jobs over the next three years. An amount of $ 2 million was also allocated in June 2013 for the implementation of the Global 7000 Business Class, Global 8000 * aircraft program, which will, over three years, create 600 new Jobs. 
"Quebec can be proud of its aerospace sector: the companies and the workforce that compose it make Quebec's reputation around the world. This leading industry generates more than 42,000 jobs, mainly in the metropolitan area. This is why it is important for the Government of Quebec to promote the growth of this dynamic and bearer sector by supporting the improvement of the skills of workers. Bombardier is a jewel of the Quebec economy that provides not only thousands of quality jobs in its own institutions, but generating as much in its important network of suppliers and subcontractors, "said Minister Maltese. 
"I am pleased to take part in this important announcement that will have considerable benefits in the great metropolitan area. Aerospace is a spearhead of our economy. Its strength has significant positive effects, particularly in terms of employment, as well as export. This help today we bring to Bombardier Aerospace allows us to make a stone, two shots: it helps to offer quality jobs for citizens and citizens of the Greater Montreal area, while supporting the success of Important projects for which the company has invested considerable amounts and a real driver for this industry in Quebec, "said the minister listed. 
"Aerospace Bombardier is proud of this partnership with Emploi-Québec that allows it to develop the know-how of its employees. On behalf of Bombardier, we would like to thank you for this valuable collaboration that helps to provide our employees with quality training and increase the acquisition of essential skills within the company, "said Sylvie Bourdon, Vice-President , Human Resources, Aerospace Bombardier. 
"I welcome Bombardier's strategic decision to bet on the quality of its staff to carry out its projects. These will have positive impacts for my region and my riding, "concluded the hon. Member for Mirabel, Ms. Denise Beaudoin. 
