Chibougamau - Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignist Governance and Minister responsible for the North-du-Québec Region, Alexandre Cloutier, accompanied by the member for Ungava and Deputy Parliamentary to the Minister of Natural Resources, Mr. Luc Ferland, Announces, on behalf of the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltais, the award of financial assistance of 635 $ 613 over two years at miningGoldCorppour The implementation of a workforce training plan. 
Employment support-Québec, endorsed by the labor market partners, is complementary to an investment of $ 1,906,837 in the company. The project will allow the hiring of 165 employees for the treatment of ore and maintenance that will work on a brand new mining complex with advanced technologies, equipment and facilities. 
"Our government is proud to be a partner of the Eleonore project whose objective is to make it one of the largest underground mines in North America. Goldcorp expects by 2017, hiring more than 800 specialized workers who will occupy quality and well-paid jobs, "said Minister Cloutier. "Our participation that focuses on workers' skills to ensure the sustainability and competitiveness of the Eleonore project testifies to our willingness to support a business that will create employment and help generate wealth in the Northern region. -DU-Québec, "added the minister. 
"Northern development is a key issue for the Government of Quebec. We believe it is by focusing on a strong, sustainable and natural resource development of the territory that we will succeed, for the benefit of the entire population of North-du-Québec. By supporting the training of Goldcorp's workforce, it is the whole regional economy that we come to support, "said Ferland. 
Despite their previous trainings and experiences, all new employees, even the most qualified, will need to review or acquire certain basic knowledge in order to adjust to the type of ore treated, to the nature of the processes used and the new technologies. associated. 
Note that because of its remote urban centers, Goldcorp has all the infrastructure needed for the training and development of its 165 employees. In particular, Goldcorp acquired a method of processes that will provide courses at any time on its site, while reducing production losses. 
"The amounts invested in the Eleonore project are estimated at $ 1.7 billion. We are currently at the mine construction stage and production will begin in the last quarter of 2014. The objective is to proceed 7,000 tonnes of ore per day from 2017. To achieve this, we will imperatively rely on staff. highly qualified and that's why we are pleased to get support from the Government of Quebec in our skills development project of our workforce, "added the Human Resources Director for the Goldcorp Eleonore project, Mr. Daniel Guay. 
The Goldcorp company ranks rank of the largest gold producers in the world. It employs more than 14,000 people through the Americas. The Eleonore project is one of Goldcorp's latest mineral projects and its first gold mine project in Quebec. 
