Quebec- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the spokesman for the Parti Québécois in terms of finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, denounce the interference of the Prime Minister of Saskatchewan, Brad Wall, and contempt That he posted at the place of Quebec elected representatives of the Montreal Metropolitan Community (CMM) taking a position yesterday against the Energy Pipeline project. The mayors of the CMM, emphasize it, represent 82 municipalities and speak on behalf of nearly 4 million Quebeckers, almost 4 times more people than the total population of Saskatchewan. 
Recall that following the clear opposition of the CMM elected officials at the Energy Project Pipeline, Mr. Wall suggested that mayors reimburse their "paid" equalization share. 
"It's only in Quebec to decide what is good for Quebec. We will never agree to subordinate the interest of Quebecers to that of other provinces. And never a proud people like that of Quebec will not accept its decisions. The interference of the Prime Minister of Saskatchewan in Quebec's affairs, under the pretext that oil funds part of the equalization, is unacceptable. It can not be tolerated. Montreal elected officials spoke. They made a decision in the best interests of the citizens they represent. He does not return to the Saskatchewan Prime Minister to question a decision taken in Quebec for Quebeckers, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"They are Quebeckers and only Quebeckers who decide what will happen on their territory. Brad Wall does not have to tell us what to do with our river, our rivers, our forests and our farmland. In addition, the oil economy of Western Canada has destroyed the Quebec economy. We have lost tens of thousands of jobs for the benefit of other provinces. Brad Wall should be ashamed of his remarks, especially since Saskatchewan has greatly helped to make Canada a cencular on the environment, "concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
It should be remembered that last July, at the Council of the Federation, Mr. Wall said, "I believe that no province in this Confederation should be able to hinder a pipeline project." For the Parti Québécois, no pipeline will prevail over the expressed desire and the choices made by Quebeckers, for Quebecers. 
