Québec, September 16, 2019 - The federal election campaign, now officially launched, is the occasion par excellence for Quebec to assert its demands. In this context, the member for Matane-Matapédia and parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois, Pascal Bérubé, as well as the member for Joliette and spokesperson for Quebec-Canada relations, Véronique Hivon, urge the allegedly nationalist government of the CAQ of the CAQ of remind federal parties its 2015 applications; Quebeckers will, thus, judge its coherence. 
IN SHORT 
"For months, Prime Minister Legault have been repeating Quebec does not need to be independent to thrive and realize fully, that his" future goes inside Canada ". Today, the moment has come for him to put his speech in application: he must recall his 2015 claims to the federalist parties in the field - and obtain results in the form of commitments - or explain why he does not dare the make. The opportunity is unique, it will not represent itself under mandate; Will he seize it? "Raised Pascal Bérubé. 
In number of 18, these demands consolidate 10 constitutional amendments and 8 administrative arrangements. "So far, Quebeckers have found that the outgoing government was against the idea of ​​a single tax report, and against that of letting Quebec select its immigrants. But what about the other other nationalist demands of the CAQ? François Legault shall immediately address issues related to the federal power of spending in the fields of competence of Quebec, the tax points and other transfers to the provinces, the right of Veto du Québec on constitutional amendments, the abolition Or the reform of the Senate, the abolition of the position of Lieutenant-Governor, the preponderance of Quebec in terms of language, immigration, environment and culture, and many other topics. All that is in his 2015 plan; Now that federal parties are listening, will François Legault be consistent with its comments so? Is his plan still relevant? He asked for Véronique Hivon for his part. 
"The time of good intentions is behind us. The CAQ government must now obtain results, assert its balance of power, on behalf of the Quebeckers who elected it. Otherwise, we will only be able to deplore that its nationalism is only one of the facade - since obviously, it will remain comfortable in Canada. I wish him the best of the successes and assures our full collaboration, even if I remain convinced that an independent Quebec would move faster and would go further. For us, independence is the most logical and desirable culmination of nationalism, "concluded Pascal Bérubé. 
