Quebec- The Parliamentary Leader of the Official Opposition and Experience in Ethics and Integrity, Bernard Drainville, reacts to the publication of the report of the Inquiry Committee on the Granting and Management of Public Contracts in The construction industry. He asks the Liberal government to continue the household as the Parti Québécois started. 
"We welcome the conclusions of the Charbonneau Commission. With respect to the observations and recommendations of the commissioners, we find that some of them can be applied quickly, and we invite the government to act as soon as possible. Others even deserve to be deepened, in order to further protect the interests and money from Quebeckers, "said Bernard Drainville. 
"In addition, we find that since the coming to the Liberal Party in power, the fight against corruption is idling. The DPCP has seen its number of prosecutors specifically affected to the fight against corruption and organized crime decrease by 40%. It has a direct effect on UPAC; Current surveys for months are waiting for tablets, including those on PLQ funding. The Liberals must now prove that they are able to complete the fight against collusion and corruption, and it presses. What did the Couillard government did, so far? Practically nothing, apart from cutting the number of prosecutors who charge the bandits. In addition, there is always the draft law on municipal political financing, which had already been deposited by the Parti Québécois, "continued the leader of the official opposition. 
"The Parti Québécois claimed for two years the holding of this commission of inquiry. He asked more than 300 questions in the room and tabled 10 motions on this subject, all rejected by the Liberal Party. The Commission has revealed in broad daylight the occult schemes that undermine democracy. The population awaits exemplary management of public money. Quebeckers have supped magouilles, and with good reason! The Québécois party has not waited to act. As soon as we arrived in power, we did the housework, "he added. 
In 18 months, the government of the Parti Québécois did enormously to combat corruption. In particular: 
"We ask the Liberal government to fight corruption a real priority. As far as we are concerned, we will remain vigilant so that it soon puts forward concrete solutions, "concluded Bernard Drainville. 
