Québec- The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, reacted to the report tabled today by the Auditor General of Quebec (VGR) and signed by Mr. Michel Samson. 
"The Auditor General demonstrates that the Financial Framework unveiled in Lamen-day Lamise Last is based on revenue forecasts that are reasonable. Our financial framework is therefore credible, strong and realistic; The Auditor General found no mistake. The Alarmist statements of the Liberal Party and the Future Québec Coalition are therefore unfounded, "said Marceau. 
"With regard to the budget back in 2015-2016, the government has always recognized that it is a demanding goal. For the year 2012-2013, we have managed to control expenditures at the lowest level of the decade, which the Auditor General also recognizes in his report. The control of expenses is first dependent on the political will of the government, and I assure you that we do not miss it, "added the minister. 
As part of its analysis, the VGR recognizes the quality of the documents transmitted to it and the efforts made by the staff of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy. 
Indeed, the Department devotes significant efforts to the development of the necessary forecasts for the preparation of a budget or an economic and financial update. Over the years, the Department has developed models of economic and financial analyzes that aim to produce quality forecasts. Rigorous analyzes are performed by a professional and experienced team. The VGR recalls that the Government of Quebec is recognized for the quality of its forecasts and process. 
Remember that Quebec is the only Canadian province in the fall of 2013, a detailed financial framework in an economic and financial update with a five-year perspective. In addition, Quebec is the only province that publishes a monthly report on financial transactions. 
The Ministry has taken note of the recommendations that the VGR presented in its analysis of the November 2013 economic and financial update. He accepts the ten recommendations made by the VGQ and will analyze how he intends to follow up, from a perspective of continuous improvement. 
