Quebec- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, announces that the Ministry of Transport will launch a new call for tenders for the acquisition and maintenance of new Photo radars and traffic light monitoring apparatus. 
"The result of the call for tenders launched last March does not meet the expectations of the government. In this context, the necessary decision is to launch a new call for tenders to ensure healthy competition and to ensure, in full transparency, adequate management of public money, "said the Minister of Transport, M . Sylvain Gaudreault. 
This decision leads to postponement at a later date of the implementation of the second phase of implantation of aircraft on the roads of Quebec. In the meantime, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Public Safety are considering identifying new locations for which speed limits could be controlled by mobile devices already available to the safety of Quebec. The latter has also ensured its collaboration since it will allow it to monitor more places within a few months. 
On March 6, 2013, the Shared Services Center of Quebec published a call for tenders for the acquisition of 37 devices (18 mobile video radars, 6 fixed photo radars and 13 traffic light monitoring devices). This call for tenders was preceded by a notice of intent which was sent to 17 potential suppliers to encourage them to bid. Four potential suppliers got the documentation, but a single bidder filed an offer. 
However, the gap between the estimation and the proposed price being too important, the department, in collaboration with the Shared Services Center of Quebec, has chosen to review its approach and launch a new tender. The device acquisition strategy will be modified to allow more providers to tender and, by the very fact, to assume greater competitiveness within the market. 
The Department will re-evaluate the schedule for the deployment of new devices, since their commissioning is delayed for an indefinite period. The various partners engaged in this second phase were notified, including cities participating in the pilot project of municipal cooperation, or Gatineau and Laval as well as the cities of the agglomeration of Longueuil (Longueuil, Brossard, Boucherville, Saint-Bruno-de -Mortarville) and those of the agglomeration of Quebec City, Quebec, the former-Lorette and Saint-Augustin-de-Desmaures). 
For more information on photo radars and traffic light surveillance devices, see www.objectiveSecurite.gouv.qc.ca. 
