Québec- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, said today, at the National Assembly, the annual evaluation report on the photo radars entitled Photographic cinowmeters and photographic traffic control systems with red lights. This report reports several results and actions carried out in particular road safety. The results presented demonstrate that the use of photo radars encourages road users to further comply with the road safety code and, by the same effect, to improve the road balance sheet. This report is a first of five to be filed annually at the National Assembly. 
The report confirms that, from the point of view of road safety, the use of automated control devices on the Quebec road network allowed, on the one hand, a decrease in speeds and, on the other hand, a decrease in accidents With a more marked drop in accidents resulting in bodily injury. 
"There is a considerable decrease in the number of accidents causing bodily injury to sites where fixed photographic cinters have been installed. Similar proportions are recorded in locations where photographic traffic control systems with red lights and mobile photographic cinters have been deployed. Clearly, these devices enhance Quebec's road balance sheet and, incidentally, they help reduce social costs attributable to road accidents, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
Among the actions listed in the report, note the completion of a survey of 15 and 31 May 2013, aimed at measuring the perceptions of road users regarding the use of automated control devices. In general, respondents agree that the permanent use of photo radars and red fire monitoring devices helps to improve safety, reduce speed and accidents, and increase control. 
Moreover, support for photo radars and red fire monitoring devices on our roads remains very high. It translates into percentages above 80% in the majority of cities and agglomerations participating in the pilot municipal cooperation project, that is, the cities of Laval (79%), Longueuil (89%), Gatineau (88%) and Quebec (87%). These cities are strongly favorable to the installation of devices in their municipality. In addition, 88% of survey respondents are in favor of the progressive deployment of Photo Radars and 90% approve the installation of red fire monitoring devices. 
"Almost four years after the deployment of the first devices in Quebec, social acceptability remains high. This is proof that road safety is invaluable in the eyes of Quebecers, "concluded the minister. 
Recall that as a result of the penalty, in 2012, of the law amending the management of the use of photographic cinters and photographic traffic control systems with red fires and other legislative provisions, the government confirmed the permanence the use of photo radars in Quebec. To this end, the Ministry of Transport will launch in the coming months a new call for tenders for the acquisition and maintenance of new photo radars and monitoring devices at traffic lights. 
For more information on photo radars and red fire monitoring devices, see www.objectiveSecurite.gouv.qc.ca. 
