Quémo Cleaning is de D'amour, M. Jean d'Amour, M. Georre Des Affords Municipates The-minutes, M. Seldvion from France pendues to the heure. "Jean d'love induuts li Populuses 
In recent days, M. d'Amé quoted a confidential document from the Ministry of Transport, dating from February 20, 2012, indicating that the sums needed for the construction of Phase 3 were budgeted. "What this document tells us is that the former Liberal government has invested only $ 2.2 million for Phase 3, while the project is estimated at more than $ 562 million .NBSP;" 
"In addition, in this same document, it is noted that the former Liberal regime has deceived the population by saying that the 2018 schedule would be respected while it is indicated black on white that it would not be the case since the Project was largely under-budgeted! May John of Love not come to give me the lesson! NBSP; "mentioned Minister Gaudreault. 
The sums necessary for the realization of the projects, estimated at more than $ 430 million, were not provided for in the Quebec Infrastructure Program, the amounts entered for the work appearing on the official documents of the department as such as preliminary estimate. 
The work of Phase 3, like the work already done on Highway 85, will require the conclusion of an agreement with Ottawa for its financing. "NBSP; I mandated the officials of the Ministry of Transport to undertake, as soon as possible, discussions with their federal counterparts. If the sums had been budgeted by the old regime, it would have been done for Livenbsp; "said the Minister of Transport. 
"The extension of Highway 85 is a priority for the citizens of Bas-Saint-Laurent. The Government of Quebec has the firm will to build this third and last phase, "said Minister Delegate to Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region and MP Pascal Berube. 
"We will act responsibly and give us the right time to the citizens, which did not do the former LiberalnBSP government;" concludes the Minister of Transport. 
