Gatineau - Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, is pleased to announce today's investments of nearly $ 4 million to enhance pediatric services and Ophthalmology in Outaouais, thus promoting the repatriation of patients in the region currently receiving such services in Ontario. 
"In these two fields of expertise, as in other medical specialties, a significant proportion of specialized care for the population of Ottawa is provided by Ontario facilities, mostly of the hospitals in the Ottawa region. . Our Government is determined, in conjunction with the Health and Social Services Agency and institutions in the region, to increase the supply of specialized care in Outaouais, thus reducing the use of resources outside the territory ", has Declared Minister Hébert. 
An amount of $ 1,379,000 is allocated for construction work at the Neonatology Unit of Gatineau Hospital. The ability of the unit, which was announced last month that it was 10 to 12 beds, will thus be increased to 14 beds. 
In addition, the pediatric diabetes clinic can acquire specialized equipment, allowing them to welcome dozens of children currently receiving care in Ottawa. This clinic is attached to the Outaouais Center of intra-hospital and neonatal outpatient (boyfriend). 
For ophthalmology, investments will amount to $ 2,566,000, covering both construction work and the purchase of specialized medical devices. This financial support from the Government of Quebec will significantly increase the number of interventions for cataract surgeries and retina, as well as the number of injections for the treatment of macular degeneration related to the 'age. 
"Other measures are being developed or implanted, always in order to ensure the self-sufficiency of the Outaouais region in terms of medical care, particularly in obstetrics. For subspecialized care, we want to improve the medium-term situation, with the understanding that some state-of-the-art services will continue to be provided by institutions from outside the region, as are elsewhere in Quebec ". , concluded Dr. Hébert. 
