Québec- As a result of the publication, today, the new report of the program of ongoing programs, presided over by Lucienne Robillard, the member for Sanguinet and spokesman for the Treasury Board, Alain Therien, again denounced the torpor in which the Liberal government is enlined; It seems indeed unable to take any decision that it is related to the recommendations made by a committee it has created itself. 
"The government has the Robillard report in the hands since June. Today, the President of the Treasury Board, Martin Coiteux tells us that the only decision that has been taken so far concerns the creation of new structures and ministerial committees. I think the government did not need to pay millions of dollars to get there. The government does not want to announce that it rejects the essence of Ms. Robillard's recommendations for the second time, the Liberal caucus hides certain dissensions, "said the member for Sanguinet. 
In a very surprising way, the report made public this morning proposes to deliver the management of the Taxes of Quebec companies in the hands of Ottawa. "It's exact to say that since the Liberal government has transformed the Ministry of Revenue into Agency, the administration fees are increasing constantly. But the solution must in no way go through a transfer of responsibility; Rather, we need to work back to Revenu Québec. The control of our tax policy is a very important economic leverage that it has never been discussed. If Philippe Couillard goes ahead with this proposal, that he warned that he makes a major electoral issue for 2018, "said Alain Therrien. 
The Robillard Commission also recommends liberalizing the trade in wine and spirits. "The SAQ needs to improve its performance, give more to Quebeckers. To achieve this, the solution certainly does not pass by a rise in taxes, "continued the spokesperson. 
"The government can say that it will analyze thoroughly and seriously the tracks made by Lucienne Robillard, we already know that it is about, once again, to table a report. Why, exactly, have spent all this money? It seems more and more obvious that the Robillard Commission is actually the first unnecessary expense that can be eliminated, "concluded Alain Therien. 
