Quebec- In the wake of the report of the Commissioner's Report and the Well-Being on prescription drugs, the member for Taillon and sentence of the official opposition in terms of health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, as well as the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for social services, the protection of youth, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisé, ask the Liberal government to follow up on the recommendations. statements and act concretely to reduce the weight of prescription drugs on the health budget. 
"Prescription drugs cost us $ 7.7 billion a year; This represents nearly 20% of the health budget and 10% of Quebec's total budget. It is therefore imperative that the Liberal government ensures better control of their costs and the use that are done in fact. The Commissioner brings several interesting tracks of action that must be considered. For example, the periodic review of medicine lists of the general drug insurance plan and health facilities would certainly lead to more efficiency and savings. The sending of its individual prescription profile, as well as the annual publication of the regional requirements and associated costs, would also contribute to health efficiency gains. In addition, the record of the inhibitors of the proton pump, driven by the Government of the Parti Québécois and cited as an example by the Commissioner in his report, testifies according to him potential savings that may arise from a revision of the list for a class of Drugs. What is to say that the government should be inspired by the gestures of its predecessor to generate savings, "said Diane Lamarre. 
"We are asking the minister to open up and listen to the proposals made to him and that would make it possible to generate much more savings for the network than all his bills gathered. Expand the role of the front-line pharmacist and promoting interdisciplinarity, while simplifying IPS prescription processes, midwives, optometrists and podiatrists, are leading solution tracks advanced by the Commissioner. The filing, each year at the National Assembly, a report on the contributions provided by the pharmaceutical industry to the institutions and the transparency of the pharmacy invoice are also other proposals that the minister should study seriously, "added Jean-François Lisée. 
"The development of a new drug policy and the adoption of a prescription action plan and the use of drugs are also proposals that must not remain a dead letter. The minister must act and, above all, target good priorities, even if it seems difficult for him since his entry into office ", have concluded members of Parliament. 
