Québec- On the occasion of the presentation of the preliminary report on the Solidarity Cooperative Sabsa, Quebec, the member for Taillon and spokesman for the Quebecois health and accessibility of care, Diane Lamarre, and The member for Taschereau, Agnès Maltese, want to remind the Minister of Health, Gaétan barrette, that the solution to health care problems is not only on the physician side. 
Indeed, researchers of integrated primary care teams (ESPI) and their partners, including the FIQ, estimate at 3000 per year the number of consultations that could be carried out by specialized nurse practitioners (IPS) at the Quebec clinic. They add that this pilot project, if it were permanently deployed, would represent savings valued at nearly $ 120,000 a year, by clinic. 
"Quebec can not deprive yourself of its IPS; However, several developed countries do a much better use of their professionals. We invite the minister to consider the support of projects such as that of the Sabsa Cooperative, which helps to take advantage of the skills and experience of many health professionals. Let us remember that the Prime Minister, in the election campaign, had promised to form 2000 IPS in 10 years; But at the current rate, the realization of this promise will take more than 33 years, "said Diane Lamarre. 
Registration do not equal access 
The report released today also highlights another problem with our health care system: being registered with a doctor, unfortunately, unfortunately, still does not succeed in seeing it when you need it. Indeed, two-thirds of the patients who consulted at the Sabsa cooperative reported having a family doctor. 
Agnès Maltais, for his part, wanted to thank local actors for their mobilization; They have worn and realized this project, and they have been actively involved in finding solutions to the problems of access to our health network that Quebeckers live, and more specifically some vulnerable clienteles. "These committed people have been able to rely on my support from the beginning of the project, and they can continue to rely on the Parti Québécois to obtain support from the government. In the meantime, we will continue to remind the minister that doctors are certainly crucial stakeholders in our health care system, but they are not the only ones. The solution to the problems of access not only by physicians, Gaétan Barrette must commit to initiatives like the Sabsa cooperative, "she concluded. 
