Quebec, March 7, 2018 -The official opposition to health, accessibility to home care and home support, Diane Lamarre, is appalled by the devastating observations of the study published today. about the remuneration of doctors. She asks the National Assembly to convene her authors, so that parliamentarians can study the recommendations. 
IN SHORT 
"What the study of the team led by Damien ContanDriopoulos reveals, it is the 15 years of liberal reign: during this period, the remuneration of doctors has more than doubled, while access to care. is degraded. However, neither medical federations nor the Liberal government appear to have a problem with the fact that doctors see fewer patients while the amounts of money they are granted to increase disproportionately, of understanding. It's really time that it ceases, "denounced the member for Taillon. 
"The findings of the study are devastating. Patients are considered "unprofitable" by certain doctors paid to the act; Is not it aberrant? It's a drift we have to stop right away, and at all costs! , Continued the spokesperson. In addition, it repeats it, it is absolutely necessary to review the method of remuneration of doctors. And, by then, revise the compensation in the act, in addition to suspending and rethinking the agreements that have been signed in a stash. 
"That's exactly what the Parti Québécois will do if it is elected the 1stOctober: reply to the patient very quickly at the heart of our health system, freeze the salary of doctors and review the agreements with the medical federations so that they benefit Patients rather than the doctors themselves. We will also put in place the organization that commissioned this study to alarming conclusions, the Commissioner for Health and Wellbeing. Because a minister of health wise and responsible should not be afraid of the consequences of his health system decisions, "continued the spokesperson. 
Finally, Diane Lamarre recalls that in order to discuss all the conclusions and recommendations of the study, she filed an application for the Commission for the Health and Social Services of the National Assembly. "I hope the Liberal government will not block this demand," she concluded. 
