Quebec- The member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesman for the Quebec party in living on dwelling, Carole Poirier, and the member for Rosemont, spokesperson for public health and social services and lieutenant for the metropolis, Jean -François listed, deplore the government's response as a result of the publication of the Devastating Report of the Montreal Public Health Director (DSP) on the safety conditions of the Métropole Real Estate Park. They ask for reinvestment in renovation and social housing be done in this fall. 
"The DSP report is troubling. Coqueles, bugs, rodents, water infiltration ... The unhealthy problems in Montreal affect 38% of the rental apartments. We questioned the responsible minister, Pierre Moreau, on the report: he claims that the foul's fault, that investment in social housing is not the solution, and that even though he was building 3000 social housing units. In addition, it would be useless. It's aberrant! In addition, the minister had the pellet to say that they do not have time to meet in housing stakeholders because there are only 24 hours in a day. When it comes to living, Quebeckers simply have no minister, "said Carole Poirier. 
It should be remembered that in 2014, the government of the Parti Québécois had brought together a broad group of experts to produce a report on the issue; This one was unanimously applauded. The application of some simple recommendations - Enhance the ClimishSol program for soil protection and rehabilitation of contaminated land, create a land bank, encourage promoters to develop home projects that meet the needs of families, to reduce real estate speculation of undivided properties, facilitate the collective ownership of buildings and adapt Quebec regulations to Montreal reality, for example - would have significantly improved the situation. Unfortunately, since the arrival of the liberals in power, no follow-up has been brought. 
"More than a third of the housing in Montreal has signs of insalubrity. The situation is so alarming that it is now a public health issue; We see increased the number of asthma cases, allergies, anxiety leading to social isolation, and I pass. The DSP has been clear; It recommends reinvesting in renovation and social and community housing programs, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
Meanwhile, the liberal government reduces the sums granted to the AccessLogis program and ends the Rénovation Québec program, while the Parti Québécois government had done rigorous work to find solutions. "The Couillard government must respond to the report's recommendations and commit to providing Montrealers with a minimum of 1250 social and community housing units at the 2012 construction cost, as well as to set up a fee-shared renovation program. The Quebec government, the City of Montreal and the owners, from this autumn, "concluded Carole Poirier. 
