Québec- The Minister of Transport and Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, took note of the recommendations of the Auditor General of Quebec concerning the project of the East Train. 
"The Auditor General makes a tough report on project management under the former Liberal government. An unsarable, poorly planned project that resulted in a cost explosion. In 2006, the project was estimated at $ 300 million. Today, it has more than doubled to nearly 700 million. The previous government has failed in its responsibilities. It is a very severe criticism of the work of Ministers of Liberal Transport Boulet, Hamad and Moreau, "the Minister Gaudreault tonnes. 
"The Liberal government did not do anything in nine years and gave no follow-up to the repeated requests of the Metropolitan Transportation Agency (WTA) to amend the composition of its board of directors, nor for the latter to comply. In the Financial Corporation Management Act, "Mr Gaudreault is. 
If the Auditor General issues some reservations about the control and supervision of costs for the Eastern Train project, the minister wishes to reassure him. "This project is strictly monitored. The budget is now capped, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"On November 12, we submitted an action plan for strengthening contractual management. The goal is clear: pay the right cost for road investments and collective transport. The control mechanisms are inspired by best management practices and it is out of the question to let the budgets of major projects go as the previous government. These actions made it possible to save $ 240 million in 2013, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
Note also the establishment of a general management of strategic projects, including mandate to ensure the rigorous application of the governance framework policy for major public infrastructure projects for major public transit projects. The AMT. "These gestures demonstrate that the government closely controls all projects. The skids of the liberal era are behind us, "concluded Sylvain Gaudreault. 
