Quebec, November 20, 2019- After reading the latest Auditor General's (VG) report, the members of the Quebecois Sylvain Gaudreault (Jonquière), Véronique Hivon (Joliette), Harold Lebel (Rimouski) and Sylvain Roy (Bonaventure) ) Somming the government to carefully look at the priorities identified therein. 
IN SHORT 
The Auditor General asks the Government to do more: 
· To improve the deadlines for the services offered by the protection of youth; 
· To ensure better management of high speed internet site; 
· To better supervise the use of antibiotics in agriculture; 
· To ensure greater transparency, including the Ministry of the Executive Board and the Treasury Board Secretariat. 
Youth protection 
The VG report clearly mentions that children in difficulty do not have enough access to services. "When a situation compromises their safety or development, children must be able to count on immediate services. However, the average time between the reporting and the beginning of the application of correction measures varies between 158 and 226 days. This is unacceptable! The DPJ is sorely lacking resources; In Estrie, for example, it receives 7 times more requests than it is able to handle. In the light of what it reports in its report, it seems absolutely necessary that the VG is heard as soon as possible by the Laurent Commission, "said Véronique Hivon, spokesperson for family. 
High speed internet 
The deployment of high-speed Internet in the regions is a construction site representing colossal sums, and everything indicates that these are deficiently managed by the Ministry of Economy and Innovation (MEI). "There is no overview, no long-term planning. We choose projects a little random. Four were put aside, while they had a rating superior to others; Another has been retained even without having been the subject of a comparative analysis of quality. This case, yet capital, begins to take fiasco tunes; The government must put it from order. What's more, it must see that all regions are connected by 2022, as it had committed itself, "Harold Lebel, spokesperson for regional development. 
Antibiotics and breeding animals 
The VG report also mentions that the Ministry of Agriculture (MAPAQ) did not specify the means it intends to take to ensure a judicious use of antibiotics in animals intended for food, and that it Does not, anyway, have the information needed to fulfill this mandate. "The government is slow to propose regulations, while there is urgency to prohibit or restrict certain uses. Quebeckers are entitled to know what exactly is on their plate! In addition, the MAPAQ is missing several of its homework: it does not control the respect of regulatory requirements, does not exercise effective control with those preparing premixes and animal drugs, and it lacks rigor in surveillance. Products for human nutrition - In other words, it is learned that food containing too many antibiotic residues is being ingested. In short, it is an overwhelming portrait that laps the VG. What does the government propose to ensure the traceability and monitoring of our food? For its part, called for the critic in agriculture and food, Sylvain Roy. 
Green Fund - Progress 
With regard to the Green Fund, there is some improvement. "In May last, the Auditor General said he could not be able to make a full assessment of the Green Fund. In June, the Parti Québécois therefore had an order of the Assembly to make this exercise eventually. Today, we ask that this motion to be respected, despite the presentation of Bill 44. In addition, the VG will make an appreciation of the financial aid from the Green Fund, will carry out a lookout for the announced restructuring and the establishment. mechanisms of governance and management, and will hold a performance audit. These are good news, but we will remain vigilant as a result of things, "said Sylvain Gaudreault, spokesperson for the environment. 
Transparency 
Finally, the Auditor General denounces the government's lack of collaboration in the transmission of certain documents that his team needs to carry out his work. "It's disturbing to hear that the Department of the Executive Board, the Prime Minister, as well as the Treasury Board Secretariat blocked access to these documents. The VG has a fundamental role to play to give us the time just about the action of the government. This blockage must stop immediately, "concluded Sylvain Gaudreault. 
