Quebec- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élaine Zakaïb, is satisfied with the filing of the report of the Parliamentary Commission on the inversion of the flow of the pipe 9B of the company Enbridge. She also recommended that the project implementation be made according to eighteen conditions affecting the economy, safety and the environment. 
In particular, the Minister recommended that Enbridge undertakes to transport oil only to refineries located on Quebec territory and that it deposits the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Wildlife. Parks its inspection data so that an independent expert evaluates the integrity of the pipeline 9b and Enbridge's maintenance and inspection practices. The Minister has also proposed that a vigilance committee is put in place and that Enbridge files a sufficient financial guarantee plan as part of a possible disaster. 
"This major project will strengthen our petrochemical sector, which has some 51,000 jobs in Quebec," said Élain Zakaïb. "It is also a project that diversifies the supply of our Quebec refineries. However, for all Quebeckers to be able to benefit from these benefits, it is essential that the inversion of the pipeline 9b and its new use be made in total respect of citizens and the environment. This is a priority for our government and an obligation of the leaders of Enbridge. » 
Minister Zakaïb also recommended that refineries be subject to environmental assessments, in the event that their refining operations use more than heavy oil than currently, and that Albridge puts in place special protection measures. 'water. In addition, it proposed that the federal government review all of its oil transport laws to optimize safety, and that Enbridge, as part of its work, maximizes local economic benefits. 
"The purpose of our government is to achieve energy independence. In this sense, we recently filed laststrate of transport electrification, which aims to reduce our consumption of petroleum products, "said Minister Zakaïb. 
Remember that Locomission Parliamentariesur the inversion of the Flow of the Canalization 9b of Enbridge was held from November 26th to December 5th. This consultation approach allowed experts, environmental groups, municipalities and citizens interested in the Enbridge project to issue their recommendations on the potential impact on the economy, security and the environment of Quebec. The ministries concerned and the leaders of Enbridge also had the opportunity to provide more details on project issues. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
