Quebec, 29 September 2016 -The deputies Diane Lamarre, Jean-François Lisée and Harold Lebel, respectively deputies of the Québécois party of Taillon, Rosemont and Rimouski, and spokesperson for health and accessibility to care, of Home care and social services, and for seniors, join their voices to that of the Protector of the Citizen and denounce the infringement of the rights and dignity of citizens, who saw their health care and services be not only reduced But, worse, downright removed in some cases. "The liberal compressions went too far," they summarized. 
"The Protector confirms the fears that we have been expressing for two years and which citizens testify about the harmful consequences of the bargaining reform on access to care for patients. The mergers have resulted in a leveling by the bottom of the service offer, and it is the patients who make the costs. The gap is widening between the supply of services and the actual needs. There is a decline in access, including mental health, where resources are insufficient. The protector also denounces the deficient processes that have been put in place so that network users can complain. In short, the upheavals of the Minister Barrette are harmful to patients and for the health network. The budget balance has been reached on the back of patients and through a reduction in services. Liberal compressions hurt! "Adlored Diane Lamarre. 
"The Protector of the Citizen launches an alarm cry in his report:" Users [...] see their hours of services considerably diminished, while their needs have not changed or intensified ". She quotes the example of a lady with multiple sclerosis that saw her hours of reduced support from 33 to 12 per week. Faced with this reduction in services, and since it was not receiving help to get out of bed, the lady resigned himself to sleeping in her wheelchair. The lack of compassion of this government is flagrant and revolting. Does the minister find it human to force people with disabilities who want to stay at home to sleep in their wheelchair? The part questioned Jean François Lisée. 
"The Protector has raised several cases of failures in the care and services offered in CHSLD, particularly with respect to meals and hygiene care. However, instead of acting and to apply the many recommendations made to him, the Liberal government has chosen to stretch the time and send the hon. Member for Crémazie to make an umpteenth tour of the CHSLDs. Instead, she should read the report today by the Protector and inspire them to set up, from now on, measures that will improve access and quality of care and services to seniors, "concluded Harold Lebel. 
