Quebec- "Disorganization, insufficient and inadequate services, regional iniquities in access to services, incomplete waiting lists, absence of national standards: this is the devastating observation of the Auditor General of Quebec with respect to the management of home services for seniors Loss of autonomy under the former Liberal government. This finding confirms what current model should be redesigned now and that is what we want to do with autonomy insurance. »  It is in these words that the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert, reacted to the findings of the Auditor General Report Quebec. 
For the Minister Hébert, this report illustrates the need to change our ways of doing care and home services: "The Liberal Party seems to be more in favor of the status quo, whose untenable has just been clearly demonstrated by The Auditor General. These problems, we have been observing them for several years and our government has taken concrete measures upon coming to power, such as the autonomy insurance project " 
Autonomy insurance aims to ensure that people get the right services where they want to live. It provides, among other things, a uniform allowance, regardless of the place of residence of users. It also places a variety of service providers such as CSSS, community organizations and social economy companies. Standards of practice will be put in place both in terms of service providers, the beneficiary allowance and the quality of care and services. 
"Our government has already made the choice to do home care a priority by investing in this year $ 110 million to consolidate the network and improve the offer of services. The amounts injected provide additional investment to community organizations and social economy companies in addition to helping to correct interregional inequities in home care financing, "said the minister. 
"Beyond investments, a depth transformation is needed. The maintenance of the status quo is no longer possible and that's why we filed the White Paper on creating autonomy insurance. You have to stop head in the sand and be in denial. Quebeckers and Quebeckers want to have the choice to live and age at home with the right services, and that's what we offer them with this project, "concluded the Hébert minister. 
For more information: www.autonomie.gouv.qc.ca 
Follow the news related to the autonomy insurance on Twitter with the clicking word # autonomyPourtous. 
