Quebec- Following the tabling of the Auditor General's report on ancillary fees, Diane Lamarre, Member of Parliament for Taillon and the official opposition on health and accessibility to care, reiterates the Farm opposition of the Parti Québécois to any invoicing of this type for services already insured. 
"In its report made public today, the Auditor General confirms that neither the department nor the RAMQ will in hand an analysis or evaluation on the actual amount that is billed to patients. Is it $ 50 million? More? Less? How can the minister negotiate with the medical federations, while he has no idea of the actual amount that is at stake? At the end of the line, are the patients who will have to pay more to access the health care and services they already pay by their taxes? ", Questioned Diane Lamarre. 
It was the Quebecois party that delivered the fight against the incidental costs and which prevented the minister from imposing systematic bills for medical care. However, there is still room for maneuver to the minister, that of surreptitiously include these amounts of money in his next negotiations. It could indeed charge all taxpayers indirectly, increasing the remuneration of doctors. 
"In the record of ancillary fees, the Minister of Health has changed my mind several times. Last year, he wanted to legalize them and even grant doctors the right to add 10 to 15% at cost for already insured services. He then insisted on allowing doctors to charge their firm and equipment fees, according to a list it would by regulation. Finally, Gaétan Barrette announced that he would not publish a settlement, but he refuses to guarantee that the incidental costs will be taken from the current doctors' current compensation envelope, without adding, what the Parti Québécois claims for months " , denounced Diane Lamarre. 
"Patients do not have to pay ancillary fees. Nor indirectly, by their taxes, or directly, when they receive private clinic care, as is currently the case. The doctors have ample ways to pay the bill, without the increased their remuneration: between 2003 and 2015, the envelope that is devoted to them - and which is funded by Quebec taxpayers - increased by 134%, from 2.9 to $ 6.8 billion. Basically, the ancillary costs would only represent 1% of this amount. It would be desirable for physicians to recognize that they must assume these fees since they have already received a lot, "the spokesman concluded. 
