Québec- Following the publication, today, the annual report of the Protecteur du citoyen, the member for Taillon and spokesman for the Quebecois health and accessibility of care, Diane Lamarre, the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for social services and home care, Jean-François Lisée, and the hon. Member for Richelieu and spokesperson for seniors, Sylvain Rochon, expressed their lively concerns. 
For Diane Lamarre, it has never been clear that the government must change course. "In mental health, for example, the citizen's protector is categorical: the problems of accessibility, for people whose needs are urgent, cause psychological and social costs for patients and their loved ones. The report also mentions several other gaps: waiting times are too long, the laws are poorly applied, the delivery of services is deficient. Not only are the targets set by the 2005-2010 mental health action plan have not been achieved but, in addition, their update yet promised for last year is still not at the rendezvous. It is disturbing, since the news reminds us every day that the needs are growing and urgent, "she said. 
In the case of home care, the report confirms our fears: the services offered are insufficient, constantly reduced, often poorly adapted, and their availability varies a lot of region in the region, which leads to inequities. "Unfortunately, the situation is likely to deteriorate even more, taking into account the compressions that the government imposes health and social services. The report clearly mentions that lack of ways to meet the entire demand, a CSSS has established a maximum of hours per person; It's rationing! We give a little to everyone, while giving enough to none, can we read in the report. Quebec must focus on home care; In the long run, it is the most advantageous solution. The government of the Parti Québécois understood it well, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
The situation of adults hosted in CHSLD is no more rosy, according to the citizen's protector. "The report indicates that in some institutions, residents never take bath due to a lack of space or adequate equipment. In 2015, some CHSLD do not have a bath! This observation is not only overwhelming, it is shameful and inadmissible! What does it take to do, now and concretely, the Minister of Health to ensure an adequate living environment and elementary care to seniors in CHSLD? ", Concluded Sylvain Rochon. 
