Québec- The member for Verchères and spokespersons of the Quebec's Québec-Canada Relations Party, Stéphane Bergeron, as well as the member for Terrebonne and Spokesperson on the environment and the fight against climate change, Mathieu Traversy, denounce the federal government's intention to ratify the Paris Agreement on the Climate before the conclusion of an agreement with Quebec on its implementation, with the approval of the Quebec Minister of the Environment, David Heurtel. Yet the Canadian climate plan essentially consists in allocating Quebeckers' money with the most polluting provinces. 
"Quebec will be the big loser of the Canadian climate plan. The 2016 Federal Budget states that Canadian climate plan subsidies will be paid to the provinces where GHG emissions are highest. Federal money, so Quebecers' money, will be used to finance Nova Scotia coal plants, the alberta oil sands and the energy pipeline is TransCanada. David Heurtel said yesterday that he agreed that "everyone" pays for Alberta projects. Does Philippe Couillard falls the words of his minister? Quebec must not become the turkey of the farce, "warned Mathieu Traversy. 
"The essence of the measures to be put in place to reach our climate commitments will incumbent in Quebec and the provinces. Despite this, the Minister of the Environment agreed that the Federal Parliament ratifies the Agreement without even an agreement was negotiated with Quebec. David Heurtel has a major concession here; He gives permission to the federal government to ignore Quebec's interests. An agreement with the Canadian government is a prerequisite for any ratification! Philippe Couillard must correct the words of his Minister of the Environment and require respect for this minimum condition, "said Stéphane Bergeron. 
"Quebec has developed its clean energy sectors, including hydroelectricity, without the slightest penny from the federal. Subsidizing the other provinces to follow us the pace would be tantamount to paying twice, which is entirely unfair and unacceptable. Quebec has made the right choices in the past and this should today bring us back, not penalize us, "have concluded the spokespersons. 
