Quebec- The Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, today forwarded a new direction to the Director of Criminal and Criminal Prosecutions (DPCP) in the field of driving with the faculties weakened by alcohol or Drugs. He wished to be applied with even more severity the provisions currently provided for in the Criminal Code, in the files involving recidivists. 
"We want to send a clear message: driving with impaired faculties is a real social scourge that significantly compromises public safety. People who repeat such offenses repeatedly represent a very serious danger. I therefore call on all prosecutors with criminal and criminal prosecutions to make firmness and severity in the files involving recidivists, at all stages of the judicial process, "said the Minister of Justice . 
While recalling that public safety must be the main factor to consider at the bill of release, the new orientation of the Minister of Justice asks prosecutors to present proof that goes beyond the circumstances of The offense at this stage of procedures. 
"The prosecutor must explain to the Tribunal all evidence to adequately assess the hazardousness of the accused and insist on the risk that the community is short in the event of liberation", writes the Minister before adding that in case of Freedom of a recidivist, the prosecutor must propose to the Tribunal of the conditions for managing the risk that the risk represents. 
At the stage of representations on a sentence, the minister also hopes that the prosecutor goes beyond the seriousness of the offenses by targeting all the aggravating factors specific to the offender. He also insists that the suggestion made to the court aims not only the exemplarity, but also the neutralization of the danger of the recidivists. 
In all cases involving a multirecidivist (third offense and more), the Minister expressly requests prosecutors with criminal and criminal prosecutions to take the necessary measures so that the vehicle used is permanently seized and withdrawn from the offender as soon as the law and the circumstances the file allow it. This element is quite new. 
Throughout the procedures, the Prosecutor must also act taking into account the consequences of the offense with respect to victims and the community. 
In addition to this new orientation, Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud recalls that he also acts on several fronts to achieve this mandate as the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, gave him during his coming and that she reiterated during the Opening speech of the parliamentary session. He has begun discussions with his colleague for Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, to evaluate the possibility of tightening certain applicable Quebec laws, such as the Code of Road Safety. Similarly, at the Federal-Provincial-Territorial Meeting of Justice Ministers held in Regina last October, Quebec has required the federal government to prioritize a reflection to increase the severity of the severity of the federal government. Imprisonment for the recidivists of alcohol or driving drugs, and that he plans to apply the dangerous offender system or to control them. 
"What we ultimately want is an effective and just system that reduces recidivism and ensures better public security. It is important to give a stroke to counter driving under the influence of drugs or alcohol, one of the main causes of injury and death on our roads, "concluded the Minister of Justice. 
