Quebec- Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is pleased to announce the launch of a call for research projects aimed at reducing the reduction of greenhouse (GHG). Managed in conjunction with the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, this call for projects is part of the 2013-2020 Climate Change Action Plan. 
"Several institutions and research organizations innovate technologies aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions and their impacts on our society. Their initiatives can make a difference and hoist Quebec at the forefront of companies engaged in a redefinition of relations between the human, his community and his environment. That's why the Quebec government wishes to encourage them in their projects, "said Minister Duchesne. 
"Research and innovation allow us to better understand our environment and find technical, economic and social solutions to the challenges that come to us. They are essential in a context of climate change. With this call for projects, we want to stimulate creative engineering that will strengthen the contribution of new technologies to the fight against climate change, "said the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks. , Yves-François Blanchet. 
This call for proposals, which is in force until 10 March 2014, will finance research and technological demonstration projects aimed at a substantial reduction in GHG emissions. These projects must be collaborative between companies and the research community. A total amount of $ 2.5 million will be invested by the government, for up to $ 500,000 per project. 
Eligible projects are grouped into two categories. The first is that of precompetitive research projects. The second concerns the validation and demonstration projects of prototypes in the laboratory or under conditions simulating the field. The size of the GHG issues that the project responds, as well as the potential of the proposed solution to reduce GHG emissions by 2020, will be taken into account in the analysis. 
"As mentioned in the national research and innovation, the foundation of the notion of sustainable development unites the economic, social and environmental components. The goal is to combine the imperatives of today's growth with the prosperity and quality of life for future generations. My government is proud to support projects that help achieve this goal, "concluded Minister Duchesne. 
PNRI is part of the four strategic initiatives of Quebec's economic lapolitics, priority, launched last fall by the Prime Minister. It is the result of many consultations with actors from all sectors concerned with research and innovation: companies, educational institutions, state and society. With an unprecedented investment of $ 3.7 billion over five years, it will make it possible to advance Quebec in the knowledge and innovation society. 
For more information on the terms of the Call for Proposals, see Lehttp: //www.mest.gouv.qc.ca/ministere/acces--linformation/programs-de-soutien-financier/appel-de- Projects-reduction-des-GHGs. 
