Quebec- While for several weeks, the opposition questions the Minister of Justice about the decline in the number of prosecutors who will arise from the merger of the three specialized offices on the fight against corruption and the organized crime of the Prosecution Director criminal and criminal (PPCP), the minister finally confirmed to Véronique Hivon, the Quebec party speech on justice, that the workforce of the new merged office will be amputated by 40%. Indeed, the Minister admitted that the number of prosecutors specifically dedicated full-time to this type of file will increase from 110 to 60. 
The fact that the Director of the Permanent Unit Antiborruce (UPAC) contradicts the Minister of Justice in this regard, Monday, did not leave any choice in Stéphanie Vallée than to change his speech. "As the minister stretched to repeat that there would be no decline in the workforce, the cat finally comes out of the bag! It confirms the worst fears: there will be real impacts on the priority given to high crime files. It's extremely worrying! "Said the member for Joliette. 
Already, the DPCP has announced to its prosecutors that the reorganization of the fight against high crime was part of a budgetary context now restricted. "Admitting that 40% of prosecutors specifically dedicated to the three specialized offices will now be largely affected to generalist tasks within the courts palaces, the Minister recognizes that the fight against corruption and organized crime is no longer a priority For the Liberal government, "added Véronique Hivon. 
The hon. Member for Joliette believes that the obsession of the Liberals for austerity goes until the reduction of the number of prosecutors specializing in the fight against our greatest crime, especially when we take into account all the efforts that have been invested in this sense in recent years. "I would like the minister to tell us how she can admit that this priority can be sacrificed that we have gave ourselves collectively to fight, in a targeted and energetic way, against organized crime, corruption and malfeasance. How can the minister and his government accept not to make a priority? It's serious! The minister must now come together and act so that this decline in the workforce does not materialize, "Véronique Hivon concluded. 
