The Chief and Vice-Check of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée and Véronique Hivon, as well as the candidates Nicolas Marceau (Rousseau), Sylvain Gaudreault (Jonquière), Daniel Breton (Saint-Hyacinthe), Jacques Tétreault (Johnson), Normand Beauregard (Louis-Hébert) and Diane Roy (Drummond-Bois-Francs), this morning, have committed to tackle the Quebec environmental debt, and this, to give future generations a healthier environment, from circles healthier life. 
IN SHORT 
"For twenty years, we have, with reason, particular attention to budget deficits and our national debt. However, today, the time has come to give the same importance to our environmental debt. Think about it: the pollution of our lakes, our rivers, our river, our land, air, the accumulation of waste in the dumps, the abandoned mining sites, the pollution of industrial sites, assets or inactive sites , contamination in our commercial or residential buildings ... This is the environmental debt. And all that must be taken seriously. It's about intergenerational equity, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
A government of the Parti Québécois will establish a clear and official measure of Quebec's environmental debt. "We will give the mandate to the Ministry of Finance and Climate, Environment and Energy to determine, as precisely as possible, Quebec's environmental debt. In addition, they will have to establish the part of this debt that will be called upon to assume each order of government as well as the private sector, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
"From there, we can determine what to do, concretely, to fulfill this debt towards future generations. In fact, all our unplanned budget surpluses will be used to clean up living environments for our children and their children, "said Daniel Breton. 
"In the short term, the sums will be devoted, for example, to decontamination of soils. In the medium term, we will invest to improve water treatment systems and the management of residual materials, or to reduce the use of pesticides, among others. In addition, now any memory submitted to the Council of Ministers will have to include a new section, to indicate the possible impacts on the environmental debt. Thus, each decision from the Council of Ministers will take it into account, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"Every dollar invested to reduce our environmental debt is profitable in the long run. Never lose that of view. Provide solutions now, and we will save in the future. In addition, our children will be proud of us! He concluded Véronique Hivon. 
