Montreal- The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert, welcomes the partnership between CHU Sainte-Justine and Génome Québec for the creation of a platform of Clinical Genomics at Chu Sainte-Justine. 
"This partnership between Sainte-Justine and Genome Québec for the deployment of a clinical genomics platform, announced today, is an important step. Indeed, with this nascent technology ten years ago, we are now developing tools to improve care. This improvement in the quality of life of citizens is in line with the objectives of the National Research and Innovation Policy, launched last week. This platform will be one of the first in the world. Unique in Canada, it will position Quebec in personalized medicine in children, "said the premier. 
Although some DNA analyzes in medical goals are carried out in Quebec Hospital Laboratories, genomics, which allows high-speed DNA analysis, is not yet well established in the clinical environment. This technology is a must to offer personalized health care to patients. It makes possible the integral analysis of a patient's DNA to identify the deficient genes causing rare and severe diseases, particularly in children. Genomics is one of the pillars of the personalized health care approach, one of the seven priority strategic areas identified in the national research and innovation. 
CHU Sainte-Justine has decided to comply with Genome Québec to set up this clinical genomics service platform, which must provide for the needs of Quebec hospitals, but will also be open internationally. It is expected that this new platform will be functional in 2014. Clinical use can then develop according to the changing needs. Genome Québec will build on its scientific expertise to collect and analyze genomic data as well as its experience as a genomic service manager, while CHU Sainte-Justine will offer space, equipment and critical mass of doctors-geneticians. which will develop the clinical interpretation strategy of these results. 
"I am pleased to see how to create such a platform in Quebec, which once again demonstrates that our health network, our institutions and our researchers are of international caliber. We hope that the research that will result from this agreement will lead to concrete results, for the benefit of patients and their loved ones, "said Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert. 
To consult the National Research and Innovation Policy, visitwww.messst.gouv.qc.ca/pnri. 
