Quebec - Nearly two years after arriving in power, leaving the Liberal Party with respect to research and innovation can no longer last. Quebec's spokespersons in education and research, Alexandre Cloutier, as well as innovation, André Villeneuve, urge the government to implement the national policy for research and innovation ( PNRI) adopted by the Government of the Parti Québécois in 2013, since it has been unable to develop a new plan that could have been compared to it. 
"The Parti Québécois has launched an ambitious strategy with both academic, scientific and economic circles. Without valid reason, the Liberal Party has chosen to abandon it and, almost two years later, still has no plan to replace it. This leave - to do with our researchers, our universities, our businesses and, inevitably, to our economy, "have denounced MM. Cloutier and Villeneuve. 
The members of the Parti Québécois make echo the words of the President of the Francophone Association for Knowledge (ACFAS), Frédéric Bouchard, who has strongly denounced the abandonment of the PNRI by the Liberal Party, Monday. 
"More and more voices are the result of the vision of this government in economic development. Companies that will be most prosperous in the coming decades will be those who have been able to diversify their economy and invested heavily in education, innovation and research. The Liberal Party does not seem to have even understood it, "also lamented Alexandre Cloutier. 
Remember that in 2003, Quebec invested the equivalent of 2.7% of its GDP in research and development. After nine years of liberal reign, in 2012, this share fell to 2.3%. Equipped with an envelope of $ 3.7 billion over five years, Partician PNRI was aimed at reversing the trend and reaching the threshold of 3% of Quebec GDP. 
"While our economy is slowing down, the lack of policies to stimulate innovation in Quebec has become intolerable. The NPCP was on Quebec forces and met the needs of our researchers and our businesses, including SMEs. It is time for the government to correct the shot and implement it, "mentions André Villeneuve. 
