Saint-Jérôme- The member for Labelle and Head of the Laurentian Region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, today announced on behalf of the Minister Delegate to the Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Ms. Véronique Hivon, a first step in The Vocational Reconstruction and Change Project of the Pavillon Sainte-Marie, a private center agreement serving the Laurentians region. 
"Today's announcement is a first step towards the realization of this project, which will allow people with intellectual disabilities combined with a serious disorder of behavior or physical disability, as well as seniors in Loss of autonomy, to benefit from an environment adapted to their needs and their particular circumstances. This is a concrete gesture to provide a diversity of resources in the region to optimally meet the needs of people, by reserving long-term accommodation for people with larger needs in this area, "has declared Mr. Pagé. 
The Sainte-Marie Pavilion currently has a mission of a rehabilitation center in intellectual disability and has a hundred places for people with deep intellectual disabilities or an invasive development disorder. The new construction project, which will be on the same site, will become a 128-seat accommodation and care center. 
The new Sainte-Marie pavilion will thus have 64 long-term accommodation, 32 geriatric indentity beds in intellectual disabilities for part of the current users, as well as 32 beds in a separate unit, addressing adults under less than 65 years presenting a heavy loss of autonomy attributable to physical disability or degenerative disease. The 32 geriatric core beds in intellectual disabilities will eventually become attrition, long-term care accommodation beds. 
Part of people living with an intellectual disability currently hosted at the Sainte-Marie Pavilion and in need of rehabilitation services will be supported after a transition period by central Florès. The latter will also take care of any new person with intellectual disabilities and requiring rehabilitation services. 
The feasibility study stage announced today will be funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services as part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. This initiative is currently estimated at about $ 38 million. However, it is the more in-depth analyzes planned as part of the now announced stage that will make it possible to determine the project costs more accurately. 
"This project has many advantages, including an improvement in the living environment of current residents, as well as a better balance of care supply, both for seniors in loss of autonomy, for people with a Intellectual disabilities and adults with heavy physical disabilities. I look forward to this announcement and especially positive spin-offs that it will lead to the region. It should also be remembered that a recurring amount of $ 1.2 million has been invested in the Laurentides region earlier this year to reduce the interregional gap in deficiencies, another brand of our commitment for more equity. And better services for all Quebeckers, first, the most vulnerable of us, "concluded Minister Hivon. 
