Quebec- The hon. Member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and sentence of the official opposition in terms of housing, Carole Poirier, joins his voice with those of the Association of Quebec Technical Resource Groups, the Site of the Economy of the Quebec Confederation of Housing Cooperatives, the Quebec Council for Cooperation and Mutuality, the Quebec Housing Network, the Popular Action Front in urban redevelopment, the consolidation of residential offices of the Quebec, the Quebec Solidarity Network, the Federation of Intermunicipal Housing Cooperatives from the Metropolitan Montreal, the Quebec Federation of Municipalities and the Metropolitan Community of Montreal to ask the Minister of Municipal Affairs and the occupation of the territory of Guarantee the adequate renewal and financing of the AccessLogis Québec program in the next budget. 
"In recent weeks and this morning, a single voice, several community players ask Minister Pierre Moreau to renew the funding of the AccessLogis Québec program. I join my voice at theirs. We have repeatedly said that cuts in housing programs are harmful. It is very disturbing for the future of social housing, in the region and everywhere in Quebec. The Liberals have cut renovation, the emergency renovation program, the Rénovation Québec program considerably reduces the home adaptation program for people with disabilities. Now they could attack accessLogis Québec. The environment and regions are worried, with reason, "said Carole Poirier. 
"The construction of social and community dwellings allows the economic development of all regions of Quebec. It creates employment, promotes social mix and allows urban revitalization, "added the member. 
In addition, Carole Poirier points out that according to a study of the Aecom firm, published in 2013, "[P] our dollar paid by the SHQ as a grant, $ 2.3 were injected into the Québec economy. In terms of value-added, that is to say, wealth creation, it is estimated that fallouts at $ 1.027 billion ". 
"Social and Community Housing, in addition to being an example of a social program whose economic profitability is proven, allows for a significant demand for housing among seniors, single people, families and persons who have special needs or that are in a homelessness. I hope Minister Moreau will hear this appeal and will defend the housing partners with the Minister of Finance in the context of pre-budget consultations, "concluded Carole Poirier. 
