Quebec - Following the admission of Prime Minister Charest against the decline of French in Quebec, particularly in the region and on the island of Montreal, the member for Drummond and spokesperson for the official opposition In terms of immigration, cultural and language communities, Yves-François Blanchet, claims concrete gestures without delay. "These are 2006 numbers. It took five years for the Prime Minister to admit that these statistics are of concern. It is therefore urgent to act to overthrow this trend that threatens the very financial life of French. It was already late for the Prime Minister to do this. Quebeckers want him to act now! » 
Although it is very surprised by the results of these studies, the Parti Québécois strongly deplores the constant decline in French in Montreal since 2001. "Everyone already knew that Montreal agreed. Now it's no longer an impression, it's a confirmed reality, "added the member. 
According to Yves-François Blanchet, among the avalanche of figures made available last Friday by the Quebec Office of the French language, the one who must retain the attention remains undoubtedly the rate of linguistic transfer of allophones towards the French which is 51. %. "I do not see how Minister St-Pierre and the Prime Minister can rejoice in this statistic. It's amazing carelessness. This figure means that half of the allophones that adopt another language than that of their country of origin - and they do not all - choose English. This is all the more alarming as this linguistic transfer rate includes newly arrived immigrants who already had a knowledge of French before moving to Quebec and who adopt French at home. The others continue to massively adopt English. Should we be satisfied with the fact that Montreal is formally bilingual? , Asked the spokesman. 
The Liberal government must promptly proceed to a change of course and adopt significantly more determining measures to francize newcomers. "Current measures fail to Francize immigrants. The observation is clear: the measures are insufficient and poorly organized. Welcoming immigrants, it is desirable, but it must be done in the recognition of the common language of the host society: French. The current message is at best ambiguous, "said the deputy for Drummond. 
"Too many immigrants who arrive in Quebec, and especially in Montreal, do not integrate and will never fit to French Quebec society. By allowing a message of linguistic choice, we create real ghettos where immigrants will remain between them. We do not do them service by acting as well. It is on this very precise issue that the stroke of the bar is needed, "reiterated the member for Drummond. 
"For years, the Liberal government has denigrated studies and statistics as we sound the alarm. Now that the Prime Minister of Quebec recognizes, numbers in support, that the situation is worrying, it must intervene vigorously. The linguistic equilibrium is currently playing on the island of Montreal and with him the future of French in America, "concluded Yves-François Blanchet. 
