Notes for a speech by the leader of the Parti Québécois,  Jean-François Lisée 
National Council of the Parti Québécois  Quebec, Saturday, January 14, 2017 
To view this speech, click here! 
The pronounced version is authentic. 
Re-discover the Parti Québécois. 
It's a powerful message. 
A message that addresses us, activists and activists of the PQ. 
A message that addresses all our fellow citizens, men and women, from all corners of Quebec and all origins. 
Re-discover. 
There is something to re-discover. 
An impetus, a force, a project spent decade in decade, from generation to generation, and we embody, in this room, for today and tomorrow. 
Our founding fathers have marked Quebec today. 
René Lévesque convincing Quebeckers to nationalize electricity. 
A crazy audacity at the time and transformed, which propelled Quebec. 
Jacques Parizeau was the architect of the custody fund and placement, the greatest economic lever in our history. 
Together, in power, and with their prime minister successors Lucien Bouchard, Bernard Landry and Pauline Marois, they made the new borders cross. 
Creating the Ministry of the Environment and launching water consolidation; inventing agricultural zoning, consumer protection laws and the protection of youth; 
Also protecting the health and safety of employees, offering all car insurance, drug insurance; 
Bringing out thousands of women from poverty through the automatic perception of food pensions, 
Applying, only in North America, pay equity; 
Offering the best support of the continent to families,  Thanks to cheap child care and a generous parental leave program. 
Whatever we do, wherever we look in Quebec today, there is everywhere trace of the Parti Québécois action. 
To give local and regional actors with tools, power and resources, to make decisions in concert with civil society, to support cooperatives and the social economy. 
All this must be re-discovered. 
To be a member of the Parti Québécois is to carry in his head, his guts and his heart the pride of many, concrete and extraordinarily positive achievements for Quebec. 
The transformation of our economy. 
The irruption of a francophone business class. 
Local, then national, then international; It is to the Parti Québécois we owe all that. 
To the vision and will of Jacques Parizeau and Lucien Bouchard. 
The technological turn of Quebec, from Montreal and elsewhere, it is to Bernard Landry that we owe it, to his vision and to his will. 
There was a year in which Quebec has created 126,000 jobs, a year, with the team of the Parti Québécois in power. 
Never have the Liberals arrived. The results are in. 
Let's take the time to re-discover together. 
Who is the party of the economy in Quebec? 
Let the numbers first answer: 
The Levesque Government. 
During the Bourassa years. 
Under the prime ministers Parizeau, Bouchard and Landry. 
During the years of Jean Charest. 
During the Marois year. 
Under Philippe Couillard. 
Let's see now for the overall average: 
Liberal Party. 
Quebec's party. 
So, I ask you the question: What is the party of the economy in Quebec? 
What is the party of the economy in Quebec? 
And what is the party of social justice? 
The Pierre Fortin economist compared the evolution of poverty in Quebec and Canada in recent years. 
The greatest decline in poverty in our history, it is owed to Parizeau-Bouchard and Landry governments. 
With the Parti Québécois, poverty declines. 
When the Liberals come back, poverty increases. 
So, who is the party of social justice in Quebec? 
We are the party that gives results. 
And all that, it was done by tempting, twice, to cross the threshold of the nations in Quebec and adopting a great law that gave the French the place that returns to it in this corner of America: the first place! 
Whether you have taken your Card of the Parti Québécois at its foundation or five minutes ago, you are all and all the bearers of this spirit, of this audacity, of this requirement to complete new borders in Quebec. That, you have to re-discover itself. 
As militant, as activist and as party. 
We must find the sources of this pride and make it contagious. 
In recent years, many have turned away from us, not because they knew us badly, but because they did not recognize us. 
We were not clear. 
We were not net.  We were not constant. 
And if they re-discovered net, clear and constant? 
During our leadership race, you chose a new CAP. 
In 2018, to Quebec the most urgent service, close the chapter of the liberal years and offer an honest, dynamic, competent government. 
In 2022, get the mandate to realize independence. 
It's clear, it's clear, it's constant. 
We are now all united to turn your back on oil, frankly and resolutely on electricity, renewable energy, sustainable jobs, refuse gas and shale oil, say no, no and not energy is. 
The main proposal you have in the hands embodies a more determined ecologist will than ever. 
From now on, voting blue is vote green. 
It's clear, net and constant. 
On identity, on secularism, we will take great footsteps forward, structuring, measurable, clear and net. 
For French, we will show a new audacity. 
Never before we have proposed to claim a real knowledge of 100% of newcomers. Never. 
We had never offered a French exam for the graduation of CEGEP and English-speaking university. Never. 
We have a reinforced determination to maintain a clear majority of Francophones on the island of Montreal, to extend the law 101 to medium-sized businesses and companies under federal jurisdiction, turn your back on institutional bilingualism. 
The combined effect of these measures will allow us to stop the decline of French and powerfully prolong the great effort of the law. 
And if we did it on purpose, together, to choose the fights that are both the most effective for the progress of French and the most unifying? 
If we tried that, for once?  Effective and unifying. 
In the proposal you are going to study and improve, you will find clear choices. 
Not at tax cuts that would benefit the richest. 
But yes to put more money in the pockets of families and those who really need it. 
Yes to reinvest in public education and health services that need to become much efficient than today, respond much better to the needs of everyone. 
We will be clear, net and constant. 
In addition, you have chosen a new leader. 
And if we showed consistency by keeping him for several years? 
Re-discover the Parti Québécois, it is also a way of being. 
It is to have the croak out of his shell, to go to the front of those who have left us, are not interested in us or have been convinced by our opponents that we are not atrevente. 
Remaining faithful to our convictions, we can, we must have a new attitude. 
Astonish, make winks.  There is one who seems to have found the formula. 
Look! 
Video link: https: //www.youtube.com/watch? V = bvmlzwlizvc 
Be convinced, to be convincing, but without being cloudy or baffling. 
Be uninhibited. 
To be zen. 
Accept that we will not all agree on everything. 
We are not all at the same rhythm. 
And that the important thing is to go in the same direction and aim for the same destination. 
Canada celebrates its 150th. It was thought that the PQ would approach this issue with a serious, sad, flap-joy. 
Video link: https: //www.youtube.com/watch? V = WV2G3PP1KA8 
But no. 
A new attitude is to approach the subject with a corner smile, like this: 
Some told us that Quebeckers are not interested in the past. 
If it were true, that would be sad and serious. 
But it's the opposite. 
On social networks, our first image of the other 150E has been one of the five most popular of all we have put online for a year. 
We work, you know, a new argument, 50 responses more on independence in the coming months. 
We prepare with our sovereignist partners a roadmap towards independence that will be our common compass in 2022, but that you have to start developing together now. 
We are going to talk about independence without inhibition, as I did by addressing the Congress of the Agricultural Producers Union, or the Congress of the Grand Union Unifor, as I will do at the Montreal Chamber of Commerce at the end of January , during my interventions at the National Assembly or putting Philippe Couillard to the challenge of debating with me for an hour on television. 
My offer always holds. 
Rarely, in recent years, there has been such a clear message, a clear proposal, an inventive media production. 
In order for our fellow citizens to re-discover our party and our message, you have to be able to communicate it, join our neighbors, our cousins, our colleagues. 
And we now have an extraordinarily powerful tool in hand. 
Our activists. 
Our members. 
And their internet connections. 
If we all decide, we, activists and activists gathered in this room, and if we convince only half of our 90,000 members to put on our Facebook pages and our sons twitter a video capsule a week, we will reach, together , as many people as if it was done to everyone talking about it. 
Imagine. 
We have more members than all other parties in Quebec gathered. 
Gathered. 
You have to re-discover. 
Put them in contribution. 
Activate them. 
We are collectively a massive communication tool. 
Finally, and it may be the most important, re-discover the Parti Québécois, it is a message that we are launching every Quebecker and every Quebecer. 
They are told: we know you're thirsty for change. 
We know that you want honest and competent elected officials. 
Clear answers. 
A new determination. 
We know that many of you are not ready, for the moment, to take the step towards the country. 
We respect your pace. 
And if this issue made screen between you and we, if it was an impassable obstacle, know that by respect for you, we lifted this obstacle, for the next election, the next mandate. 
And so we can do common work on all topics that are concerned about everyday. 
You, disappointed liberals of your current leaders; You, from Chile, Algeria, India or China, who are looking to participate fully in the future of your adoption Quebec; 
You, non-Francophones, the Liberals hold you for granted, without really representing you or consider you. 
You are no longer prisoners of one party, you have the choice. 
Re-discover us. 
And you, our independent partners in Quebec solidarity; 
You have made the right choice in December to open the dialogue towards convergence. 
We are different, as were in 1995 Mario Dumont, Lucien Bouchard and Jacques Parizeau. 
And, believe me, they were very, very, very different. 
But, in the respect of their differences, they made common cause. 
Today, you and we have enough common to add up our strengths and make, together, advance Quebec. 
You, who have been tempted by the CAQ but see that it is no longer a coalition, know that the party of families and SMEs, it is here, the Parti Québécois. 
Know that the party that wants efficient public services, it is here, the Parti Québécois. 
Know that the gathering party that can, tomorrow, chase the Liberals, as it has done several times in the past, it is here, the Parti Québécois. 
Re-discover us. 
You have to make the most of this decision, lucid but difficult, that we have taken the referendum to weave links with all those who share our convictions on health, education, the economy, identity. 
Team with them, create a real link of trust during these years. 
And invite them to do with us in 2022 the rest of the way, to the country. 
Now that we know each other, now that Quebec has improved together, now that we broke the crust, laugh, cried together. 
Now that we trust, a party, come, we will make a country together. 
You will see, you will love that. It's going to be great. 
