Saguenay-for several months, the Parti Québécois indicates that it is fundamental that a debate is held on the mining royalties. Now, the ADQ announces that it wants the same thing and, the more the days spend, the more the Liberal government is isolated on the issue. 
"The Prime Minister currently in Asia has been seized of the message; The Parti Québécois intends to have serious discussions about the mining royalties this fall without what, it will be absolutely out of the question that we support Bill 14, "reiterated the member for Vachon and sentence of the official opposition. mine, Martine Ouellet. 
"We have been saying it for months, there is nothing new in there, we have mordicus to what Quebeckers have the economic benefits generated by our natural resources. We can no longer hear the prime minister say that everything is fine in the best of the worlds as we sell our riches, "continued Martine Ouellet. 
It should be remembered that last May, the Prime Minister stated that he was willing to debate this issue from the fall. "Minister Simard's attitude must change. We wish a real opening on the part of the minister for a constructive and positive debate on royalties to be held. The closed attitude of Minister Simard overlooks Quebec's finances, they are billions of dollars we lose. It is still time for the Prime Minister to indicate in Serge Simard that he has to set up and negotiate ", continued the member for Vachon. 
"How can the Prime Minister even think of Quebecers from the spinning of Quebec riches? In doing so, it is positioned in dignified successor of Duplessis. He who self-propelled great builder, does not he realize that he is becoming the big dilapider? , "Added the spokesperson for the Quebecois Mining Party. 
Under the reign of the Liberals, the price of gold went from 300 dollars an ounce at $ 1800 an ounce. The Québécois party proposes to seek the maximum of mining royalties by setting up a mandatory royalty on gross income, without tax deduction, while establishing equitable sharing of overprofit. In addition, the Parti Québécois offers strategic participation records in mining companies. 
With the current regime, the 12% royalty rate often applies to $ 0. Although the Liberals increase the rate at 16%, it will always be $ 0! As we are currently at the drawing table to update the Mining Act, it is the perfect opportunity. In addition, consensus is being established between the different political parties and several civil society stakeholders on what we have been proposing for weeks. It is out of the question to leave a diverse and dusty diet in place, "concluded Martine Ouellet. 
