Quebec - "The announcement made in September by the Minister of Finance, Raymond Bachand, to the effect that the royalty regime had allowed the state to harvest $ 300 million in royalties hid an important fact: the profits of the companies 319% jumped in 2010. Thus, the increase in profits was eight times larger than rising royalties. The complacent regime including Minister Bachand prides our natural resources ". 
This is what the member for Rousseau and sentence of the official opposition in terms of finance and economic development, Nicolas Marceau, has been stated, after considering the documents from the Ministry of Finance claimed for several weeks. 
The Parti Québécois criticizes the Liberal government to suggest that the current royalty regime was more demanding today than before, thanks to the amendments made. "The simple reality is that in 2008, the share of the wealth created by the mining recovered by the government was 24%. In 2010, after the modifications, this share is still 24%. Nothing has changed. The mining thus pay the same share of their profits to the government while these profits have increased over the last five years, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
At the National Assembly, Minister Bachand admitted that the slight increase in royalties is not directly attributable to the royalty regime, but much more to the fact that the profits of mining companies have exploded. "It's a lucid admission and in this sense, Minister Bachand must admit that Quebeckers do not receive enough of the current regime. He must draw the conclusions and modify the plan, "continued the member for Rousseau. 
For its part, the member for Vachon and spokesperson for the official opposition on shale mines and gas, Martine Ouellet, also indicated that in 2010, 10 mining on 19 did not pay any fees. She also summarizes the Minister Serge Simard to explain to Quebecers why her government refuses that nickel and iron are turned into Quebec. 
"The transformation helps to create four times more jobs than extraction. Minister Simard must tell us why he rejected an amendment to Bill 14 to promote more transformation? Why does the minister give up creating more jobs in Quebec? ", Concluded Martine Ouellet. 
