The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, accompanied by the candidate in Labelle, Sylvain Pagé, unveiled the means that hear the Government of the Parti Québécois so that our democratic system is more representative of the wishes of Quebeckers. Quebeckers. Moreover, because they also play a key role in a healthy democracy, the Parti Québécois is committed to better supporting traditional media, including through government advertising investments. 
IN SHORT 
Le Guvernmenter de parts Qualbécois saforing a: 
Reform our democracy to make it more representative 
"Earlier this year, all parties except one, the Liberal Party, are committed to ensuring that the election of October 1 is the last to stand under the current voting: we will adopt, for the next consultation. General, a regional mixed proportional voting system, more representative of the citizens' wishes of all Quebec. Today, we reiterate this commitment. And we will conduct this reform in respect of local peculiarities, "said Jean-François Lisée immediately. 
"In addition, it will contribute to a better representation of women, young people and ethnocultural communities in the National Assembly," has long been chained, who has long wished to dust out the ways of doing politics in Quebec. "We will also propose regular consultation mechanisms, to develop a real link between electors and elected officials. And why not let the elected officials vote freely, or reserve periods of questions about citizens? He also suggested. 
Integrity and transparency 
With a government of the Parti Québécois, a decision or sanction of the ethics and ethics commissioner will be applied, unless there is no vote of the two-thirds of the elected representatives of the National Assembly. "Another important crop change will be to adopt a generalized governance and open data policy. We will also set up an apolitical commission to reform the law to increase access to information at all levels of government. The information, all the information, must be easily accessible and, above all, understandable, "said Mr. Pagé. 
"In addition, we will increase the supervisory capacity of the Auditor General with respect to chartered universities, so that he can open their books and detect any public fund management problem, as he does for the network of Universities of Quebec. Finally, we will ensure that Hydro-Québec be subject to the law on the Protecteur du citoyen, who receives about 1500 complaints about the Crown corporation each year, but without being able to treat them, "added the leader. 
Support the media 
In Quebec as elsewhere in the world, traditional media are in crisis. There are no more those who have had to close their doors or whose situation is precarious, because of the competition of American web giants in the field of advertising investments. "Advertising revenues have become a gold mine for the Google and Facebook of this world, which now aspires 70% of what constitutes the livelihood of our media. This is why the Parti Québécois proposes to establish, for government bills, a minimum percentage devoted to traditional Quebec media. Their durability is at stake, we must restore equity, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
