Quebec- The member for Verchères and official opposition spokesperson for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, expressed his disappointment with regard to the decision of the Supreme Court on the data of the Register of Arms. Fire, decision that goes against Quebec consensus in this area. 
"The decision of the Supreme Court clearly indicates that beyond legality, there is a political decision that can be taken by the federal government. In this context, we therefore ask Prime Minister Philippe Couillard and Ministers Jean-Marc Fournier and Lise Thériault to make everything implemented, if it is not already too late, to convince the Government of Stephen Harper not to destroy Quebec data. The government can count on our political training to support it in this direction. The establishment of the federal registry has been paid, in large part, by taxes and taxes of Quebeckers; This would be the least of the things that the data is preserved and transferred for their profit, "said Stéphane Bergeron. 
"Once again, Quebeckers' message has not been heard by the Supreme Court. Obviously, cooperative federalism is an illusion; it does not work! This situation clearly illustrates that the decisions of the Federal Government of Stephen Harper go against Quebec, against the Quebec consensus on the firearms register; It clearly illustrates, also, that Ottawa's desiderata take precedence over the expectations, needs and wishes of Quebec. Quebec does not respect Quebec, which continued to use the registry data because they are useful, from a public safety perspective. Destroy data on thousands of firearms registered in Quebec is totally unacceptable, "he added. 
For a Quebec Firearms Registry 
The Minister of Public Safety, Lise Thériault, says today that the approaches to set up a Quebec gun registry would be engaged. Stéphane Bergeron offered the full and complete collaboration of his political training for this purpose. 
"We had, when we were in the government, filed a bill creating a Quebec gun registry, a bill that had been consensus. The government must put in place an effective register at a reasonable cost for Quebeckers; We offer him our cooperation to do this, "concluded Stéphane Bergeron. 
