Quebec- The hon. Member for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, as well as the member for Verchères and Spokesperson for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, deplore the Prime Minister rejected the hand stretched. In inviting to go to Ottawa to ask Prime Minister Stephen Harper to submit data from the firearms registry to Quebeckers, which belong to them. 
"Yesterday, we unanimously adopted a motion for the Prime Minister of Canada to retreat on his decision to destroy the register of firearms and order, rather, the immediate transfer of data to the Government of Quebec, so that the CI can set up its own registry. What did Philippe Couillard do as a result of this unanimous position? Did he take the phone? It is deplorable that no concrete gestures have been made. We offer him our support, and I am convinced that all parties too; What does he expect to act? Asked Stéphane Bédard. 
"Beyond legality, the Supreme Court has clearly indicated that it is a political decision. If these data are destroyed, it will be by pure ideological stub on the part of the federal government. Reporting data has cost nearly $ 1.5 billion, some 400 million have been paid by Quebeckers. Is it not an example of the failure of federalism when Ottawa destroys data that Quebec will have to collect again? , Was he raised. 
"Quebeckers have already paid for this data. It would be totally irresponsible that Ottawa destroys them. We do not ask the impossible for Prime Minister Couillard; Other premiers from Quebec have done it in the past, obtaining positive results. Why would that be impossible today? What prevents the Prime Minister from fulfilling his obligation, otherwise his fear of being scaled by the federal government? Does its federalist commitment more importance than the defense of the higher interests of Quebec? This would distinguish it from all the liberal prime ministers before him, who have never agreed to brauder the interests of Quebec for the sole purpose of not indistinguishing the federal government, "concluded Stéphane Bergeron. 
