Quebec- The Minister Delegate to Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Ms. Véronique Hivon, announced an unprecedented enhancement of the financing of community organizations working in the fields of health and social services, a measure arising from the major governmental orientations in solidarity. More specifically, it is $ 40 million additional and recurring per year for a period of three years that will be granted in support of the overall mission of community health and social services, from 2014-2015, for a total of 120 millions of additional dollars. 
"As soon as I arrived, I met community organizations and, inhabited by a concern for collaboration and transparency, I saw the establishment of a working group to determine the optimal partnership between them and the government. I am proud of this work with the community community, which took place in an excellent climate, and historical results that have come out. This is a convincing example of the strength of dialogue, "said Minister Hivon. 
It should be remembered that it is under a government of the Parti Québécois that was published in September 2001 the government of the government of recognition and support of Community action. This policy continues to be a recognized foundation in the governance of Community action in Quebec and a reference for the thousands of community organizations. 
As part of the work carried out jointly with the community community since last March, national tags have been identified, particularly in a concern for equity, tags that will guide the regions in the distribution of the sums. Note also that organizations with a national mission are also targeted by the enhancement. 
"Community organizations respond to basic and very diverse needs and are present for all members of their community. The investment announced today aims to support those who help people and who are investing every day to improve the quality of life of hundreds of thousands of Quebeckers. They are partners all the more essential as they allow the deployment of a real and valuable solidarity of proximity, "concluded Minister Hivon. 
Note that the Ministry of Health and Social Services supports more than 3,000 community organizations working, among other things, with people with mental health, homelessness or addiction problems, people in difficulty, people with deficiency and their families, elders and poor people to be supported. 
