Quebec- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, and the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Mr. Jean-François Lisée, announce the enhancement of the capacity of Home of the Family Medicine Unit (UMF) Côte-des-Neiges, affiliated with McGill University. 
"Our government has made a commitment to improve the accessibility of care and services by consolidating the first line and increasing the number of family physicians. This announcement is precisely for this purpose, since this enhancement will increase the family medicine capacity of the McGill University network while accentuating the offer of service to the population of the territory, "said Minister Hébert . 
This UMF will soon benefit from a redevelopment of spaces within one of the sites it occupies, that of the local Community Services Center (CLSC) of Park-Extension, located at 7085 Hutchison Street in Montreal. This redevelopment work will allow it to accommodate two additional external residents as early as July 2014, and to increase its total capacity at twelve residents and three external once the work is completed in 2016-2017. 
"In addition to contributing more markedly to the training of medicine succession and in the health sciences, which will benefit the whole of the Quebec population, the enhancement of the capacity of This UMF enhances, here and now, access to high quality local care and local services, "said the minister listed. 
For redevelopment, which extends over an area 325 m2, the Department provides non-recurring financial assistance of $ 810,400, an envelope that also covers the acquisition of equipment and furniture required. The Department also gives a maximum annualized allocation of $ 255,000 for Human Resources. 
Currently, about 45% of medical students are heading for family medicine, while 55% are moving towards other specialties. The consolidation of this UMF is part of the government's willingness to increase the number of graduates in family medicine to reverse these proportions, and thus to better meet the current and future health needs of Quebec society. 
