Quebec -After the interpellation of this morning with the Minister of Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs at the Blue Show, the member for Marie-Victorin, Bernard Drainville, comes to the conclusion that the Liberal government of Jean Charest weakens Quebec by requiring nothing and get nothing. During the two hours of the interpellation, the member returned to the charge by asking several times the following five questions: 
1 - What does the government do for the C-10 law does not apply in Quebec?  2 - What will the government do to recover the 500 million that will cost us C-10?  3 - Does a copy of Quebec data included in the firearms register been made?  4 - Does the government intend to sign an administrative agreement on criminal law as provided for in the Liberal Party Program?  5 - Will the government claim that Law 101 applies to all companies under federal jurisdiction in Quebec? 
"Five questions - zero answer. It's discouraging! , "Said the official opposition spokesperson for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Bernard Drainville. 
In addition, Minister Vallières refused to reaffirm the ten constitutional requests of his party contained in the Pelletier report yet confirmed at the last Liberal Party Congress last October. "It's as if the Liberals were afraid of being nationalists. Where is the inheritance of Jean Lesage, Robert Bourassa, Claude Ryan, who did not worry about making requests to Ottawa and had the courage to stand before the federal government. Masters at home was a liberal slogan. We are now far away. Currently, our government practices a federalism of helplessness. With Jean Charest, Canada's interests spend before Quebec! "Exclaimed Bernard Drainville. 
"It is flawless that, despite the number of letters sent to the federal government and the number of pilgrimages made by Quebec ministers, the federal government does not care about Quebeckers. Quebec has no balance of power with the federal government. Our voice is weak or off. However, it is the role of the Minister of Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs and Prime Minister of Quebec to bring Quebec's voice, to represent Quebeckers and defend their rights, interests and values, "concluded Bernard Drainville. 
