Sherbrooke- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb, announced the allocation of a loan of $ 12.5 million in Neptune Technologies & Bioressources for the revival of its Sherbrooke plant. For the company, which will eventually employ more than 140 people, including nearly a hundred at its Sherbrooke plant, it is an investment of $ 43 million. 
"Neptune Technologies & Bioressources is a true leader in the natural health products industry, a fast-growing sector in Quebec and internationally, Pauline Marois said. I am particularly proud of the removal of the Sherbrooke plant, which will contribute to the maintenance of Quebec expertise in this promising field. The project will also make it possible to restore work to a large part of the employees affected by the last November tragedy, which is an excellent news for the Estrie region. » 
Pauline Marois, accompanied by Élain Zakaïb and Serge Cardin, announced the attribution of a loan of $ 12.5 million to Neptune Technologies & Bioressources for the revival of his Sherbrooke plant. // (c) François Gilbert 
"By valuing the development of marine biomass products, Neptune Technologies & Bioressources contributes to the radiation of the niche of excellence Biotech Health of Estrie, has for its part sustained Élain Zakaïb. There is a recognized know-how in this region and a highly qualified workforce that builds on its skills in the service of Quebeckers. The removal of the Sherbrooke plant will have a positive impact for the region and for all Quebec. » 
The company Neptune Technologies & Bioressources is specialized in the development and marketing of marine biomass products, including antarctic krill (small shrimp) oil for the market for natural health products, specifically to that Nutraceutics. It also develops pharmaceutical products, through its ACASTI PHARMA INC subsidiaries. and Neurobiopharm inc. The company has a head office in Laval and a manufacturing plant in Sherbrooke. 
"Thanks to the revival of our Krill oil manufacturing plant, we will be able to ensure the growth of our company and our subsidiaries," said Neptune Technologies & Bioressources President, Henri Harland. The support of the Government of Quebec will also help to consolidate our reputation for excellence in the nutraceutical market and to increase our competitiveness in international markets. » 
