Montreal- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, was pleased to take part in the inauguration of the Kelly Aviation Center of Lockheed Martin Canada. The Government of Quebec has already announced a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 3.9 million as part of the measures put in place to revive the activities of the AVEOS company, the closure of which occurred in March 2012. 
Lockheed Martin Canada has invested more than $ 30 million to purchase the aircraft engine maintenance and review workshop located in Montreal and owned by Aveos. The company plans to add new technological equipment and create 220 specialized jobs over the next three years. 
"Lockheed Martin Canada and the Kelly Aviation Center made a wise choice by twinning their forces on civil aeronautics with those of Quebec," said Zakaïb Élain. "This major project will promote the creation of highly specialized jobs as well as maintaining Quebec expertise in a growing sector and essential for the growth of our economy. » 
Minister Zakaïb took the opportunity to emphasize, on behalf of the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltese, the award of a grant to The company as part of a workforce training plan. The financial assistance provided by Jobs-Québec is $ 587,000 and the employer's contribution is nearly $ 1.8 million. "It is essential to support the Kelly Aviation Center, while the 200 new employees will have to improve their know-how, in a peak area where technology is constantly changing, to adjust to the company", stressed Mrs. Maltais. "It's going to maintain their jobs and the economic health of the organization." 
The American company Lockheed Martin is specialized in the aerospace, information and defense sectors. The company employs approximately 500 people in Canada, about a hundred in Montreal, who design software and electronic systems for the military naval sector. 
"The setting up of the Kelly Aviation Center in Montreal will allow us to diversify our activities and thus increase our exports," supported the vice-president and director of the Kelly Aviation Center, Amy Gowder. "With the support of the Government of Quebec, we will be able to offer high quality maintenance and review services, which will help strengthen our position in international markets. » 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
