Quebec, March 2, 2021 -The Member of Gaspé and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in the field of women's condition, Megan Perry Melançon, notes that several indicators are red as to the situation of women, affected disproportionately by the effects of The Pandemic of Covid-19. She asks the government to admit it first and then to act accordingly. 
IN SHORT 
The Parti Québécois offers four tracks of action to better support women, more affected by the pandemic: 
"Several recent studies demonstrate, including the one jointly conducted by the Quebec Observatory of Inequality and the Public Health Association of Quebec: women suffer hard against the risks of COVID-19, and gender inequalities have become accentuated for a year. In fact, the experts agree that the problems with women face were already present, that governments have shoveled in front of years and that, consequently, the pandemic has only exacerbate them. The Prime Minister and his minister responsible for the Status of Women, Isabelle Charest, must admit it, "claims the member for Gaspé. 
It also specifies that the notion of "woman", although it includes it, is not limited to working-family conciliation, despite what François Legault seems to believe. "Our Prime Minister, welcoming the help that his government has provided families with many aspects of the lives of women, whether or not they have children: physical and mental health, employment and economy, access to housing, spousal and sexual violence ... The pandemic has potentially influenced them, in one way or another, bringing back some of the dozens of years back from the point of view of their rights or their fulfillment, " Pursued Meganne Perry Melançon. 
"Do not act is not an option. Concrete actions must be put forward to accompany women, considering that for many of them, the slope leading to the return to normal, equity and peace of mind will be even more abrupt. The government can not remain deaf to this call, launched a few days ago by the centers of women, among others, in a joint statement; He must take this into account in his postpandemic recovery strategy, "concluded the member. 
- 30 - 
SOURCE : 
Laura Chouinard-Thuly 
Press Officer 
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois 
514 880-9594 
Laura.c After i's -t care liquid @as is NAT. Second. Wipe 
