Quebec- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announces that the company the equipment of powerCanceriance Ltd. (Reliance) responded to the order that it was served yesterday. and that it agrees to respect the modalities. The minister welcomes this answer with cautious satisfaction and ensures that follow-up at all times will be made to ensure that the order will be respected in its entirety. In addition, police surveillance put in place on the site since August 27, 2013 will be maintained at the expense of the company and will remain as long as the means of security of the site required by the department have not been implemented. 
"The company informed us last night of its firm intention to collaborate without escape, but after weeks of unsuccessful attempts to comply with our requirements. I welcome Reliance's response with reserves. My level of mistrust is conditioned by the behavior of business leaders in recent years, and is very low. The law gives the company's rights we need to respect, but I can assure you that the Department will continue to be very present at the premises to ensure the immediate implementation of the conditions of the order. I will not tolerate that it is a parade for the sole purpose of saving time, but if reliance conforms in good shape, the speed of realization of decontamination will be the same as if the ministry had Taken, at the expense of the company, "said Minister Blanchet. 
Given the reply provided by Reliance, the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP) expects to receive a preliminary plan of action in accordance with its requirements by September 3rd 2013. This plan should provide for measures to ensure the permanent and complete security of the site and to put in place safe and compliant storage techniques. These steps will have to be followed by a travel approach for CPC treatment to a safe and listed site, from a residual hazardous material elimination plan present on the site and a plan for characterization and decontamination of soils. However, as soon as a breach will be noted, the Department will carry out the actions in place and at the expense of the Company. 
"Reliance must respect all the modalities of the order. I expect concrete gestures to be laid today, such as the provision of intrusion detection equipment. Fire and extinction detection systems will also need to be installed. Representatives of the MDDEFP will be on the site to oversee any activity from now, "said the Blanchet minister. In addition, it ensures that departmental expertise will be used to ensure that the decontamination plan is effective and rigorous. 
In addition, the continuing investigation with a view to transmitting a file to the Director of Criminal and Criminal Prosecutions, which may decide to undertake criminal prosecution. "I understand and share the concerns of citizens. But I can assure them that the ministry follows the situation very closely. The company remains under high surveillance to ensure a rapid settlement of the situation. The Reply of Reliance is a demonstration that if they are carried by a firm desire, the powers conferred by the Environmental Quality Act contribute to effectively protecting health, safety and the environment, "concluded the Minister Blanchet. 
