Saguenay- The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, accompanied by the member for Dubuc, Jean-Marie Claveau, announced the granting of a loan guarantee of $ 406,000 in Mettube. The support granted will allow the company to ensure the transfer of assets to a new purchaser and will also help maintain 90 jobs. 
"I am proud that my government financially supports the succession and thus contributes to maintaining a flagship of the region. It is important for the future of Québec to facilitate the transfer of importance of importance, as Metatube, and to preserve quality jobs. Metatube is a thriving business and one of the largest suppliers of repair services in the industrial sector in Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, "said the Prime Minister. 
Created in 1993, Metatube is recognized for the design, manufacture, assembly and welding of metal products. It employs a specialized workforce and includes among its important customers Rio Tinto Alcan as well as several regional companies. Recipient of ISO 9001: 2008 certification, it works in a variety of sectors, ranging from paper mills to aluminums, through sawmills, institutions and municipalities. 
"Since its inception, the company Mettatube has registered in the economic development of the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region. With the support of the Government of Quebec, it will be able to continue its activities in the coming years. We are convinced that the company will remain a leading player for the local economy and for the economic development of Quebec, "said Jean-Marie Claveau. 
"I am very happy to take the reins of a booming company with the financial support of Investissement Québec and the efforts of all other actors who contributed to the completion of this project. Metatube is in full development thanks to its very important notoriety with the clientele. Several projects and contracts are coming in the short and medium term. We are currently exploring several markets and clients, and our strategic thinking will allow us to reach our ambitious goals with the entire team in place, "added the new President of Metatube, François Gagné. 
