Islands-de-la-Madeleine - the member for the Madeleine Islands and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Fisheries Component), Ms. Jeannine Richard, on behalf of the Deputy Premier Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron announces the assignment of $ 125,000 to succession support in the fishing industry in the Islands Madeleine. 
This government initiative allows five young fishermen Madelinots, ie mm. Jason Clarke, Chad Clark, Marcel Dickson, Murray McKay and Luc Vigneau, to take advantage of a grant that will be up to $ 25,000 to acquire their first fishing company. Financial assistance comes from the financial support program in the catchment sector, which the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food implements. 
"More than ever, young people play a vital role in the future of fisheries, while the islands industry like that of other maritime regions must deal with the aging of its members and with the difficulty of ensuring a succession", Specified Ms. Jeannine Richard. 
For commercial fishermen under 40 who wish to settle in the commercial fisheries industry, benefit from funding is difficult because of the high value of the necessary assets. The department therefore puts financial assistance for 20% of the total cost of their purchase, up to $ 25,000 to support the completion of their project. 
"Since its implementation in 2008, the measure took advantage of 74 Fishermen of the Madeleine Islands. This is the proof of the success of this program and especially its importance for these young people who wish to take over the torch of an essential trade in the economy of our region, "concluded Richard. 
Fostering a young, trained and competent succession is one of the priorities put forward in the 2013-2018 Action Plan. Develop our fisheries industry and commercial aquaculture. This plan is peurmed at the food sovereignty that is one of the government's preferred tools to support the economic prosperity of Quebec and its regions. 
It should be noted that with $ 2.3 billion investments and an annual food demand of nearly $ 34 billion that generates 475,000 jobs, the bioalmic industry is an important engine of Quebec's economy. 
For further information on food sovereignty policy, we invite you to regularly consult the blog devoted to it (www.politiquesa.gouv.qc.ca) or to visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa). It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
