Montréal- In response to the announcement of the new composition of the Liberal Government Council of Ministers, the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the parliamentary leader of the official opposition, Bernard Drainville, find that the reshuffle of today Hui has absolutely nothing reassuring for the Quebec economy, academic success, families and regional development. 
"In today's announcement, there is no bar that we expected in economy. Efforts have been dispersed in the hands of several people. We arrive at mid-term, and there is still no vision or real strategy to revive the economy. Now, it is Quebeckers who pay the strong price of broken promises and the incompetence of the Liberals. Very soon, families will have to pay the increase in child care rates. The 250,000 promised jobs are officially missing. There are even 10,000 more unemployed in Quebec since the Prime Minister's arrival. And where is the concern for regions? Obviously, the economy does not interest the Prime Minister. When you want a coherent strategy, you have to have a business plan, designate the strong person, facilitate decision-making, "insisted Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
Three ministers in less than two years 
"In education, we lost two years. We are at a third minister, and the Liberal government is still not talking about children or academic success, he talks about structures. The government of austerity cuts, at the expense of Quebec children. Yet, education must be our highest priority. Will the government cease to weaken our public education system? ", Also asked the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
To avoid admitting his failure 
"This reshuffle is especially an admission of the prime minister's failure and the clear demonstration of the lack of depth of the liberal team. The Prime Minister keeps ministers who have absolutely nothing proved: David Heurtel, François Blais and Francine Charbonneau. These people disappointed the families of Quebec and, however, they remain. For example, as Minister of the Family, Francine Charbonneau undertook the demolition of CPEs and today Philippe Couillard appoints an old ADQ, which never believed at CPEs, to finish the work. On the other hand, with Martin Coiteous, it is the austerity that makes its entry into the municipal world. I also have a thought for some Liberal members who have been waiting for a long time to access the Council of Ministers and see members coming from the CAQ to be named. The government's pseudo-renewal comes from his school club, "added Bernard Drainville. 
"We will continue to be an official opposition connected to the concerns of Quebeckers, while the grumbling and dissatisfaction ride in the face of this government. Quebeckers can count on us. Our company has great challenges, it is necessary to put it, whether in economics, education or health. The members of the Parti Québécois will continue to be on the ground to meet the citizens and echo their requests to the National Assembly. That's what our team accomplishes every day, and we will continue our work, "concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
