Québec- The member for Vachon and spokespersons of the Parti Québécois on transport, maritime strategy and transport electrification, Martine Ouellet, welcomes the new Minister of Transport, Laurent Lessard, while stressing that he will have Act quickly in some folders that drag. 
Taxi industry 
"First of all, with respect to UberX, a foreign multinational, which makes the taxi illegal, who does not pay his taxes and who hides in the tax havens, we expect that Laurent Lessard respects the word of his two Predecessors, Jacques Daoust and Robert Poëti, and that he does not create two classes of drivers. UberX must be subject to the same rules as the rest of the taxi industry. Laurent Lessard should not use pilot projects to create unfair competition and, by the door back, legalize what is illegal today. Remember that the provisions of Bill 100 on the taxi industry, which must come into effect on September 8, will give additional handles to the minister to counter the illegal taxi. The minister and the Liberal Party will have no pretext to tolerate illegality. They will have to enforce the law, "insisted Martine Ouellet. 
Scandale au mutq 
The member is also of the opinion that Laurent Lessard remembers the crisis crossed by the Department of Transport (MTQ) last spring. "The Minister must continue the work started by Annie Trudel to restore public confidence in the MTQ. He must also reintegrate Louise Boily into his old director of the MTQ audits, and ensure that professionals in processes, PCPs, no longer fall under the Territorial Directorates of the MTQ, where they are in conflict of interest, but rather from senior management to the ministry. Laurent Lessard must also commit to putting an end to the practice of entrusting contracts to former departmental employees, "she claimed. 
Oil transport 
"Then, the terrible accident occurred a few days ago on Highway 40 painfully recalled the risks that oil transport represents for the safety of citizens. We demand that the minister imposes more transparency when it comes to travel and frequency of the transportation of hazardous materials, and that it publicly renders the information as to the nature of the products transported and the risks associated with it. , that transportation is carried out by truck, by train or by boat, "added Martine Ouellet. 
Harmful traffic for the Montreal area 
"Finally, traffic in Montreal and throughout the metropolitan area is made entirely untenable. At any time of the day or night, it is possible to get involved in bumper against bumper. Very clearly, there is poor work planning and, with the return to school, the situation will only get worse. It is a blow for the economic development of the entire metropolitan area. Mr. Lessard must go further than lately announced mitigation measures. It must put in place even more important measures for collective transport, for example, several new departures for suburban trains and metro. The new minister must also provide the necessary resources to accelerate the completion of the work. It does not return to citizens to undergo the consequences of a decade of liberal incusion in the maintenance of our road infrastructure, "concluded the member for Vachon. 
