The deputy of Rimouski and President of the Public Finance Commission, Mr. Irvin Pelletier, welcomed today, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, M . François GENDRON, the success of the 122 students who have successfully completed their training program at the Institute of Agri-Food Technology (ITA), Campus de la Pocatière. Among these 122 graduates, 90 obtain a college diploma, an increase of 34% of their number for campus. 
The Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food has held tribute to the graduates of the ITA: "I want to emphasize the audacity you are showing you in the adventure of a career in Agriculture. I also want you to know that supporting support is at the top of the Quebec government's priorities list. It's very important for me, especially since I would need you to ensure the success of the food sovereignty policy. It is no coincidence that the "youth" concern is present in each of the four axes of politics, because, basically, it is you who will shape the agricultural Quebec of tomorrow. » 
In front of a fireplace of relatives, friends, partners, staff members and graduates of the Institute, the Ministry has awarded medals and five-graduate scholarships who have obtained the best educational outcomes, a graduate in each of the five programs. "Collegial studies offered at the Pocatière campus: agricultural business management and operation, animal production technology, process technology and food quality, horticultural production technology, as well as equine techniques. Companies and agri-food organizations also granted scholarships to students that have distinguished themselves in their program. 
"You represent an extraordinary responsibility for the Quebec agri-food environment. Many challenges await you in this area where there is still a lot to invent. Your commitment and excellence, combined with the training you received, make you the best prepared people to work and make it progress, "said Gendron. 
The ITA, which already has 50 years of existence, has a campus at the Pocatière and one in Saint-Hyacinthe which are recognized for the quality of their teaching and their facilities and who welcome a total of about 1,000 students each year. To learn more about the institute, curricula or services offered, simply visit the websitewww.ita.qc.ca. 
