Quebec- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, accompanied by the Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier , reiterated the Minister of Infrastructure, Communities and Intergovernmental Affairs, and Minister of the Canada Economic Development Agency for Quebec Regions, Mr. Denis Lebel, the official position of Quebec and members of the Partners for the replacement of the Champlain Bridge. 
The Government of Quebec wishes to emphasize that, for the first time since the announcement of the replacement of the Champlain Bridge made more than two years ago, the federal government indicates that it will contribute financially to its construction. However, the introduction of a federal toll on the new bridge will have major impacts on other bridges as well as road infrastructure binding Montreal and the South Shore. 
"The Champlain Bridge must be replaced because of the great negligence of successive governments in Ottawa. The Harper government must assume its responsibilities by fully financing the replacement bridge, "took the Gaudreault and Cloutier ministers. 
"The current situation is all the more unacceptable as Ottawa intends to unveil the exact amount of the toll only a few weeks before the opening of the new structure planned in 2018. This lack of transparency of the federal government will have a Impact on citizens and the economic life of the great metropolitan area. It will be a surprise toll! We therefore ask Ottawa to share with all the members of the Partners Office - Champlain Bridge Studies on the toll. He has the obligation to be transparent because it is Quebec and the metropolis that will assume the impact of such a decision, "continued Minister Gaudreault. 
"It is deplorable that the federal government remains silent on the proposal of the Prime Minister of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, aimed at setting up a Joint Canada-Quebec project office to arrange and coordinate public transport components. and road transport on the new Champlain bridge. This request was formulated directly to the Prime Minister of Canada, Stephen Harper last December. Consultation with Ottawa in the Champlain Bridge Replacement Folder is required to ensure the rapid realization of the project, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"I am disappointed that the choice of a two-storey bridge, which was consensus among all the members of the Champlain Bridge Office has not been privileged. We had submitted to the federal government a concrete, realistic and rigorous proposal of the Quebec vision for this great project. We intend to continue to promote the benefits some of this configuration particularly with regard to the maintenance, safety, reliability and integration of bus reserved for bus and emergency vehicles. The proposal set out by the federal government provides nothing in this regard, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
With a two-storey structure, the lower level would be devoted exclusively to the rail network and other collective modes of transport, including buses. The higher level would be dedicated to the motorway circulation, with a total of six lanes and two shoulders, in addition to a space reserved for active transport. 
For Minister Alexandre Cloutier, a major project for access to downtown metropolis as the Champlain Bridge calls for a wider discussion between Quebec and Ottawa on financing transport infrastructure. "We have proposed to the federal government that the light train (SLR) that we privilege is funded from the merit envelope of the Canada Chantier Fund. As part of this fund, Quebec has never had its fair share and the SLR project that is consensus with partners must have predictability to be able to serve the citizens of the South Shore. As quickly as possible, "mentioned Mr. Cloutier. 
The two ministers agrees to submit, in full transparency, to the members of the Bureau of Partners - Bridge Champlain, the business plan that will guide the new schedule and the completion of the replacement work of the current structure by 2018 . 
