Montreal- "Every day, more than 70,000 nurses care for Quebeckers in hospitals and CHSLDs or offer home or elsewhere. With other health professionals, they are the foundation stone of our public health system. It is with them that we will take the healthy turn that we propose. This is what the leader of the Parti Québécois said, Pauline Marois, following a meeting with the President of the Quebec Health Interprofessional Federation, Régine Laurent. 
"Homestay is the first axis of our healthy turn. To do this, nurses must be able to assume more powers, such as the prescription of drugs related to the treatment of certain wounds. Thus, nurses, who are real experts in this type of care, will be able to prescribe, in a well-marked frame, medications for home treatment of wounds. By treating the wounds faster, we avoid complications, we release the doctors time so that they can meet more patients and we disengage emergencies, "said Pauline Marois. 
The leader of the Parti Québécois also favored that nurses have increased responsibilities; For example, they may request radiographs or laboratory tests. "The goal is to make the most of the competence of nurses because they are best placed to take care of our world and because our public health system must be more efficient and more accessible. We supported the pharmacists in their turn promoting the first line, we will do the same with the nurses, "said Pauline Marois, pointing out that to give more responsibilities to the nurses will facilitate at the same time the patient's life. 
Privatization of health care is not a solution to improve access to care. The most eloquent example is the use of private nursing agencies in the public health network. Not only does it cost 20% more to the state, but in the long term, these agencies contribute to the exodus of nurses to the private sector. 
"The private healthy is not the solution. Our health shift will be realized inside a universal, efficient, accessible public system that offers quality services, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
