Quebec- The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister of the Status of Women, Agnès Maltais, as Jeannine Richard, Parliamentary Assistant of the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, have defended the interests and priorities of Quebec fishermen and aquaculturists, on the occasion of the meetings of the Canadian Council of Ministers of Fisheries and Aquaculture and the Council of Ministers of Fisheries and Aquaculture of the Atlantic Finish today in the city of Quebec. 
Meeting in the National Capital, the provincial, territorial and federal fisheries ministers discussed the issues of concern to the fishing and aquaculture industry. Maltese and Richard ladies took the opportunity to assert both the concerns and the priorities of the Government of Quebec with regard to the many issues discussed during these two days of meeting, particularly with regard to the reform of insurance. -Employment and difficult situation experienced by the Atlantic lobster industry in 2013. 
Minister Maltese took advantage of the meeting to inform the Federal Minister of Fisheries and Oceans, Ms. Gail Shea, the VIVE concern of the Government of Quebec about the impact of Federal Employment Insurance reform on sustainability the economic and aquaculture industry and the populations of the Maritime Regions of Quebec. It emphasized that federal reform may unjustly penalize the fisheries and aquaculture sector. 
"The federal government is turning a deaf ear to Quebec's demands. By abolishing the pilot project for the additional five weeks of benefits and forcing seasonal workers to accept less well-paid jobs, it is destabilizing the Quebec fisheries and aquaculture market. It is an irresponsible reform since it does not recognize that it is the jobs that are seasonal and not workers, "said Maltais. The Minister recalled that 74% of Gaspésie and the Madeleine Islands Employment Insurance providers and 56% of Bas-Saint-Laurent providers are part of the frequent providers particularly targeted by the reform. 
Ms. Maltais asked the Federal Minister to make representations with his federal colleagues so that the anticipated harmful consequences of this reform on resources and seasonal workers are taken into account and that this reform is suspended until That the federal government demonstrates that it will not have negative effects on Quebec. 
For its part, the Parliamentary Assistant of the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Jeanine Richard, defended Quebec's position for lobster fishing. "The situation in lobster fishing weakens companies and the economy of the maritime regions. We can not stay the arms crossed. Industry experiences significant structural problems largely because the federal government does not modernize its fisheries management mechanisms, taking into account the new realities of markets and industry, "said Richard. It has also recalled that the Quebec government had to put in place urgent financial assistance measures to prevent the financial situation from certain lobster fishing companies with no further deterioration and jeopardize the continuation of their activities. 
In terms of aquaculture, Quebec has indicated its intention not to apply the new federal settlement project to its aquaculture industry. Aquaculture in Quebec is very well supervised by Quebec legislation and regulations already in force, covering the environmental impacts on which the federal government intends to legislate. Ministers also discussed a federal settlement project to combat invasive aquatic species. Quebec said that it already had its own regulation in this area, but it was ready to discuss with the federal government and the neighboring provinces for a better collaboration and a better stowage of their interventions to combat the Establishment and propagation of these species all regulatory duplication between the two levels of governments would, however, be harmful to the industry. 
Remember that commercial fishery contributes significantly to the economy of the Maritime Regions of Quebec. Just over 3,000 fishermen and fishermen provide capture activities in Quebec. These activities generate each year average landings of nearly 54,000 tonnes of marine products. The value of shipments from commercial fishery products exceeds $ 340 million. The Quebec aquaculture industry includes nearly 130 companies, provides approximately 300 jobs annually and generates sales estimated at nearly $ 12 million. 
