Niagara-on-the-Lake, Ontario - the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, is satisfied with the annual meeting of the Council of the Federation. 
This morning, the Prime Minister submitted a proposal asking the federal government to ensure greater safety for rail transportation, which was unanimous with its counterparts. This one speaks of a system for monitoring railway convoys carrying hazardous materials that should be put in place by the federal government. This system would provide real-time data on the location and content of these trains. 
"The railway is very present in Quebec and Canada. I am delighted that my colleagues agreed with us the importance of knowing in advance what crosses our villages and our cities, and the need for strengthening in the application of regulation, "said the first minister. 
In this proposal, it is also requested from the federal government to take the necessary measures to ensure that liability insurance requirements are sufficient. 
In addition, this discussion will have been an opportunity to take stock of the efforts of the Quebec government in the wake of the mortal derailment in Lac-Mégantic. 
On the other hand, during the day of yesterday, the Prime Minister welcomed that his colleagues from the provinces and territories reiterated the consensus on the effect of requiring the governments that wish to retire with full compensation. federal initiatives in the field of workforce training. This echoes the consensus of Quebec partners involved and all parties in the National Assembly as to the importance of the Government of Quebec continues to carry out its project management in terms of training of the hand. artwork. 
"The unanimity we are showing on this issue sends a strong message to the federal government. His Canadian Employment Grant initiative would bring Quebec over fifteen years back and we do not hear that it applies to our territory, "Ms. Marois continued. 
Finally, the premier reported Quebec's fight against violence and intimidation. She recalled that new technologies, cyberbullying and cybercrime are changing rapidly, that this evolution must be closely monitored and consider different solutions to end. 
Minister Delegate to Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Governance, Alexandre Cloutier, said that "Quebec is in favor of adjustments to the Criminal Code, being understood, however. It must be consulted before the entry into force of these provisions ". 
