Québec- On its return of Haiti mission, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, said to be honored by the invitation of the Minister of Culture, Josette Darguste, to participate in Quebec meetings in Haiti in the field literature, book and publishing, to support the important Quebec delegation present for the occasion. 
Thirty of Quebec's book writers and professionals participate in these flagship meetings to facilitate the circulation of the Quebec book in Haiti and promote the mesh between the two nations, booksellers and publishers. 
"The many meetings I made in Haiti have been fruitful and carrier for the future of our bilateral relations. They also found me that Quebec was aware of real interest among Haitian publishers, creators and readers. The cultural ties that unite Quebec and Haiti have fed over time, various exchanges as well as the realization of major cooperation projects between our two communities. The choice of Haiti as a guest of honor at the next book of the book of Montreal and these meetings are beautiful examples, "said Minister Kotto. 
The minister has participated in the day of professionals who allowed the authors and publishers Quebec and Haitians to share their experience and expertise. In addition, in this mission, in particular met the Minister of Culture of the Republic of Haiti, Josette Darguste, the Minister Delegate to the Prime Minister, responsible for the rights of the person and the fight against the Extreme Poverty, Anne Anne Auguste, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Cults, Pierre-Richard Casimir, and the Antenna Head of the International Organization of La Francophonie, Chantal Moreno. 
Quebec meetings in Haiti are in perfect coherence with the objectives of the Joint Declaration on Cooperation in the Fields of Culture and Communications. Signed by the governments of Quebec and Haiti on the sidelines of the Francophonie Summit in Quebec, in 2008, this statement aims to multiply opportunities for collaboration between the two nations. 
"Haiti is a priority partner for Quebec. Minister Kotto's mission, the first of a representative of the current government in this territory, reflects our desire to deepen our privileged relationship with Haiti in terms of culture, solidarity and economy, " Added to the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean-François Lisée. 
Under the presidency of the author Dany Laferrière, the Quebec meetings in Haiti were organized by Memory of Inkner and Quebec Edition. They were launched on the occasion of the anniversary of the Inkner's Memory Publishing House, which is mandated to promote the authors and works of Francophone and migrant spaces. Remember that Quebec Edition is a chapped committee by the National Association of Quebec Book Publishers (Anel), devoted to the international influence of the Quebec French language edition. 
The Quebec City Edition team wrapped from the experience of Quebec meetings in Haiti. "We say: finally! Finally the Quebec people went to meet this other great Francophone people of America. The Haitians and Haitians welcomed us with warmth and kindness and, above all, with an inexhaustible curiosity for the work of our authors and our publishers. Québec's sales, although remarkable, do not say everything about the experience we have lived, that a word could summarize: Fraternity, "said the president of Anel and Quebec Edition, Jean-François Bouchard. 
Quebec Edition has brought more than 2,000 literature structures by Port-au-Prince for the event, and half of these books have found takers. His exhibition and sales kiosk installed at the Cultural Center of the Knowledge and Freedom Foundation (Fokal) attracted thousands of Haitian readers. Libraries The Pleiade and Asterix of Port-au-Prince as well as the Library of the Fokal have also made full of Quebec books. Then, invended books, many will take the road to a local distributor, while others will be distributed in the region with community libraries. 
The realization of the project has been made possible thanks to the support of many private and public partners, including the Ministry of Culture and Communications and the Ministry of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade. 
