Islands-de-la-Madeleine - the member of the Islands of La Madeleine, Ms. Jeannine Richard, had the pleasure of welcoming his colleague and Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, during his visit to the Islands of -Madeleine. It is also at its invitation that the minister has moved to meet municipal elected officials as well as important actors in the region, from different sectors, to listen to their concerns. 
"We have come to the Madeleine Islands to listen to the citizens and major players in the region, from both political, socio-economic and environmental and institutional environments, and gather their suggestions and their comments about their environment. We believe that Quebec must define a vision as well as clear guidelines of its future energy development. The Islands-de-la-Madeleine will be an integral part of this great collective reflection that begins in Quebec, "said Martine Ouellet. 
"The presence of Martine Ouellet today in the Madeleine Islands is significant and more demonstrates that regions are at the heart of our government's concerns. Madelinots can count on the support of the Parti Québécois to promote the development of the Madeleine Islands, "said Jeannine Richard. 
Martine Ouellet met with the elected officials of the municipal council, the management of the Municipality of the Madeleine Islands and the members of the Hydrocarbons and Commission Consultation Table on Quebec's energy issues. They had the opportunity to share their concerns with the energy issues of the region. The issue of the end of life of the Hydro-Québec thermal power station, which currently provides energy to the archipelago, has been addressed and alternative energy supply solutions have been presented. The exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Gulf of St. Lawrence was also on the agenda. Let us mention that Martine Ouellet will visit the Hydro-Québec thermal power station this afternoon. 
Martine Ouellet announced, in the presence of Jeannine Richard, that Lacommission on Quebec's energy issues will stop at the Îles-de-la-Madeleine on September 23rd. This date is added to this important Commission tour, which will move throughout the regions of Quebec from September 4 to October 9, 2013. The Minister of Natural Resources stated that Madelinots Moreover, to express their opinion, to share their expertise and make suggestions to meet the main energy issues that concern the Îles-de-la-Madeleine and Quebec. 
Martine Ouellet also had the opportunity to discover the economic and economic activities of the Îles-de-la-Madeleine. In this regard, the minister met with the ZIP Committee, which presented the various issues concerning the fauna and flora as well as the history of the archipelago of the Madeleine Islands. The practices and issues related to lobster fishery were presented to him. 
"The islands of the Madeleine are without a doubt among the most beautiful islands in the world. The archipelago is not only rich in its culture and history, but from its people and landscapes, "said Martine Ouellet. 
At the end of his visit, Martine Ouellet wanted to salute the work of his colleague Jeannine Richard, who performs a whole job of representation for his region. She also wanted to thank the Madelinots for their warm welcome as well as their great hospitality. 
