Quebec- On the sidelines of the Federal-Provincial-Territorial Meeting of Ministers Responsible for Tourism held in Whitehorse, Yukon, 12 and 13 September 2013, Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, wanted to reiterate the position Quebec argued at this meeting. 
"Quebec sees tourism as a major economic development sector as it generates $ 12.4 billion of tourist revenue creating more than 140,000 direct jobs and contributes to the diversification of the economy in several regions of Quebec. In this context, all our resources must be involved and all the actors related to the tourism industry from the different levels of government must act consistently to ensure that Quebec can take full advantage of the important growth forecasts of the important growth forecast. International tourism, "said Mr. Bérubé. 
During the meeting, the Quebec delegation led by the Deputy Minister Associated with Tourism, Ms. Suzanne Giguère, reported Quebec's priorities for the development and promotion of the Quebec destination. 
Quebec took the opportunity to present its own tourism development initiatives and discuss promising approaches in this area. 
Quebec has also expressed its concerns about the impacts of the reform of the employment insurance program on the tourism industry as this reform generates a climate of uncertainty and threatens the stability of nearly 30% of its workforce. 
With respect to the promotion of the Quebec destination, the Associate Deputy Minister emphasized Quebec's concern about decreasing the budget of the Canadian Tourism Commission. This decrease has led to a lesser presence of this organization in the US market, a priority market for the Quebec tourism industry. Quebec has asked the federal government to continue its efforts to facilitate the visa demand procedure for Mexican tourists. The importance of air transport for tourism development in Quebec has also been emphasized and, in particular, its desire to see a direct air link between China and Quebec. 
The meeting has also allowed Quebec to present the content of its 2012-2020 a route plan to grow, to demonstrate the importance of tourism in the economic development of Quebec, to make known its new image of Brand, Quebec.Original and to highlight the efforts made in conjunction with all tourist speakers with a view to implementing its plan. 
