Quebec- The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, met this morning the prime minister elected, Philippe Couillard, in order to proceed to the official procurement of powers. 
On the occasion of this meeting, the Prime Minister addressed with Mr. Couillard four priority topics: 
As the tradition is desired, the elected prime minister accepted the appointment of three Employees of the Prime Minister. Two of them reintegrate the public service, a third is named for the first time. This is Marc-André Beaulieu, Stéphane Dolbec and Patrick Lahaie. 
Marc-André Beaulieu holds a graduate degree specializing in public policy and management of the University of Paris I, a master's degree in political science from the University of Montreal and a diploma of the John F. Kennedy School of Government of Harvard University. Mr. Beaulieu has an impressive roadmap in international relations, particularly within the permanent representation of the United Nations International Organization of Francophonie in Geneva and as Advisor and Acting Affairs Officer at the Quebec Office in Munich. He has worked in many departments as a counselor and the executive, between 1990 and 2009, before becoming adviser to Pauline Marois, first at the office of the official opposition and then at the firm of the Prime Minister . 
Member of the Barreau du Québec since 1998, holding a Bachelor of Law degree from Laval University, Stéphane Dolbec has been a cabinet director of many ministers between 1989 and 2002. He also worked in the Chief Electoral Officer, As Director of Research, Modernization and International Cooperation, from 2007 to 2009. He later became adviser to Pauline Marois and then Director of Content at the Prime Minister's Office in 2012. 
Holder of a postgraduate degree in Economic International Law of the Institute of International Studies of Paris II University, and a Master's degree in Political Science from the University of Montreal, Patrick Lahaie has held many duties at within political firms as well as the Quebec Federation of Municipalities. He was a counselor with Pauline Marois since 2007. 
The decrees of these appointments will be adopted today by the Council of Ministers. 
