Quebec- On the eve of the meeting between the Heads of State of Canada, the United States and Mexico, the official Leader of the Official Opposition of Jonquière, Sylvain Gaudreault, the hon. Member for Bonaventure and Party Spokesman Quebec's forests, Sylvain Roy, and the member for Verchères, spokesperson for Quebec-Canada Relations Stéphane Bergeron, supported the Quebec Forest Industry in the softwood lumber issue. The agreement has been exposed since October 2015, the timber trade must be part of the discussions of the international meeting. 
"The Liberal government of Philippe Couillard finally decided to express support to our forest industry. On our side, we want to reiterate again ours. It is important that the federal government listen to our workers, not just those in western Canada. In my region, the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, this important industry must receive good news, especially as in another file that affects this sector, the surcharge on the overcomed paper continues to have the uncertainty, especially for dolbeau and kenogami factories, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"This unfair tax imposed by the United States fears the worst for our forest workers, already strongly affected by the inaction of the Liberal government in the sector. Since 2005, more than 20,000 direct jobs have been lost in the processing of wood. The government amputated $ 38 million with a budget dedicated to silvicultural work. Some 286 factories have closed their doors. Minister Laurent Lessard should be clear and strongly support our federal industry, "said Sylvain Roy. 
Stéphane Bergeron has, for his part, recalled the many promises of Justin Trudeau's Liberal government with regard to Quebec. "After trading Quebeckers and Quebeckers in the electoral campaign, the Federal Liberal Caucus is completely mute about the issues concerning Quebec, including lumber. The least we can say is that Federal MPs and Ministers do not seem to worry too much! We must constantly return to the charge; Contrary to what Philippe Couillard affirmed, his soft and unplanned federalism has never gave rise to the slightest profit for Quebec. It is more than time that the Premiers Trudeau and Couillard are at the defense of Quebec's interests, as they committed itself, "he concluded. 
