Lake Louise- at the end of the Canadian Council of Ministers of the Environment (CCME) meeting today in Lake Louise, Alberta, the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, the Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Daniel Breton, announced Quebec's position on topics that have been discussed. 
The Minister pronounced on the implementation of a pan-Canadian Air Quality Management System (SGQA). Thus, although it is in accordance with the objectives of the system and the need to coordinate the action in order to combat the problems of air pollution, including cross-border pollution, the minister indicated that he could not adhere the system proposed by the CCME or engage Quebec to implement it. 
"Quebec already has the necessary tools to ensure good air quality management on its territory, including through the Atmospheric Sanitation Regulations and other sectoral regulations that standardize atmospheric emissions on its territory. In addition, the air quality policy being developed will complement the various regulatory measures put forward in recent years. The adoption of a federal regulatory safety net would then decide the Québec regulation, "the minister said. 
Despite its reservations, the Government of Quebec intends to continue to collaborate in the management of air quality as part of the activities of the CCME. Indeed, some measures are of interest to Quebec, particularly with regard to integrated management by atmospheric basin, which introduces new tools to address cross-border air quality problems. 
In addition, in response to a request from ministers to take action to reduce packaging in Canada, members of a working group of governments and industry representatives have agreed on measures under which the industry. Industry undertakes to reduce the ecological footprint of packaging by their optimization. Ministers have been called upon to decide on the statement of these commitments. 
"The initiatives taken by the industry correspond to many of the measures contained in the Quebec residual management policy and will help reduce the amount of packaging in the market, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase the proportion of recycled materials in packaging. These voluntary measures are certainly a step in the right direction. However, in order to further reduce packaging waste in Canada, we believe that CCME must continue its work as part of the Pan-Canadian Plan of Action for Extended Producers', supported the Minister. 
Finally, Quebec approved the pan-Canadian approach for the management of municipal biosolids resulting from wastewater treatment, since it is non-binding and is consistent with its own policies. This approach encourages the valorization and good management of municipal biosolid residues, municipal sludge and septic sludge treated as useful sources of nutrients, organic matter and energy. 
