Toronto François Gendron, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food of Quebec, and Ms. Kathleen Wynne, Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ontario , met today to discuss topics of common interest related to the Quebec-Ontario Trade and Cooperation Agreement. 
The Ministers of Quebec and Ontario have reviewed their respective initiatives in local purchasing of agri-food products. In particular, they discussed the Foodland Ontario (Ontario, North Earth) program, the Reserved Applications Act and the valuable terms in force in Quebec, Quebec Food and the Local Food Bill currently. study at the Legislative Assembly of Ontario. 
"For Quebec, the future policy of food sovereignty will include increasing the presence of Quebec's food in consumer feeding. Through our efforts, we want more and more Quebeckers to demand products from home to their grocers or restaurateurs, "said the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron. 
"The Ontario government demonstrates an interest in moving forward with a local food purchase strategy that will increase our markets here and abroad. With passionate consumers for local foods, in both provinces, there are extensive opportunities for our two governments to work together, "said Ontario Prime Minister Kathleen Wynne. 
During this meeting, the ministers agreed to explore some areas of collaboration with regard to the promotion of the local purchase of agri-food products. They also expressed interest in working with the federal government so that federal regulations are appropriate for efforts. 
Three-quarters of Quebec and Ontario producers benefit from Canada's supply management, or in the milk, poultry and egg sectors. Ministers stated that supply management is essential and provides quality local foods for consumers. 
It contributes to the economic strength of the agriculture and agri-food sector of the two provinces. Ministers united their voices so that the interests of producers under supply management continue to be defended by the federal government, in all trade negotiations. 
The two ministers also mentioned that the management of the offer must itself follow its evolution and they are committed to working with the industry to build on mutually beneficial market opportunities. 
Ministers emphasized the recent successes of collaboration between the two provinces in promotional activities aimed at exporting products as well as in the field of innovation. They committed to pursuing these collaborative efforts for the benefit of the agricultural and agri-food sectors of the two provinces. 
Remember that Ontario and Quebec provide nearly 38% of Canadian agricultural production and supporting nearly two-thirds of food processing in Canada.  In September 2009, the Prime Ministers of Quebec and Ontario signed the Quebec-Ontario Trade and Cooperation Agreement, which establishes common commitments for cooperation, harmonization of regulation and innovation. 
