Toronto the Premier of Quebec, Pauline Marois, took part in a working session of the Federation Council which took place today in Toronto, in order to assert the interests of Quebec in relation to different issues priority economic. 
In particular, the Premier reported on its concerns in the Training of the Workforce, while the federal government persists in wanting to impose its Canadian employment grant. Ms. Marois took advantage of the meeting with his Canadian counterparts to denounce this federal interference attempt in the provincial fields of competence. 
"This program would jeopardize the Quebec system in place, all of whom recognize efficiency to meet the needs of our labor market. Ottawa must reverse. If, unfortunately, the federal government is, it must allow the governments who wish, like that of Quebec, to withdraw with full compensation. It is also the wish that the prime ministers have expressed a single voice today, "said Pauline Marois. 
Discussions also focused on rail safety. The tragedy of Lac-Mégantic testified to the necessity, for the federal government, not only to tighten the rules in force, but also to put in place concrete measures to increase the safety of railway convoys carrying hazardous materials. And although the work is started, much remains to be done on the side of the federal authorities, as Mrs. Marois wanted to remind him of his counterparts. 
"The federal government must take the required means so that a tragedy like the one we have experienced again again. I wish it to take its responsibilities, with the same determination as the one shown by our American neighbors, and that it devotes more resources to ensure that not only regulation is strengthened, but that it be beautiful Well applied, "said the Prime Minister. 
The overall economic and commercial agreement between Canada and the European Union, for which an agreement in principle has recently occurred, has also been discussed. "The diversification of our export markets is always good news for Quebec. Nevertheless, it is clear for my Government that prior to its ratification, the federal government must have put in place a mechanism to compensate for the negative impacts that this agreement will, in particular for our dairy and cheese producers. We will ensure that the federal government concretizes its commitment, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
