Quebec- At the dawn of the Conference of Ministers of Health, the Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the spokesman for the Parti Québécois in terms of health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, require Respect for Justin Trudeau's commitment to cancel the change, imposed by Stephen Harper, in the method of calculating federal health transfers. They somed Philippe Couillard and Gaétan barrette to stand up and do not accept any condition for the financing of health care by Ottawa. 
"Without consulting with Quebec or the provinces, the federal government announced, in 2011, that transfers would be cut from 2017. This unilateral review will result in losses of about $ 9 billion over 10 years for Quebec. The Prime Minister of Canada is committed to reviewing this funding agreement, and he must now deliver the goods, "Claimed Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"However, his Minister of Health, on his side, are already trying to scroll by saying that the lack of funding is not the main health problem. The federal government does not have to dictate in Quebec how to manage the health budget. It should instead explain what it will do to curb the fall of the federal share of health care financing. I also noted that the minister should contradict his chief over his commitments, "said Péladeau. 
"Will the doctors' duo stand up against Ottawa? If not, what will the minister bar cut to fill the hole of 9 billion? The reduction of transfers must be corrected, and their distribution, revised to take into account the demographic weight of each province and the aging of the population. The government of the Parti Québécois required the share of federal funding to health to be brought back over the 25% mark. Prime Minister Philippe Couillard must not accept less, "said Diane Lamarre. 
In its 2012 financial viability report, the Parliamentary Director of the Federal Government's budget illustrates unequivocally that Quebec and the provinces will suffer a deterioration of their long-term financial situation, while that of the federal government will remain favorable, largely. Thanks to the decline in Canada's health transfer growth (TCS). Another report, filed in August 2014 at the Federation Council, also demonstrates a situation of medium-term fiscal imbalance between the federal government and the provinces. 
"The federal government must not impose any conditions in Quebec so that it can affect its fair share of the TCS. Will the Liberal government stand up or do it pay Quebeckers? Who defends Quebec? ", Concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
