Quebec- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, and the parliamentary assistant for Forests, Denis Trottier, approach with optimism the national rendezvous of the Quebec forest that will begin Tomorrow starting at 8:30. At the end of this appointment, the Government wishes to generate a common vision concerning the future of the wood sector and define a forest action plan for the next three years. 
"We are engaging, with all forest speakers, a reflection that will lead to new initiatives for the development of the forest, the use of a renewable and ecological resource, the transformation of the industry and the development of products for the future. Forests have always contributed to building our national identity. They must continue to be a source of pride for Quebecers, "said the Prime Minister. 
"It is working in consultation with people who care about the forest industry and the issues associated with us that we will define concrete ways to stimulate the competitiveness of the sector and to make Quebec a leader of the Green economy, while reducing greenhouse gases, "added Martine Ouellet. 
This meeting will be an opportunity for the government to exchange forest stakeholders on forestry topics, the development of the Quebec forest, the optimal use of the resource? Through ecosystem management and sustainable management of the territory?, the future of the forestry sector and job creation. 
"In addition to being a noble, ecological and renewable resource, the forest is vital to the regional economy. I am proud to take part in this unique event that will allow me to exchange with experts and enthusiasts in the forest industry. Together, there is no doubt that we can establish an innovative action plan for this sector of the future, "Trottier said. 
Québec Prime Minister announced, as part of the unveiling of economic priority, that $ 100 million over three years are reserved to promote the development of the forest sector. 
This investment will support the elements of the action plan that will be adopted at the national rendezvous of the Quebec Forest. The diversification of the forest sector is an important component of the development of the regions of Quebec. However, it must be done in harmony with communities and respect for the environment. 
Remember that, as indicated in the preparatory information document made public on October 17, the appointment will be an opportunity to exchange around three main themes: 
Stakeholders will therefore be invited to reflect on the development of the forest and the new approach to the forest industry to ensure the competitiveness of its traditional products and the development of new ecological products and materials. 
The National Rendez-vous de la Forest Quebec will bring together the main stakeholders of the Wood sector on November 21 and 22 in Saint-Félicien. For more information or to view the preparatory information document, visit the website of the event at www.rendezvousdelaforet.gouv.qc.ca. 
