Quebec- The Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, today announced an envelope of $ 147 million granted to silvicultural enterprises for the realization of non-commercial work (pre-cenomic thinking and release, reforestation, preparation of land , planning and monitoring, maintenance of paths, plants transport and brushing), a first in Quebec. 
"Today, by confirming the investments for the completion of the sylvicultural work for 2014-2015 in January, we allow thousands of sylvicultural workers from all regions of Quebec to have greater stability. Thanks to this budget predictability, we also allow sylvicole entrepreneurs to have better planning their activities and workforce. More than 3,000 jobs will be maintained with these investments. With a government of the Quebecois party, entrepreneurs and forestry workers have a size ally to develop their industry, and that's all Quebec that is winning! "Said Martine Ouellet. 
In the coming weeks, each sylvicole company will be encountered to present its annual budget as well as the planning of the work it will have to achieve. Rexforest will be able to sign the majority of annual contracts with companies in early spring. Also note that for this year the proportion of public tenders has been maintained at 10%. REXFORT intends to specify the amount of work that will be in tenders for each region in early spring. Field visits with bidders will be able to start as soon as climatic conditions permit. This improvement in operational planning will enable companies to have better control of their activities and therefore require their labor needs. 
Upon arrival, forestry was one of the first concerns of the Government of Quebec. Moreover, silviculture has been at the heart of the National Forest Rendez-vous Discussions. Arising from the latter, a major work site has been set up. The construction of wood production, chaired by Mr. Robert Beauregard, is a mandate to develop a wood production strategy in public and private forests in order to find the best sylvicultural options and increase the value of our forests . 
Today's announcement is a big step for silviculture. Silviculture is also the job creation program in public and private forests and support for the development of private forests and commercial work subsequently. 
"Today, we are in Quebec with a structured and planned approach to wood production and adapted to the new reality of the forest territory. This approach will facilitate the transition from the silvicultural sector, while protecting our forest heritage and participating in the economic development of the regions of Quebec, "added Denis Trottier. 
Recall the national rendezvous of the Quebec Forest brought together, on 21 and 22 November 2013, more than 250 participants of the wood sector in Saint-Félicien. These are investments of $ 675 million over three years that have been announced by the government for the forest sector, responding to the demands of different partners. 
For more information, visit the site Current from the forest. 
