Montreal- On the occasion of the 2012 Rendez-vous - Montreal, Cultural Metropolis, Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, announced the four main axes on which the government will act concretely to support the cultural and artistic sphere of the metropolis. More than $ 100 million will be invested to better serve the public library network, promote public art in external places, create more production and work spaces for artists and stimulate private funding for cultural initiatives carriers. 
"In the twenty-first century, the fulfillment of the Quebec nation, the vitality of the French language, our economic and political future are in large part on our culture. The holder of this 2012 appointment allows us to realize that it is a lot by the creativity that Quebeckers managed to surpass themselves. It is through its various poles of excellence that the metropolis could prosper. There is another pole of excellence that contributes to the success of all industries: that of arts and culture. Our cultural life is what we need to bet to stand out, "said the premier. 
The renewal of the Triennial Cultural Development Agreement between the Government and the City of Montreal will bring together the culture and heritage of Montrealers. This is an investment of nearly $ 98 million over three years, including $ 30.3 million for construction, expansion or renovation of libraries. An additional $ 9 million resulting from the Collections Development Assistance Program, will allow them to update new technologies and better meet the expectations of young people and citizens of various origins. "Libraries are a fantastic gateway to the world of literature, arts and culture. It is a great door open to families and new Quebeckers, "supported Pauline Marois. 
The Prime Minister also announced an initial contribution of $ 2 million by the end of 2014 to integrate art into urban development and furniture. She wants to raise the place of public art in external places as is the case, for example, in place Jean-Paul-Riopelle. 
In order to follow up on the report of the Working Group on Artists' Workshops, the government will provide an amount of $ 5.65 million to improve the availability of places dedicated to creation. This amount is part of a total $ 18 million envelope to which different partners contribute. 
Finally, the government will look at the adjustment of tax mechanisms that encourage individuals and businesses to participate in philanthropy. A working group will be set up to encourage cultural philanthropy in Quebec. 
Pauline Marois also took advantage of the 2012 Rendez-Vous to reiterate the government's commitment to participate in the Celebrations of the 375th Anniversary of Montreal in 2017. To do this, it promises to focus on the development of the history of the history of the history of the history of Québec by focusing on three projects: the Aboriginal cultural place in Montreal, the expansion project of the Pointe-à-Callière Museum as well as the Project Cité Memoir. 
"The recognition of the essential role of culture is found in the budget deposited by the Minister of Finance and the economy last week. Unlike many departments, the culture will see its budget increase by 2.1%, which will increase the total government spending for the cultural sector to 1%. Our government agrees considerable efforts to democratize cultural practice, interest a wide audience, develop demand and thus ensure that our cultural life is a culture for all, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
