Baie-Comeau-Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Prime Minister of Quebec on September 4, 2012. The first year of office of his government is marked by listening, courage and determination. Today, the Quebec government has again a way to act so that Quebeckers find their pride. Priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help with those who are in need, and the pride of living together. Thus, the Parti Québécois government will take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger. 
In addition, several new government measures will encourage the development of the regions of Quebec. Many of them will have a positive impact for the North Shore, which is believed in the Bois Charter, the new mining regime, the Nordic Development Secretariat, to the bonus of silvicultural work, to the establishment of A policy of food sovereignty, with the creation of 28,000 new reduced contribution places to the Quebec Guard Service Network, self-supporting insurance for seniors' home and $ 357 million in investment in Road works for the next two years. "Our government has done more in one year for regions than the Liberals in 9 years. They missed leadership in several records, including natural resources as they failed to modify the mining plan by selling our discount resources, "said Marjolan Dufour. 
The Government has also financially supported beautiful regional initiatives, including OPCO Technology, a specialized research and development company in the forestry sector and in that of Bioenergy and Nova-Pro Development, a specialized company in research and development in terms of energy clean. Two important projects also emerged through the financing of the Government of Quebec, the Ragueneau Villa and the CEP La Girobée de Forestville. In addition, the region was granted the creation of the first protected marine area of Quebec's liability in the St. Lawrence Estuary. "I'm proud of what we have achieved so far. My priority this fall will be to continue the actions undertaken and work with determination to promote the economic development of our region, "the hon. Member has. 
