The Saar-Pauline Marois became the first woman elected Prime Minister of Quebec on September 4, 2012. The first year of office of his government is marked by listening, courage and determination. Today, the Quebec government has again a way to act so that Quebeckers find their pride. Priorities are clear: the economy and job creation, solidarity and help with those who are in need, and the pride of living together. Thus, the Parti Québécois government will take all the necessary actions to make Quebec stronger. In the constituency of Abitibi-West, the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and MP Abitibi West, Mr. François Gendron is proud to present the first year's balance sheet the government of the Parti Québécois. 
The Minister of Public Safety, Stéphane Bergeron confirmed that the new Amos detention institution will finally be built after several years of waiting. This is an investment of $ 126 million, which will allow the creation of 250 jobs during construction and 70 permanent jobs thereafter. "This establishment was a necessity in the region, but unfortunately the former government was only announced ad Naifeam, without ever moving a single pebble. It is now official: In the spring, 2014 construction will begin, "says Gendron. 
A new agricultural drainage program will increase crop yield and enhance land with cultivation potential. "I was aware of the difficulties of agricultural producers in the region as to agricultural drainage. I had made a commitment on this in the last election campaign. That's why I announced a $ 3 million program to support the drainage work in Abitibi-Témiscamingue and Northern Quebec. I could not stay the arms crossed. I enthusiastically considers the agricultural potential of the region and I will never cease to support its development, "says Gendron. 
Since 2009, the Cégep de l'Abitibi-Témiscamingue, offered the technical intervention program in its Amos campus on a temporary basis, with undeniable success. To meet the demand for this type of graduates, on June 27, the member for Abitibi West and Minister, François Gendron, announced, on behalf of his colleague Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science And technology, Pierre Duchesne, that the program would now be permanent. "This is an excellent news for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region, for future graduates as well as for the Amossois environment, which is consolidating the College's activities for the future on its territory," said François GENDRON at the time of this announcement. 
The dossier of the sewer and aqueduct network of Saint-Dominique-du-Rosaire, whose repair had initially been announced in 2009, finally endorsed this year. The $ 6.9 million invoice will be fully assumed by the Government of Quebec and the municipality, the Government of Canada refusing its participation by invoking the increase in inflation and project changes. "I am happy for the municipality and for the citizens that we have managed to complete this file. It has long been blocked because of a government that refused to recognize the legitimate evolution of project costs. Our government has taken its responsibilities and decided to take the share of the federal government. Finally, it is a demonstration of more than the urgent need for Quebec to fully mandate, "said Gendron Minister. 
The Minister of Culture and Communications, Mr. Maka Kotto, was proud to submit a $ 2.4 million grant to the Eskers for the restoration of his facilities. "Offering the population a variety of programming, this highstandcast of culture is a must here, and we are proud to support the cultural vitality of the region," said Minister Gendron. 
The Macamic CHSLD can count on the support of the Government of Quebec, through the Minister of Health and Elders, Mr. Réjean Hébert, to renovate all of his facilities. This work will make it possible to significantly improve the functionality of the premises. "Taking care of our seniors is a priority for the Parti Québécois and we spend speech on acts by providing a quality living place for residents of this institution," said Franco Gendron. 
All these projects are concrete proof that the government of the Parti Québécois is in action and that it meets the expectations of the population. "We are far from the liberal era that has been marked by inaction and where the projects never saw the day. For my part, I say what I do, and I do what I say, "said Gendron. 
