Saint-Félicien-As part of the National Forest Rendez-vous, the Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, accompanied by his Parliamentary Assistant to Forest Files, Mr. Denis Trottier, filed a third government proposal in order to Ensure the future of the wood sector. 
"The future of the forest industry is based on our ability to work together to achieve common goals. The implementation of the new forest regime has changed our ways to do deeply. We must take a look at the first year of the plan and undertake the steps that will improve ourselves. In this regard, the government is particularly committed to supporting the workforce, including maintaining working conditions and ensuring skills development. In this sense, we will invest more than $ 50 million over three years for mobilizing and valorizing labor, "said Martine Ouellet 
In the context of the national rendezvous of the Quebec Forest, the government is committed to publishing the sustainable forest management strategy at the beginning of the next year. This strategy will be able to integrate the vision and guidance from the appointment, among others, in the production of wood and intensification of forest management. 
The work necessary to redesign the Quebec Forest Plan requires the contribution of all partners. This work will be carried out, of course, in consultation with workers, union partners, businesses, communities in our forest areas and indigenous communities. 
The Government undertakes to launch now, for the former beneficiaries of forest procurement contracts (CTAF) which will demonstrate the interest, the work leading to the conversion of their CTAF into the proximity forest. The government also wants to progress as to the establishment of proximity forests, but acting cautiously and informed. That is why it will call for a project for projects in January 2014 for the creation of limited size pilot projects. 
The government wants to promote good working conditions within firmware companies. To do this, it intends to require the commitment of employers to maintain similar working conditions in the contracts obtained by call for tenders to those fixed in the realization agreements of silvicultural treatments. The government will also report on the effects of the new forest regime on labor working conditions by focusing particularly on the consequences generated by the marketing of timber. 
In the context of the modernization and development of new products and new sectors, it is essential to pursue support efforts on the development of labor skills and human resources management in the forestry sector. That's why Emploi-Québec commits $ 45 million over three years to support future workers, workforce and businesses. The government really wants to ensure solid foundations on which companies will develop, thrive and create stimulating and profitable jobs in all regions. 
With the filing of the Bois Charter in April 2013, the government has demonstrated its desire to make efficient ways to promote the use of a transformed Quebec resource. In addition to creating jobs and wealth, greater use of wood in construction in Quebec substantially contributes to the reduction of greenhouse gases. 
In addition, today the government has confirmed $ 3.9 million over three years to regional forestry associations that have the mandate to educate and inform the public and who are largely contributing to the development of Quebeckers' pride. and Quebeckers with regard to the forest. 
"The proposed solutions show our desire to continue the work started, but it is only by joining forces with those of all our partners that we will succeed in such a task. This is an opportunity to show all that the forest, the products we draw on and the companies from home are a share of our future and a great reason for pride, "Trottier said. 
Recall the national rendez-vous de la Forest Québécoise is broadcast live on the event's website. The general public will be able to follow the exchanges between the participants and to take note of the different government proposals. 
To follow the appointment and share your ideas on Twitter: @ mrn_québec- The word-click is # RvForest. 
For more information, visit the websitewww.rendezvousdelaforet.gouv.qc.ca. 
