Saint-Félicien- The Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, the President of the Treasury Board, Mr. Stéphane Bédard and the Parliamentary Assistant to Forest Files, Mr. Denis Trottier, concluded Lerez-YOU National of the Quebec Forest announcing The establishment of three important projects and depositing the financial framework of $ 675 million over three years. 
"The appointment is a historic event for Quebec. This is the very first government gathering in which all the stakeholders in the forest sector are concerted in order to find ways of solution. The concrete measures put forward total investments of $ 675 million over three years for the forestry sector and meet the demands of the different partners. The dialogs engaged throughout the appointment show that everyone is committed to the revitalization and modernization of the forest industry. Together, we agreed on the priorities of action for the coming years, whether it is on the side of forestry, the transformation of the industry as well as on the side of the mobilization and the valorization of the hand-D , "said Martine Ouellet. 
"The appointment marks a promising turn for the future of the industry. The Quebec Forest has evolved and the steps we propose stick to its new reality. The Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, the first forest region, will be at the heart of this new dynamism, "added Stéphane Bédard, President of the Treasury Board. 
Minister Martine Ouellet clarified the mandates of three important projects that will come from the national rendez-vous of the Quebec Forest: 
In addition, it also announced the creation of a steering committee that will follow up as well as the establishment of these three projects. This committee will be chaired by the Minister and the three chairpersons will sit in the company of the Parliamentary Assistant to Forest Files, Mr. Denis Trottier. 
In addition to the announced investments, a strategic government-industry, co-chaired by the Minister of Natural Resources and a business leader, will be set up to define priorities for action to ensure the sustainability and development of the industry. . 
Minister Martine Ouellet also reiterated the government's willingness to foster a balance between the conservation of biodiversity and the development of the forest. Thus, measures to intensify forestry will be subject to a structured approach meeting the particularities of the forest territories. 
Forty stakeholders from all walks of life, whether in the environment of sylvicole, workers, union partners, businesses, communities in our forest areas, indigenous communities, environmental groups and partners. Research, demonstrated a real desire to find solutions. Thanks to these exchanges, guidelines have been agreed, which will result in an action plan over a period of three years. 
The Government will adopt provisions to preserve the working conditions of Quebec forest workers. Employment-Québec will hire $ 45 million over three years to support future workers, workforce and businesses. 
"It is with great pride that my region has received all the stakeholders in the forest sector during the appointment that has allowed a national reflection on the wood sector. I am all the more proud of the positive spin-offs for all regions of Quebec. I am happy with gains achieved to improve and enhance the work of our Quebec foresters. We share a common vision and we will work with the same goals. I sincerely believe that the national rendezvous of the Quebec Forest has been a success and that it will help ensure the future of the wood sector, "Trottier said. 
For more information, visit the website: www.rendezvousdelaforet.gouv.qc.ca. 
Recall the national rendez-vous de la Forest Québécoise is broadcast live on the event's website. The general public will be able to follow the exchanges between the participants and to take note of the different government proposals. 
To follow the appointment and share your ideas on Twitter: @ mrn_québec- The word-click is # RvForest. 
For more information, visit the websitewww.rendezvousdelaforet.gouv.qc.ca. 
Consult the press releases issued during the National Forest Rendezvous 
Also appointment on the Quebec party blog to read the premier's ticket "a big step towards the future for the Quebec forest. » 
