Saint-Félicien on the occasion of the national rendezvous of the Quebec Forest, the Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, and the parliamentary assistant to the files Forests, Denis Trottier, filed a second government proposal that aims to give the maximum value to the Quebec forest. 
"Just like me, our partners want concrete approaches to act quickly and strategically. They want predictable budgets for their businesses and their workers. By adopting forest management based on the highest criteria for sustainable management and presenting a triennial budget framework for silvicultural work, which is what we offer, "said Pauline Marois. 
"The Quebec Forest Termination has evolved and we must adapt to this new reality. This is why we put in place measures aimed at facilitating the transition from the silvicultural sector. The time has come to equip Quebec with a structured approach to wood production. This approach aims to protect our forest heritage while ensuring a long-term forest opportunity, "added Martine Ouellet. 
The Prime Minister is pleased to confirm the announcement of an additional $ 67 million over three years for forestry. The Government also proposes a triennial fiscal fiscal framework with a distribution according to the family of silvicultural treatments, in addition to a budget reserved for the private forest. Overall, $ 250 million per year in sylvicultural work, both for public forest and private forest, will be planned until 2017. This new budget framework takes into account the silvicultural shift undertaken and will allow for better planning of activities. With these measures, it will be possible to advertise the budgets in silvicultural works several months in advance, which will allow better planning of work and labor. 
The government proposes to facilitate access to financing for the acquisition or modernization of equipment, making forest contractors eligible for the ESSOR program. This program will provide loan guarantees of up to $ 120 million to promote the renewal or acquisition of needs-friendly equipment and the establishment of adequate succession. 
The Premier also announces that a bonus will be made to the Foncières Tax Reimbursement Regulations, which will come into effect from 1 January 2014. More than 130,000 private producers will thus benefit about $ 10 million over three years. The government will also conduct an annual index of program parameters. Finally, in order to stimulate the development of private forests and their contribution to the wood sector, an additional annual envelope of $ 5 million in sylvicultural work was announced by the Prime Minister. 
The government wishes to guide investments to the best sylvicultural options and increase the value of Quebec's forests. To do this, it will set up a construction site on wood production. It will continue the work of the Fender Site and will engage in a process of intensification of forest management, in a responsible forest management framework and integrated resource management, while maintaining a regional anchor. 
In order to protect silvicultural investments, offsetting the area declines available as a result of the creation of protected areas and to promote the right balance between biodiversity conservation and forest development, network expansion Protected areas will be accompanied by measures to increase forest yield, including the intensification of forestry in territories where profitability justifies. 
"We need to gradually and with partners, adapt forestry and target our investments to maximize the value of the forest territories. The potential of Quebec's forests is immense. It is important to support forest contractors and put in place an improved strategy that aims to increase our forest opportunities, to reconcile our supplies and our development needs of our protected areas, "said Denis Trottier. 
Recall the national rendez-vous de la Forest Québécoise is broadcast live on the event's website. The general public will be able to follow the exchanges between the participants and to take note of the different government proposals. 
To follow the appointment and share your ideas on Twitter: @ mrn_québec- The word-click is # RvForest. 
For more information, visit the websitewww.rendezvousdelaforet.gouv.qc.ca. 
Consult the press releases issued during the National Forest Rendezvous 
Also appointment on the Quebec party blog to read the premier's ticket "a big step towards the future for the Quebec forest. » 
