Saint-Felicien- As part of the national rendezvous of the Quebec Forest, the Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, and the parliamentary assistant to the Forestry Files , Denis Trottier, reiterated the willingness of his government to support the processing of the forest industry and the development of high potential sectors. 
"Today, concretely, the government recognizes the potential for the future of the wood sector and demonstrates that it is determined to support it with conviction. The modernization of the forest industry through the realization of structuring investment projects will allow it to ensure its sustainability as well as maintain and create jobs in the future. It is also by supporting the innovation and the development of new products we can increase the competitiveness of the industry. That's what we are proposing and what we support by a concerted government effort over $ 320 million, "said the Prime Minister. 
"The Quebec wood sector must enjoy new emerging markets related to the green economy. The government is committed to supporting our industry to ensure the sustainability of this sector and enabling it to play a leading role in the markets of tomorrow. In this respect, it is necessary to promote optimal use of fiber and facilitate decision-making as to the allocation of timber when volumes are released. Our proposals testify to the importance we provide to the modernization of the industry and the creation of high quality jobs in the regions, "added Martine Ouellet. 
The government responds to the industry's demand to set up a high-level government-industry strategic forum that will aim to identify issues and define action priorities to ensure the sustainability and development of the industry. Measures are available for structuring investment projects aimed at modernizing industry, with an envelope of $ 320 million over three years. 
In addition, the Ministry of Transport undertakes to carry out a pilot project to increase winter charges in the winter of 2014-2015, with the aim of reducing the costs of the fiber. Finally, it is proposed to set up a forest-wood value creation network to maximize product value, reduce fiber costs and increase the effectiveness of actors' actions and efficiency. 
The government proposes to invest nearly $ 32 million in five projects that will promote the development of the green chemistry sector. Thus, the respective amounts of $ 3.1 million and $ 1.75 million will be allocated to the Quebec and FPInnovations Industrial Research Center, two important research organizations in the forestry field. In addition, the government supports $ 27 million three other projects in partnership with businesses. 
The creation of the new residual forest biomass program, associated with funds of $ 50 million for the 2013-2020 period, and the continuation of the electricity purchase program from Hydro residual forest biomass cogeneration plants -Quebec are two concrete measures that testify to the real will of the government to support the development of this sector. 
The government has also set up two new energy efficiency programs designed for businesses, either ecoperformance and technoclimat, whose forest component is estimated at $ 52 million. Effective use and conversion to renewable sources enable companies to make significant energy gains and reduce their operating costs, while significantly contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gases. 
The government wants to encourage the strengthening of an industry focused on knowledge, innovation and new technologies. It is $ 6 million that will be invested over a three-year period to stimulate the emergence of innovative research projects. Project calls will be borne by the Quebec Research Fund. 
"We have enough to be proud of the Quebec forests and the wood resource, but also and above all, people who work within the Forestry companies. I have no doubt that together, we will seize the opportunities available to us and which will allow us to reposition the sector for the future, "concluded Denis Trottier. 
Recall the national rendez-vous de la Forest Québécoise is broadcast live on the event's website. The general public will be able to follow the exchanges between the participants and to take note of the different government proposals. 
To follow the appointment and share your ideas on Twitter: @ mrn_québec- The word-click is # RvForest. 
For more information, visit the websitewww.rendezvousdelaforet.gouv.qc.ca. 
