Quebec- The Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, and the member for Roberval and Parliamentary Assistant for the Forest Fund, Mr. Denis Trottier, call all forest speakers to meet for the forest and to think about actions that can be put in place for this new stage that begins. Forestry and development of the Quebec forest, the optimal use of the resource, ecosystem management and sustainable management of the territory, the future of the forest sector and the creation of jobs will be at the heart of the discussions. The preparatory information document, showing the status of the industry in Quebec, has been made public today. 
"The forest must be an asset in all regions so that it allows us to create structuring jobs and that it becomes a source of pride. We rely on the contribution of all forest speakers who care about the forest, its industry and its workers to reflect on this new stage that begins for this sector of the future. With this important appointment, we are confident that new initiatives will spring, with a view to stimulating the competitiveness of the forest sector, to encourage the innovation and development of new value-added products and to reduce our gas production. Effect of greenhouse, "said Martine Ouellet. 
"In my area, foresters are proud of their profession, proud of their know-how, proud of their resource. This feeling, which I also share, must be reflected in the whole wood sector and be shared by all those who express interest in the forest as well as for the products of the forest territory. We also want to take advantage of the unique event that the Quebec Forest appointment to revive the belonging feeling of Quebeckers to this noble, ecological and renewable resource with inexhaustible potential, "added Mr. Trottier. 
Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois announced on the Economic Policy of Quebec - "Employment Priority", that $ 100 million over three years will be reserved to promote the development of the forest sector. 
This investment will support the initiatives of the action plan that will be adopted during the Quebec Forest appointment. The diversification of the forest sector is an important part of the development of the regions of Quebec, which must be done in harmony with the communities and in respect of the environment. 
As a first step, this meeting will guide the sylviculture discussions. As in fact status the preparatory information document, Quebec has an advantage in adapting forestry to maximize the value of forest territories by producing more wood from quality species, with respect for the environment. . The optimization of forestry practices and interventions, the maximization of wood recovery, the offer of the largest volume possible for the transformation, recruitment and formation of a competent workforce in all regions Quebec and the need to rely on a network of strong entrepreneurs will therefore be addressed during the first block of the event. 
In a second step, a reflection on the wood sector as a driver of a new green economy will be conducted. To rely on a competitive cost supply, the forest industry has any advantage, as mentioned in the preparatory information document, to diversify its practices and to increase its efforts in research and development. Stakeholders will therefore be invited to reflect on the new approach to the forest industry to ensure the competitiveness of its traditional products and stand out with the development of new ecological products and materials. The role of educational institutions and businesses, with a view to preparing the workforce at highly specialized jobs, as well as the concrete actions that must be asked to cope with the challenge of renewal of the workforce will also be addressed. 
The Quebec Forest appointment will bring together key stakeholders in the Wood sector on November 21 and 22 in Saint-Félicien. For more information and to view the preparatory information document, visit the event's website at www.rendezvousdelaforet.gouv.qc.ca. 
