Montréal - following the deposit of the report of the two experts responsible for studying the strengthening of the teaching of national history, the Minister of Education, Leisure and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, announces the Implantation of pilot projects in history from September 2014 in more than 90 classes of third secondary year in Quebec. 
"Thanks to the remarkable work done by Mr. Jacques Beauchemin and Ms. Nadia Fahmy-EID, the department now has a solid foundation for developing a new program. By finding the national frame of our history, we will better understand the singularity of our collective path, "said Malavoy Minister. 
The new program, which will be titled History of Quebec and Canada: 
will be structured around a chronological frame spread over two years, ie the 3rd and the secondary 4; 
introduce larger drivers to reconcile political history and social history integrated into a national frame; 
In addition, the Ministry will undertake reflection and consultation on the teaching of primary history. 
"I asked the author of the report, Mr. Jacques Beauchemin, to chair a consulting committee who will be responsible for ensuring the compliance of the program with the report's recommendations," said Malavoy. 
The Council Committee will accompany the Department in setting up the future program, whose pilot projects will be carried out in September 2014 for the second secondary. The other members of the committee are Ms. Nadia Fahmy-eid and Mr Julien Prud'homme, a researcher associated with the Interuniversity Center for Research on Science and Technology (CIRST) and Associate Professor at the Université du Québec in Montreal. 
The pilot projects will be carried out in September 2014 for the second secondary in a minimum of 90 groups of students under the responsibility of about thirty teachers. These will be accompanied by professionals from the department specially assigned to this task, thus ensuring constant feedback that will help refine the program. 
Teachers will transmit to the Ministry their comments on the provisional program throughout 2014-2015, in anticipation of a mandatory application of the program in secondary 3rd, in September 2015. For the secondary 4, the pilot projects start from autumn 2015 for mandatory application in September 2016. 
Remember that the Duo of Experts who drafted the meaning of history was composed of Mr. Jacques Beauchemin, deputy minister associated with the Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities, and Ms. Nadia Fahmy-Eid, Professor Retirement history from the University of Quebec in Montreal, which has recognized expertise in the field of epistemology and the methodology of history as well as the history of education. The consultation document was made public on November 10, 2013. 
From November 26, 2013 to January 17, 2014, the Committee held a total of 23 meetings with various stakeholders (groupings and teacher unions, groupings of schools, didacticians, historians, activist and community groups) and received a total of 68 memoirs and written contributions, emanating from various backgrounds. In addition to the approaches carried out by their various representatives, no less than 116 teachers and educational advisers from several regions of Quebec have signed on their own name one of the 22 memoirs written by field stakeholders. 
On January 23, 2014, in an open letter published in a daily life, about forty school history teachers claimed themselves ready and motivated to apply the new high school history program in the fall of 2014. 
The consultation document for strengthening the teaching of national primary and secondary history and the meaning of the stories available on the ministry website awww.mels.gouv.qc.ca. 
