Montreal- The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, and the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, launched today A government approach that will lead to strengthening the teaching of national history in primary school, high school and college. 
"A majority of Quebeckers are dissatisfied with the teaching of history in Quebec. They consider it necessary to give young people a good knowledge of the characters and the highlights of this story. The government intends to demonstrate that it listens to these legitimate expectations, "said Malavoy Minister. 
"It's time to discuss what defines us. This will help train free students in thought, citizens worked towards action and Quebeckers with strongest confidence in them, "added Minister Duchesne. 
The mandate of conducting a consultation was entrusted to Mr. Jacques Beauchemin, President and Acting Chief Executive Officer of the Quebec Office of the French Language and Deputy Minister associated with the Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities. Specialist in the sociology of Quebec society, Mr. Beauchemin will be accompanied in his task by Ms. Nadia Fahmy-Eid, a history teacher at the University of Quebec in Montreal. Their mandate will be to consult the actors of the educational environment and the professionals in the field of history to clarify the guidelines that will lead to the development of new primary and secondary history programs. In order to provide the population with a forum to express themselves on the issue, a web section will be available on the website of the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport (MELS). 
The report of this expert duo will be deposited at the end of the year. Once a first version of the new programs will be available, pilot projects will be put in place in a number of schools in September 2014. 
"The strengthening of national history teaching aims to provide more in-depth training into Quebec training as well as promoting Quebec identity and culture," said Malavoy. 
In the context of the addition of a compulsory course on the National History of Quebec contemporary in college, the General Training Council will have the mandate to propose to the Minister the objectives and training standards that may be associated with This new course. He will also have to give him an opinion on the place that this course will occupy in the common collegiate training. Remember that the General Training Council is composed of representatives of teachers and college directorates, to which representatives of the labor market and universities will be added. 
Amendments should be made to the College Studies Regulations to introduce training on the national history of contemporary Quebec in college education. The Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology (MESRST) will then ask for an opinion to the Superior Council for Education and the public can decide on the project. 
"The teaching of history as well as the ability to analyze the constituent events of our collective identity and to debate it openly with dedicated teachers will help young adult colleges to develop their critical sense and to have a better understanding of Our company, "said Minister Duchesne. 
The proposals of the General Training Council are expected by the end of the year for the implementation of the mandatory course for the cohort of students beginning their studies in the fall of 2014. 
MESRST and MELS will jointly work for this strengthening of teaching national history in primary school, high school and college. 
Let us remember that the Prime Minister Marois, during his inaugural speech of October 31, 2012, had expressed his firm intention to strengthen the teaching of Quebec's history. 
