Terrebonne-the regional tour destination 2030 is stopped in the Lanaudière region today. On this occasion, the Parliamentary Assistant to the Prime Minister (youth component) and MP for Laval-des-Rapides, Mr. Leo Bureau-Blouin, the Deputy Government Whip and Deputy of Saint John, Mr. Dave Turcotte, and The Deputy Leader and MP for Terrebonne, Mr. Mathieu Traversy, met nearly 150 young people and youth stakeholders. 
The day started in Joliette by a meeting between the members of the Lanaudière Youth Forum and the elected officials. Subsequently, these discussed demographic issues in the north of the region with partners and youth stakeholders, and then met with students from the Lanaudière Regional Cégep in Joliette. Mm. Office-Blouin, Turcotte and Traversy then took part in a dinner with the theme of citizen participation, during which they have heard the point of view of young committed. In the afternoon, the members had the opportunity to discuss demographic issues south of Lanaudière, and then exchanged with CEGEP students of the Assumption. The day ended with an open citizen assembly to the general public, held at the Lanaudière Regional Cégep in Terrebonne. 
"I am very happy to have participated in the consultation day in this region that is mine," said Traversy. "Like the other regions of Quebec that we visited, Lanaudière carries a lot of realities that are specific to it, but which differ greatly that we are north or south of the region. I am thinking, among other things, immigration, public transit, to the sense of belonging and access to services that vary greatly between the two poles and influence the lives of young Lanaudois, "brought Mr. Traversy. 
"This visit to the Lanaudière region has allowed us to take the pulse of young people from here. Among other things, we have the chance to exchange with young people involved in their environment, students and youth stakeholders who wanted to take part in the discussion that our government started with the Tour Destination 2030, "added Mr. Turcotte . Organized by the Youth Secretariat, in collaboration with the Youth Lanaudière Forum and the Regional Youth Forum Consultation Table, this day was to gather the youth point of view of the region to develop the next Quebec policy of the youth. 
Young people and speakers have also been invited to contribute to the interactifww.destination2030.gouv.qc.ca site, and to promote it. In addition to providing useful information, this website allows all citizens to participate in the discussion and directly influence government thinking about youth. "We want to create a real community of citizens engaged in the process of building a real public policy," Bureau-Blouin explained. The multiplication of points of view and their confrontation relative to others enrich the debate and nourish our reflection. » 
A regional statistical portrait on the state of youth in the Lanaudière region has also been made public by the Youth Secretariat and is available at the following address: http: //bit.ly/1d4bvfh. 
The goal of the regional tour is to consult young people, stakeholders and youth partners from all regions to identify issues, issues and actions to be included in the new Quebec Youth Policy. Meetings will also make it possible to make young citizens aware of the challenges that are waiting for Quebec by 2030 and the importance of preparing the Québécoise succession to deal with demographic changes. 
The Youth Secretariat is mandated to advise the government in the field of youth and to assist the Prime Minister in the exercise of his responsibilities in this regard. It ensures the coordination and monitoring of government action in this area. 
