Quebec- The Tour of Consultation Destination 2030 was through Nunavik from Wednesday, October 9 to Friday, October 11, to probe the concerns of young people in the region and to discuss with them issues specific to their communities. As part of this judgment of the tour, the Parliamentary Assistant to the Prime Minister for the Youth and MP files for Laval-des-Rapides, Mr. Leo Bureau-Blouin, met with more than 30 young people and stakeholders in the region. 
A meeting was organized Wednesday in Kuujjuaq with young communities, stakeholders, the president of the Nunavik Youth Association and the President of the Youth Association Saputiit. The opportunity was conducive to discussing the challenges awaiting young people in the region over the next few years. Thursday, Mr. Bureau-Blouin had the opportunity to participate in the 2013 Youth Conference in Kangiqsualjjuaq, where he was discussed the vision of the youth of the region. The presentations that were made at the conference focused on the challenges of pursuing post-secondary education and employment opportunities, as well as the importance of recreation for Inuit young people. The day ended with the presentation of an intergenerational show highlighting the talent and know-how of local residents. Back in Kuujjuaq Friday, Mr. Bureau-Blouin was entitled to a visit to the city of Kuujjuaq with the Mayor, Mr. Tunu Napartuk, and representatives of the Kativik Regional Administration. 
"This visit to the Nunavik region has allowed me to understand the reality of young people from here. Among other things, I had the chance to exchange with young northern villages with very different profiles that wanted to take part in the discussion that our government started with the Destination 2030 tour, "said Mr. Office -Blouin. Organized by the Youth Secretariat in collaboration with the Kativik Regional Administration, the purpose of this visit was to gather the youth point of view of the region as part of the renewal of the Quebec Youth Policy. 
"I am pleased that representatives of young people in the region have had the opportunity to discuss with Mr. Blouin's problems that affect them. In Nunavik, 75% of the population is under 35 years old. Young people do not just represent our future, they are also our present. Their concerns must therefore be taken into account and include them in the renewal of the Quebec Youth Policy. We look forward to continuing this so-necessary dialogue that has been started this week and adding our voice to other young Quebeckers, "said Maggie Emudluk, president of the Kativik Regional Administration. 
"After taking part in the discussions with Mr. Bureau-Blouin and could see the leadership and active participation of young Nunavimmiuts, I am convinced that with perseverance and tenacity and working as a team we will succeed in overcoming the Difficulties We face, "said Jennifer Watkins, Consultant of the Nordic Village of Kuujjuaq and a member of the Administrative Committee of the Kativik Regional Administration. 
Young people and stakeholders have also been invited to contribute to the interactifww.destination2030.gouv.qc.ca site, and to promote them into their network. In addition to providing useful information, this website allows all citizens to participate in the discussion and directly influence government thinking about youth. "We want to create a real community of citizens engaged in the process of building a public policy," said Bureau-Blouin. The multiplication of points of view and their confrontation relative to others enrich the debate and nourish our reflection. » 
The goal of the regional tour is to meet young people, stakeholders and youth partners from all regions to identify issues, issues and actions to be included in the new Quebec Youth Policy. Meetings will also make it possible to make young citizens aware of the challenges that are waiting for Quebec by 2030 and the importance of preparing the Québécoise succession to deal with demographic changes. 
The Youth Secretariat is mandated to advise the government in the field of youth and to assist the Prime Minister in the exercise of his responsibilities in this regard. It ensures the coordination and monitoring of government action in this area. 
