Quebec- The member for Rimouski and the official opposition spokesman in the fight against poverty, solidarity and social economy, Harold Lebel, deplores the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, François Blais , refused to respond to the petition filed on September 16 asked for the creation of a disability pension for really unfit employers. 
"This week, the Liberals sitting at the Committee on Economy and Labor have refused to hear people with disabilities, on the pretext that Minister Blais would soon meet them, as he said. In the aftermath of this refusal of the Commission, the same minister rejects the demands of people with disabilities. However, he had committed, before the holders of the petition, to undertake a "discussion" to better understand their situation. It's really sad. It's a lack of respect I do not dare to comment, "said Harold Lebel. 
Minister Blais Bases his decision on a lack of support from the Board of Persons with Disabilities of Quebec (OPHQ) and the Confederation of Quebec Disabled Organizations (Cophan). Yet the OPHQ had seized the message of the petitioners; According to him, "the petition highlights a known problem but that needs to be carefully analyzed and the definition of eligibility criteria (...). [L] 'Office suggests that a reflection project of which could emerge different ways of solution ". For his part, COPHAN stated that "for people with job constraints, it is time for the Quebec state to act. In consultation with us, the government must solve this problem and show its determination today by assembling the social solidarity program ". 
"I say to the collective for a disability pension not to let go. I will analyze the parliamentary means to which I can use to restart this file. People who have highlighted life realities as difficult as those that have been demonstrated with emotion deserve to be listened to. Those who signed the petition are entitled to hope for something other than this disappointing answer from Minister Blais. It must set up a real "reflection site", such as the demand for the OPHQ, "concluded Harold Lebel. 
