Québec- The member for Joliette and spokespersons of the Parti Québécois in higher education, Véronique Hivon, and the member for Gaspé and spokesperson on municipal affairs and regional development, Gaétan Lelièvre, press the government From Quebec to establish an interregional mobility program for college students. This measure, proposed by the Quebec Collegiate Federation (FECQ) and supported by the CEGEP Federation, would allow students of urban centers who wish to pursue part of their academic path in the region. 
"The Quebec CEGEPS network is currently marked by an imbalance of its student clientele, a distortion that is mainly observed between the institutions of major centers and those located in the region. While some CEGEPs are overflowing and are forced to reject many inscriptions, others are struggling to maintain the necessary traffic for survival. According to the preliminary data, for the fall of 2015, the collegiate population decreased in particular in Abitibi-Témiscamingue, in Gaspésie and Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, a trend which, according to forecasts, will increase in the coming years. In the so-called "remote" regions of Quebec. However, we must absolutely promote and enhance the deployment of college students throughout Quebec, "said Véronique Hivon. 
A study, published last March, shows that in the region, college institutions are at the heart of the vitality and dynamism of communities. "CEGEPS, in the extent of their action, cross the strictly institutional framework. They are places to know, cultural centers and living environments, not only for students, but also for the communities in which they are implanted. Thus, college institutions contribute to the retention of young people and attract graduates, for the benefit of regions that live a demographic decline. CEGEPs are also development catalysts in the environment, including through the involvement of teachers who, beyond their pedagogical responsibility, play a key role in their community, "added Gaétan Lelièvre. 
"The Government of Quebec must put in place concrete measures to promote interregional student mobility. The FECQ proposal is visionary and deserves to be seriously attracted. It will contribute both to the sustainability of the network of college institutions, the socio-economic growth of the regions served and the personal and social development of students. The government can not be indifferent to such a recommendation, which, moreover, comes from the students themselves, "have concluded members. 
