Quebec, on September 14, 2020 - On the sidelines of the Caucus of the return of the Parliamentary Wing of the Parti Québécois, the member for Matane-Matapédia, Parliamentary Chief and Spokesperson in French Language, Pascal Bérubé, as well as the member for René-Lévesque and parliamentary leader, Martin Ouellet, identified, among other priorities, the minimum measures that must be contained in any draft reform of the French Language Charter (Law 101), so that it actually meets the issues. to which Quebec society faces. 
Here are the measures that the Parti Québécois judge essential to strengthen the status of French in Quebec: 
Again, therefore, the French language will be part of the priorities of the Parti Québécois during the first weeks of the new parliamentary session; Obviously, all the questions surrounding the management of the second wave of the Pandemic of Covid-19 will also be at the heart of its interventions. 
"With regard to screening clinics, CHSLDs and hospitals, the government has no excuse; He had time to prepare for the second wave, and Quebec must be ready. Let us hope that it happens otherwise than in schools, where the start of the school year is a true Capharnaum because of the governmental guidelines that change continuously. It is high time that the Minister of Education came back! "Expressed Pascal Bérubé. 
"Our team will also defend economic nationalism in the face of the multiplication of government failures, which are thought to Bombardier, Cirque du Soleil, Nemaska Lithium, Flying Whales or helping to the Birks jeweler. Of course, we will fulfill all of this keeping in mind that we must leave the free field to candidates for the chieftaincy of our party, so that they can debate the big issues of future for our society, until In the election that will take place on October 9, "added the parliamentary leader. 
"We have found a way to operate Parliament during the pandemic and to preserve the right to speak of the deputies, has recalled the parliamentary leader, Martin Ouellet. Unlike last spring, this fall, democracy will not be quarantined. Every day, the government will account for its management - of the pandemic, including parliamentarians, therefore to the population. He will have to be ready because the members of the Parti Quebecois and the members of our staff are to begin this new parliamentary session! » 
