Québec- In response to the announcement of the report of the Mine Arnaud project in Sept-Îles by Investissement Québec, following the decision of its private partner to no longer inject funds, the member for Duplessis and spokesman of the Parti Quebec. In terms of Nordic development, Lorraine Richard, urges the Liberal government to be transparent in the case. Because for the moment, the North-Coasts have the impression, with reason, to have been fooled. 
In addition, in addition to the disability of the Liberal government to find investors, recently learned that the sole Financial Partner of Investissement Québec in the Mine Arnaud project, Yara International, which was to purchase the entire production of the production of the production. Future mine, finally went to buy less than 50%. 
"Last week, I questioned the government about the consequences of Yara International's decision to limit its future participation in the project. Unfortunately, the Minister of the Economy, Jacques Daoust, refused to provide a clear answer to the concerns of a whole population, like his colleague of the environment, David Heurtel, who has been refusing for months to meet citizens to discuss This folder. And yesterday, we learned that the project is postponed! The silence and inaction of this government have lasted enough. With a 62% Investment Québec participation in the project and more than 30 million public money already engulfed, the hour of accountability has come, "said the member for Duplessis. 
Investisse Québec had justified the economic profitability of the project by invoking the purchase of the entire production by Yara International. "Now, nothing holds and serious issues emerging. Can the government introduce a business plan demonstrating project profitability? Can he make the agreement signed between Investissement Québec and its financial partner? As the postponement of the project is now confirmed, the government must give the right time to the citizens of Sept-Îles and Quebec about how he managed the file, "claimed Lorraine Richard. 
"If the government really wants to help the North Shore, it must stop premature ads that sow false hopes in a region already hit by the slowdown in mining activities and the many job losses. It is completely irresponsible to announce projects in such a rushed way, without the entire funding and without guarantee that an operator can start the activities. Workers in the North Shore do not need false promises from the Liberal government, "concluded the spokesperson. 
