Quebec- The member for Sanguinet and official opposition spokesman for Treasury Board, Alain Therrien, judges that the announcements of the President of the Treasury Board concerning the decline in the number of civil service are only continuity Political maneuvers and the government's communications plan to forget liberal austerity. 
"He cut off the resources dedicated to the economic development of the regions, and then imposed new tax increases to the families of the middle class. Added now to this the Robillard Commission, which has filed a report that cost taxpayers 3.8 million to make the government look good. Martin Maiteux also tries to look good, doing us a great exercise of communications to try to convince us that the government will do its part too. He announces a great reorganization of the state and arrives with a cup of 1150 positions of civil servants. It is bullshit. The main victims of Liberal-Caquist austerity are families and regions, "said Alain Therrien. 
"If the President of the Treasury Board wants to set an example, that he begins by canceling the Robillard Commission, which costs more than $ 1,000 a day to the taxpayers only for the salary of his Chair, and that he is going to look for the premium $ 215,000 from Minister Bolduc. It should also tackle the impacts of waste and loss of expertise in the public service, as well as the main source of pressure on the expenditure column, the health network, including the agreement on the remuneration of doctors; Signed by Prime Minister Collider, it costs us 2.5 billion per year, "said the spokesman. 
The member also asks to the Coiteous Minister to say what the impacts of the new cuts announced today. "Even the employers' council agrees that we need an effective public service. For example, deadlines for the approval of economic projects are endless, particularly in the field of natural resources. If we cut even more positions of officials, these projects will be all the more slowed. We do the lack of expertise. We cut everywhere, without taking into account the needs of companies and citizens, "concluded Alain Therien. 
