Québec- On the occasion of the recovery of the detailed study of Law No. 28, An Act establishing the new Code of Civil Procedure, the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, held Recall today that accessibility to justice is a priority of the Government of Quebec. 
"The Government of Quebec has chosen to tackle the issues related to accessibility to justice, particularly with Bill 28. This bill will make it possible to modernize the proceedings before our courts so that Quebec civil justice passes from the 20th to the 21st century. We want a much more accessible justice system, faster, less heavy, less expensive and that uses new dispute resolution methods, for example, mediation and conciliation, "said Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud . 
Remember that Bill 28 includes the following measures: 
Since January 1, 2014, the historic increase in eligibility thresholds also allows 200,000 Quebeckers to be eligible for free legal aid. This first phase of the legal aid reform makes it particularly eligible for free legal aid live alone and mainly benefiting from the guaranteed income supplement. In the long term, this is more than 500,000 additional people, whose persons working full-time at the minimum wage, who will have access to free legal aid. 
In addition, in order to accelerate the judicial process, 39 new judges have been appointed to the Court of Quebec since October 2012, and this, "said a rigorous and totally apolitical process". Other additional judges will be added over the next year, six before the end of this month. 
The minister also recalled the recent creation of the Justice Access Fund, a special fund that supports the actions of organizations aimed at improving the knowledge and understanding of Quebec's law and justice system by citizens. 
Moreover, a call for projects has just been held for the creation of two new local justice centers financed by the Justice Access Fund. These centers will offer free legal information and orientation services to the population. They will be added to those already carrying out their activities in Montreal, Quebec City and Rimouski, the first step leading to their deployment throughout Quebec. 
Since December 2012, parents in rupture can also get free information sessions in 42 courthouses. These allow them to be well informed about the effects of the rupture and resources made available to them. The minister recalled the popularity of the family mediation program in Quebec, where parents receive free mediation sessions whose fees are covered by the state. 
Since last October, separate parents, whether or not to be financially eligible for legal aid, may also obtain, at a lower cost, the revision of a family judgment, following an agreement obtained from One mutual agreement or at the end of a family mediation, in the offices of the legal aid network. 
In 2014, this service offer will be enhanced to allow the administrative adjustment of child support, thus facilitating this approach without the expenses and delays associated with an appeal to the Tribunal. 
"For almost 16 months, our actions have been testifying to the commitment of the Government of Quebec to administer justice with integrity, fairness and humanity, for a more accessible and more solidarity justice system," concluded the Minister of Justice. 
