In one of its improvised and irrefrupled flights, the leader of the Liberal Party described as irresponsible the choice of Quebec's leader to add a prosperous and visionary businessman to his team. One can understand Philippe Couillard to envy Pauline Marois's attraction power and jealousize the quality of the team of candidates and candidates she has set up. Yes, we can understand. But when he speaks of irresponsibility, there is something to chill. Mr. Couillard should be looking in the mirror. 
Let us remember that a few months before he leaves political life, in June 2008, the leader of the Liberal Party had met, four times rather than a future employer, persistence Capital Partners (PCP). As of May 17, the Minister of Health signed a "Memorandum of Understanding" with PCP, a company working in the health sector, on its working conditions. 
In the months preceding the abandonment of the Liberal vessel, Philippe Couillard signed two decrees affecting his new employer, one specifying the fifty medical treatments that can be provided in private clinics and the other aimed at reducing the cost of their permit. Operation. 
Since then, members of the National Assembly have unanimously adopted a code of ethics and ethics prohibiting a minister from secretly negotiating a job while he still occupies his duties. 
And today, Philippe Couillard would like to give us lessons of ethics? 
Unless it is only a course of course, but ... In June 2010, Dr. Couillard is appointed to the Safety Intelligence Surveillance Committee (SIRC), while working as a consultant for the Saudi government. Analysts working in the intelligence community supported at the time that security issues were so important, so sensitive, that "the only appearance of irregularity is intolerable". 
And today he would like to talk to us about responsibility? 
Let's add to Cellasa relationship with Arthur Porter, and remember Raymond Bachand's lyrics during the PLQ chefferry race: "While Peter and I was fighting corruption [sic], you did business with Arthur wearing! » 
Now, those of Philippe Couillard in October 2011: "Several of you know that Arthur and I are excellent friends, very close friends since our very first meeting in 2003. I admire the way Arthur has integrated in Quebec. A friendly friendship that the two men had started, together, a consultation company, in June 2010. This "shell" will remain inactive until the next day kick-off from Philippe Couillard in the race at the liberal chieftaincy. What should this business serve on? Nobody knows it yet, because Philippe Couillard has never explained. 
Pierre Karl Péladeau is one of the largest representatives of Quebec inc. All his career served Quebec's economic and social interests. It is a great candidacy for the Parti Québécois and an excellent news for Quebeckers. It's a responsible and packaging choice! The policy, and our party clearly demonstrates it throughout Quebec, continues to attract quality people from all spheres of activity and dedicated to the interests of the Quebec population. 
The Liberals have chosen to elect to the chiefdom of their party a man who negotiate jobs in the private sector while he is a minister, a man who works for a foreign government when he is a member of a committee of Surveillance of spying in Canada, a man whose reasons that led him to found a business with an individual who will later be accused of fraud. 
Choices like this, the Parti Québécois, we do not do. 
Because we are responsible. 
