Quebec- The Quebec Party spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, has demonstrated today that the Liberal government rations budgets to the detriment of patients , and more particularly those who are hosted in intermediate resources (RIs) and family-type resources (RTF). 
"In an internal note sent by the Laurentian CISS to all the intermediary resource managers in a region, it can be read that at the request of the Ministry of Health," the establishment must reduce its expenses repeatedly, " Just over 2% of the budget in intellectual disabilities, physical disabilities and autism spectrum disorders (DI-DP-TSA). "The situation is urgent and the additional efforts requested are considerable", can be read in the note, which specifies that these compressions do not concern the administration, which is cut off. In other words, the cups will hurt, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
"We also hold an audio recording in which the Regional Director of the RI of another CISS explains that the compressions have priority over the needs of users. "If I can not get into this budget, it's clear that I have to take steps to get there (...) [and] It's going to be to close places," says the officer di -DP-TSA, which must apply liberal austerity. That's it, the reality lived on the ground, "said Lisée. 
"To respond to unrealistic budget orders from the government, CISSs invent ways to reduce remuneration in RI-RTFs. And what better than to discover that, suddenly, users are in much better health than before! We have the results of a decreased reclassification of all users of the same resource, simultaneously! As a result, its funding was halved, "denounced the hon. Member, who received a large number of testimonials from these decline classifications from several regions. 
"We must make the observation that the law of silence reigns in the health and social services network. Intermediate resource managers have a blue fear of retaliation and do not dare to denounce unacceptable situations, for fear of reducing their reduced funding or low-closed resource, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
These troubling illustrations are added to the decline in funding that will strike 500 RI on February 15, pushing a large number of them at closing. The Parti Québécois and a RI group asked for the maintenance of funding and an analysis of the Commissioner for the Health and Well-Being of the whole file, on the basis of the needs of users rather than that of the Treasury Board will. "The government has remained shamefully silent on these issues, including on the dozen closures that took place in recent weeks. He must act before more damaged in the lives of thousands of very vulnerable people, "concluded the member. 
