Montréal - the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, has denounced this morning at a press briefing, the liberal cuts In intermediate resources (RIs) and family-type resources (RTF) that host thousands of people with physical or intellectual disabilities, or a spectrum disorder of autism or mental health. 
"According to our estimates, some 500 resources will be cut-off from several thousand dollars from February 15, and 340 of them are at risk of closure. This relates approximately 2500 users. To these cups adds a tendency to systematically adjust the classification of users, to reduce the amounts allocated to the RI-RTF, which are fixed according to the condition of the accommodation, "said the member, surrounded by The occasion of many representatives of threatened RI-RTFs. 
Inheriting this badly managed record by the Quebec Liberal Party (PLQ) in September 2012, the Government of the Parti Québécois had established a measure of maintaining the sums granted to the resources in question, thus avoiding their reductions. The ultimate goal was to find solutions before January 1, 2016. "Back in power, the PLQ refused to solve the problem it had created, at risk of these resources and the thousands of people. They host. We regret that the government's action does not seek the well-being of these vulnerable people, but the achievement of objectives of budget restrictions contrary to their interests, "added Jean-François Lisée. 
In conjunction with the RI-RTFs represented this morning, the Parti Québécois claims two shares from the Government: 
"With the mess of his reform of detox centers, the Liberal government has shown that it lacks compassion. He makes his selective austerity to those who can hardly protest! Ask him, as he did for Melaric and the detox centers, to admit his mistake, to reassure people hosted in RI and their loved ones, and to act immediately to avoid the worst, "concluded Jean- François Lisée. 
