Montreal- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Jean-François Lisée, and the Mayor of Montreal, Denis Coderre, announced An investment of $ 246 million, at the heart of the metropolis, for the construction of a building on the southern part of the traveler island. This building will be completed in 2019 and welcome 2500 Revenu Québec employees. 
"This investment is a strong gesture for the development of Montreal. The real estate project, which will bring together in the city center of Revenu Québec currently located at several addresses on the island of Montreal, will complete the restructuring of the traveler's island project and to boost the economy of surrounding neighborhoods. Attracting many workers, "said the premier. 
Located in a strategic district of the metropolis, this project will eventually generate savings of $ 40 million, including the Quebec Infrastructure Corporation to maintain the pricing of government spaces at a competitive rate. 
"By giving life to the traveler's island, which was once seen as a problem, and attracting into this place a critical mass of workers, we contribute to the rebirth of this district in the heart of the cultural and creative Montreal. This is an investment in favor of the community that confirms the firm will of our government to propose solutions and to participate in the revitalization of the metropolis, "said the minister listed. 
With a rental area of 58,000 square meters, the building will take shape at the corner of Berri Street and Boulevard de Maisonneuve. In addition to office space, it will include storage spaces and commercial spaces. During the construction period, more than 200 workers will be on work. 
Remember that last July, the Government of Quebec announced the sale of the northern part of the traveler island as well as the transfer of the management company from the Montreal coach station to the Metropolitan Transportation Agency. This transaction represented a gain on the disposition of the assets of some $ 22 million. 
