Trois-Rivières- On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec , Yves-François Blanchet, announces the award of financial assistance of $ 636,476 for a religious patrimonial building restoration project in the Mauricie region. Thanks to this grant, the monastery of the Ursulines will be able to carry out the restoration of the foundations as well as the drainage of the sanitary vacuum. 
"Mauricie is a region that is very rich in cultural heritage and especially religious heritage. I am always proud and grateful to see the work done by citizens who, attached to their culture and history, have made considerable efforts to protect and promote their cultural heritage, "says Yves-François Blanchet. 
An agreement of $ 20 million to protect, transmit and showcase the religious cultural heritage of Quebec  The Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto announced on February 14 the conclusion of a new agreement with the Religious Heritage Council of Quebec. This agreement, which aims at the protection, transmission and development of the religious cultural heritage, is lasting two years and is accompanied by a total budget of $ 20 million. 
"The preservation and development of our cultural heritage, whose religious heritage is of paramount importance for the Government of Quebec. The partnership with the Religious Heritage Council of Quebec, lasting for almost twenty years, illustrates this commitment. I am convinced that this new agreement corresponds more to the reality and needs of today's heritage protection, "said Maka Kotto. 
Since 1995, the Ministry of Culture and Communications has paid to the Religious Heritage Council of Quebec more than $ 270 million as part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. The main mandate of the Council is to support the environment and assume the management of these sums to support and promote the conservation and development of religious heritage of Quebec. 
New cultural heritage dissemination tools are added to the Cultural Heritage Directory of Quebec (RPCQ), allowing to discover all its richness and diversity, making it accessible to all. Part of the RPCQ content is now on the Open Data Portal of the Government of Quebec, atwww.donnes.gouv.qc.ca, as well as on the Social Pinterest network, in the form of virtual exhibitions, AWWW. Pinterest.com/rpcq. 
Online training is also offered, at the address www.formation-patrimoine.mcc.gouv.qc.ca. Composed of video capsules and learning activities, it presents the basic notions of the Cultural Heritage Act and explains the roles and responsibilities of each to promote the knowledge, protection, development and transmission of the Cultural Heritage. 
The department's contribution comes from the Capital Assistance Program and is part of the 2013-2023 Infrastructure Plan. Recall that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 2 billion investments for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. 
