Montreal- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, announced the sale of the northern part of the traveler island as well as the transfer of the management company from the Montreal coach station to the metropolitan transport agency ( AMT). For this important announcement, the Prime Minister was accompanied by the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Jean-François Lisée, the Mayor of Montreal, Laurent Blanchard, and the hon. Member for Sainte -Marie-Saint-Jacques, Daniel Breton. 
From left to right: Daniel Breton, MP for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Jean-François Lisée, Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Pauline Marois, Prime Minister of the Quebec, Laurent Blanchard, Mayor of Montreal. // (c) Parti Québécois 
Assets, acquired by the Quebec Real Estate Corporation (SIQ) in 2010 following the abandonment of the project in 2007, were publicly offered in the summer of 2012. After a rigorous process led by the SIQ The Company Aquilini Investment Group acquires unfinished structures, 600-seater parking, bus station and superficial rights in view of new construction. The amount of the transaction is $ 45.5 million, which represents, for the SIQ, a gain on the provision of assets of some $ 22 million. 
The operations of the Montreal coach station will be transferred to the AMT. This transfer makes it possible to better distribute the public transit offer on the metropolitan territory while bringing together the resulting activities within a single organization. The transfer is carried out at the carrying cost of the assets, so that the SIQ does not achieve any gain and record no loss on the transaction. 
The transactions announced today allow you to close an important chapter surrounding the traveler's island project. As for the southern part, different scenarios are under consideration to complement the restructuring of the project. 
From left to right: Luc Meunier, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Quebec Real Estate Corporation, Laurent Blanchard, Mayor of Montreal, Daniel Breton, MP for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Pauline Marois, Prime Minister of Quebec, Jean -François, Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Jocelyn Lafond, Vice President of Aquilini Investment Group, Nicolas Girard, President and CEO of the Metropolitan Agency transport. // (c) Parti Québécois 
The Government of Quebec has also announced that it will support the Unit Working Initiative for the implementation of student housing (useful) so that a project-pilot of community student residence traveled in the area of Latin Quarter. "By this meaningful gesture, the Government of Quebec combines with actors in the social economy to find sustainable solutions to the lack of affordable housing, which is directly part of the orientations of the bill on the bill. Social Economy Currently under study at the National Assembly, "rejoiced Mrs. Marois. 
Pauline Marois with a member of the Unit Working Initiative for student housing implantation (useful). // (c) Parti Québécois 
This initiative comes from a non-profit organization entirely composed of students and young professionals from the planning, administration and finance sectors. These are close to the development of a new student housing model inspired by the cooperative. "Last January, a group of very dynamic young people introduced me, with the support of the Quebec Housing Corporation, an innovative project. I am proud to confirm that this pilot project will materialize by the beginning of autumn in order to allow the completion of a first community student residence in the Latin neighborhood sector, "said the member for Sainte-Marie- Saint Jacques, Daniel Breton. 
"Today's announcements come to put an end to the uncertainty that has been planning for several years on this project. As Minister responsible for the Montreal Area, I am very pleased to present this project, which, in addition to taking advantage of Montrealers and all Quebeckers, will give life to a central structure in the metropolitan landscape, "has for its Share declared Minister Jean-François Lisée. 
"This announcement, which puts an end to so many conjectures and offers a new future at the traveler is an excellent news. The traveler island becomes again what it should have been: a structuring project for the sector in which it is part of and a dynamic element for the development of the Latin and district Ville-Marie, in the heart of Montreal " , said Laurent Blanchard, Mayor of Montreal and Mayor of Ville-Marie. 
"The sale of the northern part of the northern part, the transfer of transport activities to the AMT and the collaboration with the useful show the firm will of our government to make every effort to give life to this unfinished site located in a neighborhood. strategic of the metropolis ", concluded the Prime Minister. 
