Quebec, the 26th of April 2020 - the member for Joliette and spokesman for the Education and Family Party, Véronique Hivon, asks the Government to respond to the many questions of parents and school staff when they unveil his plan reopening schools on Monday. 
IN SHORT 
In the plan called to be tabled by the government, the Parti Québécois expects the answers to the following questions: 
By reopening schools, the government should not lose sight of the educational and educational objectives, believes the Parti Québécois. For it is not just about tending towards greater collective immunity; Students and their parents must feel that educational success is a stakeholder of the decision. 
"The government must explain what it intends to do to ensure fairness between students who will return to class and those who will stay at home, especially for those with learning difficulties or particular vulnerabilities. The health of students, their parents and school staff is paramount, but no one should leave anyone behind. So, do all the children stay at home, for health reasons or because their school remains closed, will be entitled to a personalized accompaniment plan? This is essential, "said the member for Joliette. 
Distance education is also called upon to take more room than ever in the school system. This will be the case in the coming weeks, for all those who will not go back to school in the near future, but also in the fall, if Quebec is again facing a wave of the virus. The government will have to provide for students with their parents and staff, better technological support. 
"Several students do not have adequate technological tools, such as a computer or tablet. Does the Minister of Education intend to provide them, so that all can evolve equitably, despite the difficulties posed by the sanitary crisis? This seems unavoidable; It's a simple question of justice, "said the member. 
The Parti Québécois spokesperson also recalls that thousands of school members volunteered to support health staff and patients. So far, we do not know the modalities of their return to schools, nor the measures that will be put in place to overcome their possible absence, which could pose challenges all the more important in the current context of staff shortage. . "We must not forget, either, that a proportion of bus and bus drivers is over 60 years old. As a result, measures should be provided to overcome this lack of workforce - which will also increase if some members unfortunately had to contract the infection in the coming months. Similarly, these measures must be announced at the same time as the deconformation plan, "continued the elected. 
Finally, Véronique Hivon asks the government to explain its match plan for the next school year and the next school year, particularly in anticipation of other potential waves of CVIV-19 in Quebec. 
"I am proud to see the momentum of solidarity that crosses all Quebec, and to which the school staff have actively participated, among others. Its security must, however, be ensured on return, like that of students and their loved ones. I therefore ask the government to show the greatest transparency; I am convinced that the more he will give information to the public, the more he will calm the concerns, and the more he will be able to build a consensus by causing the membership of Quebeckers to his plan, "concluded Véronique Hivon. 
