Québec - "The announcement made today by the Federal Government of Canada's withdrawal of the Kyoto Protocol is shameful: not only does it confirm that Canada will be the crank in the fight against climate change, but in addition to the Federal Minister Peter Kent At the base of coming to announce this important recoil in Quebec, alongside the Quebec Minister Docile and resigned, Pierre Arcand ". 
This is what the member for the Assumption and spokesperson for the official opposition on the environment, sustainable development and parks, SCOTT McKay, surprised that Minister Arcand agrees to be present, At the side of Minister Kent, for the occasion. 
"Although the two ministers were gathered for another reason, a courageous government would never have wanted to associate with such a masquerade. Under the auspices of the protection of the St. Lawrence, the federal government comes to narrupt in the face. Quebec serves carpets on which Canada is wiping stained legs of oil sands. Minister Arcand is not even shaken by this announcement that demonstrates all the arrogance and profound retrograde of the Conservatives of Stephen Harper, "Fulmine Scott McKay. 
Responding to a question from a journalist, Minister Arcand affirmed, without conviction, what do you want me to do? "When one has a courageous position, it is defended to the end. Quebec did not even delegate its Prime Minister or Minister of the Environment. It is therefore the Canadian position that will be defended on site. That explains why Alberta's Premier Alison Redford chose to go to Durban to defend the oil sands. Meanwhile, our Prime Minister prefers to expand our resources to foreign companies, "said Scott McKay. 
The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois suspects that the absence of Quebec elected officials on the climate change of Durban, South Africa, is the result of a non-aggression pact between Jean Charest and Stephen Harper. "Why did this time Jean Charest prefer to stay in Quebec as he loves to represent us abroad?, Questions the member for the Assumption. The gap between Quebec and the rest of Canada on climate issues expands, but the international scene will remember, by the softness of our representatives, that Quebec's efforts do not account for this Canadian decision. A free Quebec would have made it possible to join the camp of those for whom the environment is a constant concern for our future generations, "concluded Scott McKay. 
