Thetford Mines- On the occasion of a meeting with the municipal elected representatives of the Appalaches MRC, the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, presented three new priorities of the table interdepartmental work set up in December 2012 by his Government. These priorities, which derive from the work done so far by the table, are: the implementation of a joint support approach relating to the specificities of the environment, the creation of two tactical groups and the study of a project From Center of Excellence on asbestos post-exploitation. 
Recalling the objectives of the table to support the economic growth and diversification of the Appalachian MRC and to respond to the specific issues related to the end of mining operations, the minister has set up a positive assessment of the accomplished achievements to date. In addition, the minister reiterated his government's willingness to no longer finance the exploitation of chrysotile asbestos and to promote a green and sustainable economy. 
"Our government has been, and remains, listening to the actors and the population of the Appalaches", reminded Élain Zakaïb. "And we are present and active to answer their requests. The issues related to the end of mining operations have an impact that we recognize the importance and they require, for this reason, a rigorous coordination of the actions carried out by the various ministries and bodies concerned to meet the needs of the environment. Our balance sheet, as are the priorities we present today and which derive from the work done to date, meet this requirement. » 
"We are pleased to note that the work of the interdepartmental work table allowed the Government to recognize the magnitude of the problems related to the end of mining operations on our territory," said the Mayor of Thetford Mines, Luc Berthold on behalf of the Kaven Mathieu Mayors of East Broughton, André Rodrigue de Déraeli, Gilles Gosselin de Saint-Joseph-de-Coleraine and Ghislain Hamel, Prefect of the MRC. "We expect the working groups to get into jerking now come quickly to original and local solutions to the particular problems of our MRC, after more than 100 years of asbestos exploitation. We also believe that the creation of a national post-exploitation expert center is needed to perfect knowledge of all facets of Quebec asbestos file. » 
At the request of the Mayor of Thetford Mines, Luc Berthold, the interdepartmental work table will accompany the municipality in its efforts to develop its territory, while taking into account the issues related to the presence of mining hazes. The goal is to find together efficient, original and perennial solutions. 
In this regard, resources will be released from the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, the Ministry of Natural Resources, from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupancy of the Territory and the Ministry finance and economy. 
A first tactical group has been put in place, whose mandate is to draw up a portrait of the various mining sites of the Appalachian MRC; It is formed of representatives of the ministries present at the work table. This group will take stock of the status of each of the mining sites and will present in the region of sustainable and concerted solutions. 
In addition, in response to the will of the representatives of the RCM of the Appalaches to enhance the mining residues present in the territory, a second tactical group was created by the interdepartmental work table. 
Representatives of the tactical group are currently under discussion with the Center for Mineral Technology and Plastics (CTMP), which acts as a collegial technology transfer center. In this perspective, the government is studying the project presented by the CTMP aimed at creating a national center of expertise on asbestos post-exploitation. 
The consultation and collaboration between the ministries gathered within the table have made it possible, in a short time, the necessary authorizations to initiate the repair of the route 112, which was considered a priority. The construction is started and the goal is that the new route 112 is functional as early as 2015. 
In terms of the reclassification of the former workers of the company Lab Chrysotile, Emploi-Québec has set up a second reclassification committee which has attached 320 people. 
In terms of economic revitalization, the funding of the Appalachian RCM has been increased by $ 120,000 to enable the Thetford Region Economic Development Corporation (CLD) to accelerate the implementation of projects that could energize The economy of the MRC. Of these, note the development of a development plan on green chemistry, a future sector for the region. 
"Members of the interdepartmental work table actively collaborate in order to give the socio-economic actors of the Appalachian RCM, visibly engaged in the success of their region, the means to revitalize their economy and revitalize their living environment," added the Minister Zakaïb. "We are working closely with regional elected representatives and socio-economic stakeholders to start a sustainable economic turn and create winning business opportunities," the minister concluded. 
The Interdepartmental Work Table of the Appalaches MRC brings together stakeholders from the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, the Department of Transport, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the territory, the Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity (Employment-Québec), from the Ministry of Natural Resources, Ministry of Labor (CSST), the Ministry of Health and Social Services (Public Health Sector) and Ministry Finance and the economy is to coordinate the work of the table. 
The members of the table are mandated to draw up a portrait of the situation and to document issues related to the end of mining operations in the APPALACHEAS MRC. They are working to determine and promote solutions to the social and economic consequences arising from the cessation of the exploitation and commercialization of chrysotile asbestos in the region. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
