Longueuil- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the Minister of Education, Leisure and Sport and Minister responsible for the Montérégie Region, Ms. Marie Malavoy, the minister responsible for democratic institutions and the citizen and deputy participation of Marie-Victorin, Mr. Bernard Drainville, the Mayor of Longueuil and President of the Longueuil Transportation Network (RTL), Ms. Caroline St-Hilaire and the President -Director General of the Metropolitan Transportation Agency (AMT), Nicolas Girard, today announced the submission of the Memorandum of Understanding and the launch of the final draft study with a view to revitalizing the sector Place Charles-Le Moyne in Longueuil. 
This agreement concerns the phases 1 and 2 of the project of revitalization of the Charles-Le Moyne sector, which aims to improve the circulation by separating the local circulation and that of transit, to improve access to the metro from Route 132 and the surrounding streets. , to minimize bus travel times and increase the user-friendliness of the pedestrians and cyclists. 
"This agreement and the study that will begin shortly are an important step in carrying out this major project. In the long term, this project will optimize the only interrelated link where there is a high capacity reserve, ie the Longueuil-Université de Sherbrooke metro. By revitalizing the sector, we will provide users with a quality collective transportation service, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
The study will specify two important work phases either: 
"With my colleagues from Montérégie, we have transported a regional priority. The conclusion of this agreement is in addition to the important investments announced over the last two weeks of transportation for our region. As a minister responsible for the Montérégie region, I am very pleased to find that the redevelopment file of Charles-Le Moyne, located in the heart of the South Shore, is progressing and that the interventions planned will have Positive benefits for all citizens of the South Shore, "added Mrs. Malavoy. 
"Increase the supply and accessibility to collective transportation for the people of the South Shore and Longueuil, it is a commitment we have taken to the Parti Québécois. The announcement today is the first step towards achieving our commitment. As a member of Marie-Victorin, I am particularly proud that we are continuing the development of this project here in our constituency, "said Drainville. 
"This study aims to identify costs and timelines for a project that will facilitate access to Charles-Le Moyne, Metro and Saint-Charles Street, making this sector more user-friendly for pedestrians and cyclists and more fluid for vehicles. This project is also important because it will have a direct impact on the quality of the public transport offer for users of the entire South Shore, "said Mrs St-Hilaire. 
"By improving the efficiency and reliability of public transport services in the sector, this project will certainly result in increased traffic. I can only rejoice in the government's decision to continue the study, "said Mr. Girard. 
The project is subject to the governance framework of major public infrastructure projects. The development of the initial business record, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport, will begin in this spring and must continue until the autumn of 2014. 
The final draft definitive project under the responsibility of the City of Longueuil, as well as the development of the initial business record, represent an investment of $ 2.4 million. This amount will be funded in partnership by the Ministry of Transport, the City of Longueuil, the Metropolitan Transportation Agency and the Longueuil Transportation Network. 
"Here is a concrete project that goes in the direction of sustainable mobility, a priority for our government" has concluded the Minister of Transport. 
