Quebec, on February 5, 2021 - several groups and experts in the field of vulnerable persons were virtually this morning alongside the member for Lafontaine and spokesman of the Quebec Liberal Party on Justice, Marc Tanguay, of the member for Sherbrooke and spokesman for Quebec Solidaire in the field of women's condition, Christine Labrie, as well as the member for Joliette and spokesperson for the Quebecois party, Véronique Hivon; Together, they are a common front and ask the Minister of Justice, Simon Jolin-Barrette, to postpone Bill 84, An Act to help persons who are victims of criminal offenses and to promote their recovery, on his drawing board. . 
At a press point, all of them had the same message: While this long-standing reform was carried to a real hope for the advancement of support for victims in all its forms, important concerns have emerged. During public consultations, held two weeks ago. In particular, there are many stakeholders who fear that in its current form, the reform, supposed to include more victims, to finish by leaving several aside. However, instead of taking a downtime and indicating his desire to thoroughly review his bill, the minister seems to want to precipitate the adoption. 
Today, what groups, experts and elected officials are asked by Minister Jolin-Barrette, it is not to start the detailed study of the bill before having significantly reworked the articles that pose a problem. In close collaboration with the actors of the field. The objective is to make it a good reform of the compensation scheme for victims of crime (IVAC), glued to real needs. 
***** 
What they said: 
"The Quebec Association Advocacy-Victims considers that Bill 84 requires significant changes. This is the case, for example, articles concerning assistance to victims as well as the exercise of their rights and appeal. This bill does not take into consideration the many recommendations expressly made on these issues in the report of the Committee of Experts on the accompaniment of victims of sexual assault and domestic violence. Very complex, the legislation requires more time and more consultations. » 
Arlene Gaudreault, President, Quebec Association Advocacy-Victims 
"The grouping of women for women victims of domestic violence is concerned that the new financial aid structure is detrimental to victims who are not in the labor market, as is the case with a number of women victims of violence. An in-depth evaluation of these provisions is needed before moving forward. » 
Louise Riendeau, co-responsible for political files, grouping of houses for women victims of spousal violence 
"The victims of sexual exploitation have long waited for their recognized experience. For the KEY, this bill is essential; However, it must make it possible to improve the fate of women with whom we work. » 
Diane Matte, co-founder, consultation of struggles against sexual exploitation (KEYS) 
"The Quebec group of centers for aid and combating sexual assault (RQCALACS) is highly concerned about the impact of Bill 84 could have on the victims if it should be adopted without having made the object of a thorough revision. Because a large proportion of the beneficiaries of the IVAC system are victims of sexual assault (43% in 2019), we believe that our voice is heard and recognized. In a context of constant work overload and exacerbated by the pandemic situation, does the Minister of Justice intend to take into consideration our expertise by giving us the means and the time to do our work of analysis and consultation with our partners? » 
Stéphanie Tremblay, Liaison Officer, RQcalacs 
"The Federation of Women's Accommodation Homes considers that Bill 84 has several shadow areas with the recognition of the needs of victims of spousal violence and their loved ones. This bill must, inter alia, take into account the recommendations of the Committee of Experts on the accompaniment of victims of sexual assault and domestic violence, whose report was made public last December, at the same time as the Announces consultations on Bill 84. As a result, we are asking for additional time to the government, in order to analyze the bill in depth and make recommendations better adapted to the needs of victims and their loved ones. » 
Manon Monastentess, Executive Director, Federation of Women's Accommodation Homes 
"The victims will live with this reform for decades. The precipitation has bad taste. The declines are more important than advances in this bill, especially with regard to financial benefits to non-work victims. This question is at the heart of their lives and it can not be solved to their detriment. » 
MARC BELLEMARE, a lawyer specializing in compensation schemes 
"I ask the Minister of Justice to review his bill to better meet the needs of victims of criminal acts. The official opposition is obviously agree to reform IVAC; However, no side victim must be left. It is clear that Bill 84 creates injustices and excludes victims. I have at heart, as elected, to do my legislator work in a exemplary way and it implies improving the bills that are presented. In this one, it is clear that the whole has been done too quickly and, moreover, a large part of the groups that came to testify in parliamentary committee emphasized the lack of time they had to prepare and Analyze the bill. The minister must ensure that groups are listening to groups. » 
Marc Tanguay, Member of Parliament for Lafontaine and Spokesman of the Quebec Liberal Party on Justice 
"Many speakers and stakeholders argued that this bill represents a decline for victims. There is no point in taking a step forward to cover more victims if, at the same time, we are two steps back with what the compensation program offers. The most disturbing thing is that the minister has so far demonstrated no opening to correct the major problems of his bill, such as the income allowance that is strongly diminished, or the absence of retroactivity. He must revise his reform if he wants to support him. » 
Christine Labrie, Member of Parliament for Sherbrooke and spokesperson for Quebec Solidaire in terms of women's condition 
"It's one thing to propose a reform of the IVAC, but still need to offer the good reform of IVAC! The worries are very numerous and the minister can not sweep them under the carpet. He must return to his work table and propose a reform to the height of the needs of the victims. » 
Véronique Hivon, Member of Parliament for Joliette and spokesman of the Parti Québécois in matters of justice 
Several other agencies have explored their support for the concerted approach, including the Province of Quebec Assistance and Information Group on Work Harassment Inc. (G.a.i.h.s.t.), the Common Front of Social Assisted Persons of Quebec (FCPASQ), the Center for Victims of Sexual Aggression of Montreal (CVASM) and the Association of Families of Assassinated or Missing Persons (AFPA). 
- 30 - 
SOURCES : 
Laura Chouinard-Thuly 
Press Officer 
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois 
514 880-9594 
Laura.c After i's -t care liquid @as is NAT. Second. Wipe 
Alexandra Régis 
Director of Communications 
Office of the Leader of the Official Opposition 
418 571-6749 
Alexandra.regis@as is NAT. Second. Wipe 
Mélanie Guillemette 
Press Officer 
Caucus of Quebec Solidaire 
819 668-2734 
MELANIE.GUI is coming? @As is NAT. Second. Wipe 
Manon Monastentess 
Executive Director 
FEDERATION OF WOMEN HOUSING HOUSES 
514 242-6354 
Monash special color @ share. Second. Wipe 
Arlene Gaudreault 
President 
Quebec Association Advocacy-Victims 
514 922-9037 
Arlene.gaud hot au lt @ u Montreal. Wipe 
Louise Riendeau 
Co-responsibility of political files 
Grouping of houses for women victims of spousal violence 
514 220-1057 
The Au @ Maison in Day En is -verage. Second. Wipe 
Diane Matte, co-founder 
Concertation of struggles against sexual exploitation 
514 376-9241 
Diane.matte @ 拉 长 啥 .org 
