Quebec- Since the filing of Bill 70, An Act to enable better adequacy between training and employment and to promote employment integration, it is the most total confusion in the explanations of Provide the government. The Quebec Party's word for employment, social economy, poverty, solidarity, vocational training, adult education, literacy and youth, Dave Turcotte, has strongly denounced this situation. 
"The Minister of Social Solidarity, Sam Hamad, first recognized that people might have to move to hold a job, on pain of seeing their welfare social assistance. Then, the Prime Minister, arrested on the same question the next day, claimed the opposite. What about exactly? Asked Dave Turcotte. 
Depending on the old adage, the devil hides in the details. However, by refusing to specify the modalities of application of its reform, the Government prevents parliamentarians from examining the details of Bill 70. "We do not know, for example, how many hours per week will be necessary. to recognize a job as "suitable". We also do not know if penalties will be imposed on a person whose spouse refuses a job. We have to wait for the draft regulation. For a government that promised the most total transparency, it's rather embarrassing, "lamented the spokesperson. 
"The question is simple: if the government is given the right to decide what" suitable "job for a person, a distance criterion necessarily applies. Does a job become "suitable" from 50, 100, 200 kilometers? People have the right to know, but the minister refuses to clarify his thought, "continued the hon. Member for Saint Jean. 
Certainly, to adopt this important reform, the government will not be able to rely on the support of the Parti Québécois if it stues to hide its details. "To vote enlightened, parliamentarians must have all the information, and this is not the case now. I ask the Minister, on behalf of transparency, to commit to submitting the draft regulation before the detailed study of the bill 70 in parliamentary committee ", concluded Dave Turcotte. 
