Quebec- While Minister François Blais announces the conclusion of an agreement with the Youth-Employment Crossings (CJE) for the integration of the work of young social assisted, the member for Saint John and spokesman for the Parti Québécois of the fight against poverty, solidarity and for the youth, Dave Turcotte, notes the decline of the minister, who simply announces a return to the old CJE formula. 
"With this government, we have lost time. It's a back, with one exception: rather than being financed at the mission, CJE will be funded for every young person they will help. Prior to this agreement, CEPs could also help young recipients of social assistance or employment insurance. The Blais minister now realizes the error he made when he disavowed the Youth-Employment crossroads. It declines and focuses on their work on social assistants. But what about others, the first applicants older than 35 years old, for example, or young people in studies already having a job, but who want to improve their fate? ", Questioned the hon. Member for Saint John. 
The numbers are convincing: only for the CJE represented by the Autonomous Collective of Quebec's Youth-Employment Crossroads, 14,000 young people presented themselves at their CJE and have been told that we could not help them. These are young people of 16 or 17 who, for lack of immediate help to get a job, will knock on the door of welfare. These are also young people currently studying or finishing them, young people who have a precarious status job, or who can be threatened to lose it. These are young people who would like to have a better future, especially. 
"At the time, Minister Blais, by his reform, responded to these young people that they would not receive help because they were not important enough. The government now says they want to lower the number of young beneficiaries of social assistance, and it uses to do the youth-employment crossroads. But the CJEs have always done this job! The minister finally wakes up, but the problem remains: Bill 70 always contains financial sanctions on the welfare check. He tackles the poor, not poverty, "concluded Dave Turcotte. 
