Québec- At the end of the specific consultations on Bill 10, the member for Taillon and sentence of the official opposition on health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, asks the Minister of Health and Services Social, Gaétan barrette, to redo his work, because his reform will paralyze the health network and will not improve access to care. It considers that the abolition of agencies is just a false pretext for disrupting all aspects of our public health and social services system. 
All against the barrette reform 
"Those who care about or who accompany users, those who protect and defend patients, governance specialists and youth protection, community community ... All of these people and groups refuse to join this reform and are worried. consequences it will have. The minister must obtain support from the health community and mobilize staff, rather than imposing a reform they do not believe, "said Diane Lamarre. 
"We have before us a minister who wants to control the health network alone, ignoring all the comments and all the opinions of those who, from day to day, support the arms system. By centralizing network governance, the Liberal government will not improve access to care and do not hurt the regions of Quebec, "said the member. 
Remember that throughout the particular consultations, the CAQ was stuck to maintain its support to the government, giving it even before reading the bill. For its part, Quebec Solidaire did not even attend half of the particular consultations on Bill 10. 
"The minister must come to the evidence: everyone, except him, measures the magnitude of the consequences of his bill on care and services. Not only does he listen to anyone, but, in addition, he does not hear and gets to centralize and politicize the network, against all. However, Quebeckers clearly say it: the true priority is access to health care. Rather than getting into a reform of structures, Gaétan Barrette should focus on concrete actions that would actually improve access to care and services, such as investing in home care and prevention, Strengthen the first line, tackle overdiagnosis and computerize the network, "concluded Diane Lamarre. 
