Quebec- Accompanied by Mr. Dany Lacasse, Vice President of the FSSS-CSN, and Mr. Jean Gagnon, representative of the prehospital sector of the FSSS-CSN, Diane Lamarre, Member of Parliament for Taillon and Spokesman of the Parti Québécois Health and accessibility, has arrested the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, about the reform of emergency prehospital services. 
"A month ago, the minister announced by communiqué that the MSSS withdrew from the negotiations related to the labor force of ambulance companies. Since then, it is the radio silence. We ask ourselves about the minister's intentions and call again that he presents his plan with transparency, with respect for patients and employees of the ambulance sector. It is deplorable to note that another pan of our health system is fully immersed in blur and uncertainty because of a minister reform. This reform is necessary; The problem is that the process is happening with opacity, "said Diane Lamarre. 
"The Minister must certainly address the serious gaps that have been highlighted in the Ouellet report, particularly with respect to the absence of a culture of performance and accountability, despite the hundreds of millions of public money that are Invested to ensure emergency prehospital services. Nevertheless, employees in this sector should not be taken hostage by the iron arm that is played between the MSSS and ambulanty companies. The paramedics asked to meet the minister as soon as she was announced from the negotiations and, despite their attempts, they received no response from him. In the circumstances, the least of the things, for the minister, would be to follow up on their request and clearly expose their plan, "added the hon. Member. 
Remember that the Ouellet report, commissioned by the Parti Québécois and handed over to the Minister of Health in June 2014, was entitled prehospital services: urgency to act. "The minister waited several months before appointing an implementation committee of the recommendations in February 2015. Then, during the study of the appropriations, last April, we appreciate that the implementation committee had been Not brought together since June 3, 2015. Nevertheless, on April 21, 2016, the minister announced a redesign of the service contract in the ambulance sector. What did the committee served? Was it only a minister tool, a facade to save time? Does he at least have benefited from his work, if there was? "Concluded Diane Lamarre. 
