Quebec- Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Governance, Mr Alexandre Cloutier and the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor, Ms. Agnès Maltais call on the federal government to give All the details of the impacts that the employment insurance reform for Quebec will have. 
For several months, communities in different regions of Quebec have been based on seasonal activities manifest their concern about the clippings in the Employment Insurance Program. 
Adding his voice to those of thousands of workers, companies and families of the Madeleine Islands, the Magog region of Saint-Siméon and the rest of Quebec who have expressed their opposition to the reform of the Employment Insurance by the Federal Government, Minister Alexandre Cloutier denounces the lack of transparency of the Harper government and believes the latter should put on table. "It's been months that the population of the Quebec regions require details on the impacts of the implementation of this reform and the Harper government has shown only a very partial transparency. The federal government has the duty to present our impact studies and explain the real consequences of this unilateral reform for Quebeckers, "claims Minister Cloutier. 
Changes to the employment insurance plan, which has been effective since January 6, 2013, affect tens of thousands of workers. They will affect the development of Quebec regions, the occupation of Quebec territory, as well as the economic emancipation capacity of our regions, especially in the resources of Quebec and those living on seasonal economy. 
After submitting this reform as part of a "Mammoth" project, after gagging the opposition and after having ignores repeated and unanimous demands of Quebec, the Harper government must change its ways of doing things, believes the Quebec Minister delegate. to sovereignist governance. "It's time for the Conservative government to work with open book with Quebecers. The attitude of the federal government, which gave information to the drop-offs on the cuts it intended to implement, had the effect of insecure everyone. This reform may have serious consequences for Quebec and the Conservatives are absent to answer questions from workers and communities, "says Minister Cloutier. 
"While Quebec has never been consulted by the federal government, this reform will have negative impacts for Quebec: destabilization of the labor market, upward pressure on the services offered by Emploi-Québec, increases applications from Help last resort, etc. By acting in this way, the federal government is ignoring the realities of the Quebec labor market. We can not remain insensitive about the concerns and grievances of Quebeckers, "said Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltais. 
While 40% of frequent providers in Canada are in Quebec, the impact will be particularly important on frequent employment insurance users. 
Employment Insurance reform announced in the Bill "Mammouth" C-38 was denounced by all parliamentarians of the National Assembly of Quebec during motions adopted unanimously on June 8, 2012 and the November 13th. Here is the wording of the motion adopted on November 13: 
"That the National Assembly is formally pronounced against the amendments made by the Government of Canada to the Employment Insurance Act, which will have a negative effect on Quebec businesses and workers, particularly those of the seasonal economies of the regions of Quebec. either fisheries, forestry, tourism and agriculture; that the National Assembly requires the Government of Canada that it renounces these amendments. » 
Consult the Press Releases issued by the Parti Québécois Government on Employment Insurance Reform 
