Quebec, February 18, 2021 - The member for René-Lévesque and Parliamentary Leader of the Parti Québécois, Martin Ouellet, is very proud to present the draft parliamentary reform of his political group, tabled today after a rigorous reflection which will have left no side aspect. 
IN SHORT 
The Quebec Party Proposals to modernize the parliaments found on the following 4 priorities: 
"You all know, the Parti Québécois has been called in recent years to renew in depth. To do this, he put everything on the table; Nothing was excluded from reflection, and the audacity was welcome. We were strongly of this experience, and used it to present an ambitious project of parliamentary reform aimed at the search for a balance between the legislative effectiveness, necessary for the functioning of a state of modern law, and the need to preserve The proximity and representation of citizens in their national assembly, "said the deputy of René-Lévesque. 
Including 16 priorities of action grouped under 4 central themes, the project has the main objective of adapting parliamentarism to the new reality - that of the elected officials, of course, but also that of the citizens. "Since 2009, dates from the last redesign of the National Assembly Rules, Quebec has changed. Among other things, he has made an important demographic and generational transition. The replacement of bipartishes was also assisted by a plurality of political offer. Finally, women are now much better represented - it is obviously positive, but it raises more than ever the stake of work-family conciliation for parliamentarians, "said Martin Ouellet. 
In addition, the question of modernizing and digitizing procedures had never been asked with as many things. "The pandemic has forced us to adapt quickly, and we have to take advantage of this historic opportunity to go even further and gain more in efficiency - this includes, of course, the role of oppositions, whose mandate is as important as that of the Party in power, "added the parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois. 
The exercise also had to give citizens and citizens a greater role in the democratic play. "I invite the public to read our project, in order to learn more about the means that the Parti Québécois puts forward to counter this tenacious feeling of helplessness that can live in elections; We really want to give people a greater influence on the topics and priorities of parliamentarians, "concluded Martin Ouellet. 
- 30 - 
SOURCE : 
Anne-Sophie Desprez 
Communications Coordinator 
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois 
418 271-0485 
