Quebec- During the emergency debate today in the National Assembly about the reception, Quebec, of Syrian refugees, the leader of the official opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the spokesman of the party Quebecers in immigration and cultural communities, Maka Kotto, asked several questions to the Liberal government, but without obtaining satisfactory answers. 
"I expressed, yesterday, that transparency must prevail and that we must raise ourselves above the partisanship in order to provide clear answers to the legitimate questions of the population. I will add that municipalities and community organizations also expect concrete answers quickly. Quebec has always been recognized as a hostland. Quebeckers form an open, inclusive and generous nation, especially when it comes to helping vulnerable populations. We need to honor this reputation, "said the leader of the official opposition. 
"Quebeckers want to help people flee the war, but they need the government to respond to certain basic issues. Refugees have already experienced enough trials; They deserve to be welcomed decently. However, we can not compromise on security. However, the Minister Weil is unable to tell us how much they will, when they arrive or what time. We still do not know what the federal contribution will be, and we still do not know where all these people will stay. We made all these questions during the emergency debate, in vain unfortunately, "added Maka Kotto. 
"We are asking the government to ensure that there is no compromise not only on security, but also on resources and humanitarian services to put in place that the reception of Syrian refugees is successful. This success is due to several factors, including medical care, housing, school integration and learning French. In short, we ask the Liberal government to demonstrate the leadership to which Quebeckers expect from its part. He must support Quebeckers so that they can adequately welcome our new compatriots, "concluded the leader of the official opposition. 
