Québec- The member for Taillon and sentence of the official opposition in health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, regrets that once again, the Liberal government imposes a higher rate increase in inflation Quebec families, since it has chosen to pocket the savings generated by lowering the cost of the drug insurance plan. 
Every year, on July 1, the amount of the premium of the public drug plan is fixed according to the cost for the previous year and the estimation of the expected increase for the coming year. However, we were learning yesterday that tomorrow, the annual regime premium will increase from $ 611 to $ 640. Some 3.5 million people insured by the public plan, or about 40% of Quebeckers, will therefore have to compose with this increase of 4.75%, which proves much higher than inflation. 
"The Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, continues to boast that his management style generates significant savings. But who, exactly, benefits? Certainly not Quebeckers, who face an umpteenth rate increase, "said Diane Lamarre. 
"How is it that the savings generated in particular by the establishment of a maximum price payable for the PPIs and the abolition of the 15-year rule - two decisions of the Parti Québécois -, by the new rules concerning the use of The mention does not substitute and the increase in the use of generic drugs do not result in a drop in the tariff for insured persons, as should be the case? How is it that despite the decline in the cost of the drug insurance plan, the amount of the premium will increase by 4.75%? There should be a direct effect for Quebeckers, but the government has visibly made the choice not to make them benefit from these savings, "continued the spokesperson. 
The member also mentioned, to further illustrate his remarks, that the $ 130 million that the government went to pockets of pharmacists, not a penny will return to taxpayers. Everything goes to the government, as provided for in Article 202 of Bill 28, adopted under gag on April 20th. 
Even worse, this new tariff increase, which Quebeckers will have to assume during the production of their tax return, is paired with an increase in all costs payable in pharmacy, the monthly deductible, the co-insurance and the maximum monthly contribution. "The Liberals multiply rate increases for Quebec families; Decidedly, respecting their promises seems to be the cadet of their worries, "concluded Diane Lamarre. 
