Montreal, on December 1, 2019- The member for Joliette and spokesperson for the Quebecois Family Party, Véronique Hivon, asks the Government to respect his commitment and put an end to discrimination, in connection with parental leave, what undergo Children adopted and their parents. 
IN SHORT 
The CAQ had committed black on white in the election campaign to settle this injustice. Bill 51 presented by Minister Jean Boulet maintains discrimination between adopting families and biological families. The government also creates a new discrimination between children Adopted internationally and those adopted in Quebec. The Quebec party requires the current injustice, without creating another. 
"The CAQ had engaged black on white, during the last election campaign, to increase from 37 to 55 weeks the duration of parental leave for adoptive parents, so that this leave is equivalent to that available to biological parents. A year later, the Caquist government breaks its promise by presenting a bill that maintains a 13-week difference to the detriment of parents of adopted children. However, all children, whether adopted or organic, should be entitled to the same constancy, at the same time in the presence of their parents with them. This should go all the way that adopted children usually arrive in their families with a luggage of particular challenges affecting attachment, health, feeling of security ... all because of the circumstances of their first months or first years Of life, often marked with many trauma, "Véronique Hivon explained. 
The spokesperson for the Quebecois Family Party considers that Minister Boulet also wants to create additional discrimination between the children adopted internationally and those adopted in Quebec. "The 5 weeks of parental leave he wants to add are indeed intended only for parents who make a stay abroad to adopt. It is an injustice for parents who adopt in Quebec through the auspices of the Youth Protection Directorates. These families have no less challenges to raise! She added. 
"For an insult side, it would cost at most between 4 and 5 million a year to correct this injustice, while the RQAP budget is around $ 2 billion annually. There are fewer than 400 adoptions by year in Quebec, out of a total of about 83,000 births. The Caquist Government therefore has no arguments for rejecting this legitimate demand by adopting parents, especially since the CAQ has made a resolution in this respect in November 2017, in addition to an election commitment in September 2018. The message. Adopting parents is clear: Bill 51 must be amended so that the number of weeks that parents can go home with their children by being offset either the same for all, and to put an end to this System that creates two categories of children, "concluded the member for Joliette. 
