Québec- The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, today announced the implementation on 7 November of a license plan for owners or guards of 15 cats or dogs and more and for any operator of a place of collection of animals. 
"This new regulation, for a long time asked by community stakeholders, will allow us to know and inspect more custody locations and ensure better control of non-compliant livestock. We make a significant step in improving the welfare of pets in Quebec, "said Minister François Gendron, in the presence of the members of the Working Group on the Well-Being of Sockets and Recreation Chaired by the Member of Parliament for Iberville, Mrs. Marie Bouillé. 
The license regime is established under the Cat and Dog Safety and Wellbeing Regulations, which falls under the Animal Health Protection Act. The regulation will be published in the official Gazette on October 23, 2013. Thus, anyone with 15 cats or dogs and more and any operator of a place of collection of animals, whether an imprisoner, a refuge or a. SPCA, will have to hold a license. 
"The implementation of this new regulation is an excellent news and demonstrates that our government grants the issue of the safety and well-being of pets all the attention it deserves. We do not spare any effort to ensure that our animals are treated with respect and to ensure that they benefit from the best possible conditions, whether in livestock, in the shelters, or even in their adoption families, ", highlighted the minister. 
In addition, Minister Gendron recently received the recommendations of the Working Group on the Supervision of Euthanasia Methods in Cats and Dogs and to counterpopulation in Quebec. He expressed his intention to regulate to prohibit the euthanasia of these animals by means of carbon monoxide and to limit the maximum number of dogs or cats that can be kept in a livestock. "It's high time that a government takes animal welfare seriously. With the ban on what is called "gas chambers" and add a limitation of the maximum number of dogs and cats that can be kept in a breeding site, I hope to better protect animals at Quebec, "said Gendron Minister Gendron. 
Also, an awareness campaign to empower the population with respect to the adoption of a pet will be launched in early November. 
Remember that more than 250 inspectors, employed by the Ministry and thirteen SPA-SPCA, which are at work in Quebec to ensure compliance with the legislation. 
For further information about government actions in animal welfare, we can visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food at addressingwww.mapaq.gouv.qc. it. 
