Chicoutimi- The member for Chicoutimi and Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean Region, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, had the pleasure of welcoming his colleague and Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, during his visit to Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean. It is also at its invitation that the minister has moved to meet two important actors in the region, the University of Quebec in Chicoutimi (UQAC) and the Regional Conference of the elected officials of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, In order to listen to their concerns with regard to the challenges posed by the forest environment. 
"It is important to listen to the environment's concerns about the many challenges and opportunities that our forests present, and that they are shared with the government. It is together that we can find ways of solution to maximize the forest territories we have chosen to develop in respect of the environment and create wealth for Quebec and all its regions, "said Martine Ouellet. 
"The forestry sector is one of Quebec's leading economic engines. It is all the more for a resource region like ours. We want to seize the PSACTual opportunities of the wood industry in the region and associate them with the sustainable exploitation of our forests, and this, in the interest of all Quebeckers, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
Martine Ouellet and Stéphane Bédard spoke with Mr. Daniel Lord, Director of the Department of Basic Sciences and the Consortium of Research on the UQAC Commercial Boreal Forest. The latter introduced them to them an integrated concept of research on the boreal forest that applies to both the boreal ecosystem and sustainable development. On the other hand, Mr. Claude Villeneuve, director of the eco-board chair, told them of the importance of increased use of wood in construction in Quebec to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. . Finally, the two elected officials also met with André Paradis, President of the elected representatives of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, with the Director General, Mr. Marc Dubé, and Ms. Ursula Larouche, Developing Advisor. A presentation on the specific agreement on the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean Forest Research Fund has been made. 
On November 21 and 22, the Government of Quebec will hold the first rendezvous of the Quebec Forest in Saint-Félicien. This meeting will lead to reflection on the timber sector as a driver of a new green economy and agree on a three-year forest action plan. Forestry and development of the Quebec forest, the optimal use of the resource, the future and job creation will be at the heart of the discussions. For more information, visit the following site: http: //rendezvousdelaforet.gouv.qc.ca. 
