Rouyn-Noranda- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert, and the Minister responsible for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue Region, François Gendron, announce the granting of additional budgets of $ 720,800 to improve home care and services offered to the elderly of the region. 
"Improving senior services in loss of autonomy is one of our government's top priorities, as also confirms the approach we advocate for autonomy insurance. Immediate improvement in home support will serve more seniors, even more wisely help those who are already receiving services in addition to supporting families, "said Minister Hébert. 
$ 436,300 for the intensification of home services provided by institutions and social economy companies. 
$ 61,800 for the consolidation of service networks integrated with the elderly institutions, which promote the integration, coordination and continuity of seniors services. The addition of stakeholders and case managers for personalized people's follow-up is an essential element of improving seniors' services. 
$ 76,200 for support for community organizations involved with seniors and their loved ones. 
$ 146,500 to develop palliative home care in order to increase accessibility and intensify the necessary interventions offered to end-of-life people by the CSSS interdisciplinary professional teams. 
"This investment is a big step towards the improvement of palliative care in Abitibi-Témiscamingue and translates our sincere will to act in a spirit of solidarity and humanity by making the most accessible palliative care possible for Quebeckers," said Véronique Hivon, Minister Delegate to Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Head of Community Organizations. 
"Older people want to stay at home as long as possible, even when there is some loss of autonomy. The budgetary development we confirm today is a tangible way of our desire to support them in achieving this objective, "said the Minister responsible for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue region, François Gendron. 
