Quebec- The hon. Member for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, as well as the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesperson in the field of women, Carole Poirier, lamented that Prime Minister Philippe Couillard refused to Remove quotas on abortions in the draft regulation of its Minister of Health. 
"No decline in women's law is tolerable. Dozens of women and men working in the health network are concerned about the limits that could be imposed on access to abortion because of the quota and regulation proposed by the Minister of Health. What Gaétan Barrette suggests is serious: it attacks the right of women to have their bodies, a right that has been acquired long. The Prime Minister must take his responsibilities and withdraw any quota on abortions in the draft regulation. Philippe Couillard must review the work of the Minister of Health to ensure that the right of women will not be attacked, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
Le chef de ucigels deficieces Leaning legelzen by the hority of Hoocheraude for Hooconneuet et ki if a cume suc: 
"That the National Assembly reiterates the right of any woman to dispose of his body and free and accessible abortion services. 
That it requires the government the withdrawal of any measure related to Bill 20, An Act to enact the law promoting access to the services of family medicine and specialized medicine and amending various legislative provisions on assisted procreation, limiting in any way these rights. » 
What will the new liberal attack against women? 
Carole Poirier also deplored that the Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Stéphanie Valley, gave priority to liberal austerity and not to defend women's rights. 
"Attacks against women are numerous and incessant: postponement of CPE places and increase in tariffs, underfunding of community groups that support women, cuts in equality programs and measures. To fight against sexual exploitation, prohibition of recourse to assisted procreation for women aged 42 and over ... The list is long. Minister Stephanie Valley, instead of assumed these attacks in the name of Liberal-Caquist austerity, should defend the rights of women in all forums and refuse to make concessions on the achievements we have harshly, "said Carole Poirier. 
