Quebec- In response to the event on Thursday in front of its constituency offices, the member for Johnson, Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie, Yves-François Blanchet, explains that the draft water removal settlement and their protection will be the subject of more explanation. A period of information will follow the normal process at the end of the current consultation for its planned implementation this summer. "Most of the points raised by activists demonstrate that we need to better explain the regulation and the context. There is not only one of the opponents who is based. We have strengthened everything in terms of protection, and put forward what is clearly the most severe regulation in America. It will be explained to them, "he said. 
As a result, the Blanchet minister is willing to meet very soon representatives of worried citizens with regard to the schist gas file in the St. Lawrence Valley. The approach leading to a moratorium and an environmental assessment in the schist gas file follows its course and is slowed by only the refusal of the future Coalition Québec and of the Quebec Liberal Party to support the law Project. As for the points on the document delivered by the representatives of the opponents of the Political Attachés of the member Blanchet, the government now gives them some clarification. 
EMERGENCY: The urgency has been invoked for the adoption of the Regulation in the context of an accelerated approach in order to subject, precisely, possible drilling projects, wherever Quebec, the provisions of the Regulation. From this summer. In fact, citizens can still express themselves now, and our desire is to strengthen the settlement by lawsing, the entire consultation process in the parliamentary committee that will inevitably accompany this exercise will be implemented. This is a strengthened, faster protection. The accelerated approach has therefore been privileged because, justly, citizens and municipalities are asking for quick response. 
Municipal or Quebec jurisdiction: This regulation will take precedence over municipal regulations. Among other things, it presents the advantage of being much more comprehensive than municipal bylaws to protect sources of drinking water supply, it will be implemented by the most important means of the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment , wildlife and parks and will apply uniformly to the whole of Quebec. 
Minimum horizontal distance: A uniform horizontal distance would be insufficient to ensure the proper protection of water supply sources. The proposed regulation imposes the most severe measures in North America, first-time the imposition of a specific hydrogeological study of each of the drilling projects, without any limit to what the separating distance then imposed . The minimum standard of 300 meters is, however, and already, the most severe in America. Finally, the Regulation will not replace other regulations and guidelines implemented by the Government of Quebec, but will be added to the standards already in force, including those of Laloi on the quality of the environment. 
"Quebec has 3% of the planet's freshwater renewable resources. The draft regulation on water removal and their protection protects sources of drinking water and underground through strong and innovative measures. My regulation does not replace the environmental assessment, BAPE and the moratorium on shale gas requested and applied for the St. Lawrence Valley. He completes them, reinforces them and adds to it. If we tell anything to my citizens and my mayors, I will meet them personally for everything to be well understood, "said the smart minister. 
For information on this draft regulation: www.protegeonsleau.gouv.qc.ca. 
See also the "Draft Regulations on Hydraulic Fracturing Regulations: to take stock", signed by the national permanence, on the Blog of the Parti Québécois. 
