Quebec- "The Liberal government is still unable to arrive with concrete solutions for the forest industry. This is what the hon. Member for Chicoutimi and spokesman of the official opposition in the field of economy, entrepreneurship, SMEs and exports, Stéphane Bédard, said, and the hon. Member for Bonaventure and Forest speech, Sylvain Roy, following the announcement, by the government, this morning, the creation of an interdepartmental committee whose mandate will, among other things, evaluate the cost of the fiber. 
"The Liberal government recognizes its failure and notes the decline of the forest industry, for 10 years, and the associated job losses. Announce an interdepartmental committee, it is again delaying the implementation of solutions that are known, "continued Stéphane Bédard. 
"The government arrives with this announcement this morning, while no one has been consulted, while industry and workers should have been at the center of this committee. It is absolutely necessary that the government involves industry players in this process, "he added. 
"In November 2013, there was a great meeting of the forest in Saint-Félicien, to which Philippe Couillard assisted; The problems have been clearly exposed, immediate aids have been made, and the reports of the sites that have followed the appointment have identified concrete solutions to implement now. However, the government pushes the implementation of these solutions by creating this committee, "said Sylvain Roy. 
"It's been over a year that the minister is in office and, despite everything, every month, factories across all regions of Quebec close. Still last week, we learned that forest activities on the North Shore could be suspended if the Prime Minister did not intervene. Solutions are nevertheless known. The sites, launched at the national rendezvous of the Quebec Forest, have identified it. The minister must act to improve the business environment and allow workers to keep their jobs, "concluded the hon. Member for Bonaventure. 
