Quebec, September 23, 2016 -So we learn that there will be new job losses at the Rio Tinto headquarters in Montreal, the hon. Member for Jonquière and Leader of the Official Opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, the member for Sanguinet and spokesperson for the Québécois parties in the area of economy, Alain Therrien, as well as the member for Rousseau, a parliamentary leader and a spokesperson for finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, request that the National Assembly to examine the respect of The continuity agreement signed in 2006 with Alcan, to which the multinational Rio Tinto is held. 
"The jobs and the continuation of investments in Rio Tinto's activities are very important for our workers, here in Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, just as it is important to preserve jobs at headquarters. However, despite promises and commitments, the number of jobs has dropped by 30% since 2006 from 860 to 600. We therefore ask for a parliamentary committee that will look at compliance with the agreement. In 2006. Parliamentarians need to know what is it, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"Yes or no, the company respects the 2006 Continuity Agreement? If not, will the government use planned sanctions? The agreement has indeed heavy penalties, except that they are never applied. For example, Article 18 states that if Rio Tinto makes the amendment of its commitments related to the head office without having obtained the Government's agreement, the latter will have the right to cancel or revoke all or any part of the rights. made to the company, without compensation or compensation. The provisions are very clear. Now, you have to know if they are respected, "added Alain Therrien. 
"We are seeing it: the Liberal government, despite its commitments, has only to keep our head offices. He sold Rona's shares held Investisse Québec by a simple "OK", by email. Within this government, there is no person of accountable or responsible, especially not the Prime Minister, who continues to refuse to answer our questions on this subject, "concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
