Sherbrooke- Partician candidate in the riding of Saint-François, Réjean Hébert is refreshing the improvised and irresponsible proposals of the head of the Coalition Future Québec, François Legault. The latter recently committed to changing the rules that surround the orders. 
"Unlike family physicians and other health professionals, the pharmacist is accessible every day, everywhere in Quebec. However, the proposal of the Future Québec Coalition to cut $ 250 million in pharmacies, ensuring that drugs are now prescribed for three months, could jeopardize patient safety, access to medicines and financial health. Pharmacies, "denounced Réjean Hébert. 
The candidate in Saint-François note that it is absurd to cut in the income of proprietary pharmacists while the government has just given them new responsibilities for prescription and renewal of drugs. 
According to the Ordre des Pharmacists du Québec, it is impossible to prescribe certain drugs for a period of three months; Antipsychotics, antidepressants, narcotics and controlled drugs can squarely endanger the life of a patient if regular follow-up is not performed. 
"If the drugs are prescribed for short periods, it is for the doctor to follow up with the patient to see the evolution of his state of health. These observations allow health professionals to see if the drugs are effective and adjusting the treatment if necessary. We can not afford to wait three months to regulate a prescription: it is definitely not in the interest of Quebeckers, "added the candidate in Saint-François. 
Currently, the maximum amount payable each month at the pharmacy is $ 82.66. However, by prescribing the drug for three months, the amount increases to $ 247. 
"For many people, pay this amount to get their medications, even for three months, is far too high. It is therefore likely to have people who can not be able to get all of their medications. Clearly, the CAQ does not think of middle-class workers, especially those who have no group insurance, "continued Hébert. 
The Future Quebec coalition claims to be able to save $ 250 million by changing drug prescription rules. Remember that on average a drug is prescribed for a duration of 18 days. "The CAQ does not seem to know that more than 60% of drug orders are prescribed for 29 days and less. The ability to save $ 250 million by prescribing drugs for three months becomes impossible. This proposal feels improvisation, "said Réjean Hébert. 
The Future Quebec Coalition seems to completely ignore the Quebec pharmaceutical system. Here's what Normand Cadieux, Executive Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the Quebec Association of Proprietary Pharmacists, in an open letter to the Journal The Sun on 24 August: "The fees paid to the pharmacist are proportional to the number of days of treatment that he delivers for his patient. If the pharmacist provides a three-month supply, he receives the monthly fees three times. "If the CAQ had traveled the agreement between the pharmacists and the Quebec government in 2007, she would not be seriously serious," said the candidate in St. Francis. 
The proposal to cut $ 250 million in pharmacies represents an average amount of more than $ 135,000 per pharmacy. "A compression of such a magnitude will necessarily cause losses of employment in the laboratories and even reductions of opening hours, thus decreasing the possibility of consulting the most accessible health professional: the pharmacist. It is an irresponsible proposal, "concluded Rejean Hébert. 
