Quebec, the 11th of April 2020 - The member of the Madeleine Islands and spokespersons of the Parti Québécois in the field of health, Joël Arseneau, as well as the member for Joliette and Spokesperson for Family and Education , Véronique Hivon, are concerned about the issues left outstanding and the appearance of contradiction that the scenario of reopening schools before May 4, as evoked by the government yesterday; They ask for details. 
IN SHORT 
A month ago, while one of the first gestures of the government has been to close schools and child care, the authorities have explained that young people constitute a large potential transmission vector. "Immunizing them quickly, without too many consequences for them, it would be ideal. However, if the government reopens schools too quickly, does not it exist a risk to teaching staff and their families and, by extension, for the entire population, including caregivers, more vulnerable people and seniors ? We want to hear the government on that. We want it clearly indicating what its experts advocate, "said Joël Arseneau, who also emphasizes that in the containment stages, schools were closed 10 days before the companies, while we would now proceed with a logic. inverse. 
In addition, the question relating to the respect of the famous rule of 2 meters, which the Government calls us all to respect again for months, is evidenced for the custody and schools, especially since we speak here children. "If creative time and space planning scenarios are on the table, it would be important to communicate because, with the lack of current space in several schools, the challenges appear important," has the same Stay the member for Joliette. 
Véronique Hivon believes that the government must quickly dispel the impression of contradiction that this issue raises. "I heard the Prime Minister evoke the reopening of the schools, while he had just indicated to requisition some of their staff to make a hand to health workers. In addition, the government has just announced the suspension of cultural events and the majority of sporting events until August 31st. All of this raises questions. My colleagues and I received many messages from perplexed and worried citizens; You have to explain and reassure, "she added. 
To soothe the fears of parents, health and education workers and the entire population, the Parti Québécois asks the Government to clearly and quickly clarify its intentions. 
