Quebec- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce the renewal of intervention of local road infrastructure (PIRIRL) and, in front of the lively Success he knew last year, his bonus to $ 5 million for the 2013-2014 fiscal year for greater number of regional county municipalities (MRCs) can benefit from it. The Ministry of Transport plans to assume up to 100% of the costs of realization plans, up to the amounts provided for this purpose. 
The proposed approach provides for the medium determination of about 25% of local roads for socio-economic development and the vitality of the territory. The condition of these roads, the type of interventions required and the available budgets will subsequently condition the content of the intervention plan. PIIRL is an effective planning tool that allows municipalities to prioritize infrastructure work on their priority road network. "Given the extent of the local road network, it is essential to optimize the investments dedicated to it. Through this program, we recognize the importance of providing MRCs and their municipalities for planning tools promoting the mobility and safety of travel over the entire Quebec territory, "said Gaudreault. 
Recall that this program is for Quebec's 84 rural and semi-rural MRCs on their territory of local roads of Level 1 and 2, as well as 4 cities and agglomerations exercising certain RCM skills, as well as the municipality outside MRC of James Bay and all its component communities (including the city of Chibougamau). 
In addition, MRCs will also be able to file applications for financial assistance as part of the Municipal Road Safety Response Plan (PISMRMM) to identify work that contributes to improving road safety. 
The MRCs wishing to register for these programs may purchase all the documentation atwww.mtq.gouv.qc.ca, in sectionPartners, under the Municipalities, aid programs, a municipal road network. 
