Quebec- Following its participation in the provincial and territorial ministers meeting responsible for local governments in Whitehorse, Yukon, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault , draws up a positive assessment, but deplores the absence of the federal government. 
"An invitation had been launched to the Federal Minister of Transport, Infrastructure and Communities, Mr. Denis Lebel, to come to explain to us, in detail, the intentions of his government in the financing of municipal infrastructure. We had to chat with him, but he refused the invitation as well as any communication with the ministers gathered in the Yukon and did not deign to dispatch of any representative that it was at the meeting, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
The minister nevertheless draws a positive assessment of the meeting during which he shared his vision for the financing of municipal infrastructures to ministers responsible for local governments. He first argued on his opposition to unilateral federal interventions. In addition, the Minister reiterated that it requires, from Ottawa, a block transfer of federal funds for municipalities, without conditions or rules unilaterally imposed by the federal government, stressing that Quebec is the only one to be able to determine investment priorities in municipal infrastructure on its territory. 
The Minister recalled that he wants to see a substantial enhancement of funding from the federal government, both for the renewal of municipal infrastructure and to respond to the new obligations that the latter imposes on municipalities, including the new standards in terms of Sanitation of municipal wastewater. 
The minister also informed his counterparts from a group of experts to list the federal interventions and duplication on municipal affairs. "Quebec, like other provinces, is a prime contractor in several fields of government activity. However, the federal government is reluctant less and less to intervene in municipal and local affairs. It is in this context that a group of experts has been trained to study the federal government's interventions in this area in Quebec. Obviously, we can think that duplication are similar at the Canadian scale and that is why I committed to sharing, with my Canadian counterparts, the findings of the report I'm waiting for next January, "said the minister. 
"I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Services for Yukon Communities, Ms. Elaine Taylor, for his great hospitality and the organization of this important meeting," the minister. 
