Quebec- at the end of the provincial and territorial meeting of the Labor Market Ministers' Forum, which took place today in Toronto, the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltais, like his provincial and territorial counterparts, reaffirmed the need for renewal in the current form of the Canada-Quebec Agreement in the labor market. Maturity in 2014 to maintain the efficiency and efficiency of Quebec measures. 
Presented unilaterally by the federal government in its latest budget, the Canadian Employment Grant (CES) is an unacceptable encroachment in Quebec's jurisdictions, it duplicates the measures set up by Quebec and it comes to change without Consultation The objectives targeted by the current labor market agreement. 
"The Canadian Federal Government's Canada Employment Grant, is counterproductive and is a significant decline. In addition to depriving Quebec an annual funding of $ 70 million, the grant would exclude many SMEs and remote labor market people, which is inadmissible. This initiative reveals a deep misunderstanding of Quebec's labor market. Quebec has implemented effective mechanisms that meet the needs of the labor market and have reduced unemployment, "said Minister Agnès Maltais. 
The minister states that the evaluations achieved show that the programs put in place by the provinces are effective. For example, in Quebec, the interventions carried out with last remedy financial assistance providers make it possible to increase their chances of occupying a job. In addition, 85% of companies that have used Employment programs-Québec affirm that the training of their staff has significantly enhanced their productivity and their motivation to work. 
"In Quebec, there is unanimity among the members of the National Assembly and the actors concerned. Today, the Canadian provinces and territories reiterated their opposition to the federal attempt to slash in years of work to bring our most marginalized citizens into the labor market, "added the minister. 
Already, many actors have positioned themselves in favor of the approaches of the Government of Quebec. On May 15, 2013, the Labor Market Partner Commission (CPMT) adopted a unanimous resolution that supports the Quebec government in its application to the federal government to renew the 2008-2014 labor market agreement in accordance with the current terms and conditions . Each Regional Council of Labor Market Partners has also adopted such a resolution anywhere in Quebec. In addition, there are two unanimous motions from the National Assembly, adopted on 28 March and 12 June 2013. 
"The federal government will have no choice but to allow the withdrawal of the Canadian employment grant with full compensation. With this grant, the federal government improvises in an area where it has no expertise. Elderly, it comes to fence what we do with efficiency and efficiency. Quebec, like each province and territory, has developed its own know-how in terms of training of the workforce. At the end of this meeting, I expressed the provinces and territories that there is a solid consensus in Quebec against this federal measure, "concluded the Minister 
Note that the SCE requires not only an equivalent financial counterpart from the Government of Quebec, but that it relears the latter to the rank of a director of a program whose parameters would have been enacted by the federal. However, the latter acknowledged the responsibility of Quebec to determine the priorities of the labor market in its territory in labor market agreements, as did it in 2010, before the International Labor Conference that the provinces and territories. are best placed to design and administer training programs that meet the needs of their respective populations and local employers. 
Remember that the Quebec government has already indicated that it did not intend to participate in the Canada Employment Grant. He asked that the federal measure does not apply to his territory and wants to obtain a withdrawal with full compensation. 
In order to have all the necessary tools and flexibility, and also in order to avoid duplication, Quebec claims the complete renewal of the Canada-Quebec Agreement in the 2008-2014 labor market, depending on the terms and conditions current. It also seeks the conclusion of a global labor market agreement that would include a single transfer of federal funds from the Consolidated Revenue Fund and intended for the employment integration measures of under-represented labor markets (including the labor market (including. young people, people with disabilities and older workers). 
