Quebec- The member for Jonquière and the official opposition spokeswoman in sustainable development and environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, said the Parti Québécois will propose several additions to the modernization of Laloi on the quality of the ENVIRONMENT (LQE), including the one to include an environmental primacy component. 
"As I suggested in Bill 390 that I have tabled, Quebec must say that it is the only one to be able to decide what is happening on its environment. Today, Quebec must have all the necessary legislative tools to control its environmental and energy future. It is essential for our social, economic and environmental development, just as it is essential to have an environmental minister capable of enforcing the EQA, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"Quebec must have the right to say no to the harmful projects for its environment. It is not the federal government or the National Energy Board, for example, to decide; It is to Quebecers. We invite Minister HEALTEL to hear this recommendation and the others we will formulate in the coming weeks, and to take it into account in the upcoming revision of Laloi on the quality of the environment, "continued the member. 
Minister He Hrétiel must make a real reform and the Parti Québécois will ensure that amounted to propose ambitious measures for this purpose 
Sylvain Gaudreault also indicates that the Parti Québécois will insist that the EQU integrates all the principles of LALOI on sustainable development (as the other laws of the Government by consistency), and that it has a transversal scope on all departments . There is also a reform of the mechanisms of the Access to Information Act. 
"We will ensure that Quebec finally makes the turn of sustainable development and what it has a law on the quality of the environment that is up to the expectations of public participation upstream of the policies And the Programs of the Government of Quebec or companies that have major projects, "added the member for Jonquière. 
The surprised opposition by the intentions of Bill 32 
The Minister of the Environment also presented Bill 32, which postpones three years the adoption of the permanent legislative framework on the protection of wetland and water media. However, his colleague Minister for Natural Resources and former Minister of the Environment, Pierre Arcand, adopted, in May 2012, Bill 71, which was the date of adoption of this new legislative framework as of April 24, 2015. "Why did the Liberal government change between Bill 71 and Bill 32? There is no need to adopt a new environmental quality law to act now on the protection of wetland and water circles, "concluded Sylvain Gaudreault. 
