Trois-Rivières- The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, is committed to adopting a Quebec charter of secularism in order to have clear rules for living together. "Since 2006, reasonable accommodations for religious motives have often held the front of the media scene and is the subject of animated debates and sometimes even heavy in the Quebec population. The Liberal government did nothing. He has not adopted any clear rule to meet demands for religious accommodation within the government as well as in the networks of education and health. We will remedy it, "she assured. 
A Plkist government will develop a Quebec charter of secularism in public services. This charter will stipulate that Quebec is a secular, neutral state in relation to the beliefs or non-beliefs of each other in terms of religion. Freedom of religion can not be invoked to infringe the right to equality between women and men or the proper functioning of public and parapublic institutions. The public and parapublic agents will have to refrain from carrying, in the exercise of their official functions, any ostensible religious sign. The Charter of Laïcité will finally allow the courts to be able to interpret the right according to a reference text and not according to a case-law established on a case-by-case basis. 
"Quebeckers want clear rules. One person will not be able to refuse for example to be served by a person of an opposite sex in public services. We must protect our values with respect for our history and respect for those who have chosen Quebec as land of freedom where religion does not intervene in public affairs, explained Pauline Marois. We want Quebeckers to meet each other, get to know each other and to live together. We want a "tight mixed" company! " 
"Affirming secularism does not mean that the state will prohibit religions. We respect all beliefs. Moreover, secularism protects the freedom as much as that of not believing. A secular state must rely on the strict respect for freedom of conscience, which also implies the fact of not believing, "added the leader of the Quebecois party. 
"This debate does not only concern people who come from elsewhere and who have decided to live with us, which we are particularly happy. This corporate debate concerns us all. We do not have to apologize for being what we are. There is no question of touching certain traditions that are part of our inheritance, like that of the Christmas tree. We are one of the most tolerant and the most open peoples on the planet, but we want our values, such as equality between women and men, are fully respected by all, "she said. 
"Quebeckers are open and proud to welcome people from all over the world. However, we would like to maintain our identity, language, institutions and values. Unfortunately, in this case as in many others, the Liberal government has dragged our feet. He did not do the work of the Quebeckers of their prime minister, "she deploor, recalling that the Bouchard-Taylor Commission, who had to provide solutions to these problems, did not give anything . The report has been tablette. 
"Quebec values are not negotiable. We do not have to apologize for being what we are. Referee reasonable accommodations should not be the work of civil servants. It is to the Quebec government to set clear tags and we will do it, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
