Montréal- Before the decline of French in Quebec, particularly on the island of Montreal, the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, undertakes to adopt four major measures in order to repair the damage caused by the liability of the Liberal government and by some judgments of the Supreme Court. "We must take the means to ensure that you have the necessary tools to protect French as a common language in Quebec. The French is the foundation of our identity, it is he who defines us, who distinguishes us, "said Pauline Marois. 
In the first hundred days, a government of the Parti Québécois will table a new law 101 and will make a fundamental text, guaranteeing our cultural identity. We will expand the application of this new Charter of the French language to companies with 11 to 49 employees to strengthen the place of French in the labor market. We will apply the same provisions of the Charter of the French language, currently applied to primary and secondary schools, CEGEPs, vocational training schools and adult education. We will abolish the bridging schools law adopted by the Liberals as a result of the odious judgment of the Supreme Court. 
"These measures will finally be able to guarantee to Quebeckers that they can live in French in Quebec. Without a significant bar at the linguistic point of view, the situation will only worsen. Since 2003, the Liberals are looking at the train. A government of the Parti Québécois will embark on the train and take the necessary measures to protect and promote our language, assured Pauline Marois, denouncing the laxity and the flat-ventry of the Government of Jean Charest. The data from the Quebec Office of the French language, published in September 2011, confirmed the decline of French in Quebec. The weight of the majority of French mother tongue in Quebec slipped under the bar of 80%. On the island of Montreal, this rate increased from 52.1% in 2001 to 48.8% in 2006. It is high time to act. » 
"By adopting a new Charter of the French language, we will be able to remedy the damage caused by certain judgments of the Supreme Court of Canada and give the Charter its consistency. In addition, we will take the opportunity to expand it to new areas, "said Pauline Marois. 
The Charter of the French language will be extended to companies from 11 to 49 employees. This measure will allow a greater number of Quebeckers to work in French. Recently, several workmanship situations have been made public. For example, senior anglophone unilingual business leaders impose English in their workplace because of their lack of knowledge of our language. "More than 54,000 companies from 11 to 49 employees are not subject to the same requirements as the larger companies, which means that a significant number of workers do not have any protection to require working in French. Quebec. This measure will therefore allow a sensitive advance of the French language in the workplace, particularly in Montreal, "has guaranteed Pauline Marois. 
The Charter of the French language will also be progressively extended to CEGEPs, at vocational training schools as well as adult education. The normal language of education in Quebec is French. This measure is important because it will strengthen the place of French on the labor market. Indeed, the correlation between the language of college education and the entry into the labor market is obvious. A person who will study in English will have a strong tendency to work later in English. 
A government government will abolish bridging schools. "With the gateways schools, the Liberal government has created two categories of citizens: those who can buy the right to go to English school and others. Instead of ending the gatelry schools, Law 115, adopted under gagging at the National Assembly, rather strengthened by completely subjective and arbitrary criteria. The government has undertaken a real selection by money, "she added. 
"All these measures are absolutely necessary if we finally want to start the turn that is necessary to protect our language. We have the determination, conviction and experience, we have the team. We can not say as much about Jean Charest and François Legault. The Liberal government has given up the rights of Francophone majority because it did not have the courage to enforce the law 101 in the last nine years. There is nothing more to expect from this government to this chapter. The demonstration was made that French is not a priority for the Liberals or the Caquists, "concluded the leader of the Quebecois, Pauline Marois. 
