Montreal- "The culture of a people is all the manifestations of its identity and differences. It is also the language through which we express our vision of the world. We must give it additional means to flourish, "said the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, who proposes six new measures to showcase Quebec culture. 
To prepare the next generation in the creation and dissemination of culture, a government of the Parti Québécois will put significant gestures to stimulate the artistic fiber of our young people and to increase demand for cultural products of Quebec. 
The first commitment to this effect is to put in place a new artists' residency program in primary and secondary schools so that our artists expose and present their works to students. Thirty million will be invested in this extent. Primary and secondary schools will also be supported in this approach thanks to $ 15 million to increase the attendance of cultural activities by students. 
A government of the Parti Québécois will invest in the influence of culture and support for artists. The budget of the Quebec Council for Arts and Letters (CALQ) will be increased by $ 13 million to $ 100 million a year. This increase will serve as well as supporting CALQ in the implementation of a digital strategy, the major challenge of the cultural industry today. 
The budget of the Cultural Business Development Corporation (SODEC) will be increased by $ 8 million to increase it to 70 million recurrently. "Just as for the CALQ, this additional amount will help SODEC develop the Quebec digital strategy and will allow the creation of a Quebec movie integrator. At the moment, it is in the United States that the programming of the cinemas of Quebec is decided. With our own integrator, it will be up to us to choose the best way to broadcast our movies in our rooms, "said Pauline Marois. 
Quebec artists who work internationally will not be left out. The Plan of the Parti Québécois plans to support their international tours with a new envelope of $ 5 million a year to overcome federal cuts that the Stephen Harper government has imposed unilaterally to the Quebec cultural sector. "The international influence of our artists is an exceptional business card for Quebec. No question of dropping our creators who have been victims of the Harper government! , Launched the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
Pauline Marois also commits to give the means to Télé-Québec to make a real national television. A government government will release $ 10 million to set up a regional and national information mission to ensure the diversity of information across Quebec. Local information is increasingly difficult to access Quebec and this trend must be reversed. 
The Parti Québécois wishes to strengthen the teaching of our national history. The number of Quebec history courses in primary and secondary education is clearly insufficient. A government of the Parti Québécois will increase from 350 to 500 the total number of hours of secondary history teaching. This is a measure that will cost $ 7 million. "We need to grow the pride and feelings of belonging to young Quebec from all origins. This is an important investment for the future of Quebec, "supported the Leader of the Parti Québécois. 
"The teaching of our history and the defense of our culture are fundamental values for the Parti Québécois. The measures we propose are clear. They are encrypted. Never forget that for a society, culture is not an expense, it is a cost-effective investment both economically and socially. At the Parti Québécois, we choose to be proud of our language, our culture, our history and we choose to affirm it, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
