Quebec, on February 17, 2017- This morning during an arrest, Sylvain Gaudreault, Member of Parliament for Jonquiere and spokesman of the Quebecois Party responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean Region, and Mireille Jean, MP for Chicoutimi, have Proposed solutions to the government that would allow the region to find new impetus. 
"In terms of employment and industrial investment, for example, we ask the Government to seize the hand we tense to trace the balance sheet of the ten years of the continuity agreement with Rio Tinto, with Other partners, such as chambers of commerce and the company itself. The government must at least start dialogue and study the situation! At present, he has renounced his role as leader by becoming more of the spokesperson of Rio Tinto than that of citizens; It's disturbing, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
MEPs also reproached the Liberals for making purely administrative decisions, disconnected from the land, having had serious consequences in Saguenay-Lac Saint-Jean. For example, the transfer of esophagus surgeries to Quebec will cause long hours to sick people. In terms of distance to go, the merger of the regional offices of some ministries with those in the North Shore is another aberration. The abandonment of the Tshiueten project, the only off-reserve Aboriginal school in Quebec, also illustrates the lack of knowledge and sensitivity of the government towards regional realities. 
Ms. John and Mr. Gaudreault also regret that the Government has not been able to recognize the importance of the stakes affecting farmers in the region, such as the disappearance of slaughterhouses, the difficulties facing the succession during a business transfer. From one generation to another, or the expected designation of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean as an Agroboreal and Nordic region. 
At the end of the year, members could only deplore the government's lack of interest and leadership, which did not meet the many serious and crucial issues affecting the region. "The Prime Minister did not consider it important to come to answer our questions, to reassure people of his own region. It is therefore a great disappointment; We find that the concerns of the population leave Philippe Couillard indifferent. He is not listening to the people of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean. He does not play his role, purely and simply, "concluded Mireille Jean. 
