Montréal - Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, announced today, in the presence of the Minister Delegate to the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, additional financial assistance of $ 3.85 million was granted to the Chic-Chicus School Board to ensure the completion of his vocational training center project in Sainte-Anne-des-Monts. 
"This announcement is part of the government's desire to improve the adequacy between the training offer and the labor requirements in Quebec. We are very proud to give this financial assistance and contribute to the social and economic development of the region, while meeting the needed skilled labor needs in these training sectors, "said Malavoy Minister. 
This amount is added to the $ 1.8 million already allocated in April 2011, which is using the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport to $ 5.65 million. These investments aim to enable the Chic-Shock School Board to acquire the building and equipment necessary for the simultaneous implementation of the design programs and heating (5333) and mutual power lines (5185). 
The vocational training center should be able to accommodate about 80 new students a year to meet the needs of the labor market. For the Electrical Line Assembly Study Program, this point of service will be added to the service offer of the School Board of Browsers. 
"By allowing the establishment of this new point of service, the government makes the judicious choice to diversify the supply and better distribute it on the territory. This center will attract young people from across Quebec and new businesses to Sainte-Anne-des-Monts. Young people in the region will also be able to stay there and have access to attractive training with good job prospects, "said Minister Lelièvre. 
In addition to the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport include that other partners contribute to this project, the Department of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Territorial Occupancy ($ 450,000), the High RCM -Gaspésie ($ 200,000), the Regional Conference of the Elected of Gaspésie-Islands-de-la-Madeleine ($ 100,000) and the City of Sainte-Anne-des-Monts ($ 300,000). 
