Paris-Le Bourget- On the margin of the International 50salon of Aeronautics and Space Paris-Le Bourget, which takes place from 17 to 23 June 2013, the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank , Mrs. Élain Zakaïb, today made four important advertisements concerning the Quebec aerospace sector: the establishment in Quebec of the French company ATEM, the merger of the company AV & R Vision & Robotics with the Quebec Engineering Firm IMAC Automation, the signing of a collaboration agreement between the National School of Aerotechnics of the Edouard-Montpetit College and the company Aerolia, as well as the realization of a project of Sinters America valued at $ 352,000 for which the Company benefited from the support of the Government of Quebec and a financial support of $ 140,800.
Minister Zakaïb took the opportunity to highlight the forces of Quebec in the aerospace and to highlight the dynamism of Quebec companies and organizations that evolve in this sector. 
"Today's announcements make me very proud of our aerospace sector," said Sulaian Deputy Minister Zakaïb. In terms of expertise and know-how, Quebec has undeniable assets. Our workforce is competent, our extensive research network is efficient and well structured and our companies have a diversified and complementary offer. » 
ATEM is a business design and manufacture of coaxial cables and RF radio frequency assembly for the aerospace industry. Last March, the French company created the Atem Canada subsidiary. The establishment of this subsidiary in Quebec will make available an independent expertise here and allow the creation of a dozen jobs. 
AV & R Vision & Robotics specializes, for its part, in the creation of automated visual inspection systems and finishing gas turbine parts for the aerospace and energy sectors. The company will merge with the Quebec engineering firm IMAC Automation to train the AV & R group. This merger will allow him to double his workforce and increase his presence on a global scale. 
As for the collaboration agreement announced between the National Aerotechnics School (ENA) of the Edouard-Montpetit College and the French company Aerolia, recently established in Montreal, it provides, among other things, that Aerolia will offer internships and will hire college and ENA students. This long-term collaboration is part of the company's desire to deploy in Quebec and to support its Quebec partners. 
Finally, SINTERS America, which specializes in particular in the design and manufacture of maintenance systems and tools for aircraft maintenance, has developed electronic cards for manometric sensors that will be used by the French company Thales avionics. By providing technical and financial support to Sinters America, the Government of Quebec has helped the company to impose itself with this world leader in the industry. 
"In order for the Quebec forces to translate into commercial success, we need concrete projects that will lead our industry even further and which will make us radiate more on the international scene," said Minister Zakaïb. These three initiatives will undoubtedly contribute to the growth and vitality of the Aerospace Quebec sector. » 
Recall that Minister Zakaïb and the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, are at the head of a Quebec delegation of about fifty industrialists from the Quebec aerospace sector who participate this week at the International Exhibition of aeronautics and space Paris-le Bourget. 
For the occasion, they are accompanied by representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, the Ministry of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Investissement Québec, Montreal International and Aéro Montréal. 
