Paris, France- On the occasion of the 50th <| Sup> International Air Force and Space of Paris-Le Bourget, which stands until June 23, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, today participated in the announcement of significant private investments that will contribute to the growth of the Quebec aerospace sector. 
On the margins of these announcements, Minister Marceau reaffirmed that aerospace was a dynamic sector of the Quebec economy that employs about 42,500 people in Quebec in 215 companies. In 2012, aerospace sales reached $ 12 billion, representing 55% of all sales in Canada in this sector. 
"Quebec, and more particularly the Montreal area, is an important player on the global aerospace scene. We can count on the presence of several large companies, including aerospace Bombardier, Bell Helicopter Textron Canada, Pratt & Whitney Canada and CAE. In addition, Montreal is the host of several international aviation organizations, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
Specialized in major study and co-development projects and virtual simulation and reality solutions, especially for large aeronautical companies, the French company SOGECLAIR announced the opening of its Canadian subsidiary in the Montreal area. It plans to hire about fifty people over the next three years, mostly in the engineering sector. 
The French company AHE, parts distributor for the major manufacturers of the aerospace industry, will open a division in the Montreal area that will serve as a business base for the North American territory. This new player in the Quebec aerospace sector should hire about twenty people over the next three years. 
Aéro Montréal, the Aerospace Cluster of Quebec, announced the launch of the call for nominations for the third cohort of its MACH initiative. The purpose of this initiative is to improve the performance of aerospace SMEs to increase the competitiveness of the Quebec aerospace supply chain. 
Aerospace Cluster in Rhône-Alpes, a grouping of companies, research laboratories and training centers of France, signed a collaborative framework agreement with Aero Montréal. Both organizations will build relationships to promote joint projects. 
Designer and manufacturer of parts and large carbon molds with very high levels of complexity serving, among others, in the aerospace sector, Loiretech will be established in Quebec by creating a joint venture, Loiretech Canada, With the VCI composite Quebec SME of Saint-Lin-Laurentides. 
Loiretech Canada wants to produce and market all its products in North America from its facilities that will be located in Mirabel. Twenty operators will be used by 2016. 
"I am pleased to carry out these promising projects for the development of the Quebec aerospace sector. These partnerships, who take shape today, will enable us to strengthen our position as a world leader. Quebec offers skilled workforce and a competitive business environment. We also have a specialized education network that effectively contributes to the training of sector workers. Finally, our aerospace R & D system is highly important: 70% of all R & D activities in Canada are in Quebec, and several specialized agencies, such as the Quebec Aerospace Research and Innovation Consortium and the Technology Center. aerospace are established. All these elements make Quebec a partner of choice for companies in the sector who want to settle at home, "concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
