Jonquière- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, accompanied by the Minister of Transport, Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory and MP, Mr. Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, announced the payment of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 49,085 to the Aluminum Valley Corporation for the organization of its 5th Salon The Aluminum Valley in Business, an event that contributes to Strengthen a key slot of excellence in the region, the transformation of aluminum. 
The Aluminum Valley in Business 2014 will take place on 6, 7 and 8 May 2014 at the University Complex of the University of Quebec in Chicoutimi, on the theme allied by the gray matter. This event will bring together all stakeholders in the aluminum industry, including companies in the Aluminum® Valley, international companies, officers, industry experts, socio-economic partners as well as students. 
"The transformation of aluminum is part of our Agreement of Excellence, which aim to share the expertise and dynamism of our regional companies to ensure the influence of Quebec all over the world," said élaine Zakaïb. "The Quebec Industrial Policy 2013-2017 put on these slots of excellence to give a new boom to the manufacturing sector in all regions of Quebec. It is therefore enthusiastic that our government supports this show, which contributes vigorously to the growth of this niche so important for the region. » 
Minister Sylvain Gaudreault has expressed his pride in supporting a project as structuring for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region "This unifying event will allow our regional companies in the aluminum processing sector to multiply opportunities and expand their network. We are proud to contribute to the holding of this show, which consolidates the world leader position of our region in a dynamic and diversified aluminum industry. » 
Founded in 2001, the Aluminum Valley Corporation aims at the recognition of the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region as one of the main poles of the aluminum industry in Quebec and around the world. . Its presence promotes the success of SMEs already present in the territory and facilitates the creation of new businesses. The organization also ensures the management of the niche of excellence aluminum transformation from the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region. 
"The financial support of the Government of Quebec is very important for the growth of our companies active in the processing of aluminum to Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean," supported the President of the Aluminum Valley Society, Mr. Arthur Gobeil. "The Aluminum Valley in Business 2014 is a must-see appointment for businesses in our region and also a privileged opportunity for them to create fruitful partnerships and increase their positioning in international markets. » 
