Quebec- While the special consultations are starting with Bill 27 on educational custody services, the member for Terrebonne and the official opposition on the family, Mathieu Traversy, asked again to the minister to retreat on sanctions imposed on parents, which she refuses to do. 
"I was, this morning, in front of the family's minister to claim that she recedes on the financial penalty she wants to impose on parents. I ask him to listen to families and the environment of child care, who are very worried about the actions of the Liberal government. Why maintain this blur on sanctions and new ways to make its department? Bill 27 is improvised and does not attack the real problems, which are the scarcity of the places and the lack of flexibility in the offer of child care. In addition, the financing of child care must be able to benefit more flexibility in order to allow the development of part-time or atypical schedules, "said Mathieu Traversy. 
"Just as the speakers heard this morning, we believe that the Minister of the Family must put in place the working committees necessary to deepen the recommendations of the site report on the quality and the sustainability of child care and on the optimization of their funding, directed by Maurice Boisvert. The report was not an end in itself; It was a starting point. A problem as complex requires flexible and thoughtful solutions, "added the member. 
Mathieu Traversy also deplored the absence of Quebec solidarity in parliamentary committee; Obviously, the party did not believe that the participants heard and defend the fact that parents should not be sanctioned. 
Presentations in subsidized private daycare 
"The Minister Francine Charbonneau has awarded, this morning, that a subsidized private daycare was probably an interesting market for people who want to make money. Having been brought to date by Radio-Canada, what does it mean to be respected and the well-being of children is the absolute priority? ", Concluded the member of the Quebecois Party. 
