Quebec, On February 15, 2021 - aware that the greatest challenge of the authorities, in the coming weeks, will be to maintain the accession of the population to sanitary measures, the Parti Québécois believes that the government has three homework: return to a color code Based on clear and accurate indicators, make public the opinions of regional public health directorates, and, more importantly, to give them more influence on the decisions that concern them. For his healthy spokesman, the member for the Madeleine Islands, Joël Arseneau, it's a matter of logic, coherence and transparency. 
IN SHORT 
The epidemiological situation differs a lot from one region to another; However, the government is struggling to divide Quebec in two, in a totally arbitrary way. "We have, on one side, the red areas then, on the other, the orange areas. Nevertheless, while nuances would certainly be indicated - if not, why do he suggest that he will concentrate his vaccination efforts in Montreal? In addition, the public health criteria associated with different zones are ignored. A return to a real regional alert system - following the example of Ontario - based on scientific data is needed. Thus, the measures imposed will better reflect the epidemiological reality of each region. Of course, it will be necessary to explain it properly to Quebecers, "claimed Joël Arseneau. 
In the same vein, the Parti Québécois is convinced that the best thing to do, from a health point of view, would be to decentralize the approach. "Regional public health directors are those who best know the social and epidemiological reality of their territory. It is therefore essential that they give them vote on the sanitary rules corresponding to their own situation, that is to say that they can decide on the most appropriate, judicious and useful measures to set up, And this, in each of the regions, "added the member of the Madeleine Islands. 
Finally, always with the aim of maintaining adherence and collaboration of the public, more transparency is needed. "We are asking for the filing of the opinions and recommendations of the Regional Public Health Departments. It's a question of coherence. When people are asked to comply with binding measures, they must have the whole situation, "concluded Joël Arseneau. 
- 30 - 
SOURCE : 
Laura Chouinard-Thuly 
Press Officer 
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois 
514 880-9594 
Laura.c After i's -t care liquid @as is NAT. Second. Wipe 
