Quebec, April 27, 2020 - The member for the Madeleine Islands and spokespersons of the Quebecois Health Party, Joël Arseneau, calls for the creation of mental health support teams. These free resources, would address the entire population: to families who live a difficult period - due in particular to a loss of employment, the disease or death of a loved one - to workers. Health, faced daily to traumatic experiences, as well as all those who live psychological distress because of the current crisis. 
IN SHORT 
"In recent weeks, our world has changed. Thousands of Quebeckers have lost their jobs. We are confined to the house. Everywhere, we live from uncertainty, instability, isolation. Visits in CHSLDs are no longer possible, social distancing requires. Troubling testimonies multiply; Elders are scared and their loved ones are worried. Many live in solo a mourning that they did not wait. And health workers, they were screened at the heart of the storm; Every day they find the inconceivable. There is no doubt that in this context, the level of stress and anxiety increases in many people. To avoid a crisis after the crisis, we must act now, take the lead, reach out to people, "said Joël Arseneau. 
That's why the Parti Québécois asks the Government to set up psychological support teams, and make their services accessible to all. "Formed of mental health professionals, these teams would listen to women, men, seniors, young people or workers who need to externalize their moods, because confronted with a disconcerting and private situation of their usual circle of support. They would provide accompaniment in the process of mourning, advice to better manage uncertainty and anxiety, solutions for people who are victims of abuse, or just an attentive ear to relieve the sentence. The services would obviously be free, and adapted to the particular needs of each, "said the member. 
To do this, Joël Arseneau proposes to take full advantage of the platform currently used by doctors to offer online consultations. Possibly, telephone or telephone services can also be put in place. "It's undeniable: for all kinds of reasons, the crisis entails psychological distress in several people. Mental health professionals have insisted, at the beginning of the pandemic, on the need to help the psychological people. And the Minister of Health herself declared a few weeks ago that all Quebeckers would have, as needed, access to such support. It's time to take action and deploy available resources, "he insisted. 
