Roxton Falls- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and MP Johnson, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, on behalf of the Minister delegated to the Industrial Policy and the Bank of Economic Development of Quebec, Ms. élaine Zakaïb, the attribution, through Investissement Québec, a loan of $ 350,000 and a guarantee on a line of credit to Roski Composites of Roxton Falls, specialized in the manufacture of motomarine hulls and bodies. 
"The continuation of activities was a priority for us," said Élaine Zakaïb. "When the management team of the Roxton Falls factory has expressed its intention to acquire the assets of the former owner, Investissement Québec immediately engaged in a revival project with the shareholders, which allowed A hundred employees to resume the path of work, "rejoiced Ms. Zakaïb. 
Following the announcement of an early decline in the order book, members of the management of the company have decided to ensure the sustainability of the company by proceeding with its redemption. Convinced of being able to continue the activities with existing customers and to be able to find new opportunities, they have completed a financial assembly with their partners, allowing the recovery of the company. 
"The Roxton Falls sector presents all the assets of a center with industrial potential outside the major centers," said Yves-François Blanchet. "This vocation must be supported and jobs must be preserved. In a context of difficult international competition, the Roxton Falls Camoplast plant has almost stayed there. It took the courage of solid entrepreneurs and the Quebec government's desire to support them, for a hundred jobs to be relaunched. I am sure they are only the first and that with this new partnership between the government and the entrepreneurship Roxton Falls will come out. And many more than 100 workers will find their account. » 
"Thanks to our partners, including Investisse Québec, our local employment center, the Development Bank of Canada, the Community and Desjardins Development Assistance Society, we have been able to make a new beginning," said Mr. Yves Carbonneau, President and CEO of Roski Composites. "Our experience and in-depth knowledge in the composite field make us a reference. We are well positioned to get new agreements and develop new market segments over the next few years. » 
The factory redeemed by Roski Composites was founded in Roxton Falls in 1963 and was then devoted to the manufacture of snowmobile hoods. It now produces large parts of composite materials, mainly cloods and bodywork. 
