Canada will have a new majority government, that of Justin Trudeau and the Liberal Party of Canada. Before going further in the analysis, I want to congratulate the new Prime Minister of Canada. Will we have a resurgence of this old attitude of the Liberal Party of Canada wishing to relegate Quebec to the role of a simple province while we have always formed a separate society with our values and our history? Justin Trudeau was elected to bring change, it's up to him to demonstrate if he can do otherwise and better. 
Obviously, others will have questioned the results of the Bloc Québécois and Chief Gilles Duceppe and consequently, on the future of sovereignty. First of all, we will all recognize that this campaign was very well conducted. Gilles was of all the debates and once again welcomed his political experience and the in-depth knowledge of Quebec's stakes in Canada. Would we have wished a better result? Of course. 
Now is it a clear message sent by the electors and the electors of Quebec around sovereignty? Having campaigned with Gilles as well as with many candidates, having met hundreds of citizens, my opinion is clear and a good part of the population is suitable. Canada and Quebec wanted and obtained the end of the Harper Government, which, although claiming to respect Québec's skills, did not represent Quebec values ​​and ignored its legitimate economic concerns. How many of our $ billions recovered in Quebec have been spent in fields of activities that have privileged Alberta, British Columbia, Ontario and the Maritime Provinces? The list would be too long to enumerate it. They even went there until we demand to pay twice the Champlain bridge by installing a toll while we pay ruby ​​on the nail our tribute to the Canadian Federation. 
As in the last 2011 election with the New Democrats, exception in Quebec's history, a large part of citizens voted for Justin Trudeau and the Federal Liberals to dismiss the Conservatives. We must not see a negation of the will of Quebeckers to assert themselves as a nation and as a country, but, while we still have to exercise our rights of electors within the Canadian Federation, a choice as well as rational to get rid of the Conservatives. A phenomenon equivalent to that of 2011 has favored this time Justin who led a good campaign promising sea and world. 
That's it, I do not think it's just lunch at fourteen o'clock. 
As far as I'm concerned, just as I think deeply on the part of my colleagues deputies at the National Assembly as well as tens of thousands of militants from the sovereign gathering, I go and we will continue to defend our rights, our values as well than going to meet citizens to exchange and share our vision of a richer, more open and efficient Quebec when it is a country. 
