Quebec- The member for Labelle and sentence of the official opposition in sound habits of life, leisure and sports, Sylvain Pagé, as well as the member for Vachon and spokesperson for transport, Martine Ouellet, Ask the government to worry more about the safety of cyclists. Indeed, since this spring, too many accidents have occurred on the roads of Quebec; It's time to take care of it. 
While traversing Quebec for the deposit of the next national sport, leisure and physical activity, the member for Labelle has heard several comments from citizens about the safety of cyclists, including the development. Cyclables, promoting good behaviors, wearing helmet and the addition of safe facilities. It should be noted that safety in sports was part of the "quality of experience" issue, one of the four of the national sport, leisure and physical activity of the Parti Québécois government. 
"With these unfortunate accidents, and because we can reasonably predict that the number of cyclists will continue to increase over the next few years, it would be appropriate for the Government to quickly table this policy and that it takes the opportunity to ensure that the issue of The safety of cyclists is processed. We hope that the population is more active in its urban mobility and in its leisure activities but, on the other hand, it must be ensured that it can do it safely, "said Sylvain Pagé. 
As head of this future policy, which needs to be interdepartmental, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport has the duty to involve his colleagues in setting up a cross-cutting plan. As such, he must immediately challenge the Minister of Transport, Robert Poëti. The latter has also committed, on May 30, 2014, to modernize, by the end of the year, the Road Safety Code with respect to the safety of cyclists. 
"The Minister of Transport must keep his commitment and modernize the Road Safety Code this year. Between 2008 and 2013, the number of cyclists died on Quebec roads increased by 17.3%; There is urgency to act to protect them, "added Martine Ouellet. 
"It is good that the government is committed to continuing the process to set up our national sport, leisure and physical activity and that it shares our goal of making the Quebec nation one of the most in shape in the world within 10 years. However, to get there, we necessarily have to rely on a minister who will demonstrate leadership, both to deliver the policy and to intervene with his colleagues, "concluded Sylvain Pagé. 
