Quebec, on May 27, 2020 - The member for Bonaventure and spokesman for the Quebecois Forest Party, Sylvain Roy, joined his voice with those of the many organizations and companies in the field of forest who work these days. Organize silvicultural work for the summer season that begins. "On the one hand, we want to know whether the budgets of $ 225 million announced will be maintained and used exclusively for silvicultural work; On the other hand, we demand that once and for all the issue of work planning, which comes up each year, "he said. 
IN SHORT 
Sylvain Roy is suitable: the forest does not appear in the list of hot topics, this spring. Nevertheless, it is necessary to ensure the sustainability of the activities of this primordial sector for the economy of several regions and thousands of families in Quebec. "In Gaspésie, Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean and on the North Shore, among others, the economy is based on the forestry sector. It would abandon it would be catastrophic, especially given all the upheavals that the tourism industry will experience, that of fishing and the entire agri-food sector, because of the pandemic. If it needed that in addition, the forest does not have a specific plan, decent budget, the worst would certainly be expected for these regions. I therefore ask the Minister of Forests, Pierre Dufour, to confirm the budgets already announced for this year, which total $ 225 million, "he claimed. 
In addition, the member points out that, on the occasion of a press point held in Dolbeau-Mistassini, the actors of the forest reminded Prime Minister Legault that he had committed, before and during the election campaign of 2018, to provide them with three years predictability. "Since then, nothing. Less than nothing, even, since the Ministry of Wildlife, Forests and Parks has canceled planned and delayed work at the beginning of the season, while thoroughly avoiding talking about money. In this context, how do you want us to organize, on the ground? , Asked the spokesman for the Parti Québécois. 
It adds that for several years, the Parti Québécois claim concrete actions for the forest and its workers. "In 2013, we had organized, in Saint-Félicien, the first national rendezvous of the Quebec Forest, with Ms. Marois. At the end of this summit, the conclusions were clear: to better plan its activities, the forest world had to benefit from more predictability and enjoy a better consultation with the department. The Liberal government, unfortunately, had not responded to these recommendations, and we notice that that of CAQ is also tempted to engage in the path that must be avoided at all costs, that of negligence. Yet, we must act immediately; More than 60,000 jobs are at stake! Insisted the hon. Member for Bonaventure, who refuses net that forest workers do the expense of possible budget recovery measures arising from the pandemic. 
