Quebec - The Quebec Party spokesman for Treasury Board, Gaétan Lelièvre, is satisfied that the outcome of the negotiations of public sector employees with the government translated into a negotiated agreement. "The Couillard government came back to reason and recognized that its first offers were an affront to our teachers, our nurses, and all other state employees," he said. 
On the other hand, the member for Gaspé is sorry for the fact that children, parents and workers in Quebec have made the costs of the government's dogmatic position in these negotiations. "The government has tabled its initial offers in December 2014. However, it is only in recent weeks that it has initiated a real negotiation and considered the demands of state workers. If the government, through the President of the Treasury Board, had acted reasonably, should have been avoided, and many parents as well as the general population would have been much less affected, "he continued. 
The Parti Québécois wishes to restore the high level of expertise that he has already benefited. To do this, the public service must be competitive and attractive to professionals and workers who have a taste for investing and providing Quebec and Quebec high quality public services. Over the next few years, we will be able to see if the current agreement has achieved this objective; Let's wish it. In the meantime, the Couillard government and the Coiteful Minister will have to change their attitude to public service employees, "added Gaétan Lelièvre. 
Now that this file is settled, the Parti Québécois will continue to highlight the government to go back on unreasonable cuts, particularly in the health and education sectors. "Our state employees, citizens, students are entitled to services and merit respect. Let's hope that the current Liberal government will demonstrate the vision and determination necessary for all Quebeckers to benefit from these services, throughout the territory. The Parti Québécois, for the official opposition, will demonstrate an unqualified determination in this regard, "the spokesman concluded. 
