The Vice-Chauffe of the Parti Québécois, Véronique Hivon, as well as candidates Carole Poirier (Hochelaga-Maisonneuve) and Jean-Martin Aussant (Pointe-aux-Trembles), presented the Plan of the Parti Québécois to get rid of old schools. "Our vision is ambitious, but serious and achievable: zero molds, zero roof flowing, zero fungi. Healthy schools, services at height. This is what our children deserve, "said Veronique Hivon immediately. 
IN SHORT 
"It's not a secret for anyone: the negligence of the Liberals in the management of our public infrastructures has had consequences for our toddlers. Never in Quebec's history Our schools have been in such bad condition. We, the Parti Québécois, we say: that's enough! Our children are entitled to schools without moldless, without flowing roof, without mushrooms. Healthy schools are the basis to give the taste to learn! , Continued vice-cheese. 
The rescue of old schools "during the study of the most recent Quebec infrastructure plan, it has been found that the maintenance deficit of our schools exploded. Half of them are in a state judged "bad" or "very bad". Sadly, it illustrates wonderfully how much liberal austerity has been negative, "says Carole Poirier. 
"The Parti Québécois will reverse the trend, assured Jean-Martin immediately. To get there, we will add $ 2.3 billion at the PQI, only for the renovation and construction of schools. School boards will have more autonomy for planning and accelerating maintenance or renovation projects. If, as a company, we deem a priority to ensure the success of each child, we have to provide them with healthy schools, it's a minimum! But that's not all: we also want new projects to be more attractive, more beautiful, living and inviting, "he explained. 
Ensure a minimum threshold of professional services to students. Forever. 
"The austerity of the previous government has also reduced services to students in difficulty, while these children are no less numerous! We therefore commit to establishing a guaranteed threshold of professional services to students, which will be determined as needed, by school board, so equitable for all, in each region. In addition, thanks to our Shield law, these services will never be able to make the mood costs of upcoming governments. The number of orthopedagogues, psychologists, speech therapists will become incomposible. Children will benefit, and teachers will finally be properly supported in their tasks, "said Carole Poirier. 
Tackle the precariousness of teachers 
"In some school boards, the precarious rate of teachers is very high. Virtually 40% of teachers, in Quebec, have precarious employment status. The situation is even worse in vocational training and adult training; Sometimes teachers retire without having ever obtained a job! We want to tackle the precariousness of teachers, to attract more young people into the profession. We will offer them a stable job, so that they can focus on one thing: teaching, "Concluded Véronique Hivon. 
