Quebec- The member for Iberville and sentence of the official opposition in family, Marie Bouille, asks the Minister of the Family, Yolande James, to distance himself as to the words held by the Liberal member of Mille-Islands and Parliamentary Assistant to Minister James, Francine Charbonneau, yesterday in parliamentary committee. The latter suggested that everything had to be done so that illegal daycares can continue their commercial activities. 
"An illegal daycare, by definition, does not respect the quality standards of the Ministry of the Family. How can the Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Family say that these daycare needs to continue their operations? That does not make any sense! The safety of our children is at stake. Minister James must quickly distance himself and indicate that his parliamentary assistant wandered, "Marie Bouille said. 
For the Parti Québécois, plead for the maintenance of illegal daycares is that the Ministry of the Family does not properly work. "Rather than seeing multiplying the number of illegal daycares, the government should put its energy to develop reduced contribution places. It would solve a good part of the current problem. Parents are crying for help because they despair to get a place for their child, "Marie Bouille said. 
The member for Iberville emphasizes that quality projects awaiting an authorization exist. "With the call for tenders failed in 2008 where the Liberal Party of Quebec was seen using daycares for political financing, dozens of projects that have received a good assessment of the department were rejected by the Minister of the time. , Michelle Courchesne. May the Minister James take this list and applies his signature. So, we could create tomorrow morning 3500 places, "she says. 
Unlike the Liberal Party that benefits from reduced contribution places for political financing, a Quebec party government intends to ensure that every child in Quebec has a place of child care. "The evidence has been made that in addition to being financially profitable, investing in child care contributes to improving the success of our children in their school learning. For the Parti Québécois, it is an investment for our young people and success; For the Liberal Party, it's political funding to the Liberal Party of Quebec; For the CAQ, we do not know, "concluded Marie Bouille. 
