Quebec- The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, wishes to take advantage of the launch of the Week of Professional and Professionals of Education, which takes place from 18 to 22 November in all regions of Quebec , to emphasize the extraordinary work of these persons as well as their unavoidable contribution to school perseverance and educational success. 
"While I recently announced our intention to implement national school to fight school dropout, I want to express our gratitude for these professionals, who will play a very important role in achieving the objectives. that we have recently settled in this area. I salute your constant commitment and know-how in this regard, who contribute to the well-being of students and their fulfillment, "said Malavoy Minister. 
Malavoy minister has made it possible to recall the importance of acting upstream and preventively, in particular by promoting, with the parents of disadvantaged circles, the new 4-year full-time kindergarten service. It also emphasized the government's determination to support the school environment, which has been achieved by the injection of $ 5.2 million in the school system for the addition of professional resources and support. This sum follows the government commitment to increase by 600, over four years, the number of education professionals and direct service support staff with special needs or who experience learning difficulties . 
"Beyond statistics, there are full potential students who need personalized follow-up. When the perseverance of a young person is put to the test, he is our duty to hold his hand and especially do not let go. No pupil must leave school benches without a professional meeting with him, contacted him and offered him a personalized follow-up. Thus, together and in consultation, that all network players will effectively combat, with heart and competence, against the scourge of school dropout. Thanks again to all the professionals and professionals of their contribution! I will have the opportunity to meet you soon, and I can not wait to exchange with you on the actions to be implemented in the future, "Ms. Malavoy concluded. 
This week is an initiative of the Federation of Professionals and Education Professionals in Quebec (FPPE-CSQ), in collaboration with the Federation of Colleges Professional Personnel (FPPC-CSQ). It is an opportunity to promote the various professional services offered in school boards and colleges, whether administrative or educational services, or direct services to students or students. This year, the week will take place on the thememi, I make the effect!. 
React on the Quebec party blog! "School dropout: act early, see big!", A ticket from Pauline Marois 
