Quebec- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, takes advantage of the Week of Professionals and Education Professionals to highlight the quality of the commitment of these persons From the college and academic sector and their invaluable contributions to the success of students. 
"Education professionals are key players in our education system. They intervene several with students and teachers. They are important guides for young people during their academic career, since they take advantage of their expertise to meet their needs. These professionals have chosen to place the human at the center of their concerns by allowing each individual to flourish and access knowledge, "said Minister Duchesne. 
The minister wishes to point out that many of them have provided essential support to students, including following the conflict lived in our educational institutions in 2012. 
"By their contribution, these network players are therefore indispensable allies, since they offer direct support to students and students. They can help improve their school path and do even more for those with special needs and are now more likely to attend college educational institutions, "concluded Minister Duchesne. 
He has also recalled the importance of promoting the well-being of Quebeckers on all plans: economic, social and human. Enrichment in all its forms goes through knowledge and training, but also by increasing the number of graduates, particularly the first generation of colleges and universities. 
This week is an initiative of the Federation of Professionals and Education Professionals in Quebec (FPPE-CSQ), in collaboration with the Federation of Colleges Professional Personnel (FPPC-CSQ). It is an opportunity to promote the various professional services offered in school boards and colleges, whether administrative or educational services, or direct services to students or students. This year, the week takes place on the theme me, I make the effect. 
