Quebec, on 29 January 2017- In this 27th National Suicide Prevention Week, the Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesman for the Parti Quebec in social services and youth protection, Dave Turcotte, as well as the spokesperson for health care, accessibility to home care and support, Diane Lamarre, require the Coularid Government to invest more in prevention and mental health. 
"Already a poor parent of the health system, mental health has taken its cold since the Couillard government is in office, and the prevention of suicide has not been spared. Yet the state must be a key player in this area in Quebec. It is his duty to ensure that all Quebeckers can find their place and flourish to the extent of their talents, their ambitions and their dreams, "said the Leader of the Official Opposition. . 
"These are three people who, every day in Quebec, get rid of life. Three people who might have been saved through prevention or better mental health care and services. All this is not counting Quebeckers who have, at one time or another, seriously thinking of lifting their lives. Suicide has been a particularly important social issue in Quebec for many years. A tragic stake that affects everyone. We must do more and better to prevent it, to understand the causes, "dave Turcotte. 
"The Liberal government affirms to whom austerity is to be heard, it's behind us. Easy to say, after all the wrongs caused! I remind him that the cuts he has imposed in health and social services have weakened the services offered in mental health, particularly in the prevention of suicide. However, this is absolutely unacceptable. A reinvestment is needed, the needs remain screaming, "Rented Diane Lamarre. 
MEPs also urged the essential work of professionals and many volunteers working in mental health, whether in the health and social services network or through a community organization. They also emphasized the importance, for people in distress, to seek help. They can do so by calling, for example, at 1,866 calls (277? 3553), a free, confidential line of help, after which they will find a attentive ear, at any time of the day or night. 
Finally, Mr. Ledée, Ms. Lamarre and Mr. Turcotte invite all those who want to say high and strong that suicide is not an option to sign the declaration add my voice, on the website of the Quebec Association suicide prevention at www.aqps.info/sengest. 
