Montréal- On the occasion of the Crime Prevention Week, the Minister of Public Safety, Stéphane Bergeron, and the Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane de Courcy, announced that more than $ 19 million was invested by the Quebec government for the period 2012 to 2015, in prevention and fight against the phenomenon of gangs. This meeting with the media took place in the presence of several community organizations involved in the implementation Dutch of Quebec intervention on street gangs 2011-2014. 
"In order to effectively counter and prevent the phenomenon of street gangs, the experience gained shows that concerted actions based on prevention are at the heart of our successes. Thus, both intersectorally and in the field, the Ministry of Public Safety wants to encourage and support the best programs aimed at reaching young people at risk and to make them realize that beyond gangs, there is a world of Opportunities and can also contribute to a dynamic and safe society for all, "said Minister Bergeron. 
"Young people from cultural communities are often targeted by street gangs, as revealed by youth statistics associated with these groups. The Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities as well as its community partners can play a very important role in prevention. The projects implemented are intended to provide young people with their future and encourage them to succeed in school activities and their professional life, "said Minister of Courcy. 
The total investment of $ 19 million for the next three years will enable various prevention and disaffiliation measures in accordance with Quebec's Street Gang Intervention Plan. Concretely, for the year 2013-2014, 35 projects will share an amount of $ 1,750,000 to support local workers in at-risk environments and increase community intervention capacity to to prevent the membership of young people to street gangs. 
The two ministers were invited by the Center of Youth Saint-Sulpice, an organization that received funding from the Ministry of Public Safety to hire a psychosocial worker whose one of the tasks is to form a dozen young adults so that they. become positive and significant models for the youngest. 
During this meeting, other testimonies were presented by Haiti's house. Recognized for creating the first team of street patrols, the Maison d'Haiti will continue its activities thanks to the financial support of the Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities, paying attention to interventions with young girls. One of the goals is to recruit a number of them for their turn to other young girls at risk. 
Minister Bergeron also took the opportunity to emphasize the week of crime prevention, which has been taking place since November 3rd and ended on November 9, on the theme "Allions our strengths". This annual event aims to raise awareness and recognize the efforts of the partners of the Ministry of Public Safety in the prevention of crime. Many activities are organized, including by police and other partners. 
To learn more about the Week of Crime Prevention or Local Activities, the population is invited to learn from its police force or to visitwww.securitepublique.gouv.qc.ca. 
