Quebec- The member for Taillon and sentence of the official objection to health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, and the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for social services, the protection of youth, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, benefit from the week's hold for a québec without tobacco, from 18 to 24 January, to denounce the inaction of the Liberal government, which has always filed any project. An Act to update the tobacco law, including the last revision dated 2005. 
"To overcome the inaction of the Liberal government on this issue and put an end to confusion, some schools and municipalities have come to adopt their own regulations to supervise the use of electronic cigarette, for example. And what are we waiting for tobacco use in vehicles in the presence of a child, or to tackle attractive flavors and packaging for young people? Every day, in Quebec, 34 adolescents, old, on average, 12 years old, learn about smoking; It is therefore more than 12,000 new smokers each year. The Minister Delegate to Public Health, Lucie Charlebois, was committed to introducing a bill quickly, but she still did not do it. Today, she says she intends to go ahead during the next parliamentary session, but can we believe it? We ask him to formally take the commitment that it will give it a priority, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
For its part, Diane Lamarre recalls that in 2003, the National Assembly unanimously voted to join the Framework Convention of the World Health Organization (WHO) on Tobacco Control. "The new injuries of the law must at least follow WHO recommendations and standards for smoking. Quebec is very late in this matter; The current law dates from 10 years and includes important gaps and gaps that the tobacco industry has had early exploit. While other states act, Quebec risks a decline in the fight against smoking. Will we let our efforts over the last 20 years fly in smoke? We must protect all Quebeckers, but particularly young people, who learn every day to smoking and risks now so well known. The Liberal government has accounted for us to procrastination, but this time, that it thinks of the consequences of its inaction on the health of Quebeckers and Quebeckers, "she insisted. 
