Québec- On the occasion of the Quebec Week of Persons with Disabilities, which has the theme this year "Together, Build a more inclusive company! The member for Rosemont and sentence of the official opposition in social services, Jean-François Lisée, today deplored the effects of liberal austerity on people with disabilities. Alongside the members of the Montreal agency for 35 years, who has been dedicated to the promotion and defense of the rights of people with a motor disability, the member spoke to denounce the impacts of the cuts announced for a year . 
"These people do not complain; They only want to contribute to society, be full-time citizens. The state has the duty to support their autonomy but, at present, the Liberal government suddenly tackles the means that decades has been completed to facilitate their lives. Let's not forget, too, that it is a question of rights and dignity. The government must not only be listening, but put in action, "said Jean-François Lisée. The member of Parliament has filed, this morning in the House, a book of revenue made by the organization, entitled at Prosperous, aimed at raising the awareness of elected officials and the public in the way of allowing a real social, professional and economic inclusion of people in Disability situation. 
"Even the Commission on Human Rights and Youth Rights has publicly stated, yesterday, by communiqué, to worry about the impact of the current budgetary context on the right to equality of people with disabilities. The Commissioner, Jacques Frémont, recalled that several recent testimonies in the media indicated that government decisions could directly affect the services, including those for students with disabilities or in difficulty of adaptation or apprenticeship, "A-T- he adds. 
The Commission recalled that "for nearly 40 years, the Charter forbids all forms of discrimination against people with disabilities". Yet the Liberal government, reducing the services they enjoy, accumulates direct attacks to these people. In addition, the Commission revealed to have dealt with 283 complaints related to a disability or a means of addressing it, only for the year 2014-2015. The majority of these complaints came from the workplace. For five years, the Commission, complaints of this type have been the most numerous. 
"People with disabilities can count on our solidarity; We will not let them down. The many challenges they face, including integration, require enormous courage, and the state must make every effort to support them. Craftsmen of community organizations, associations and volunteers on the ground deserve all our gratitude; Their dedication and daily actions are essential to the fulfillment and autonomy of people with disabilities, and make our company always inclusive, "concluded the member for Rosemont. 
