Quebec- The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, took advantage of the week against intimidation and violence at school, to be held until October 4th, to invite the population to accomplish "cyber appreciation" gestures on social networks. 
"From the school court to social networks, we need to fight against intimidation and violence. This year, we chose the theme of "cyber appreciation". As adults or parents we are often the models of which young people are inspired. Let's give the example and have, in cyberspace as in our everyday relationships, respectful behavior. Let's be trendy on the positive, "said the minister. 
The Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport has recently unveiled a partnership with four organizations that have been dedicated to the fight against intimidation and violence, together with respect for diversity, The Jasmin Roy Foundation, the Pacific Institute and Tel-Youth. With a trendy slogan on the positive, an invitation has been launched to young people to put in place respectful practices in their virtual exchanges to counter this new phenomenon that is cyberbullying. 
It should be noted, Quebec's Major Junior Hockey League has already expressed support for the countryside. Some of his players will even participate in exchanges on social networks using the click-click # Branchositive. 
To this end, many activities will be carried out in schools. Among these, include workshops on "cyber appreciation", a concept developed at the Primary School of Orleans of the School Board of the First Lordies of Quebec. Video capsules, site www.brancheposition.gouv.qc.ca, an animation guide, reference tools and leaflets will also be made available to students. These new educational tools are offered free of charge to school boards. 
"This is a week a year, but it should be known that the outreach activities put in place will continue during the other 51. Students and teaching staff need to continue to mobilize to make cyberspace a pleasant and safe place where it's good to learn while having fun, "added the minister. 
Since the unanimous adoption of Bill 56, the school network has mobilized. Currently, 99% of schools have a plan to combat intimidation and violence and have appointed a resource person to ensure its application. As prescribed by law, Quebec's primary and secondary schools are invited to achieve various awareness activities for citizenship. 
