Quebec- The Minister of the Family, Ms. Nicole Léger, is pleased to highlight the 2013 Quebec Garde Service Week, which stands until June 1 across Quebec. This week is an opportunity to highlight the links that are woven day after day between toddlers and childcare staff, who ensures their well-being. 
"Since the implementation of a real child care network by a Quebec government government in 1997, Quebec has seen a diversified network that meets the needs of parents. Early Childhood Centers (CPEs), family child care officials and private daycares are important government partners to provide children with quality services, "said Minister Nicole Light. 
Minister Nicole Léger welcomed the work and dedication of all the stakeholders of the child care network, including the important role of early childhood educators in the harmonious development of children. "In all regions of Quebec, early childhood educators contribute daily to the development and development of young children and their families. I want to emphasize their remarkable contribution and the major role they assume with toddlers during their first years of life. » 
Early childhood educators are responsible for the application of an educational program that supports the quality of child care services offered in Quebec. With professionalism and competence, they ensure the well-being of children by allowing them to grow in their entirety. Educational custody services offer solutions adapted to the various realities of Quebec families. They respond to a need for work-family conciliation to promote a better balance between family and professional responsibilities. 
On the occasion of the Week of Care Services, the Minister of Family wanted to reaffirm the government's commitment to Quebec families. "Better respond to the needs of children and families is a priority for our government. That's why we announced last November, by 2016, 28,000 new places with reduced contribution in the Quebec warning services network. The realization of these places is already well underway. Overall the next few months, we will continue the work started to promote the development of children and the well-being of all Quebec families, "concluded Minister Nicole Léger. 
