Quebec- The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, filed their third proposal on the occasion of the summit Higher Education. In addition to specifying the government approach for the reinvestment of nearly $ 1.8 billion by 2018-2019, this proposal plans to make improvements to the current funding formula, in the light of the concerns expressed by the participants in the preparatory meetings of the summit. 
"Quebec universities need stable and long-term resources. The proposal we file has been developed with the stability and sustainability of the funding of universities and testifies to our commitment to the future development of our universities, "said Premier Pauline Marois. 
The government proposes to increase by $ 800 million with the annual recurring funding from universities between 2012-2013 and 2018-2019. This increase in funding makes it possible to offset universities for the shortfall resulting from the annulment of the increase in tuition fees and provides a response to their funding needs. 
The government also proposes to review the funding policy as a result of the concerns expressed by participants in thematic meetings. Indeed, the financing policy will be the subject of a vast work site. Among the issues that will need to be addressed, we count: 
In addition, the government also wants through the new funding formula to specially support first generation students and those from disadvantaged circles. This issue will therefore be one of the priorities of this site. 
A first report of this working group will have to be given to Minister Pierre Duchesne as early as December 2013. 
Finally, the global sum of nearly $ 1.8 billion, the government proposes to reinvest $ 1.4 billion in the universities as follows: 
Added to these objectives improve the provision of services in the region and collaboration between institutions. 
"The government's commitment to support higher education is undeniable. However, this commitment must correspond to the priorities of Quebecers and Quebeckers. And that's why we have linked reinvestment to the achievement of national objectives. In this sense, we all have a role to play in the valorization of higher education with the entire society. Higher education is all of us, "said Minister Pierre Duchesne. 
