Quebec- The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, filed a second government proposal on the occasion of the Summit on higher education. This proposal includes measures to be put in place, both at CEGEP and university, to enhance research, increase collaboration between higher education institutions and their environments as well as better support students. 
"This proposal is intended not only to strengthen collaboration between higher education institutions, but also collaboration between institutions and their circles. Colleges and universities are important engines for the vitality of communities and for the development of all Quebec. We propose to our partners to commit together to strengthen this collaboration and to provide services adapted to the reality of the environments and students, "said Premier Pauline Marois. 
The government proposes to invest $ 15 million, as early as 2014-15, to support university-college lashing projects. The government also proposes to set up a project on the offer of collegiate training in Quebec to allow for greater consultation between CEGEPs and their circles. This project must, through its work, contribute to: 
Finally, work will be put forward at the initiative of the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology on Adapting Technical Studies and Funding for Continuing Education regional realities and the needs of the labor market. 
The government has four priority avenues to improve student support: 
Additional amounts of $ 8.3 million will be allocated for the first two goals in college and university networks.  The government will also invest $ 3 million over two years to implement expertise and skills recognition centers (CERAC) in the college network. Today, he announces the four CEGEPs that will be recognized as Cerac, namely: 
Minister Pierre Duchesne reiterated his intentions to hold the national findings of research and innovation as early as April 2013, who will be in the process of developing the future national research and innovation policy. will be launched later this spring. This policy will result in important reinvestments for the field of research, whether oriented, applied, free or fundamental. Moreover, the research takes advantage of a reinvestment of $ 26.5 million from 2013-2014 and 25% of the envelope of more than $ 1.7 billion that the government will invest in higher education by 2018 -2019. 
The Government will also support the implementation of a pilot project aimed at developing a platform for the recognition of the acquis and skills within the University of Quebec, to which other universities, which would like it. 
"No one can deny the importance of our higher education institutions for the development of Quebec. Our exchanges have repeatedly demonstrated that higher education institutions contribute remarkably to the full development of Quebec society. The proposal filed by our Government testifies that these issues are, for us, a priority, "said Minister Duchesne. 
