Saint-Jerome - the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, is committed to handing over the transport in the Greater Montreal Region. "Transportation in the Great Region of Montreal are a real nightmare for many people, who often have all the penalties in the world to arrive at work. Parents have difficulty going to get their children on time when they come out of the daycare or school. The transportation of goods and people is so much deficient than the productivity of our economy suffers. We make a commitment to straighten the situation! "Launched Pauline Marois. 
"Transport is a priority for the future of the entire Montreal metropolitan area. We will put back order into transport. Our match plan is clear, "insured Pauline Marois, deploring the fact that road congestion in the Montreal area costs $ 1.5 billion a year. Our integrated approach is tripped winning. We want to decongest the transportation network, promote our economic development and improve our environment. » 
The Parti Québécois is committed to ordering priority for road work. Urgent work or involve the security of users will be prioritized. The other work will be spread over time. "We must put back order into road work. It's not true that everything must be done at the same time. The flow of traffic must be taken into account in the planning of road works, "added the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
Investments in public transport will be a priority. We are committed to completing the Eastern Train between Montreal and Mascouche by the end of 2014. We will add, by 2020, 300 kilometers of ways reserved for collective transportation. We also want to revive the development of the Montreal metro. We aim for the extension of the blue line to Anjou by 2020. Above all, we intend to ensure that the new Champlain Bridge project makes an important place for public transit. 
A government of the Parti Québécois is committed to electrifying transport. "Autos, trains, metros and electric bus: We are able to manufacture these vehicles and we have electricity to make them work. It's up to us to make the right choices. At the moment, with our oil consumption, we create jobs abroad. By investing in public transport and electrification, we will create jobs with us. This is to have an economic vision of the future. It is also the best way to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, "said Pauline Marois, adding that it is through innovation that we will go beyond our competitors. 
"This is a vision to enrich collectively and sustainably. With the creation of a $ 10 billion fund, to invest in Quebec, and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, which will aim for the strategic sectors, the Parti Québécois will make transport electrification one of the sectors of point. We have contributed to the development of multimedia, aeronautics and biotechnology when we were in power, we will now carry transportation of transport the next sector of the future for the development of the economy of Quebec, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
