Montreal- A government of the Parti Québécois will engage Quebec on the path of energy independence. "This is a visionary society project that will draw the way for the future for Quebec's prosperity. If we want to enrich us, we need to reduce our oil consumption. Each year, we pay more than $ 13 billion to buy oil from foreign countries. It's so much money that should stay in Quebec to stimulate our economy. We can enrich ourselves, let's take the means to achieve it, "said the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
The Parti Québécois undertakes to adopt at the beginning of its mandate a new energy strategy. "It's time to review our sources of energy supply and our energy development plan. Quebec is bubbling ideas on this issue. We will make extensive consultation and develop a policy that will lead Quebec to prosperity. It is a magnificent collective project in which I invite Quebeckers to embark, "supported Pauline Marois. 
Quebec ranks second in the world for electricity consumption per capita. We can certainly reduce our consumption and use excess energy for other purposes, for example in transport. The development of an industry-related industry is already part of the sectors of the future identified as priorities by a government of the Parti Québécois. We must go further. 
"Quebec holds an enviable position on the international scene. With its high hydroelectric potential, wind, solar, geothermal and petroleum, Quebec has several energy sources that can free ourselves from the imported oil that costs us too much. By consuming the energy of here we can keep at home billions of dollars and therefore we enrich us, "she added, specifying that the self-sufficiency must be aimed at the very time. 
"The price of oil is growing and the forecasts are on the rise. Any motorist finds it when it comes the time to refuel. If at least this money remained at home, it would be less dramatic. Currently, $ 35 million per day paid to oil-producing countries we could use to create jobs in Quebec, "she explained. 
"Using intelligently our various sources of energy, we will help offer a better environment to Quebeckers today and tomorrow. It is a magnificent project of society that combines sustainable development and collective enrichment. It is the vision that the Parti Québécois has for the future of Quebec. We want to reduce our energy consumption and our dependence on oil. It is the best way to become masters at home, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
