Large-batteries- "The forest crisis has been shaking Quebec since 2005. Forest regions and forestry workers need an emergency plan for forestry and that's what we are committed to," said the leader From the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, surrounded by Candidates of Mauricie. 
"The forest industry is a vital stake for several regions of Quebec. Unfortunately, since the beginning of the crisis that affects this industry, the Liberals have never shown the leadership needed to support the forest world. They remained the arms crossed by attending the closure of more than 300 factories and the loss of more than 60,000 forest-related jobs, "she deploor, explaining the measures for the revival of the industry The Quebec party plans to put forward to give a new breath to the forest areas. 
A government government will develop a wood charter to promote the use of this resource in buildings built in Quebec. Targets of 5% in non-residential private construction and 30% in public constructions will be fixed. "It is necessary to initiate a major shift in the construction to better support the first transformation. To further use wood, targets need to be attached in construction, especially since no one disputes the reliability of this resource in building buildings, "she said. 
In order to support the entrepreneurs in silvicultural work and forestry workers, a Parti Québécois government is committed to launching a vast field of sylvicultural works to double the value of the production of this resource. For this purpose, $ 35 million more per year will be invested in silvicultural work over the next four years. 
"It is essential to devote additional sums to forestry. The forest is a renewable resource that we need to protect to ensure sustainability. We will catch up with the investment gap that has been dug since 2005 and allow thousands of sylvicultural workers to work year-round. With a Quebec party government, entrepreneurs and forestry workers will have a size alloy to develop their industry, "added Pauline Marois. 
The Parti Québécois will also put in place local forest pilot projects. This project will allow MRCs to draw income from the logging of territories under their responsibility. This is to verify the viability of the concept and analyze the impacts on forest producers. 
"Finally, to promote the innovation and development of new markets, I personally hear me get involved in bringing together entrepreneurs, workers, specialists and academics, as well as government authorities. It is together that we will be able to establish the main orientations for developing high value-added products and project our industry in the 21st century, "added the leader of the Quebecois party. 
"To revive forestry in Quebec, still need to believe! In the past seven years, the Liberal government has shown that it did not believe it. He refused to act. As for the CAQ of François Legault, none of the 94 commitments contained in its electoral platform concerns the forest industry. Like the Liberals, the Caquists do not believe in the Quebec forest industry. A government of the Parti Québécois will support the forest and its workers. It is a noble, ecological and renewable resource, which is a great source of pride for all Quebec, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
