The Leader of the Quebec Party, Pauline Marois, is committed to adopting a policy of food sovereignty if the Parti Québécois is brought to power on September 4th. "The agri-food industry is an essential economic sector in Quebec. This industry is part of our identity and is intimately linked to the way we occupy our territory and develop each of our regions. The Liberal government is content to consult for several years without acting. The Parti Québécois has an ambitious program in agriculture. For us, the time is no longer at the consultation. You have to go into action mode. We want to acquire our food sovereignty, "assured Pauline Marois. 
The main goal of the Food Sovereignty Policy will increase from 33 to 50% the proportion of Quebec's food we consume. The advantages of such a policy are numerous. It allows the creation of several jobs, private private investments in all regions and relies on our pride in consuming products from home. 
We will modernize the law on the protection of the territory and agricultural activities. This law is one of the achievements that the Québécois party is most proud. However, we are confronted with new realities and gestures must be asked according to them. We will change the laws in effect to prohibit land purchase by speculative funds. The Parti Québécois also takes the commitment to refocus agricultural financial financial. It will begin to support the agricultural industry and its producers. 
"If every Quebec consumer bought $ 30 more food from home every year, it's a billion dollars that would be invested in our economy over the next five years. The proportion of food consumed from Quebec has dropped by 45 percentage points since the mid-1980s. It has to be reversed this trend as quickly as possible, "she said after her meeting with members of the 'Union of Agricultural Producers. 
"This type of meeting is an opportunity to understand the concerns of farmers and their representatives. The meeting this morning allows me to affirm without any embarrassment before you that the Parti Québécois is not only the Party of the Regions but the Party of Farmers! The exchanges we have had the guidelines taken by the Parti Québécois. In recent years we have known the defense of farmers. We did it because we believe in the agricultural potential of Quebec, "assured Pauline Marois, presenting his team of candidates from the agricultural world: André Simard, Clement Pouliot, André Beaudoin, Marie Bouillé, Daniel GOYER and François-Gycelain Rocque. 
"Make the choice of food sovereignty as proposed by the Parti Québécois is to encourage agriculture with a human face. It is also to make the choice to offer a good quality of life to people who live on their land and their production. The agri-food industry is an essential economic sector and our actions will demonstrate it, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
