Ercé- accompanied by the Québécois party candle candle, Gaétan Lelièvre, the leader of the Quebecois party, Pauline Marois, announces that she will create a government action group for Gaspésie if his team is elected on September 4th . "The regions of Quebec need a new breath to resume their momentum towards prosperity. The years of the Liberal regime slowed the development of Gaspésie and that of all regions. It is high time to give power to a team that believes in the regions of Quebec and has already demonstrated its willingness to act. » 
"I also commit to chairing this government action group for Gaspésie as early as September 5, Pauline Marois said, recalling the success of the Planse government's initiatives for Gaspésie in the early 2000s. 
"With the Quebec Economic Development Bank, announced on 3 August, the entrepreneurs of Gaspésie will not have to run in Quebec City or in Montreal for financing since it will have its antennas in all regions. Gaspésie will also have a one-stop shop for regional entrepreneurs. Observers are already numerous to salute this initiative. It is necessary to go even further and we are committed to doing it, "assured Pauline Marois, specifying that particular strategies of development must be established to better serve the Gaspésians. 
"There are realities specific to Gaspésie, as in other regions of Quebec. It must be answered by concrete and adapted solutions, solutions that come from here to solve the problems of here. By chairing the Action Group, I will make sure that Gaspé solutions are retained and implemented, including the creation of a regional fund to promote the diversification of local economies. And when the model will be refined in Gaspésie, we will export it elsewhere in Quebec, "said the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
"High-speed Internet access should be a priority in all regions because it allows you to be connected to the world regardless of where you are. Gaspésie does not escape. Unfortunately, there are still too many places where this service is not accessible. I therefore take a commitment that at the end of the first mandate of a Quebec party government, all, I say all, the regions of Quebec will have access to high speed Internet, "Assured Pauline Marois. 
"It's time to give back a new impetus to government action in Gaspésie. This is what a government of the Parti Québécois will do, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
