Saguenay- The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, makes a commitment to refocus the mission of the Fund and placement to become a major development instrument capable of supporting the Quebec economy. To do this, a $ 10 billion strategic investment fund will be put in place. Its mission will be to protect our businesses against taking control by foreign companies and stimulate the emergence and growth of key sectors in Quebec. 
"Astral, La Senza, Alcan, Domtar, Bauer, Van Houtte, Abitibi-consolidated, SICO, the list of headquarters leaving Quebec continues to lie down for nine years. Today, it is the headquarters and property of Rona who are threatened. We must act with force. By restoring the Caisse's economic development mission in Quebec, we can regain control of our development and remain masters at home, "said Pauline Marois, specifying that such a fund will increase by nearly 25% Investments of the Caisse in Quebec. 
Created in 1965 by Jean Lesage, the Fund and Investment is the tool that was used by all governments to support economic development. Jean Charest has unfortunately broke with this tradition in 2004 when the Liberal government has changed the mission of the Fund for the purpose of submitting Quebec's economic development mission to that of absolute performance. The gain bait led the fund to the consequences we know, or billions of dollars lost in commercial paper and even heavier losses during the crisis of 2008. The orientation given to the caisse by Jean Charest also The effect of accelerating the exodus of the social seats of Quebec. 
"The government of the Parti Québécois has been visionary to target the sectors of multimedia, aeronautics and biotechnology. Today we are global leaders in all these areas. You have to resume this leadership and look to the future to develop new niches of excellence. This is what we will do, "she assured, by explaining that she wants to give the fund his dual performance and economic development mission to protect our best companies against attempts to take control by companies foreign and avoid the relocation of our headquarters. 
The leader of the Parti Québécois also undertakes to strengthen the power of the boards of directors of Quebec companies and to change the law on corporations by stock. The responsibility of the directors to all the actors involved in the company, such as workers and suppliers, will be reviewed to leave the management paradigm for only the short-term interest of shareholders. In the United States, when a board of directors refuses a purchase offer, the law protects the company against all hostile offers. This avenue will be analyzed carefully. 
"Under a government of the Parti Québécois, the directors of a company who will have to decide on an offer of acquisition must, in addition to taking into account the assessment of the value of the action, take into consideration the general interest of the company. The interest of workers will have to be taken into account as well as that of the community. Too many companies have closed in recent years leaving hundreds of street workers and devitalized communities. It must stop, "exclaimed Pauline Marois. 
"The Caisse was created to support Quebec's economic development. It is high time that Quebeckers resume control of their economy. It is now up to us to choose between collectively get rich or enrich only a few individuals, "she concluded. 
