Québec- "A government of the Parti Québécois will abolish the Health Tax and will give Quebec families the $ 400 that the Liberals of Jean Charest have taken, who have surcharge the middle class over the last nine years. It is the commitment made today by the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, who insisted that this measure will be done at zero cost. 
"Clear each other is at the heart of what the Parti Québécois offers. Everyone must do his part. It is quite unacceptable that those with an annual income of $ 30,000 pay the same amount as those who earn $ 250,000. We want to give oxygen to the families who have been surcharged since 2003. The Health Tax of the Liberals of Jean Charest is a regressive tax that penalizes the middle class and promotes the most fortunate, "said Pauline Marois. 
The abolition of the health tax will be done at zero cost. This $ 1 billion is funded by the creation of two new taxpayers for taxpayers whose taxable annual income amounts to more than $ 130,000 and more than $ 250,000. In addition, tax deductions applicable to dividend gains and certain capital gains will be reduced by 50%. 
"We want to abolish this unfair tax. We will do so responsibly, without digging the deficit and without refiling the invoice to the families of the middle class. The most fortunate taxpayers must do their fair share. Our solution is realistic. Unlike the CAQ, the Québécois party proposal will be self-financing in the first year, "she added. 
Pauline Marois urged François Legault's inconsistency in this file. Last February, the CAQ members voted against a motion to abolish the health tax, filed by the Parti Québécois at the National Assembly. A few days ago, François Legault took the contrary commitment. "How can the population trust someone who changes too often? Asked the leader of the Parti Québécois by mentioning that for the Liberals of Jean Charest, who introduced the health tax in 2010, it is out of the question of abolishing it. 
"The Parti Québécois offers concrete and realistic measures. We refuse to start in the outbidding of expensive promises. We make commitments that we will respect, unlike François Legault, who is unable to quantify his promises and tell us where he will take the money and where he will cut to get there. At the Parti Québécois, we are serious and responsible. We will respect the commitments we make, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
