Saint-Siméon - the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, considers that the patience of Quebec workers has lasted enough and that it is time to repatriate employment insurance. In this regard, she welcomed the work of the Mayor of Saint-Siméon, Sylvain Tremblay, who convinced in recent months dozens of municipalities of the need to repatriate the employment insurance plan. To date, more than 70 municipalities have adopted a resolution in this direction. 
"First of all, the Employment Insurance Plan is not funded by the federal government but by workers and employers. The only involvement of the federal government in recent years has been to take money from contributors and divert it to other programs or pay the federal deficit. Meanwhile, any modification to the law to increase the accessibility of the unemployed to the employment insurance system has been rejected by the Liberal and Conservative governments. We no longer wait for Ottawa. For our unemployed, we need a Quebec Employment Insurance plan, "said Pauline Marois. 
At the beginning of the Confederation, unemployment insurance was under provincial jurisdiction, but in the 1930s during the economic crisis, the federal, richer, agreed with the provinces to resume this program. Since the 1980s, the federal government has no longer contributed to the Employment Insurance Fund, but benefits from the surplus thereof, which it uses for other purposes. 
"When we know that less than 50% of the unemployed have access to the plan and that the Conservatives refuse to help them, we have the moral obligation to take things in hand. Do not repatriate Employment Insurance would be a case of non-assistance to anyone at risk, "said Pauline Marois. 
A government of the Parti Québécois will undertake negotiations with the federal government as soon as possible to repatriate this scheme it will further improve, taking into account the needs of the unemployed and the reality of our regions, particularly with respect to the Seasonal work, and ensure that the Employment Insurance Fund only serves only employment insurance. Either we move together by trying us, or let us leave the flight from the fund and inaction to the difficulties of people. It's up to us to choose, "concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
