Montreal- In terms of justice, the leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, is committed to setting up concrete steps to help people in need. "We must bring the citizen back to the heart of our justice system. While the Government of Stephen Harper and the CAQ advocate justice to the American, coercive and avengess, the Quebec model relies on prevention, rehabilitation and assistance to victims. This is a proven model. That's why the Parti Québécois offers more to further support victims of criminal acts and their families, "she said. 
"We are therefore committed to reviewing the assistance and compensation schemes for victims of criminal acts to better support victims and their families. To do this, we will expand the list of covered criminal acts, we will leave more time to the victims to file a claim and we will simplify the procedures, "added Pauline Marois, recalling that the Lemieux report, commanded by the Liberal government in 2006 , provided for many recommendations that have never been applied. 
Following the petition of Isabelle Gaston, sponsored by the Party candidate in Saint-Jérôme, Gilles Robert, the Government announced the increased amounts given to the parents of a died child following a crime Violent, without expanding the list of covered crimes. A pet government will expand the program to a greater number of crimes, so as to compensate more victims, and the deadline for making a claim from one year to three years. These measures will cost $ 5 million a year. 
Always with the aim of helping people in need, a Quebec party government is committed to expanding eligibility for free legal aid, particularly so that people working full-time at the minimum wage are now eligible. "This is a commitment that is unanimous in the legal community and community groups working for access to justice. We will invest $ 16 million a year to expand this program to some 450,000 additional people and we will maintain the support offered to these community groups, "she explained. 
"The Liberals have a lamentable assessment of legal aid. They completely abandoned low-income workers. As for CAQ, François Legault only offers concrete to improve accessibility to justice. At the Parti Québécois, we want justice accessible to all and more human justice. This is the choice we make, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
