Montréal - The leader of the Partician, Pauline Marois, is committed to that all the children of Quebec have access to a place of custody at $ 7. "I want to finish the work I started in 1997 by creating the early childhood centers. With a Quebec party government, there will be a day care center for each child. At the end of the first term, it will be a child, a place, "said Pauline Marois, stating that both and as long as the network will not be completed, the custody fees will be maintained at $ 7 per day per child. » 
"When we created this program in 1997, we wanted to give the means to women who wished to be more present in the labor market. We also wanted children, regardless of parents' income, could have access to an educational custody service. Since then, we have traveled the ideal of the Parti Québécois. A Quebec party government will return to the base: a child, a place! She exclaimed. 
"At a time when we talk to each other, the development of the network should be practically completed, but the Liberal government has chosen to slow down the pace over the last nine years. The Liberals have made daycare an industry. Care places were used to fill the coffers of the Liberal Party. Jean Charest dropped many families from Quebec. There is no excuse for the same failure, "lamented the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
Quebec is currently experiencing a significant increase in the number of births from 76,000 in 2005 to 88,000 in 2009. "Quebec parents need more spaces for child care. There are parents who are waiting up to two years before having a place for their child. We must finish the development of places at $ 7 so that every child can have access to a child care, "she added. 
Between 1997 and 2003, the government of the Parti Québécois developed on average more than 14,000 places annually in subsidized guard service. The Liberal Party government has developed only 6000 on average by year since 2003. Worse still, it has been unable to create the number of places it had announced. In 2008, the Liberal government promised 18,000 new subsidized places for 2012. He delivered only 16 168. It is therefore missing 1832 places. 
As for François Legault, it is not even able to quantify the number of new places needed to meet the needs of parents. Families are not a priority for the CAQ. 
The leader of the Parti Québécois recalled that the subsidized daycare program was an excellent program lined with a judicious economic investment. "Building and developing a network of child care that meets the needs of families is not an expense, it is an investment. Each dollar invested in these services yields $ 1.04 to the Government of Quebec, "added Pauline Marois, referring to a study of the Tax Research Chair and Public Finance at the University of Sherbrooke. 
"When we talk about education and stall, let's not forget that early childhood is a decisive moment. For young families, to facilitate the presence of mothers in the labor market and especially for our children, I undertake to finish the work I started. Within four years, every child will have his place, "concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
