We are almost at the end of this road that leads us to September 4th. I crossed nearly 10,000 kilometers during this election campaign. I went to see Quebecers and Quebeckers wherever they were, in all regions. And in all regions, we have a great team. 
We had gatherings as we had not seen the Parti Québécois for a long time. No other party is able to hold such gatherings almost every night. From Blainville to Rouyn, passing through Gaspé, Rivière-du-Loup, Saguenay, Gouin, Laval-des-Rapides and Quebec, we were hundreds. Thursday evening at Metropolis, we were more than 2000! 
During the campaign, I met with the world who had misery to make ends meet. I understand them. At home, we were not rich. My father was a mechanic, we all worked and sacrifices. At the Québécois party, we will give a little oxygen to Quebecers by abolishing the health tax, which will leave $ 400 a year in the pockets of families. Social justice has been chosen. 
Jean Charest and François Legault chose to increase electricity rates. It will cost an average of $ 377 more per year to each household. We have chosen to change the royalty regime so that the mining companies that exploit our resources pay their fair share. They chose to charge Quebeckers. We, we chose to charge the mining companies! 
I have an extraordinary husband, I put four wonderful children in the world and now I have two granddaughters. In addition, I had the chance to continue my career, to have an exhilarating professional life. By creating the CPE, I wanted to offer all Quebeckers and all Quebeckers the same chance to reconcile professional life and family life. I come back today to finish what I started. I do a personal business. Every family that will need a day care center will have one, I guarantee you. 
In Quebec, we do not solve our conflicts by typing our children. In Quebec, as in the family where I was raised and the one I founded, we sits around the table and I jase. Young people in Quebec, I hand them his hand. I want to hear them, I want to talk to them. I tell them: Let's unite. Join the Parti Québécois. Together, we will meet all generations! 
Everywhere in Quebec, I met employers too. I heard what entrepreneurs said to me. They too need oxygen. We will not do as the CAQ that wants to cut help to small and medium-sized enterprises. We will create the Quebec economic development bank. Employment designers will no longer need to complicate life to get help from the government. 
We will support our advanced sectors that have been abandoned. As the Parti Québécois had done with video games, pharmaceuticals and aeronautics, we will develop a real electric transport sector. She will make us proud, she will enrich us and she will put us on the path of energy independence! 
When I give my word, it is because I intend to hold it and to get there, a majority pet government is necessary. I will need everyone who wants a fairer Quebec. I need it, especially, to reach the most important of our goals, the one that is the basis of our political commitment. I need a majority mandate to make Quebec a country! 
The election of September 4 can mark the beginning of a large mobilization. More than ever, Stephen Harper's government reminds Quebeckers that Canada is not their country. I tend hand to all sovereignists. Be together! Do not take the risk of dividing our forces. I need all my team. After 400 years of existence, 250 years after the conquest, after a generation of political struggles and nine years of liberal retreat, it is time for the sovereignists to end what they started. 
Until Tuesday, until the last minute, I will work tirelessly. I will give everything I have. I ask you to do the same thing. Go vote, will convince an undecided. Tell everyone. Be contagious! 
Still just a little effort and on the evenings, we will enter an exhilarating period of Quebec's history. It will be up to us to choose, to affirm ourselves, to enrich us, to train us. It will be up to us to give us a country! 
