Québec- In the stride duenly tabling the Report of the Emergency Prehospital Services Working Group in Outaouais, the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, today announced the appointment A companion to the Outaouais Health and Social Services Agency (ASSSO) as well as an observer to the Board of Directors of the Outaouais Health Communication Center. Dr. Donald Aubin and Dr. Anne Gervais have the main objective of monitoring all the recommendations made and the improvement of services. 
"Although the particular organizational model based on the cohabitation of the Outaouais Health Communication Center and the Outaouais paramedics cooperative is maintained, the report refers to certain fixes. Although excellent trusted bonds exist between the various partners and all work collaboratively, the support of an observer to the Board of Directors of the Health Communication Center and a companion to the Agency will facilitate the transition and the Implantation of changes that need to improve the governance of the Outaouais Health Communication Center, the financial management and modes of allocation of ambulance resources, "said Minister Hébert. 
Dr. Donald Aubin, Regional Director of University Medical Affairs of the Health and Social Services of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, will be the accompanist of the Outaouais agency. During his term, six months, he will have to ensure the concordance of the ASSSO's action plan with the recommendations of the report of the Working Group. Dr. Aubin will also have to see the implementation of the targeted patches with regard to governance, financial management and non-interference in the principles of allocation of ambulance resources. It will also have to provide the Department's monthly monitoring of the progress of the work and subsequent on 30 September 2013, it will also provide a report on 30 September 2013 a report of the work done for the second visit of the second visit. work group. 
Dr. Anne Gervais, currently Director of Professional Services and Medical Affairs at the Gatineau Health and Social Services Center, will assume the post of observer on the Board of Directors of the Health Communication Center. Its term of office will end on March 31, 2014. The role of the observer is to report to the coach of the following elements: 
Among the other solutions adopted as a result of the report's recommendations, note the attribution of a replacement ambulae vehicle to the paramedics of the Outaouais that will cover changes in shifts and will provide maximum service. all time on the territory. Minister Hébert also announced last April that the 168 hours per week of additional ambulance service granted to the region last December would be maintained for the next six months, the time the working group can make a second assessment to confirm the Real need in additional hours of services in the region in the context of the approaches to the optimization of current prehospital services. 
Remember that the working group was mandated to analyze the overall situation of emergency prehospital services in the territory and to make recommendations to adequately meet the needs of the Population of the Outaouais. 
