Quebec, June 30, 2020 - The member for Bonaventure and spokespersons of the Parti Québécois in higher education, Sylvain Roy, asks the new Minister of Higher Education, Danielle McCann, to quickly give guarantees to the Community Collegiate and academic student concerning the fall session, which will arrive quickly but which, for the moment, raises concern and raises many questions. 
IN SHORT 
In the eyes of the hon. Member for Bonaventure, improvisation and indecision have lasted enough. "Although he has promised support, the Caval Government is slow to announce what he intends to do for higher education in Quebec. Thousands of college and academic students are in a precarious financial situation, and in the blur as to the next school year. Even that according to a survey commissioned by the Canadian Association of University Teachers and Professors (CAUT) and the Canadian Federation of Students (CEOF), 30% of students would think about the possibility of canceling their session, or even abandon their post-secondary education; We can absolutely not let it do! He said, reminding that academic dynamism, graduation rate, as well as economic growth and prosperity are concepts intimately linked. 
Sylvain Roy therefore requires the Government to clarify the terms of the start of the season in CEGEPs and universities, and to ensure the fairness for all students in Quebec. "We need coherence. At present, for example, Jonquière's Cégep intends to offer a majority of his face-to-face courses, while that of Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu rather on distance education. Minister McCann must end this system with variable geometry. In Quebec, one should offer each student an equal opportunity to succeed, regardless of the establishment he frequents or the region he has chosen ", he insists. The member also emphasizes that face-to-face courses are preferred because they can help reduce dropout. "The reason is simple: distance classes still have many shortcomings and limits. » 
Finally, the Parti Québécois believes that significant investments must quickly be carried out in financial assistance for studies and resources for psychological and academic support. "We want students living special situations to receive assistance adapted to their needs," said Roy. 
In short, the new Minister of Higher Education faces his first test, and he must act now. "The fall of autumn will come quickly and, by then, there is a lot to do. Danielle McCann does not have the opportunity to wait; The course of several thousand students is at stake, "concluded the hon. Member for Bonaventure. 
