Shawinigan - Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, accompanied by the member for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, announced the award of a $ 1.2 million grant Dollars at the Shawinigan Entrepreneurship Center (CES) to set up a digital station whose mission will be to offer an environment conducive to innovation and the creation of mobile and social games. Alchemical dream is at the origin and will be a valuable partner of this project-rated project at $ 4.8 million. 
Financial support is derived from the Center-du-Québec Economic Diversification Fund and the Mauricie, with an envelope of $ 200 million to promote diversification by attracting private investments and promoting the emergence of companies powerful and innovative. 
"Our government has seen just giving the means to the regions of Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec to diversify their economy, as we demonstrate today the ESC with its investment project," said Zakaïb Élain. "This project in an area of the future as well as the others to come through the Fund are the result of an exemplary mobilization of the business community and a successful consultation work. The actions of our government, whether regional funds or economic priority policy, are based on a vision for the future that tends to long-term development for all regions of Quebec. » 
The ETUC aims to encourage the creation of companies by focusing on three components: the training, incubation and rental of spaces adapted to the start of companies. It will support the startup, growth and implementation of companies in the digital station. The Alchemical Dream of Shawinigan, a world leader in online social games management, will put its expertise to contribution as part of this project, which has also been presented to several Japanese renowned companies during a economic mission in Japan in February 2013. 
"The ETUC is actively involved in the development of entrepreneurship in Shawinigan by helping entrepreneurs build their future," said Luc Trudel. "Now, the Digital Station project will bring the region to invest in a new niche, that of mobile and social game design. We intend to make the city of Shawinigan the third pole of the video game in Quebec, with Montreal and Quebec. It is an avant-garde domain that promises very interesting spin-offs for Mauricie. It is with great pride that we support the ESC in the realization of this initiative. » 
"The digital station will offer state-of-the-art training, incubation areas, specialized services as well as an environment conducive to networking, creativity, research and development and innovation," said Mr. Luc arvisais, President of the CES. "In addition, the Digital Station Training Center will be supported by Shawinigan College and the Energy School Board and offer peak content focused on the specific needs of the mobile and social gaming industry. This station will really be a high place of digital creation in Shawinigan. Several exchanges have taken place between Quebec and Japanese stakeholders since the economic mission in Japan, demonstrating the attractive power of such a project in Quebec and the valuable contribution of a strategic company as an alchemical dream. » 
For more information on the Center-du-Québec Economic Diversification Fund and Mauricie, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie. 
