Montreal -Hight months after having obtained a mandate of initiative on the safety of petroleum products, the member for Pointe-aux-Trembles, Nicole Léger, deplores the attitude of Liberal MPs. The latter, after giving their agreement in principle on the content of the report to be deposited before the National Assembly, returned to their speech a few days later. 
In recent months, members of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries, Energy and Natural Resources (CAPERN) have heard several stakeholders, including the directions of the three Quebec refineries. "Our discussions had allowed us to arrive at a compromise on the findings and recommendations to be transmitted to the government and all had been consensually," said Nicole Léger. 
The member for Rousseau, Nicolas Marceau, who also participated in the work of the initiative, is questioned on the involvement of the Minister of Natural Resources, Nathalie Normandeau, in this turnaround. "If the Liberal members of Capen's members returned to their speech six days after giving their agreement, is it because Minister Nathalie Normandeau has interfered in the process to impose the liberal vision? If this is the case, it is unacceptable since the minister does not have to interfere in the work of the deputies, "added Nicolas Marceau. 
For its part, the member for Jonquière and a member of Capen, Sylvain Gaudreault, states that several working sessions allowed members to do a conscientious job and discuss the issue of supply security for petroleum products. the announcement of the closure of the Shell refinery of Montreal-Est. "We faced our visions, we exchanged on the merits of things and came to finding and recommendable recommendations for all. Who came the pressure that made the Liberals arrive with a brand new version of the report? In questioned Sylvain Gaudreault. 
Now that it is impossible for the report of the Commission to be tabled in the National Assembly before the fall, the member of Pointe-aux-Trembles requires that Minister Normandeau respects his commitment not to issue a dismantling license of the Eastern Montreal Shell Refinery before the report of the Commission's report. "During the question period of June 9, Nathalie Normandeau repeated this commitment. Will she hold the word or will she take refuge behind the Zizan she herself sown to justify the issue of the dismantling license? "Asked the hon. Member. 
