Quebec- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, and the spokesman for the Quebecois on international relations, Stéphane Bergeron, welcome the signing of the Canada-Europe Free Trade Agreement as "a step In the right direction for Quebec companies, "but call the Trudeau and Couillard ministers immediately indicate how the major losers of the agreement will be offset, the producers of the Quebec dairy and cheese industry. They also claim the holding of a parliamentary committee on the agreement before its ratification by Quebec. 
The head of the official opposition has indeed recalled that the federal government sacrificed the dairy and cheese industry, significantly expanding the import quotas of industrial cheese. This unfair concession aimed to promote, in exchange, western beef sales in Europe. 
"This bargaining was all the more odious as without the initiative of Quebec, the agreement simply did not exist," said Lisée. Then Minister of Foreign Trade, he - in concert with his colleague responsible for trade policy, Nicolas Marceau - had demanded that Ottawa define the sums, the mechanisms and the clearing schedule promised to Quebec producers before the government of the Quebec enters the agreement. Mr. Lisée therefore urges the Liberal government to reiterate this demand, otherwise Quebec producers will be at the mercy of the moods of Canadian politicians. 
Messrs Lisée and Bergeron do not salute the potential gains that Quebec exporters will be able to achieve through the implementation of the agreement. "Our companies, anywhere in Quebec, will benefit from a certain comparative advantage in a 750 million consumer market," said Stéphane Bergeron, because the import rates, ranging from 6 to 16%, will be abolished on a large number. of our products, maple syrup with snowmobiles. Mr. Lisée also points out that the postponement of negotiations with a view to a similar agreement with the United States guarantees Quebec exporters a comparative advantage in Europe for a very long period. 
"Despite very favorable conditions for our exports, the Couillard Government admits that its management of the economy is so bad that the growth rate of our exports this year will only be 0.2%, further reports Stéphane Bergeron. . A government that knows can take advantage of the situation and the agreement with Europe to create much more economic activity in Quebec. » 
The head of the official opposition also reiterated the request, made in recent days in the National Assembly but rejected by the Liberals, of a parliamentary committee so that citizens and parliamentarians can read all of the elements of The agreement and judge its impact. 
"Quebeckers, such as Walloons and many other European and Canadian citizens, have legitimate questions and fears to express about several aspects of the agreement. The worst thing to do would be to want to adopt this agreement in the secret of the deliberations of the Council of Ministers, said M. Lisée. I do not understand why the Prime Minister Couillard refuses our request for the holding of a parliamentary committee on the subject. What is it afraid of? , "He concluded. 
