Boischatel- The Prime Minister of Quebec and MP for Charlevoix-Côte-de-Beaupré, Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announced the signing of a first partnership and enhancement agreement Cultural equipment, for the territories of the island of Orleans and Côte-de-Beaupré. This agreement represents an investment of $ 195,000, spread over three years. 
"This agreement reflects the importance and value that the Government of Quebec grants the maintenance of cultural infrastructures in our territories. This cultural facilities remain great crossroads to discover the footsteps of our past, the architectural know-how of our ancestors over the centuries or our magnificent landscaped heritage, "said Pauline Marois. 
The partnership agreement is based on two goals, or to strengthen and develop the positioning of the cultural and museum offer on the island of Orleans and the Côte-de-Beaupré, as well as to structure and equip and equip The cultural organizations of these territories in their organizational development. 
"We have in Quebec these timeless places we need to protect. I salute the will of all partners to support the cultural organizations of the island of Orleans and the Côte-de-Beaupré, which highlight the uniqueness of this beautiful corner of country. With this agreement, we all contribute together to raise awareness of Quebecers and Quebeckers and their history. I hope to see this type of announcement to be repeated in all regions of Quebec, "said Maka Kotto. 
In concrete terms, the agreement will lay the groundwork for partnership and consultation between cultural institutions and encourage the sharing of professional expertise. It also aims to increase support for promotional strategy projects. 
The event took place in the presence of Yves Germain, President of the Capitale-Nationale Regional Conference, and Alain Winter, President of the Local Development Center of Île-d'Orleans. 
"The agreement is perfectly part of the Five-Year Development Plan of the 2012-2017 Capitale-Nationale Development Plan, one of which is to affirm culture as a development pole. By promoting the sustainability of the organizations and cultural equipment of the two MRCs involved, it will allow them to continue to radiate the culture from here, in Quebec and abroad, thus contributing to the development of the tourism industry and At the vitality of the entire region, "said the President of the Capitale-National Regional Conference of the elected representatives, Yves Germain. 
"The MRCs of the Côte-de-Beaupré and Île-d'Orleans are recognized, with the city of Quebec, like the cradle of French America, because of the establishment of many families strains along their respective coasts. This historical peculiarity is highlighted by many of the cultural equipment targeted by the agreement. By supporting this equipment, it is part of the history of all Quebec that will continue to be protected and highlighted, "concluded the President of the Local Development Center of Île-d'Orleans, Alain Winter . 
This project results from the mobilization of five partners, which all participate financially. The financial contribution of the Ministry of Culture and Communications is $ 30,000 over three years and comes from the Program Assistance to Partnership Initiatives. The rest of the budget envelope is divided, always over a period of three years: $ 60,000 comes from the Capitale-Nationale Regional Conference, $ 45,000 from the Secretariat to the Capitale-Nationale, and 30,000. $, each of the local development centers of Côte-de-Beaupré and Île-d'Orleans. 
