Lavaltrie- On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the Minister responsible for the Lanaudière and MP region, Véronique Hivon, the member for Berthier, André Villeneuve, announces the signature of three agreements for the Lanaudière region. It is a regional specific agreement with the Lanaudière Creatus, a cultural development agreement with the AUTRAY MRC and another with the city of Lavaltria. The financial participation of the Ministry of Culture and Communications for these agreements, which amounted to $ 310,620, is granted under the Program Assistance to Partnership Initiatives. 
"Many cultural organizations make the Lanaudière region a dynamic and attractive living environment. I look forward to the signing of these agreements because it demonstrates the willingness of local partners to unite to promote the cultural development of citizens. The amounts invested will improve the quality of life and strengthen the identity sense of the community, "said Maka Kotto. 
"The renewal of the specific cultural development agreement for the Lanaudière region is the result of an exemplary collaboration of partners who pay the importance they deserve to culture, artistic creation and youth, for profit. From the community, "said Véronique Hivon. 
"For my part, I fully subscribe to the guidelines of cultural development agreements with the City of Lavaltrie and the D'Autray MRC. There is no doubt, a living culture guarantees prosperity and well-being for the entire population, "said André Villeneuve. 
This agreement is the fourth that the Ministry of Culture and Communications signs with La Cré de Lanaudière. The renewal, for a period of three years, will be in the continuity of previous agreements, but also in the change, by a new way of determining the actions that will be undertaken. Indeed, the partners of the agreement, following a consultation with the environment, determined that both living heritage and cultural tourism, the world of cinema and the cultural practice of amateur must be privileged as axes of development. In the region. 
Through this agreement, La Cré de Lanaudière and its partners want to promote the development of culture on their territory. The department injects $ 180,620 over three years, created $ 245,310, the Lanaudière Youth Forum $ 70,620 and leisure and sport Lanaudière $ 45,000. 
AUTRAY MRC plays a leading role in the cultural development of its territory. After having endowed with a cultural officer thanks to his membership of the Cities and Villages of Art and Heritage Program (VVAP) in 2009, the MRC has entered into a first cultural development agreement in 2011 following the adoption cultural policy. Tangible benefits from this first agreement, both in terms of accessibility to culture and the mobilization of community actors, motivated the negotiation of this Agreement. 
By renewing this agreement, the department is injecting $ 90,000 over three years. The MRC invests the same amount. 
This cultural development agreement is the third party that the Ministry signs with the city of Lavaltria. The latter has acquired a VVAP resource as early as 2007, and the adoption of its cultural policy dates back to May 2010. Since 1991, the city has experienced an increase of more than 50% of its population, composed largely of young families, this which had the effect of imposing an adjustment of its vision of cultural development. 
The city of Lavaltria plays a major role in the cultural development of its territory. The new cultural development agreement will bring together the various cultural and community and municipal environments, enhanceing the cultural offer. The leverage will reappear over the neighboring territories, especially through the development of historical links with the sister city of the south shore, reluctantly. 
The renewal of this agreement will generate an investment of $ 90,000 over two years. The government and the city of Lavaltria each grant a grant of $ 40,000. A third partner, Caisse Desjardins de d'AuTray, makes a contribution of $ 10,000. 
