Gatineau - Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the Minister of Public Safety and Minister responsible for the Outaouais Region, Stéphane Bergeron, announce the signing of two agreements for the Outaouais region. It is a cultural development agreement with the city of Gatineau and a specific regional agreement with the Regional Conference of the elected representatives of the Outaouais (Creo). The financial participation of the Ministry of Culture and Communications (MCC) for these agreements is $ 930,000. 
"By adopting a heritage policy, the city of Gatineau recognizes the heritage as a fundamental element of its identity and history. Heritage preservation contributes, on the one hand, to the sense of belonging to citizens to their environment, and on the other hand, to the economic, social and cultural growth of the municipality, "said Maka Kotto. 
In 2010-2011, the city of Gatineau held public consultations that allowed the population and cultural organizations to express themselves on heritage issues and to propose means of action corresponding to the needs of the Gatine community. In December 2012, the city of Gatineau adopted a heritage policy. 
In order to help the city in carrying out the action plan adopted in connection with its Heritage Policy, the MCC invests $ 770,000 over three years under the Partnership Initiatives Program. This amount includes MCC participation in a private heritage building restoration program, financial support for small patrimonial cultural infrastructure and a financial contribution to support Gatinian heritage development activities. 
The specific agreement announced today between the MCC and the Creo is the result of a regional consultation initiated in the context of the realization of a cultural diagnosis of the Outaouais, published in October 2013. according to the stakes determined in The framework of this exercise, the agreement comes in four components, the strengthening of the links between the culture and education circles, the consolidation of cultural organizations, the development of the cultural heritage of the Outaouais and , finally, cultural mediation and the development of entrepreneurship in culture. 
Creo is a privileged MCC partner in its cultural development actions in Outaouais. The MCC is co-signer of other agreements with this proceeding, an agreement in regional tourism, a cultural recreation agreement for young people and one in school perseverance. These partnership agreements have a structuring effect for the development of the cultural sector by promoting the pooling of resources and ideas. 
For this new Regional Agreement, lasting three years, the MCC pays $ 160,000 under the Partnership Initiatives Program. Thirteen other partners and regional stakeholders join the Creo to promote the development of culture on their territory. 
"The presence in the territory of many cultural organizations helps to make the Outaouais region a dynamic and attractive living environment. I welcome the signing of this agreement, because it demonstrates the willingness of local partners to unite in order to promote the cultural development of our region, "concluded Stéphane Bergeron. 
