Laval - taking advantage of the launch of the Laval Region's strategic planning, the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, the Mayor of Laval and President of the Regional Conference of Elected (Crés) of Laval, Mr. Alexandre Duplessis, the President and CEO of Laval Technopole, Mr. Pierre Desroches and President and Chief Executive Officer of Tourisme Laval, Ms. Andrée Courteau, signed the Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement aimed at promoting the development of the tourist offer . By 2015, an amount of $ 1,300,000 will be invested for the achievement of this objective. 
This agreement aims to concentrate investments in the tourism industry based on regional priorities and strengthen the role of partners in this process. The partners, Tourisme Québec, the secretariat in the metropolitan area, Laval Tourism, La Cre de Laval, the city of Laval and Laval Technopole, sit on the management committee of this agreement. According to the terms of the agreement, Tourisme Québec and Tourism Laval will each issue $ 500,000 until 2015, while La Cre de Laval is committed to paying $ 150,000. The city of Laval as well as Laval Technopole each will dedicate $ 75,000. 
"The renewal of this agreement is perfectly in line with the 2013-2018 directions for Strategic Planning in the Laval Region. By focusing on innovation and the development of new tourist experiences, I am convinced that Laval will continue to grow on the tourist chessboard. I would like to congratulate all the regional partners who have contributed to the development of this planning that will guide your actions over the next five years, "said Minister Bérubé. 
"The bonus of the Laval tourist offer will generate direct and indirect spin-offs that will benefit the entire metropolitan area, which will enable its cultural and economic vitality. I am confident that the projects selected will make the pride of Quebec, "said the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Mr. Jean-François Lisée. 
Let us mention that the first agreement (2008-2012) has, to date, contributed to the realization of eight tourist projects through $ 880,000 funding for total investments of nearly $ 35 million across the entire territory of Laval. 
"In tourism, many challenges await us. And the city of Laval will always support Laval tourism initiatives, which contribute to the economic development of Laval and in doing so, in our collective well-being, "the Mayor of Laval and President of La Cré de Laval, M. Alexandre Duplessis. 
"We are pleased to sign this agreement and new sources of funding recently announced by Minister Bérubé, and wants to be able to take advantage of these new measures to further realize the offer of innovative attractions and tourist services. . Laval Technopole works to identify and facilitate the realization of new possibilities! Laval Technopole, because of its mandate of economic development corporation, has also identified the recreational tourism sector as one of the six preferred development centers for the Laval region, "mentioned the President and CEO of Laval Technopole, M. Pierre Desroches. 
"In the next five years, we, actors in the tourism industry in the Laval region, will continue to collaborate and innovate to achieve our common goals. It is by synchronizing our efforts and our investments that we will stimulate growth and renew our offer. Thus, we can concretize our vision for 2018, that Laval will be recognized as a powerful tourist destination and appreciated for the quality and diversity of its offer, "continued the President of Tourisme Laval, Michel Galland. 
The project call is ongoing and interested tourist stakeholders are invited to consult the proponent's guide and file an application by completing the appropriate form atwww.tourismelaval.com/eprt. 
