Québec- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, confirms that his department is at work to facilitate the process leading to an authorization environmental. 
"We are, my department and I aware of the consequences that the times of obtaining an environmental authorization for applicants are creating. And we do not intend to stay inactive. Actions are put forward to accelerate the process of analyzing applications. Our goal is, among other things, to reduce the deadline for the administrative formalities of the applicants by 20% by 2015. The necessary human resources will be deployed accordingly, "said Minister Blanchet. 
The actions put forward by the MDDEFP are an integral part of its 2012-2015 regulatory and administrative simplification action plan that describes what the department intends to do to meet the recommendations of the Working Group on Regulatory and Administrative Simplification. 
Recall that, on 24 January 2013, the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, announced the creation of a monitoring committee on the implementation of the 63 recommendations of the Report of the Working Group on Regulatory Simplification and administrative. Four recommendations of this report specifically affect the MDDEFP. They relate to regulation and administrative formalities in the environment and the MDDEFP has committed itself to follow up. 
"By improving support for authorization applicants, the process leading up to obtaining the authorization is facilitated, in particular by receiving more comprehensive files when receiving applications for authorization. In fact, the receipt of complete files is the key element for the quick emission of authorizations, "continued the minister. 
The MDDEFP also intends to determine a number of legal and regulatory adjustments to be offered to alleviate and simplify the project authorization and monitoring process. 
It is important to mention that even though various actions are put forward to facilitate an environmental authorization, this is done with the desire to maintain the same high standards for environmental protection. 
.  The MDDEFP Regulatory and Administrative Simplification Action Plan 2012-2015 can be consulted on the Department's website at www.mddefp.gouv.qc.ca/ministere/simplification/plan-action-ranglement- administrative.pdf 
