Montréal - Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Jean-François Lisée, in collaboration with the Minister of Health and Social Services, Réjean Hébert, and the Minister of the Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto announces the creation of a group of experts who will decide on the future of excess buildings of the CHUM and MUHC. This announcement is in the wake of the work carried out by the Interministerial Committee set up last June to identify reuse scenarios for these buildings. 
The Group of Experts, composed of Marie Lessard, Claude Corbo and Cameron Charlebois, is mandated to make recommendations to the Interdepartmental Committee on the most relevant reuse scenarios for the future of these buildings. To do this, the Group will have to make sure to consult the parties interested in this file and to consider different possibilities. 
"I am very pleased that these three credible people have agreed to be part of this group of experts. I trust their vision, expertise and overall knowledge of the issues, which will allow them to do a judicious analysis and advisory recommendations. Given the potential and the invaluable value of these strategic places located at the heart of the metropolis, the decisions we need to do are crucial and are part of the dynamics of revitalization of the metropolis that our government supports, "says the minister listed. 
The next move of the activities of the current hospitals to the new Hospital Centers of the CHUM and the CSC requires informed decisions about the future and the process of disposition of the following buildings: the Hôtel-Dieu, part of the hospital Notre-Dame, the Royal Victoria Hospital, the Montreal Thoracic Institute and the Montreal Children's Hospital. The various issues involved requires taking into consideration the financial, urban and heritage, social and community contexts as well as the particularities of each of the buildings heavily located in the Montreal urban landscape. Many of them have a remarkable historical and patrimonial value that will require the greatest discernment in the search for their new vocation. 
The group of experts who will support the Interdepartmental Committee will, in the light of the work already done and following its consultations, to submit a first opinion on December 15, followed by a report in March 2014. 
It is Marie Lessard, a professor at the Institute of Urbanism of the Université de Montréal and Member Emeritus of the Order of Planners of Quebec, who acts as Chair of the Expert Group. She gave advice on development projects that affect territories or heritage buildings. Doctor in philosophy, author of several books in Education and President of the Mont-Royal Consultation Table, Claude Corbo was a professor and rector of UQÀM for several years. It has to its credit many achievements that have resulted in expert reports, particularly on behalf of the government. Architect and Experience Manager, Cameron Charlebois holds extensive experience in the areas of urban development and architecture, as well as in research and university education. 
