Québec- As, today, the Automnal Parliamentary Session, the member for Saint-Jérôme and Official Opposition Leader, Pierre Karl Péladeau, again arrested Prime Minister Philippe Couillard on the necessity and urgency of Establish measures that will stimulate economic development and job creation in Quebec, and which will create wealth for cutting, particularly in education. 
"This summer, the economic situation of Quebec has continued to deteriorate, particularly in terms of employment. Since last June, Quebec has 13,600 more unemployed. The reason for this continued fall is very simple: the government has no strategy for job creation. To help find solutions, I therefore ask him again to summon, as soon as possible, the main artisans of Quebec economic development at a summit meeting, "reiterated the official opposition. 
Pierre Karl Péladeau also recalled that at the end of the first three months of the 2015 fiscal year, the Quebec deficit was $ 675 million. However, to overcome this shortfall, instead of presenting a real economic and industrial policy that would increase our revenues, the Prime Minister has decided to cut in what is more important for a community: education. "I invite the Prime Minister to start a reflection on the means to create wealth in Quebec. Governing, it is not just compressions and increase taxes and tariffs to balance the budget; A good government will act on the income column instead to stimulate growth and avoid weakening taxpayers. He must also go for all the incomes being within reach; For example, how does the Liberals have not yet tackled tax losses in connection with buying online, as the retail industry has long been claimed? Would not this be a good start? ", he added. 
"The Prime Minister will continue his ideological cuts that asphyxious families and compromise the future of a whole generation, or did it take advantage of the summer to prepare a real development policy, which will whip 'economy and job creation, and who will enrich Quebeckers? , Asked, in closing, the head of the official opposition. 
