Quebec- The hon. Member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and sentence of the official opposition on international relations, Carole Poirier, and the hon. Member for Sanguinet and Spokesman for Treasury Board, Alain Therrien, question the fact that six Ministers will accompany the Prime Minister at his next mission in France, as part of the 18th alternating meeting of Quebec and French prime ministers, while the government cuts everywhere and that austerity strikes the families of Quebec. Today in the room, the elected officials discussed the motion on this subject tabled yesterday by Carole Poirier. 
"In the process of austerity and compressions in all State services, particularly in the delegations of Quebec abroad, the Prime Minister and six ministers will go on a mission in France. What will they all go to Paris and Bordeaux for a week? What will be the concrete results of this mission? What is the program of this visit in France which would justify the presence of six ministers? ", Questioned Carole Poirier. 
Remember that generally, only one or two ministers accompany the Prime Minister during this type of mission. The participation of six ministers represents a delegation of about 20 or 25 people, without counting preliminary visits to the mission. So we can think that the costs of this mission will probably be several hundred thousand dollars. 
"The government's compressions are numerous and they attack local development, regions and families of hard work. We only have to think, for example, to the cuts in help with homework, secondary spectacles, hat, girls!, CLDs, created ... The government has even played with the safety of citizens by restricting the movements of civil servants to limit costs. The upcoming mission, with six ministers and the prime minister, will cost taxpayers. But what benefits will they withdraw? Philippe Couillard must preach by example and limit the number of ministers who will accompany him, "said Alain Therrien. 
The motion reads as follows: 
"That the National Assembly takes note that the Liberal government is asking Quebec families to tighten the government's belt and employees to limit travel expenses, including internationally; 
That the National Assembly requires the Prime Minister that he preaches by the example and that the Ministerial Delegation laid down in France next week is limited to the Prime Minister accompanied by two ministers, and not to the Prime Minister accompanied by six ministers. » 
"The France-Quebec relationship is direct and privileged, and we hold there deeply. However, by sending six ministers, the government tries to catch up for its absence during the tribute to the victims of Charlie Weekly and for the increase of 300% of tuition for French students, including. It is a clumsy show that will cost, especially since if we rely on the poor results of the Prime Minister's economic mission in Davos, it is permissible to doubt its results, "concluded Carole Poirier. 
