Quebec- The Vice-Premier Ministre The Troy de l'l'feederies East Proire Printage, M. Gym-news, at the German assemblance desprix de l "Elicry of Sélection Caseus, Le Concours des High Estate Fesu. For the Périté of Bunént of the activities The activities у H-Enjoy Souligner l'Excellence des Departs QuedbéCois. 
"It's important for me to pay tribute to the know-how of our cheese producers. Your commitment, energy and passion that drives you certainly contribute to the radiation of Quebec cheeses, while meeting the needs of consumers and satisfying cheese lovers, "said the minister. 
CPEATE Année, The Caseus d'épetick, SA Élizabeth-de-warwick, feus in plue amoré in plussie writer Puisque l bleu of Julizabeth Remport the or limb a few seconds of the Presbytrers' stername if Voice Reviews Caseus Ester. As a location d'Argent, Irtired Ages the Subscribeally as a set up onage Le Mont-Jacob DECERTE, we ordreams. Pitus in the horse Length The Frutthe Nouvelle, and inagenne du Presbyturer, Pour LEur ofage Pionnier. Infin, the proidus the tÉity short chaent to the freeteric state at the Station of the Alfred Le Fermier 24 Mois; CE NUVEUA PENECRIE SOURE BAST ENGE ALERVIDE ME SHA OF SO So SOS CAPY DULIERET LEGREE. 
On the occasion of the ceremony, which brought together more than 200 start-up partners, François Gendron awarded a total of 24 distinctions highlighting the great cheeses of the year among the 165 products entered in the contest by more than 40 cheese factories. 
"I am proud to support Caseus selection. It is an important contest that direct the spotlights on the talents from home and that, at the same time, informs consumers about cheeses made in Quebec. In addition, by contributing to the rise of the cheese sectors and the food processing of Quebec, this activity fits well in the spirit of the policy of food sovereignty, "concluded the minister. 
Le Ministre de Agriculture, des Pêchemies E de L'espetition Es Usie With Cotta Competition. The Institort of Technology Venuses, Campus de son Expertise, Permite A Shopition in the organisant Le Jugmentet the Showdeacter. Plus précisément, institor towards the level of indeugion to the couggerule. By a jury de 21 SPEISAL 100 SpecialS. 
For more information on the Caseus Selection Contest or for finalist and winning cheeses, visit the websitewww.selectioncaseus.ca. 
In addition, for more information on food sovereignty policy, we invite you to regularly consult the blog (www.politicsa.gouv.qc.ca) or the website (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa ) from the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
