The leader of the Québécois party, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the candidates Pascal Bérubé (Matane-Matapédia) and Méganne Perry-Melançon (Gaspé), today presented robust measures to ensure Quebec women workers. their rights. 
Based on a survey of the Labor Standards Commission, Mr Lisée and his colleagues denounced the practice of a minority of bosses that steal each year with 250,000 non-unionized workers over $ 350 million in compensation, while they are entitled to it. 
The time has also come to better support self-employed workers, creating in particular for them a group insurance that will provide them with adequate social benefits, and to amend the Labor Code to better adapt it to the current challenges of the labor market. 
IN SHORT 
"The Parti Québécois, it is known, has a favorable prejudice towards workers. In 2018, we are still at the rendezvous for those who, every day, get up to build, treat, serve, create, advance Quebec. We do remains the delinquent patterns; They can not help to continue underphanking 250,000 non-unionized workers. And our measures are addressed both self-employed and employees, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
"We will first attack on the file of non-respect of the minimum wage, as well as that of overtime and unpaid leave, has affirmed Megan Perry-Melançon. Too many employers abuse. Each year, the CNESST receives thousands of complaints in this regard. These injustices must stop. Quebec is mature for a government that will defend workers, who will apply and enforce the Labor Standards Act! » 
We will get there by empowering and mobilizing employers' organizations, we will deploy the resources of the CNESST to combat these offenses (and add, if necessary), we will produce an awareness campaign and publish an annual survey to measure progress. 
In addition, we know, it can be more difficult for a self-employed to have access to a group insurance. "Quebec has nearly 500,000 self-employed, which contribute to all economic sectors. We will put in place a service to help them use the strength of the number to get at a lower cost of collective assurance and a complementary pension program, "has added Pascal Bérubé. 
For seasonal workers who are victims of the "black hole" (without resources for weeks, between the end of their services and the resumption of their work), we will lead the fight with Ottawa and consider tracks with the RCMs concerned to offer jobs of short duration. 
We will complete the reform of the Labor Health and Safety Act. We will also act to renovate several elements of the Labor Code, and we will protect the rights of domestic workers. 
Finally, to ensure each worker a decent standard of living, regardless of his employment, a government of the Parti Québécois will gradually increase the minimum wage to $ 15 per hour, within a first term. "We will establish a continuous evaluation mechanism of the measure, to ensure that the positive effects clearly exceed the negative effects. Whether in the tourism sector, in the agricultural field, for SMEs or community organizations, no one should perceive the increase in the minimum wage such as a burden, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
For more information, click here. 
For our explanatory sheet, click here. 
