The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, the candidate in the riding of Rimouski, Harold Lebel, and the candidate in Rivière-du-Loup, Vincent Couture, announced several measures to improve the living conditions of seniors. "It is time for society, and more particularly our health system, adapts to the needs, the realities of seniors and their families; A government government will provide care, services, recognition and dignity to seniors, "they declared. 
IN SHORT 
And ChsLD 
"After 15 years of liberal reign, a finding is necessary: the living conditions of seniors, particularly in CHSLD, have deteriorated a lot. We saw it with the sad episodes of the second bath and "powdered potatoes": the austerity did very badly. It has led to rationing care, dehumanization, and a lot of distress among caregivers. It is unworthy of a state like Quebec, "summed up Jean-François Lisée. 
The Parti Québécois is committed to climatizing CHSLDs by the summer of 2019. "We will unlock money from the Québec Infrastructure plan to air conditioning all CHSLDs that can be. We know that the guns are called to multiply in the future, and it is not possible to tolerate that seniors suffocate into their living environment, "chained the leader of the Quebecois party. 
Among the other proposed measures, mention that a government government will add $ 200 million to the amounts already allocated to the PQI to make the necessary renovations in the chsld died. We will also ensure the presence of dental hygienists and teams of pharmacists and nurses. Finally, we will give the Protector of the Citizen the mandate to investigate the living conditions in the CHSLDs. 
In society 
"Today's seniors are the people who have helped build the prosperous, open and proud society in which we live. Yet, many of them have difficulty joining the two ends. This situation causes stress, has some effects on health, can even lead to isolation. This is why we will introduce a tax credit "Solidarity Seniors"; We want all elders to at least meet their basic needs, "said Harold Lebel. 
In addition, people aged 65 and over who remain active in the labor market are still numerous. We also think of them. "If they wish, they will be able to stop contributing to the Quebec rensente system. In other words, they will keep the equivalent of their contributions in their pockets, as if their salary increased by more than 5%! Their retirement will continue to be borne by the employer who will remain required to contribute, "said Vincent Couture. 
Then, it is known, the elderly, for the most part, want to stay as long as possible at home. They will be given the means to do it. "Finished, rationing! A Parti Québécois government will improve the 900,000 hours' home care supply from the first year of its mandate. Our plan also includes measures to support close caregivers and promote the deployment of supervised housing, "added Jean-François Lisée. 
"We know what to do now, and we will put these measures in place immediately. The government must achieve the importance of the aging of the population. We must think about what will happen in 10, 15 or 20 years, and prepare the ground. We will launch general states on the living conditions of seniors, "said Harold Lebel. 
Finally, the Parti Québécois will take every means to encourage seniors to remain active and engaged in their community, and to break the isolation in which many of them live. "In Quebec, we are ripe for a government of the Parti Québécois; A government that will have heart and who will work for all elders to live in dignity, "the chief concluded. 
For more information, click here. 
