The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the candidates Catherine Fournier (Marie-Victorin), Dave Turcotte (Saint-Jean) and Jean-Martin Aussant (Pointe-aux-Trembles), offer Quebeckers the "Great Simplification Relationships between the state and citizens: finished, faxes, duplication and paperwork! 
IN SHORT 
"During their Quebec tours, our teams priority SME and solidarity in action, among others, found it: do business with the state, it is complicated. The testimonies of entrepreneurs, elders and citizens in general went much in this direction. Rigid Standards, Multiplication of Forms, Indus Delays ... It's time to do better, and we are committed to simplifying the processes that govern the relationship between the state and Quebeckers, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
"Healthy, for example: why, in 2018, should we still contact our doctor by fax, while new technologies are so easy to use, so effective and fast? Requirements, appointments, etc. : We will go to email or even to the text. We will finally arrive in the 21st century. Finished, too, the undue delays for obtaining a license or certificate of authorization. Public bodies will no longer be able to wait at the last minute to point out that a document is missing and resetting the counter; They will have to inform the applicant immediately, and still respect the 90-day regulatory deadline, "illustrated Dave Turcotte. 
"We will also apply the rule of" once is enough ". That is, it will henceforth be the responsibility of the state to seek the information that a citizen or that a SME has already provided. We will also make sure that when a child changes CPE or a patient changes from family doctor, for example, folders are transferred automatically, "added Catherine Fournier. 
The government of the Quebecois party intends to set up "squads of simplification", mixed teams of people in the sector concerned and specialists from the government apparatus. "These squads will move on the ground, and adopt the citizens' point of view with the aim of facilitating, to alleviate their relations with the state. If there is a question of agriculture, they will have to think like a farmer. If you talk about children with disabilities, they will have to put themselves instead of their parents. In addition, people will be able to send them directly their recommendations. The Protector of the Citizen will also be involved, if she wished, echoing, with the squads, complaints she receives, "said Jean-Martin. 
"Now, it is the state, and no longer the citizen, who will have to find a solution when a problem comes up. Let the entrepreneurs work, let parents take care of their children, let the close carers be careful. And then we will proceed to the ultimate simplification, to the one that will eliminate all the duplication with Ottawa: the independence of Quebec, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
