Québec- "Accessibility to home care is deteriorating in Quebec because the Liberal government neglects the implementation of a government policy adopted in 2003. It is an alarm cry of the Protector of the Citizen after a vast investigation. When will the Liberal government realize that it does not do enough? » 
This is what the hon. Member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and the official opposition spokeswoman for seniors, Carole Poirier, after reading the investigation report published today. 
The hon. Member notes that the Protector of the Citizen considers that, if the Liberal government had applied the government policy unveiled by the previous government, our elders would be better neat, better treated, and this in dignity. "Clearly, what is learning today is that we have taken ten years late. It's totally inconceivable, "Carole Poirier insurgered. 
The Parti Québécois is little surprised by the many gaps raised by the Protector of the Citizen who denounces the increase in waiting times, the addition of exclusion criteria and the decrease of hours of services by imposing hours of hours. 
"This is an extremely worrying situation, especially for heavily disabled people who are directly concerned. For two people with disabilities in the same state but living in two different regions, there is a huge disparity in the offer of services. It is incomprehensible, "said the hon. Member for Saint-Hyacinthe and spokesperson for people with disabilities, Emilien Pelletier. 
The member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve estimates the measure announced in the last budget that the Liberal government takes the turn of home care by raising $ 93 per year the tax credit for caregivers. "It's insignificant. How do you want to change the situation radically if we barely barely 25 cents a day for a natural caregiver? ", Questions Carole Poirier. 
"At the Québécois Party, we believe urgent and necessary that Quebec makes an important turn by investing massively in home care. This is how we can offer better care, more dignity, "concluded Carole Poirier. 
