Quebec, May 22, 2020 - The member of the Madeleine Islands and spokesperson for the Quebecois Health Party, Joël Arseneau, the member for Rimouski and Spokesperson for Social Services and for Seniors, Harold Lebel, as well as the hon. Member for Bonaventure and Experience in Work, Sylvain Roy, positively welcome the government's new position for home care. However, they point out that for it to work, sector workers, especially those of the private, must enjoy increased recognition. 
IN SHORT 
The Québécois party has been planning for years that we focus on home care, a more humane and less expensive way to take care of people. But last Wednesday in virtual commission, the Minister responsible for Elders, Marguerite Blais, said she supported the idea. Joël Arseneau is delighted. "The turn is more than desirable. The elderly, loss of autonomy or disabled hold, for the vast majority, to remain at home. We must therefore provide them with services. But it is still necessary to recognize the sector workers at fair value, among others, those of the private, "he insisted. 
It is indeed essential, since 80% of home services are provided by private agents. "At present, in the public, the hourly rate is between $ 21 and $ 25. But private workers earn around $ 14, $ 15 per hour. It is urgent that the Government adopts a decree to increase this salary, "continued Harold Lebel, reiterating the remarks he sent on 24 April to the Minister of Labor, Jean Boulet, in virtual commission. 
Moreover, on April 28, the same application was made to the Minister by the Quebec Union of Service Employees and Employees (SQEES) and the Social Economy Economics Cooperation Network (EESAD). Since then, despite the urgency, these groups, many others and, above all, the attendants are waiting. 
"Believing the last exchanges, the public sector negotiations will certainly allow the salary of the 12% employees. In comparison, we offer only temporary premiums from 8% to those of the private. So, we have a double problem: on the one hand, we lack work, because the attendants are tempted to go to work in chsld, and, on the other hand, it will be more and more difficult to recruit, "has warned Sylvain Roy. 
In short, if it really wishes to support home care, the Government must move and adopt as soon as possible a decree that will give the beneficiary attendants of the conditions reflecting the importance of their function, and all the consideration of their work deserves . 
