Quebec- The Quebec Party spokesperson for social services, youth protection, home care, public health and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, the spokesperson for seniors, Harold Lebel, and The spokesperson for health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, deems insufficient amounts announced for home care in Quebec. 
"In April, we denounced the government's improvisation and asked for a significant reinvestment. Today's announcement remains below expectations; These are the same 60 million already announced. It is far from the liberal promise of 150 million more per year for home care. Another commitment not required by this government, which has unfortunately used us to the breakage of promise. We would also like to know how the distribution of the amounts has been made by region, while the needs will remain glaring in many of them, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
"At least the minister finally stored our arguments: home maintenance should have been a priority for 2 years since it meets real needs while saving money and time spent at the time. emergency. It's not only important for our elders, but also for caregivers. There are major problems to be resolved for home care of our elders, such as lack of resources, deadlines and regional disparities. The amounts invested must match the needs, "added Harold Lebel. 
Diane Lamarre recalls that this breakdown of promise is added to other promises not held by the Liberal health of health. "Whether for the million Quebeckers who still do not have a family doctor or emergencies that overflow, the Minister Barrette has spoken a lot, but did not keep his commitments. Liberal austerity has drawn significant amounts in the network and care offered to citizens have been affected, whatever the Liberal government says. When needs are increasing, budgets need to increase. However, the Minister did not provide home support the amounts needed to keep the services offered. As a result, many people have seen their home support hours decrease in the last 2 years, while their needs increased. Promising $ 150 million a year and welcome it to offer $ 60 million 2 years later, it's Berner Quebeckers, "said Diane Lamarre. 
