Quebec- The member for Rimouski and the official opposition spokeswoman in the fighturing poverty, solidarity and social economy, Harold Lebel denounced the attitude of the Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Sam Hamad, which seems unable to give clear and sensible guidelines for the application of the social solidarity program, preferring to manage on a case-by-case basis. 
"Every day, practically, brings us a new story that commands a response from the minister. Yesterday morning, we learned that a deaf man suffering from cerebral palsy was targeted by social assistance, which asked him to reimburse sums received from his relatives who want to support him. Sam Hamad had to intervene personally. A few days ago, we denounce the case of a young trisomic adult, beneficiary of social solidarity, which could not leave the country more than seven consecutive days, due to a new regulation; Again, the minister had to correct the shot. Sam Hamad lost control of his social assistance program, or he wishes to solve each case individually to look like good guy, "said Harold Lebel. 
If he intends to continue to operate in this way counterproductive, the minister will have to deal with: from July 1, 431 providers will have to sell everything they own, including their property, to comply with the new standards. department. "It's foolish to ask someone to sell his home to qualify for social assistance. Where will these people stay, afterwards? Will they have to sell at a loss, a possibility that raised, already, the protector of the citizen? Considering, moreover, that they will have to sell all the money from the sale of their house before redialing a welfare, the minister is aware that this measure is only going to impoverish them more? And what about people soon eligible to receive benefits from the Régie des Pentes, or close caregivers? For now, we have no answer to these fundamental questions, "continued the spokesperson. 
Harold Lebel therefore asks the Minister Sam Hamad to make adjustments to his social solidarity program, a question of clarifying the way forward, not only for the beneficiaries, but also for his department, called upon to apply his guidelines. "We need to end on a case-by-case basis and, above all, give people who need adequate support that will actually help them improve their fate," he concluded. 
