Montréal- On the occasion of the interdisciplinary summit on accessibility to health care organized by the grouping of general practitioner physicians for committed medicine, the member for Taillon and the official opposition on health and accessibility At the care, Diane Lamarre, took the floor in front of a few hundred people together to discuss solutions that could improve access to services and health care in Quebec. 
"Given the improvisation of the Minister of Health - who disrupts our health system without prior consultation - and his intransigence, we meet today to launch a message: his approach is not the good and the" wall " to wall ", it does not work. A solution as simplistic as Bill 20 will not solve a problem as complex as the lack of accessibility to our public health system. If he really wants to improve the situation, the minister must bring together all the actors concerned and engage in realistic solutions, whose effects will result in less waiting for the emergency, by better access to family physicians and Other professionals, as well as by real interdisciplinarity, "said Diane Lamarre. 
Human solutions 
The member also emphasized the importance of developing solutions based on the needs of the population, and not based on those of health professionals. She recalled that the great users of our emergencies, some 250,000 patients alone account for nearly 50% of hospitalizations. However, interdisciplinary collaboration could avoid a lot of recourse to the hospital and provide, in addition, a decrease of relapses. For all citizens, you have to plan a better trajectory of care. The urgency rate is only a symptom, because the real problems of our health system are before and after. Among the actions of action that will delineal emergencies, to face the aging of the population and, above all, to save significant sums that can then be reinvested in care and prevention, the member has proposed : 
realize a real interdisciplinarity between health professionals; 
Take a turn to care and home support; 
to activate to computerize the health network; 
ensure greater accountability of each of the actors; 
"I wish to salute the instigators and instigating this summit; They managed to mobilize a significant number of citizens, health professionals, students and representatives of associations and federations from the entire health network. Together, today and tomorrow, they will discuss access to care and offer carrier solutions for the future of our public health network. I thank them once again for their daily commitment and their willingness to ensure that our health system is accessible to all, at the right time, and, above all, proportionally effective at the substantial sums devoted to it, "concluded the member. taillon. 
