Rio de Janeiro- "Quebec, once again, has not been able to impose itself in the negotiations of the United Nations Conference on the Sustainable Development of Rio 2012. It is indeed Canada that spoke on our behalf . Nor did it not yet be distinguished from the international community, because of its very mixed balance in sustainable development and climate change. » 
That said the member for the Assumption and Spokesman for the Official Opposition on the Environment, Sustainable Development and Parks, Scott McKay, at the end of an active participation at the top of the Earth in Rio this week. 
The member found that the Northern Marketing Plan of the Liberal regime was the subject of severe criticism by many stakeholders and international non-governmental organizations. The obvious lack of efforts to ensure a real participation of all Quebeckers in northern development and more particularly indigenous communities in place is an important source of reproach. Added to this the absence of concrete and accurate measures, based on scientific and international criteria, in order to ensure the protection of our protected areas. 
"At the Parti Québécois, our approach to the protection of ecosystems is based on science and the deep knowledge of the territory of people who live there and live there. The lack of funding to support Nordic communities in the ecological planning of the territory demonstrates the real interest and understanding of the real challenges of the Liberal government of Jean Charest in sustainable development, "said the member for the 'Assumption. 
"In Rio, Canada continues to shame. Canadian participation has helped to fail crucial initiatives, such as the end of oil subsidies and those that provide the financing of the transition to a green economy for developing countries, "said Scott McKay. He also noted that "Canada deserved a fossil price in Rio considering its blocking attitude on all points likely to make significant progress for the environment. Canadian representation in Rio has exceeded to defeat negotiations. This policy goes against the interests and values of Quebecers, "added the spokesman. 
The Parti Québécois reproaches Prime Minister Jean Charest not to have taken the initiative to claim a participating status for Quebec at his head-of-the-head with the Executive Secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on the United Nations. Climate change, Christiana Figueres. "A sovereign Quebec would register among the nations actively struggling against climate change, but given the threat to our interests, it is urgent that the commitment of Quebec to the Kyoto Protocol is recognized within the International community. It is therefore necessary to implement everything in order to be recognized a particular status in the context of post-Kyoto discussions. Similar precedents exist, it is simply necessary to have courage and determination, "said Scott McKay. 
"This mission in Rio has allowed me to multiply trade with, in particular, stakeholders engaged in the sustainable development of Francophonie and several countries around the world. I also saw on the spot a real disinterest of Jean Charest in front of the process of negotiating the conference, which left the free field in Ottawa. Due to the challenges and major challenges of Quebec's sustainable development and the entire international community, this attitude is unacceptable and is not worthy of a Quebec Prime Minister, "concluded Scott McKay. 
