Quebec- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, has received with satisfaction the progress report on the financing of the universities filed by the Co-Chairs, Ms. Hélène P. Tremblay and Mr. Pierre Roy. 
"I thank the co-chairs for the excellent work done so far. A first critical analysis of the current funding policy to guide its revision is now done. This report highlights important issues that will be considered in the Final Report on Universities' Funding Policy, to highlight Minister Duchesne. 
This progress report follows a last summer consultation with experts and university partners. Their many submissions have made it possible to fuel the reflections of the co-chairs. This progress report will be the subject of a consultation in the winter of 2014, which will deepen the issues on the financing of universities and to submit recommendations to the Minister when the final report expected for June 2014. 
It should be remembered that the co-chairs of the university financing projects are mandated to propose a new funding policy better adapted to the reality of the universities and those of students, including changes to the funding formula of the universities. In addition, the co-chairs will have to propose a fair contribution from non-resident students of Quebec to the funding of the university system. 
They must also address the issue of mandatory institutional costs (FIO), a request from the summit participants who has been accepted by the Prime Minister and the Minister. They must also consider the issues associated with the implementation of a revised funding policy. 
The progress report and accompanying document entitled "Main basic indicators and statistics on Quebec universities" are available online at the following address: http: //www.messst.gouv.qc.ca/sommet/ Work construction sites / policies-of-the-universities / documents-and-memoires /. 
The Higher Education Summit was an opportunity for the Government to announce the establishment of five work sites. Since then, three reports have already been filed, that on financial assistance for studies, that on the National Council of Universities and the Framework Law of Universities. The last two reports, which will come from projects on the policy of financing universities and the offer of collegial training, are expected for the month of June 2014.  For more information on construction sites, visitwww.messst.gouv.qc.ca/Changes. 
