Quebec- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, is pleased to highlight the work done since the Dusommet on Higher Education, there is already a year ago . 
"I am very proud of the road traveled for a year. The summit put an end to the worst social crisis that Quebec has known in the last 25 years. It has initiated significant reforms in higher education. It was also an opportunity to rebuild bridges and restore dialogue between generations. For the first time since the spring of 2012, all the actors of the education network were gathered around the same table, "said Minister Duchesne. 
Following consensus on the occurrence and the reports of the building sites, structuring measures have been put in place to ensure and maintain accessible and quality higher education for all: 
More than 7,000 people received a scholarship for the first time this year thanks to the increase in the ceiling of the parental contribution. This measure is the result of the site on financial assistance to studies that contributes to promoting access to higher education; 
More than 120,000 people have seen their scholarship increase as a result of project bonuses on financial assistance for studies and measures arising from the summit. It will be the first time since 1985 that the Government of Quebec will give more scholarships than loans, since in 2013-2014, 52% of the financial assistance granted will take the form of scholarships and 48% will be in the form of loans; 
Additional financial assistance of $ 5 million is granted to CEGEPs to strengthen support for students with special needs; 
An injection of $ 15 million annually for the creation of the colleges-universities laughazing program will improve collaboration and synergy between these two levels; 
Nearly 34,500 people in financial difficulty will receive a bonus of the support program for the deferred refund of their study debt; 
The bills arising from the site on the National Council of Universities and the Site on the Universities Framework Act are in drafting for a deposit in the National Assembly as soon as possible. The final reports of the projects on the funding policy of the universities and on the offer of collegial training are, for their part, expected in June 2014; 
A reinvestment of nearly $ 1.8 billion will be injected into our universities until 2018-2019. 
The summit was preceded by four thematic encounters. These focused on the quality of education, accessibility and participation in higher education, governance and funding for universities and the contribution of educational and research institutions to the development of the entire Quebec. 
Citizens were able to express themselves on the occasion of the four citizens assemblies in different regions of Quebec and during the holding of a "special summit" winter school in collaboration with the New World Institute (INM). 
The Summit on Higher Education took place on 25 and 26 February 2013 in the presence of the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois. It brought together 350 people and resulted in solutions to ensure the future of our CEGEPs and our universities. 
The government has also seized the opportunity to innovate and be transparent, allowing all interested persons to be able to follow the summit discussions and to participate. In addition to setting up a Facebook page and a website, all deliberations have been webcasts live. This has allowed more than 10,000 people to follow trade and participate in real time. 
"If many had predicted a failure, it is clear today that the summit was a great success. Fifty years after the creation of the Ministry of Education, our government has asked important gestures with its partners to enhance our CEGEPs and our universities so that they can play their roles. As I said several times, the summit was not the end but the beginning of important and necessary reforms, "concluded Minister Duchesne. 
Highlights 
A year ago, more specifically on 25 and 26 February 2013, stood theommet on higher education. 
The summit, in numbers, it is: 
