Quebec- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, announces the financial contribution of $ 1 million for the holding of the International Summit of Cooperatives, this global event that will be held simultaneously At the Congress Center of Quebec City and that of Lévis, from 8 to 11 October 2012. No less than 156 internationally renowned speakers and 2,000 leaders and delegates from 90 countries are expected. 
"Through its support at the International Cooperative Summit, the Quebec government recognizes the primary role of cooperatives in the Quebec economy. We are very pleased to support this event that will promote the benefits of the cooperative model and its important contribution to Quebec's economic and social development. The summit will shine our talent and our entrepreneurial spirit at the international level, "said Minister Zakaïb. 
The International Cooperative Summit will be a networking place that will evolve the cooperative and mutual business model. The actors present will discuss global socio-economic issues and explore new development approaches. 
Cooperatives are innovative and dynamic companies that generate significant spin-offs in Quebec. They also represent a model of prosperity and entrepreneurial success. Indeed, the survival rate of cooperatives is almost double that of traditional businesses, or 62% after five years. Some 3,300 cooperatives and 44 mutuals are active in Quebec, among others in the financial and insurance sectors, the agri-food, food, dwelling and forest industry. According to the most recent statistics, these companies generate 92,000 jobs, including nearly two-thirds are in the region. 
"Quebec is a leader in cooperative development. Our cooperatives are bold, creative and prosperous; They represent an important economic force throughout the territory. The Government of Quebec is a long-standing partner of the cooperative movement. We share common concerns about economic and social development. In this respect, by setting up the Bank for Economic Development, we are committed to doing more by supporting, among other things, the social economy, "concluded the Élain Minister Zakaïb. 
