Quebec - Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, positively hosts Ms. Lise Bissonnette's report and Mr. John R. wear on a framework law of universities . This report marks the end of the work of a third project resulting from the higher education held last February. 
"I salute the important reflection introduced to me by Ms. Lise Bissonnette and Mr. John R. Porter and I would like to thank them. This report contains interesting proposals that will clarify the mission of universities in Quebec. In the reach of the recommendations made by the co-chairs of the site, a comprehensive analysis of the report will be undertaken by my department to give the appropriate suites, "said Minister Duchesne. 
Remember that during the four preparatory meetings at the Summit on Higher Education, many have expressed the wish that Quebec universities have clear and consensual guidelines and policies as to their management, mission and values. The co-chairs of the site had as a mandate to produce a proposal for a framework law chapper the whole university system. 
The report contains several recommendations on elements to be considered for the presentation to the National Assembly of a Framework Bill. In particular, the inclusion, in the draft framework law, a preamble that sets out the university's mission, the values it must promote and the commitment of the State to defend it and to the support. It is also a question of the recognition of the autonomy of each of the university educational institutions and the requirement for each of them to equip itself with a code of practice that supervises their operation. 
"From the outset, this report confirms that it is time to modernize certain laws in force for several decades. The development of the Framework Bill, as is the establishment of the National Council of Universities, will be realized in the coming months in compliance with the mission and autonomy of universities, "said Minister Duchesne. 
The full report and recommendations is available online at www.messt.gouv.qc.ca/le-sommet/les-chairs-de-travail/une-loi-cadre-des-universites . 
Remember that the Summit on Higher Education was an opportunity for the Government to announce the establishment of five extensive work projects. The next reports, the one on the offer of collegial training and that on a policy of financing universities, are expected for the month of June 2014. 
For more information on construction sites, visit Lehttp: //www.mersst.gouv.qc.ca/Changes. 
