Quebec- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, received with satisfaction the report of Mr. Claude Corbo on a National Council of Universities. This report marks the end of the work of a second building site only after the Higher Education Summit. 
"I would like to congratulate and thank Mr. Claude Corbo for the quality of his report, which contains several interesting proposals that will help to provide the environment of the higher education of an organization to ensure a harmonious and coherent development of the university system. Quebecers. I will announce at the beginning of autumn the suites that will be given there as well as the proposed legislative framework, "said Minister Duchesne. 
Remember that from the first preparatory meeting at the Summit on Higher Education, the idea of the National Council of Universities had emerged and consensus. The Chairman of the Site, Claude Corbo, was mandated to develop a proposal for the structure and mandate of the future National Council of Universities, including its composition. 
The Corbo report recommends the establishment of a National Council of Universities in the form of an independent and autonomous public body made up of 13 members appointed by the Government on the proposal of the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and technology. It is recommended that these members be selected under the principles of competence, legitimacy and independence. 
In respect of the autonomy of the institutions and the principle of academic freedom and drawing on the best practices observable around the world, the National Council of Universities, as recommended by Mr. Claude Corbo, mission: 
The entire report, its recommendations to the Minister and the opinions and documents transmitted by the partners as part of the consultation surrounded by its drafting are available online at www.messst.gouv.qc. CA / CNU. 
The Summit on Higher Education was an opportunity for the Government to announce the establishment of five work sites. On May 14, the minister announced three new measures that will be put in place from the fall of 2013 following the tabling of the construction site report on financial assistance. Recall that this report was very well received by the partners. 
The next report to be tabled by the Minister is that on a framework law of the universities, which is expected at the end of August 2013. The reports of the projects on the offer of collegial training and on a policy of financing universities are expected for the June 2014. 
For more information on construction sites, visitwww.messst.gouv.qc.ca/Changes. 
