Quebec- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, receives with interest the site progress report on the collegiate training offer in Quebec presented by the President Mr. Guy Demers. 
"This progress report is an excellent demonstration that reflection on improving the collegial training offer is well initiated. Several recommendations issued are interesting and deserve to be studied. By mid-term in the work of this project, I am very confident about things and for the final report expected this summer. I emphasize the excellent work done so far by the president, Mr. Guy Demers, "said Minister Duchesne. 
This progress report follows a consultation with representatives of educational institutions, associative and trade union groups as well as civil society organizations. These partners participated in meetings or transmitted documents likely to inform the thought that has since since the start of the work in April 2013. 
It should be remembered that the Chairman of the Construction is mandated to make recommendations on the deployment of the collegial training offer, the definition of regional training niches and the optimization of the training offer. The objectives are to promote access to collegiate training across Quebec, the complementarity of the training offer in the regions and the viability of programs in the region. 
The progress report proposes tracks of action on the level of student attendance in a context of downward forecasts, on the distribution of programs throughout the territory and between the public and private networks, as well as on the deployment of the College training remotely. It also deals with the passage from high school to college and college perseverance. The President was particularly interested in these topics because they appear to require short-term action. 
For the second part of the mandate, the President will pursue his reflection on the deployment of the training offer for both regular education and continuing education. It will address, among other things, questions relating to regional niches, to the complementarity of supply and its viability. Portraits describing the main characteristics of each region and its training offer have been developed and passed on to colleges for comment. This consultation will end at the end of March 2014 and will lead to the drafting of the final report. 
To learn more about the progress report and the recommendations issued: www.messst.gouv.qc.ca/le-sommet/les-chantiers-de-travail/loffre-de-formation-collegiale. 
Lesommet on higher education was an opportunity for the government to announce the establishment of five work sites. Site reports have already been filed: a first on financial assistance for studies, a second on the National Council of Universities and the most recent on a framework law of universities. The final report on the collegial training offer as well as the Universities Financing Policy Report are expected for the month of June 2014. 
For more information on construction sites: www.messst.gouv.qc.ca/Changes. 
