Quebec- Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, will represent the Government of Quebec and the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, at the Regional Summit of Governors and First Ministers Members of the Governors of Great Lakes, to be held from May 31 to June 2 in Mackinac Island, Michigan. The objective of this meeting is to adopt common positions and agree on intervention strategies in issues of common interest, such as water management, transportation and economic development. 
"Quebec's participation at this summit allows us to express our priorities and positions with regard to several environmental and economic issues with States with whom we have close relations. Quebec is a major player in the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence River space, particularly in all regional issues related to water management and invasive species, as well as transport infrastructure and the economy " , "said the Blanchet minister. Note that members of the Governors of Great Lakes represent an economic space of high strategic importance for Quebec, with more than 100 million inhabitants and total GDP exceeding $ 5 trillion, the fourth economy in the world. . 
During the summit, the Minister will participate in a meeting of the governors and first ministers members of the Regional Waters Resources of the Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence River, which ensures the management of the Sustainable Waters Resources Agreement. Great lakes and the St. Lawrence River. 
This is the second mission that Minister Blanchet makes in the United States this month. Last week, the minister went to Washington to assert the various initiatives of Quebec in the fight against climate change, including the Quebec Carbon Markets Agreement and California. "This type of mission is a great opportunity to develop privileged links with high-level interlocutors, to showcase the achievements of Quebec and to defend our interests," said the minister. 
Created in 1983, the Governors of Great Lakes Council is formed of governors of the eight riparian states of the Great Lakes (Illinois, Michigan, Pennsylvania, New York, Minnesota, Ohio, Indiana and Wisconsin) and the First Ministers of Quebec and the Quebec. Ontario. For 30 years, representatives of these governments have been meeting annually to discuss issues of shared interest. The Council is particularly interested in sustainable development issues related to the Great Lakes region, including the protection of the Hydric Resources of the Great Lakes Basin and the St. Lawrence River, which contains a fifth of the freshwater surface of surface. the planet. Quebec has been an associate member of the board since 1997. 
