Quebec- The Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Pierre Duchesne, today announced the important subsidy of the support program for people who have to repay their student debt . With this bonus, 18,500 additional people will be able to benefit from this new measure. 
In the wake of ads made at the end of Higher Education, the government is committed to significantly improve the study financial assistance regime. 
"I am convinced that this new measure meets the objectives that the government has given, or to improve accessibility to graduate studies and to promote the increase in the number of first generation graduates," said Minister Duchesne. 
People who live significant financial difficulties when they have to undertake the reimbursement of their student debt can now rely on this measure, which makes it possible to make a lightened payment, established according to the financial and family position. 
The bonus of the current deferred repayment program consists of an extension of the eligibility period at 60 months, rather than 24 months, within a maximum of 10 years, rather than 5 years, after the end of studies. If the financial situation justifies it, it is even possible that no payment is required for the period covered by an application. 
<//sub> 
Before the bonus announced today, only persons in precarious financial status were eligible, that is, those with a gross monthly income below the threshold based on the minimum wage in force and the family situation . This threshold represents an annual income of about $ 19,500. 
From now on, will also be eligible those with modest incomes (approximately $ 19,500 and $ 29,000, depending on the different criteria) and who are unable to make payments required by their financial institution. 
It is estimated that the number of beneficiaries who will benefit from the deferred repayment program will be doubled. Nearly 34,500 people will benefit from the enhanced program in 2013-2014, compared to 16,000 in 2012-2013. 
"We wanted to offer a more flexible program promoting autonomy and allowing beneficiaries to assume their family and financial responsibilities. The deferred repayment program now addresses a new clientele, which despite a difficult financial situation, can undertake the repayment of its student debt, "said Minister Duchesne. 
For example, a borrower with two children at its expense, having a $ 10,000 student debt and with an annual income of $ 26,000, would not be eligible for the current program. With bonus, it would not only be eligible, but should make a monthly payment of less than $ 50 to its financial institution. 
To learn more about the deferred repayment program or the various options that are proposed to the person who has to undertake the reimbursement of his student debt, we invite you to consult the Reimbursement section of the Financial Assistance Website studies (www.afe.gouv.qc.ca). 
