Montreal- The member for Drummond and official opposition spokesperson for language, immigration and cultural communities, Yves-François Blanchet, the member for Pointe-aux-Trembles and spokespersons for the metropolis, Nicole Lightweight, and the member for Gouin and spokesperson for transport, Nicolas Girard, reacted this afternoon to the recent publication of a crop investigation in the news magazine. This study reveals that the Anglophones in Montreal, especially the youngest, have adopted a vision of Montreal that relaxes the concerns of the Francophone majority of Quebec. 
"Unfortunately, in the survey, for the English-speaking minority of Montreal, the Anglicization of Labor would be a phenomenon to which Francophones must get used. In addition, the marginalization of French would not be more concerned than its longer-term disappearance, "said Montreal MP Nicolas Girard. 
The Parti Québécois attributes this location to nearly ten years of complacency and ambiguous messages from the Liberal government of Jean Charest. 
"Since the election of this government, nothing has been done to ensure the sustainability of French in Montreal. The message sent by the Liberals is that people can ignore and challenge Law 101 at will without any remedy being brought against them or that no sanction is imposed on them. At best, the government is mainly awareness of francophones to tell them that it protects French. By his fault, the English-speaking community of Montreal is cutting the bridges that were multiplied to the French majority since 1977, "said Yves-François Blanchet. 
"Anyone who lives in Montreal realizes that two universes exist there. One is anglophone, with its institutions, its media, its social life, its education system, and the other is francophone. Of course, language at work and access to English school through gatellar schools and display language are involved. Over time, it's a big difference. We would like these two universes to rub shoulders more, that they share more, "continued the member for Pointe-aux-Trembles, Nicole Léger. 
The MP Blanchet explains that this waterproof coexistence is invented by a draw in immigration. "While immigrants in a French state should be integrated into French, half chooses English. It is therefore the proportion of anglophones that increases and the French recoils. » 
According to Yves-François Blanchet, this catastrophic situation is not irreversible. "The survey reveals with a troubling clarity than without bad faith, without embarrassment, the Anglophones of Montreal, long-established in Quebec or from recent immigration, accept the idea that French disappears from their reality. They ignore it all of the law 101, the law of which they barely know existence. » 
"The Liberal Party multiplies the shameful compromises not to displease its English electoral base. The shipyard of the Chum, the larger state of the state, transfers in English. Gateway schools are again "tolerated". Leaders of Crown corporations can now be unilingual anglophones. Cities may challenge and insult with impunity the Charter of the French language. Law 101 may not be violated, at the very center of the constituency of the Minister responsible for his application. There is no longer a willingness to take francization of immigrants. Federal institutions are more than ever hostile to law 101. It's aberrant! "Said the member for Drummond. 
The Parti Québécois is disturbed by the clarity of the results of the news investigation. "On the one hand, we believe that the phenomenon is not irreversible, that the relationship between the two communities is still healthy and cordial and that bridges are not cut. However, the time of the choices came. Quebeckers must now take the future of their language. » 
"One more four years of Liberal regime and this time it will be too late. Perhaps we will no longer succeed in saving French in Montreal and a little later, in Quebec. It is no longer possible to deny it, "said Nicolas Girard. 
"At the Québécois Party, we will rewrite the law 101, restore his mind, reinforce it and especially, apply it. Quebeckers never gave up French. The Liberals, yes. We will correct the damage of ten years of government without vision, without courage and without heart and we will give our language all its dignity. Better, we will give him a country, "concluded Yves-François Blanchet. 
