Quebec- The Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Quebec (CCIQ), which participated on Friday morning to public consultations on the Quebec Economic Development Bank (BDEQ), revealed that 69% of its members were in favor of creating the Quebec Economic Development Bank. These results come from a survey conducted on behalf of the CCIQ. 
Recall that the Development Bank, which will bring together, under the authority of a single organization, the initiatives so far shared between Investissement Québec and the regional network of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, will have the mission to make resources Government more accessible and better coordinated, in order to further support entrepreneurs and to promote development by and for regions, including around the niches of excellence. 
"I am very happy with this support and, at the same time, not very surprised," said the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élaine Zakaïb, at his release of the consultation session . "The tour I conducted last fall has allowed me to determine the needs and expectations of entrepreneurs from all regions. I am convinced that the Development Bank will meet these expectations and needs, especially because it will provide additional funding and propose a more dynamic approach and better adapted to the various realities. » 
The Development Bank will indeed focus on a new, proactive approach and considers the entrepreneur as a client. 
"I am pleased with the support granted by the Capitale-National Business People to the new approach proposed by my colleague," rejoiced the Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale Region and the Chaudière-Appalaches region, Ms. Agnès Maltais. "Our region has a tradition of consultation that has served it, and this customized development proposal offered by BDEQ will strengthen it and make the most of them. » 
The Development Bank will have an office in each of Quebec regions. These regional offices will work closely with local development centers (CLDs), which will be both local antennas and its privileged entrance doors. 
The advisers present at the Regional Offices of the Development Bank will provide a guidance and support service to businesses in their approaches to government departments and agencies. They will also coordinate the joint interventions of ministries and agencies in the case of major projects. 
The Development Bank will act as catalyst guide and sometimes trigger of projects. For example, it will determine the weak or missing links in the value chain of each niche and look after companies able to fill this gap. It will give them support and personalized support. It will also support high-performance small businesses, namely "Gazelles", to help them grow and become leaders leaders, creating an essential basin of medium-sized businesses and preparing our Fleurons tomorrow. 
Entrepreneurs are at the heart of prosperity. These are the true creators of wealth and jobs. The Development Bank will support them more effectively, especially by considering them as customers. Thus, it will be the programs to take into account the needs of entrepreneurs and not to entrepreneurs to modify their projects to fit into existing programs. 
The Development Bank should be put in place in all regions next fall. 
For more information, see the Department of Finance and Economies Web page on the Quebec Economic Development Bank. 
