Quebec- The Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade (Mr Chant), Mr. Jean-François Lisée, and the Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language, Ms. Diane From Courcy, announced the measures that Quebec will implement to help the Filipinos affected by Typhon Haiyan. $ 300,000 financial assistance is offered by the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ) ($ 200,000) and the result ($ 100,000). Measures to facilitate the demands of immigration from people affected by this tragedy will also be put in place by the Ministry of Immigration and Cultural Communities (MICC). 
"On behalf of the Government of Quebec, I want to express, our deep sympathy to the Philippine people who must, with courage and determination, mobilize to overcome this harsh test. We are also wholeheartedly with Quebeckers who are affected by this drama. By this gesture of solidarity, the Government of Quebec wants to provide support and comfort to the victims of this terrible natural catastrophe, "said the minister listed. 
The result has an "emergency assistance" as part of the Quebec International Development Program. This component makes it possible to support some emergency interventions from Quebec organizations for international cooperation in the case of natural disasters or major humanitarian crises in poor countries. The result has been allowed to make a total contribution of $ 100,000 through this program. This assistance will be divided between recognized and active organisms on the Philippine territory, such as Oxfam-Québec and the Red Cross. 
The minister read and the Minister of Courcy were able to directly offer the sympathies of the Government of Quebec to members of the Philippine Community during a meeting with representatives of organizations working with Filipino in the Montreal area. Ministers were also able to discuss the different issues and needs facing the community following the passage of Typhon Haiyan. 
The MICC has put in place measures in order to accelerate the processing of applications already received by those affected directly and significantly by the typhoon. Thus, it will provide priority processing for immigration applications for skilled workers and family reunification requests. In addition, Filipino nationals who are currently in Quebec in temporary residence and holders of a Certificate of Acceptance of Quebec will be able to apply for an extension of it. 
"We are working closely with Citizenship and Immigration Canada, as we have done in previous natural disasters. Our priority is to accelerate the coming of people, victims of this catastrophe, who had planned to settle in Quebec to work or to join their families, "said Minister of Courcy. Persons personally affected by Typhoon Haiyan may obtain more information on what is implemented by the Department to accelerate the processing of applications by consulting the page www.immigration-quebec.gouv.qc.ca/philippines-haiyan. 
"For the Quebec government, it is important to help the affected population by this natural disaster, especially since Quebec has developed a unique expertise in this type of intervention, including thanks to the strength and Vitality of its housing industry and its timber sector. For us, it is quite normal to put this expertise at the service of the Filipinos and to attach the ranks of the important international mobilization that is currently organized, "said the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation the territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The $ 200,000 from the SHQ will provide some thirty prefabricated buildings that will be used for accommodation or services. These transition dwellings have been specifically designed to meet the needs of displaced persons as a result of natural disasters or conflict. 
The SHQ is not at its first initiative of its kind. In 2010, she actively participated in the reconstruction of a children's autism center in L'Aquila, Italy, which was destroyed during the tragic earthquake that shook the region in April 2009. 
