Quebec, on July 11, 2014 - Following the publication of the latest employment statistics, the member for Saint? John and spokesperson for the official opposition in employment, vocational training, literacy and of youth, Dave Turcotte, and the hon. Member for Saint? Jérôme and spokesperson for economy, entrepreneurship, SMEs and exports, Pierre Karl Péladeau, ask the government to intervene energetically to curb the losses of 'Important jobs since the arrival of the liberals in power. 
"Since their arrival, the alleged liberal effect means the loss of 29,300 jobs, including 26,500 full-time. The government must act quickly. While these tens of thousands of workers lose their jobs, the only action of this government has been cutting $ 17 million in employment aid measures, "said Dave Turcotte. 
The member for Saint? John recalls the request made by the Parti Québécois this week to make every effort to accompany the 600 workers of Cascades, East Angus, and Energizer, in Montreal. The government did not even affirmed its willingness to ensure that these workers can find a job of the same level as the one they occupied. 
An expensive lack of vision for workers  The member for Saint-Jérôme and sentence of the official opposition in the field of economy, entrepreneurship, SMEs and exports, Pierre Karl Péladeau, deplores for his part that the Liberal Party Government has none vision to support job creation in Quebec. 
"The arrival of the Liberal government has had a negative effect on employment. What will Philippe Couillard do to reverse this trend? In election campaign, the only measure of the Liberal employment was to increase the level of public investments of $ 15 billion. After the abandonment of this promise, there is nothing left, no plan to support job creation, "pursued Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"No economic policy, no industrial development policy, here's what the Liberal government to Quebecers offer. While he had promised 250,000 jobs in five years, Philippe Couillard drops economic development at the expense of a policy of austerity and budget cuts, "concluded members of Parliament. 
