Quebec- The member for Taillon and spokesman for the Quebecois health and accessibility of care, Diane Lamarre, denounces the two weights, two measures prevailing in the case of the remuneration of doctors. 
"MM. Barrette, Bolduc and Couillard have always sold us the need for a salary catch-up for doctors to prevent their exile, but the observation is that catching up and that Quebec even took the lead, particularly For specialist doctors. Yet the cost of living and tuition fees are lower in Quebec. What will the government do to correct this aberration? Asked Diane Lamarre. 
Data from the Canadian Institute of Health to confirm today that catch-up is completed, even before the future marvels granted by the minister barrette last spring entered into force. In addition, although he cut nearly $ 800 million in the hospital budget since his arrival at the Ministry of Health, Gaétan Barrette gave her too much to her colleagues doctors, according to the Auditor General (VG) . 
"Now that the numbers show that Quebec doctors have more than caught up with the other provinces and Ontario, is Gaétan Barrette will require the reimbursement of the 400 million that has been paid to them in 2010 and 2015? And, above all, will he give up offering them the additional rise of 148 million unveiled by the VG in his last report? Finally, the drop of water that is overflowing the vase, it is the 50 million incidental fees that Gaétan barre is preparing to take in the pocket patients and who will prevent the poor from having equitable access to health care . Will it go back and take these overloads to patients with the $ 7 billion envelope dedicated to doctors? And how to explain that, despite all this money, access to doctors is still not at the rendezvous, and that the minister still calls for waiting in January 2018? ", Continued the member. 
"While the government has chosen to cut 120 million to CEP, 6 million social assistance for rehabilitation drug addicts, more than 300 million education - homework assistance, support for students in difficulty, etc. -, In short, that children, families and the most vulnerable suffered the selective austerity of the Liberal government, how can it justify the fact of continuing to increase the salary of doctors? ", Concluded the spokesperson. 
