Montréal - Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, participates today at the unveiling of the fourth edition of Planet Quebec at the South By Southwest Festival (SXSW), which will take place in Austin, Texas, 7 As of March 16th. 
"The international influence of our creators is a priority for our government. The dynamism, the avant-garde spirit and the inventiveness of Quebec in culture and technology are recognized and sought after. This event serves as a springboard for our creators to demonstrate their know-how, to make themselves known to producers and major event organizers and make profitable contacts with their peers, "said Maka Kotto. 
By welcoming thousands of professionals from about sixty countries, SXSW is considered a major event for the development of markets in the fields of music, cinema and interactive media. The Quebec government organizes the planet Quebec showcase to support and contribute to the development of career outside Quebec from groups of musicians, directors and entrepreneurs in interactive media. 
"SXSW is a flagship event with respect to new global trends in music, in interactive media and cinema. In these sectors, Quebec is a precursor. It is therefore fooled that Quebec representatives will travel to Austin to present industry leaders the extent of Quebec's creativity and genius. We are proud to support our Quebec artists and entrepreneurs in their efforts to conquer international markets and present Quebec's expertise, "said the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean-François Lisée . 
The interactive media component, coordinated by Export Québec, will take place at the Austin Congress Center, March 7th to 11th. These are three Quebec companies specializing in multimedia that will be part of the kiosk to present their products and services. They will be accompanied by two Government Partners, Tourisme Québec and Investissement Québec, as well as the Quebec Cinema and Television Office. 
Quebec will also share its know-how by offering conferences covering both the cinema and interactive media. Also note that four Quebec projects are finalists for the prices of the interactive and that three Quebec companies are part of the SXSW Accelerator contest that annually rewards young entrepreneurs and the most promising companies in emerging sectors. 
For the Music component, Quebec will not be in the rest in what is considered the most important gathering in the world. Twenty Quebec musical groups perform March 13 and 14, in a bar-shows in downtown Austin, Maggie Mae's. They will be presented by flight and macadam, M for Montreal, Pop Montreal or stage 1425. A networking activity will also be organized for professionals in the music industry of Quebec and elsewhere. The coordination of the Music component has been entrusted to the Cultural Business Development Corporation. 
Finally, two short films and a feature film made by Quebeckers will be official competition in the cinema component. 
The websiteWww.Planetequebec.netFooks all information about participants in this fourth edition. It is also possible to follow the Quebec delegation on Facebook and on Twitter (#qcsxsw). 
The presence of Planet Québec in South By Southwest is the result of a collaboration between the Ministry of Culture and Communications and the Ministry of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade. It should also be noted that the Quebec Arts and Letters Council, the Cultural Business Development Corporation as well as Quebec's international youth boards contribute to the holding of this fourth showcase that the Quebec delegation in Atlanta works closely. The financial investment linked to the Quebec presence in Austin is approximately $ 190,000 and is divided between the above mentioned partners, as well as Tourisme Québec, partner of the 2014 edition. 
Annexelist of Quebec participants in Planet Quebec at SXSW 2014 
Music 
