Chicoutimi- On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the member for Chicoutimi, Minister responsible for Government Administration, President of the Treasury Board and Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean Region, Stéphane Bédard, announces the award of $ 135,000 financial assistance for the restoration of the Presbytery of the Sacred Heart, Chicoutimi. 
"Integrating culture, heritage and economic activity is an admirable way to develop the feeling of belonging. In this classified heritage building, the anticipated activity, and the significant number of visitors demonstrates the merits of supporting the catering project of the Presbytery of the Sacré-Coeur, "said Maka Kotto. 
"The presbytery's place activities are so well integrated into Chicoutimi's Community tissue that it is important for the government to ensure that it takes all possible steps to continue to support them. I congratulate people who are fully involved in this project and make it stimulate the local social economy, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
The Presbytery of the Sacré-Coeur, classified Heritage Building in 2001, is the property of the company-Youth inc., Which recycled the building to offer office space for various social economy companies and Integration into employment, including a bookstore approved by the Minister of Culture and Communications. The work that will be made will preserve the heritage value of the building and maintain it in good condition. 
The financial assistance of $ 135,000, or 50% of the estimated cost of the project, is made possible through the Department of Culture and Communications Capital Assistance Program. The Entreprise-Youth Inc. organization. Contribute for more than $ 80,000, thanks to a reserve accumulated as part of the Program Patronage Investments Culture of the Quebec Council of Arts and Letters. 
Additional information regarding the Presbytery of the Sacred Heart and all the heritage elements entered in the cultural heritage register are available on the website of the Cultural Heritage of Quebec (RPCQ), atwww.patrimoine-cultural.gouv.qc. it. 
New cultural heritage dissemination tools are added to the RPCQ, allowing to discover all its richness and diversity, making it accessible to all. Indeed, part of the RPCQ content is now on the Open Data Portal of the Government of Quebec at www.donne.gouv.qc.ca, as well as on the Social Network Pinterest, in the form of virtual exhibitions, AWWW .pinterest.com / RPCQ. 
Online training is also offered, at the address www.formation-patrimoine.mcc.gouv.qc.ca. Composed of video capsules and learning activities, it presents the basic notions of the Cultural Heritage Act and explains the roles and responsibilities of each to promote the knowledge, protection, development and transmission of the Cultural Heritage. 
