Clermont - The Prime Minister of Quebec and MP for Charlevoix-Côte-de-Beaupré, Pauline Marois, confirms the payment of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 700,000 to the company Fibrotek de Clermont, specializing in the manufacture of parts in composite materials. This government support will support a project totaling $ 3,379,270 aimed at expanding the company's plant and designing a basalt fiber reinforcement bar production line. This project will consolidate 15 jobs in the region, in addition to creating another 25. 
"Innovation is at the heart of the success of Quebec companies and contributes greatly to their sustainability," said the Prime Minister. We are working to promote the prosperity of our businesses throughout Quebec and support for technological innovation is a priority for my government. It is therefore proud that we support Fibrotek, a young company from here in the realization of an innovative project that will generate positive benefits in the region, including the creation of new quality jobs. » 
"It is by focusing on the manufacture of unique products that our companies carve out a place of choice in an increasingly competitive economic context, added the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élain Zakaïb. With the next creation of the Quebec Economic Development Bank, our government works, among other things, to put in place the tools necessary to simplify the lives of our entrepreneurs who can focus on creating jobs, so wealth, for the benefit of All Quebeckers. » 
Created in 2008, Fibrotek markets different types of parts of composite materials for several applications, particularly in the mining and aerospace sectors. In addition, Fibrotek works on the design of equipment that will allow it to continuously produce, by a microwave, fiberglass and basalt fiber reinforcement rods that will replace steel rods conventional used in concrete structures and infrastructures. 
"The support of the Government of Quebec will help us in particular to implement all molding manufacturing processes, including equipment design, manufacturing and optimization," said Fibrotek President Luc Tremblay. Our great expertise in the composite materials sector and our pointed knowledge of markets and business opportunities will also contribute to the success of our project. » 
