Warmick- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Minister responsible for the Regions of the Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie and MP Johnson, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announced, to Name of the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the attribution, through Investissement Québec, a loan of $ 650,000 and a guarantee of Loan of $ 250,000 in Champoux Machineries to allow the transfer of ownership and acquisition of all the remaining shares by the two minority shareholders. 
"Our government has the desire to support the growth and prosperity of Quebec companies that create value and employment here in the regions," said the Minister Blanchet. "The Quebec economy is dependent on a strong and dynamic entrepreneurial succession. This is why we are very proud to support the approach of Champoux Machineries, which ensures the succession and the durability of the company. » 
Founded in 1930 by Mr. Armand Champoux, the company specializes in the sale of new and used agricultural machinery and equipment. In addition to offering Massey Ferguson brand products, since June 2013, it has been the new fendt high-end product line. 
"I look forward to this harmonious transition at Champoux Machineries," said Minister Zakaïb. "This transaction will maintain the activities of the company and thus preserve the 11 current jobs, while encouraging the economic development of the region. » 
"Our close collaboration with investment Québec has made it possible to concretize this project. The support of the Government of Quebec has greatly facilitated the purchase process. That said, we are very pleased to be able to ensure the succession of a growing business and in which we have full confidence, "said the new owners of the company, MM. Dany Lafrance and Martin Nolin. 
Investissement Québec's mission is to promote investment growth in Quebec, thus contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The company puts companies with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity capital investment, in order to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, it is responsible for the administration of tax measures and prospecting investments abroad. 
