Baie-Saint-Paul- In the wake of the launch of the Food Sovereignty Policy, the Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, François Gendron , supported by the Québec's agricultural financial financial (FADQ), are pleased to announce a bonus of financial assistance granted to the succession. This first phase of bonus, which can go up to 20%, is complementary to an enhanced offer of support services that will better meet the needs and expectations of young farmers. 
"Support for succession in agriculture is on the list of my government's priorities. Moreover, the policy of food sovereignty gives a significant place to young agricultural entrepreneurs. Through each of the axes of this policy, the youth concern is present. I am convinced that with the dynamism and creativity of our succession, the future of the agricultural sector is assured, "said the Prime Minister. 
The government intends to further support the transfer and start-up of agricultural enterprises by young people who have the training and skills needed to achieve this. On the one hand, the expansion of the Agricultural Succession Investment Fund (FIRA) mandate will help all young entrepreneurs, including those in the acquisition of the family farm. 
On the other hand, the FADQ Farm Succession Financial Support Program will be enriched: 
With the implementation of the food sovereignty policy, the moment is conducive to review the provision of regional departmental services to support young agricultural entrepreneurs in their journey and their initiatives to ensure the growth of the sector. Consultants reports to the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Institutional Experts, will play a central role of global support for young agricultural entrepreneurs throughout their project. They will be able to follow the evolution of the company's situation in the first five years, a decisive period for its survival. This service will also promote better coordination of regional resources working with succession. 
"For several years, Quebec's agricultural financial financial financial support, notably through its financial support program, supports young entrepreneurs. She has made the development of their skills and their business a priority in its strategic objectives. We are therefore very proud to support the new food sovereignty policy. I assure you that we will continue, together with our partners, to make every effort to promote rich, diversified and sustainable agriculture, "Robert Keating, President and Chief Executive Officer of Agricultural Financial. 
For his part, Minister François Gendron wanted to launch a clear message to the youth of the succession. "As a minister, I wish to establish a privileged relationship with you, because you already shape the agricultural Quebec tomorrow. It is very important to me, especially since I would need this beautiful succession to ensure the success of the food sovereignty policy we have launched today. This policy will make sense only if you jump in the same train as us. To implement it, I will need you, "he concluded. 
The bonuses announced today represent an additional annual investment of $ 3.8 million from Quebec's agricultural financial financial financial. 
For more information on agricultural institution and succession, we invite you to consult regularly the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food atwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/relevagoleet that of Quebec's agricultural financial financial atwww.fadq.qc.ca/finance/la_releve_agricole/la_releve_agricole.html, or to follow the ministry on Twitter at: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
Consult the [Press Release] [4] issued during the unveiling of the food sovereignty policy. 
