Duhmel-West - Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, accompanied by the member for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Labor, Mr. Gilles Chapadeau, announced Subsidies allocation totaling $ 158,560, or $ 35,000 to the Témiscamingue Development Corporation (SDT) for the organization of an economic forum with a cost of $ 213,000 and $ 123,560 at Martin Farm and Julien Forget for a new production line estimated at $ 315,800. 
"Our government is present in all regions of Quebec to support entrepreneurs, especially in the manufacturing sector, and stakeholders in carrying out carrier projects," said Élaine Zakaïb. "It is in this perspective that we put in place powerful levers of economic growth, such as Quebec industrial lapolitics 2013-2017. We want to give them the means to prosper and contribute to the rise of Quebec, especially by putting on their niches of excellence. » 
"The Abitibi-Témiscamingue has a great potential for growth with its abundant resources and its three promising niches of excellence from the Agreement 'approach," said Gilles Chapadeau. "Organizations and businesses actively work to highlight and exploit the strengths of their region, as evidenced by these two projects that will contribute to the economic strength of Abitibi-Témiscamingue and to which our government proudly associates. . » 
Created in 1994, SDT carries out important mandates for achieving the region's socio-economic development objectives. The Economic Forum, the cost of which is estimated at $ 213,000, will promote the creation of economic links between Abitibi, the Témiscamingue and Northeastern Ontario. Government support consists of $ 15,000 paid by the Ministry of Finance and the Economy and $ 20,000 granted by Emploi-Québec. This regional economic forum will take place on 21 and 22 February 2014. 
"In the coming years, Témiscamian companies, like those of the whole Quebec, will face major issues in terms of recruitment, retention and training of the workforce. In this regard, the Quebec government intends to continue to support Témiscamingue's business people with innovative measures that promote sustainable employment in their region, "said the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltais. 
"This forum is a major event that will facilitate the establishment of relationships and partnerships between the business people of this economic area," said Karen Lachapelle. "Participating companies will better understand the economic, social and environmental challenges of their territory and perhaps even discover business opportunities. » 
The Farm Martin and Julien Forget specializes in the production and sale of breed beef embryos, oxen, grain, hay and commercial straw. In partnership with G.A.L. Industrial, Farm Martin and Julien Forget will develop new equipment to create a production line for the manufacture of square hay bales. These complementary equipment will include a picker, self-discharge trailer and wrapper. This $ 315,800 project, of which $ 123,560 is awarded by the Government of Quebec, will contribute to increased manufacturing activity in the region as well as the competitiveness of the niche niche agriculture-oriented bracketing. 
"Our new equipment will be very useful to farmers who produce large hay volumes," said Martin's Martin and Julien Forget General Manager, Mr. Martin Forget. "They will achieve a much more efficient and productive hay bale collection and storage system. This system will require less personnel and will thus present the advantage of overcoming labor shortage that affects the agricultural environment. » 
The Agreement (concerted action of regional development cooperation) aims to boost the economy of the regions of Quebec. This approach relies on the mobilization and dynamism of business people in the region as well as on the search for excellence in the key sectors of Quebec. The purpose of it is to build a competitive regional productive system in each of the regions of Quebec, through the development of slopes of excellence that will become their brand image. 
To learn more about the Agreement and Clovers and Poles of Excellence, consult the www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/accord. 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicitustrielle. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
