Quebec- Federal Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food, Mr. Gerry Ritz, and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, are pleased to Announce an investment of $ 19 million to support initiatives from the Quebec agri-food sector to develop markets and improve the performance and competitiveness of companies. This financial support, spread over a five-year period, is part of the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies 2 (PSSSD 2), which is implemented under the Canada-QuébecCultivons Agreement in the future. 2. 
"The Government of Canada is proud to support Quebec's agri-food sector by making strategic investments that stimulate innovation and economic growth. The future 2 offers multipurpose and innovative programs that provide Quebec's farmers and processors the tools they have need to remain competitive and conquer new markets, "said Minister Ritz. 
The purpose of this program is to encourage industry leaders to work together and act in synergy to design and implement partnership projects and initiatives that will benefit from the entire agri-food industry. The sector here refers to all production, processing and distribution companies that are mobilized to put agri-food products with the same basic elements or distinctive features. 
"One of the axes of food sovereignty policy is the valorization of the economic potential of the bioalimentary sector. In this perspective, we must support the development of the various sectors. The objectives pursued through this program are the improvement of business competitiveness and market development are precisely the priorities of the policy. We could not target more right with the PSSSD 2, "said Francois Gendron. 
The PSSSD 2 has four components that respectively concern the development of sectors, strategic sectoral plans, value chains and sectoral consultation. The latter component is a novelty compared to the previous version of the program. It should enable sectoral consultation organizations to hire development agencies that will act as project managers to facilitate the design and implementation of sectoral development projects. 
Recall that the governments of Canada and Quebec, concluding the bilateralicultural agreement the future 2, involved a $ 293 million funding over a 5-year period, from 2013 to 2018. This importance agreement. Aims to support strategic initiatives on innovation, competitiveness and market development, both for the benefit of the agricultural sector and the food processing sector. 
For more details on the pan-Canadian initiatives discount the future 2, interested persons can visit the websitewww.agr.gc.ca/cultivonslavenir.ca. To learn more about Shared Fee Programs Duultivons The future 2Qui are implemented in Quebec, they will consult withwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/cultivonslavenir. 
For more information on the policy of food sovereignty, the blogwww.politicalsa.gouv.qc.caou can be visited regularly. It is also possible to follow the Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
