Quebec- The Minister of Culture and Communications, Mr. Maka Kotto, today announced a financial assistance of nearly $ 2.5 million to promote the implementation, discount or renewal of ten permanent exhibitions in the network Quebec museum. These subsidies are distributed in seven regions of Quebec and are paid to nine museum institutions. 
"The production of permanent exhibitions is an essential element of the mission of museums and places of interpretation. Associated with multiple educational and cultural activities, the renewal of these exhibitions helps to stimulate the interest of different audiences and to increase attendance. The democratization of culture is not just a matter of access to places of culture; It is thanks to the quality, the excellence that it finds it it will realize truly and fully, said the minister. 
For the 2011-2012 edition, ten projects were selected for $ 2,422,662, paid as part of the Quebec Cultural Heritage Fund for the support of ongoing exhibitions. This sum, added to the contributions of the partner partners, represents an amount of more than $ 3,988,742 for the realization of these new projects. 
In seven regions of Quebec, these exhibitions will highlight new themes and know-how that testify to the variety and richness of our heritage, as highlights the examples. 
The permanent exhibition of house Lamontagne to Rimouski, titled Use the thread ... Three generations of fabrics at home Lamontagne, will focus on the place of fabrics through the eras and will present the different aspects of the supply of clothing and clothes and linen and From their production, through three generations of occupants, from the second half of the eighteenth to the first third of the nineteenth century. 
The Society Museum of the Deux-Rives, Montérégie, presents a first draft permanent exhibition, entitled MOCO, which will enhance the history of the Montreal Cottons (MOCO), a cotton industry that has marked good Ways The landscape and development of the city of Salaberry-de-Valleyfield. 
The expansion of the Pointe-à-Callière Museum is an opportunity for this institution to review the development of its spaces and to present its first permanent exhibition dedicated to the young audience, Montreal, the treasure island. This exhibition will transport the visitor into the fascinating world of explorers and corsairs who have marked the Montreal past and Quebec. 
Finally, the National Fine Arts of Quebec expects two of its recommended projects. 
The exhibitionalfred Pellan, the dreamer awaken the visitor in the surreal universe specific to this artist. It will develop around four main themes in Pellan: the woman, theater and poetry, bestiary and art and everyday life. 
The new permanent exhibition entitleart contemporated to visitors a selection of works created from 1960 to the present day. This is the first permanent exhibition entirely dedicated to this segment of the museum collection since the beginning of the 1990s. 
