Montreal- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, announced the payment of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 289,000 to the start-up companyPlConnect, located in Montreal. This support will be used to carry out a project estimated at $ 723,000 which consists in developing an innovative mobile communication solution, a virtual smart phone. 
Essentially, this solution will allow users to access the information contained in their smart phone at all times, no matter where they are. The user will only have to connect to his PPLConnect account from a computer, a tablet, or other cell to obtain an integral replica of the data and functions present in his phone. 
"The information technology and communications sector (ICT) is evolving incredibly rapidly," said Sulaian Deputy Minister Zakaïb. "To stay in the head platoon, we need young creative and well-connected entrepreneurs like PPLConnect. The strength of this sector is also based on a strong synergy between the research and education circles on the one hand and between large companies and SMEs on the other. A synergy that needs to be strengthened. This is how ICTs will continue to contribute to the rise of a creative and avant-garde Quebec society. » 
Denzil of his, co-founder of PPLConnect, welcomed this financial support. "The support of the Government of Quebec will help us to complete the development of an original product that meets the needs of a growing clientele. We are fortunate to rely on the contribution of a creative and competent Quebec workforce that will enable us to achieve our growth goals. We aspire, among other things, to conquer promising markets, such as those in the United States and India. » 
"It is with pride that we support the growth of dynamic SMEs like PPLConnect that focuses on innovation to stand out from the competition," said Sulaian Deputy Minister Zakaïb. "The expertise of the management team of this creative business will certainly play in its favor in pursuit of growth. » 
