The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, joined his voice with those of the UPA and other political courses to defend the management of the supply and the farmers of Quebec, threatened by the renegotiation of the free agreement North American exchange (NAFTA). For him, it is clear: the Parti Québécois will not seize the National Assembly of a new version of NAFTA, which would ignore the interests of Quebec farmers and artists and creators. 
IN SHORT 
"Today, Quebec is at risk. In the last two rounds of trading surrounding a free trade agreement, Canada sacrificed Quebec milk and cheese for the benefit of beef and other west exports. These concessions deprive each of our $ 30,000 family farms per year. Farmers have given enough! That is why we have been asking for a week that all the political formations represented at the National Assembly affirm, in one voice, that Quebec will not accept any concession which would call into question the management of the offer. Quebec, "said Jean-François Lisée. Also, the leader of the Parti Québécois has extended their hand to his counterparts from the Liberal Party of Quebec and the Coalition Future Québec, as well as to the co-spokesman of Quebec Solidarity, so that all sign a joint statement that would clearly determine The necessary conditions for Quebec to endorse a new NAFTA. A minimum threshold of requirements, in short. 
"Unfortunately, my appeal to the common front, to the unity of the forces, received only alambick responses. Luckily, the UPA has all invited to take part in a joint press conference, a question of showing that the four parties get the elbows to defend the farmers and the cultural identity of Quebec. Despite the short time, all reorganized their agenda and were there. All, except François Legault. What brings me to me about its priorities: why, this morning, François Legault privileged his election campaign, to the detriment of a demonstration of strength and unity in support of the management of the offer. ? "Raised Mr. Lisée. 
The Chief took the opportunity to reiterate that a government of the Parti Québécois would not grab the National Assembly of a new North American trade agreement that would ignore the interests of Quebec farmers and creators. "Prime Minister, I would never submit an agreement that would increase quotas of dairy products beyond what Canada has already granted in other international agreements, which would not have first given full and complete compensation to farmers For the concessions they have already made in agreements with Europe and Transpaific, and which dismantle the mechanisms of supply management, including class 7 milk. And I would never submit an agreement to the elected representatives of Quebec. which fi from the cultural exception clause, "he supported. 
"We wanted and we had to send a message today, you can not be firmer. This is this we did, and I am very proud, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
For more information about this, click here. 
