You know it, I love Quebec deeply and Montreal, and I sincerely wish we better returned more positive and proud of what we are and what we do every day. 
When I hear François Legault and the CAQ repeat daily that it goes wrong, Quebec is worse than elsewhere, that we are worse than others, I find that they make a good service to Quebeckers. 
First, because we do not convince anyone to come and visit us or invest here if we are not proud of what we do and what we are. 
Then, because they have all wrong. Contrary to what Mr. Legault and the CAQ say, we really have enough to be proud. 
Quebec is performing in several economic niches of the future: green energies, biopharmaceutical and aeronautics industries, video games, special effects for cinema, and I pass! 
In terms of integrity, we are becoming again an example with the continuing household. Which states have had the courage to look at the truth and to undertake such a vast cleaning project for corruption? 
We are also in the process of being among the first to balance our public finances as a result of the 2008 crisis, not to mention that tens of thousands of jobs in 2012, that the unemployment rate is Less in Montreal than in Toronto and that employment growth in the last 12 months has been faster in Quebec than across Canada. 
We take advantage of a diverse, modern, knowledge-based economy, intelligence, creativity. An economy of entrepreneurs, dreamers, visionaries. An economy that takes into account the balance between the environment and wealth creation. A saving of the future. 
Our metropolis offers a great quality of life. There is a bubbling cultural life. In addition, it is one of the most important academic cities of the continent. 
We can also combine economic vitality prevailing in all regions of Quebec. It's one of our greatest riches. Some regions need support, special attention, and our government will support them. But there are also extraordinary successes in several cities in Quebec, and we do not point out enough. 
The will of Quebecers succeed, to build, to get up the sleeves, it is our greatest collective wealth. 
We have all the assets. 
It's normal and healthy to keep a critical spirit, avoid complacency. But let's look at everything we do every day, in all areas. 
The success of people like peoples is the success of people: self-confidence is the key. 
