Quebec- The member for Terrebonne and the official opposition on the family, Mathieu Traversy, deeply regrets that the Liberal government and the CAQ refused to learn more in depth on the mechanisms surrounding the resale of private childcare. , and the resulting speculation often. 
"Recently, the media reported cases where entrepreneurs would have resposed, by enormous profits, subsidized private childcare received free of charge. Now, we will never accept speculation be made on the back of Quebec's children. Despite all the work and efforts provided by the Parti Québécois, we are today in front of a wall. The Liberal Party and the CAQ officially refused, in working session last night, to continue the mandate of the Commission and to hear the groups and partners of the environment in order to find a solution to this problem, thus deliberately terminating This exercise launched at the introduction of the Quebecois party, "said Mathieu Traversy. 
The hon. Member, however, notes that it is not so surprising that the government preferred the status quo because in the House a few weeks ago, the Minister of the Family, Francine Charbonneau, had minimized the situation, which the spokesperson had found particularly worrying. "Except for a ministry's recommendation to keep a register of subsidized private child care statistics, which it should have done for a long time, no action will be initiated by the Liberal government," he deplored. 
"The government must absolutely tighten the rules surrounding the resale of day care permits because the situation is repeated year after year and the risk of skidding are real. We must solve this problem, created from all parts by the Government of Jean Charest. Indeed, at the time of the Scandal of Liberal Daycare, Minister Yolande James had assured us that the laws in force sufficiently framed the resale of the permits. Obviously, this is not the case and it needs to change rapidly. It is inadmissible that people are doing hamous profits and speculation on subsidized places they have received free of state, "concluded Mathieu Traversy. 
