Quebec- The member for Labelle and sentence of the official opposition in saline lifestyle, recreation and sports, Sylvain Pagé, reiterates his request to the minister responsible for the leisure and sport, François Blais, so that Deposited as soon as possible a national sport, leisure and physical activity and a horizontal action plan within the government. 
This spring, a report presented by the National Institute of Public Health confirmed that health costs related to overweight and obesity were estimated at $ 1.5 billion a year. Yesterday, young people in Canada published a disturbing report on the level of physical activity of young Quebeckers. "The findings drawn up by these reports and the data they contain must push the minister to react and consider the importance of filing a sport, leisure and physical activity policy, accompanied by an action plan. Interdepartmental ambitious, "said Sylvain Pagé. 
In addition, last week, about twenty Quebec organizations in the fields of health, leisure, physical activity and sport joined their vote, claiming more political actions to maximize opportunities for young people. to be active. The impact of physical activity is convincing, both for their health and for their academic results. "For the good of our children and to promote the educational success of our young people, it is now time to spend speech to acts," added the member for Labelle. 
Since the arrival of this government, two ministers have been responsible for the leisure and sports and both welcomed the quality of the work done by the Parti Québécois in preparation for the filing of an ambitious policy for the healthy lifestyle habits of the Quebecers. "The minister must file as soon as possible a national sport, leisure and physical activity that will have scope and who will challenge all departments of his government. He must also simultaneously propose an action plan that will make the Quebec nation one of the most fit in the world. At the Parti Québécois, it is the ambition we have for the well-being of our population, and that is the reason that drives us to request an action plan from CPE to CHSLD, "concluded Sylvain Pagé. 
