Saguenay? Lac-Saint-Jean- Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Science and MP Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, and the member for Roberval, Mr. Denis Trottier, Informed, on behalf of the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, that Rio Tinto Alcan must submit his next Stabilization Program for the Banks of Lake St. John to the Procedure for assessing and reviewing environmental impacts. 
The initial program was authorized by Decree No. 819-86 on 11 June 1986. It was then extended in 1995 and in 2006. The objective was at this time to allow Rio Tinto Alcan to continue its program and to make maintenance work of implanted works as originally planned. 
However, this program will eventually arrive on December 31, 2016 and the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP) is of the opinion that a mere modification of the initial decree in order to extend from New duration is not possible. 
Indeed, the stabilization work of the banks of Lac Saint-Jean are subject to the environmental impact assessment and review procedure under paragraph 2b of the Impact Assessment and Review Regulations. On the environment (Chapter Q-2, 23), since they constitute digging and backfilling work on more than 300 meters in length in Lake Saint-Jean. 
"The Department has asked Rio Tinto Alcan to submit its next St. John Lake Stabilization Program to the Environmental Impact Assessment and Review Procedure. To do this, it must deposit, as a first step, a project notice describing the nature of the work envisaged. Considering that the deadlines of the various stages of the procedure are 24 to 36 months, it is recommended that Rio Tinto Alcan file this project notice in the winter of 2014, to allow the Government to make an informed decision on the next Stabilization Program Before the end of the authorization currently in force ending on December 31, 2016, "said Minister Yves-François Blanchet. 
"Lake Saint-Jean is a great regional pride, and even national. Since 1986, the situation surrounding the waters of the lake and the erosion of the banks flowing has changed. By applying the environmental impact assessment and review procedure, the population can not only be informed about Rio Tinto Alcan's intentions throughout the process, it can participate and be heard, "said the Minister Alexandre Cloutier. 
"This is good news for the population. The uses and problems of the shores of Lac Saint-Jean has changed for the last 30 years. It is therefore essential to review the depth file. This revision will be an opportunity to establish a new sustainable agreement for the population and the company from a sustainable development perspective so that winning conditions from a social, economic and environmental point of view be established, "said the member. Denis Trottier. 
Additional Information on Environmental Impact Assessment and Review Procedure is available on the MDDEFP website at www.mddefp.gouv.qc.ca. 
