Sainte-Julie - Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the Minister of Public Safety and Deputy of Verchères, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, the Mayor of Sainte- Julie and prefect of the MRC de Marguerite-d'youville, Ms. Suzanne Roy, as well as the President and CEO of the Metropolitan Transportation Agency, Mr. Nicolas Girard, today proceeded to the signing of a protocol of Agreement for the development of a permanent incentive parking of about 1100 places in Sainte-Julie. 
Located inside the exit exchanger 102 of the West Highway, the new incentive parking of Sainte-Julie implies moving the input and exit straps of the West Highway exchanger, The extension of the Boulevard Armand-Frappier as well as the extension of Murano Street. 
"The government's willingness to move forward with these 1100 parking spaces demonstrates the importance given to sustainable mobility. By developing these parking spaces, we contribute to improve the public transport offer, not only for the citizens of Sainte-Julie, but also for those of neighboring municipalities. This project enrolled in the Quebec Infrastructure Program will be in collaboration with the City of Sainte-Julie and the Metropolitan Transportation Agency, as specified by the protocol we have just signed, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
This incentive parking will allow public transport users to safely access bus boarding platforms, without interfering with the local traffic, since the terminus and projected parking will be grouped on the same site. 
"I look forward to this important announcement, since the end, this project will be beneficial for all citizens of the region. This new layout will increase the safety of users and residents of the sector. This parking, in addition to improving the mobility of people, will therefore have a favorable impact on the quality of life of citizens, "said Bergeron. 
"I want to thank all the speakers on this issue. Initially, this incentive parking project, which was planned to be set up in stages, will finally see it shortly to meet all the needs of the Julievillois population in collective transport, "rejoices the Mayor of Sainte-Julie, Suzanne Roy. 
"We are very pleased to be able to collaborate with the different ministries as well as with the city of Sainte-Julie in the realization of this structure structuring for this sector of the South Shore of Montreal," says Nicolas Girard, President and CEO of The AMT. "The current temporary parking is currently at full capacity, proof that demand exists and people are willing to modify their transportation habits. This new parking will significantly promote the use of collective transport and will offer an effective alternative to self solo. » 
The Memorandum of Understanding, signed today, will make it possible to finalize real estate activities, prepare plans and specifications and requests environmental authorizations. Depending on the evolution of the acquisition process, the work could begin in 2014. 
Note that last January, 110 additional parking spaces have already been made available. During the summer of 2013, there will be the addition of 120 temporary spaces, so a total of 230 spaces will be available, allowing a greater capacity of vehicles, while waiting for the permanent parking can take shape. 
"This permanent incentive parking project places the road users at the heart of government concerns. It is a concrete solution that aims to increase the use of collective transport in a sustainable development perspective, thus promoting a reduction in road congestion, "concluded Minister Gaudreault. 
