Quebec- In response to the sale of the St-Hubert restaurant chain at Ontario Cara, the official Leader, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the spokesman for the Quebecois Party, Alain Therien, and That in terms of finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, arrested Prime Minister Philippe Couillard so that he specifies what he intends to do to change the message of economic indifference that sends his government. They believe that by offering no vigorous economic policy nor any stimulus or stimulus plan, the Government of Philippe Couillard contributes to economic gloom in Quebec. 
"It's a sad day. In this liberal era, after seeing Rona leaving and Cirque du Soleil, we lose another flagship company from Quebec. Obviously, when they heard the Minister of the Economy and his leader say that RONA's sale was beneficial for Quebec, foreign investors understood the message: they now know where to find a government that promotes the sale of its companies and rely on. Philippe Couillard must now work to correct this perception that is particularly harmful to our economy, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"The indifference with which the Prime Minister looks to dissolve Quebec inc., As well as his determination to do nothing to defend the social seats of Quebec, are unacceptable. It looks like with him, Quebec is for sale. Every day, Philippe Couillard proves to us a little more than he knows anything about the economy. However, he has the duty to tell us how he will make sure, this time, the maintenance of the head office in Laval and how it will protect the network of subcontractors and suppliers Quebec. Recent examples are too numerous for the government to not put the necessary efforts to achieve real guarantees, "continued the leader of the official opposition. 
"Today, in Rona's file, we will surely receive confirmation that the transaction is concluded and that the promised guarantees are virtually non-existent. The Minister of Economy told us about guarantees or agreements that do not result; This time, it is essential that it go beyond the lyrics. What will his Government do to ensure the maintenance of activities here? Alain Therrien added. 
Nicolas Marceau emphasizes that times are hard for our economy and our businesses, particularly in the midst of the restoration. "For two years, Quebec families have seen their tax burden considerably, and this is in addition to the fact that their income stagnates. Result? People no longer have the means to consume as before, and this reality came hit hard St-Hubert. This is the conclusion that the company has drawn to explain its recent difficulties. » 
The hon. Member also recalls that the government of the Parti Québécois was ready to tackle the problem, and that he had the will to do so. "In collaboration with several influential members of the business community, we had a policy of protecting and developing our headquarters consensus in the environment. It is ready to be applied, but sleeps on the Office of the Minister of Finance for two years, "he lamented. 
