Montréal - with the company of Mr. Gilles Laporte, a renowned historian, the member for Verchères and Project Manager for the Canadian Federation's 150th anniversary of Stéphane Bergeron, invited the population of Quebec to participate in "the other 150E An operation aimed at emphasizing the 150 years of the British North America Act by the disclosure of 150 facts and events that will certainly take a different light on this anniversary. 
"At the dawn of the 150th anniversary of the Canadian Federation, the Government of Canada will certainly want, with firecards and ballows, convince Quebeckers and Quebeckers they are stakeholders of a great adventure, that of Canada. Many have believed, indeed, that this adventure was worth living. Without wishing to play the holidaytruces, I believe, however, that it is necessary to put the record straight back and demonstrate to the Quebec population, as well as those who have some sensitivity to Quebec, that the pact Federation of 1867 was not up to his promises, "said Stéphane Bergeron. 
The history teacher at UQAM Gilles Laporte is a stakeholder of this operation from the beginning. "The federal government invites us to talk about history and we intend to be! We will talk about history, certainly, but under a more objective day, more revealing of the reality of Quebec in the Canadian Federation, in order to draw a different light on the history of the Quebec nation, "he has declared. 
Supported by a group of historians, the Canadian Federation's 150th anniversary team is currently to collect 150 facts and events directly or indirectly affecting Quebec from 1867, and invites the population to take part in The operation. People wishing to participate will be able to do this by transmitting their suggestions, expressing their opinions and putting their talents through the platforms www.autre150e.ca ETHTTPS: ///www.facebook.com/autre150E/. 
The public will be able to: 
This initiative follows the commitment made to this effect by the leader of the Parti Québécois during his leadership campaign. "We want to involve Quebeckers and Quebeckers in this extensive educational operation by keeping open, throughout the year, the communication channels with the population of Quebec. I would like to thank in advance those who, by their interactions with us, will make "the other 150th" a success and a golden opportunity to talk about the history of Canada and Quebec, "said Jean -François listed. 
