Montréal- In addition to the $ 150 million investments announced in Lebudget 2014-2015 for the Quebec digital cultural strategy, an additional $ 10,228,300 is invested now. This sum will be devoted to a series of initiatives for the upgrading of cultural equipment in all regions of Quebec. This is what Maka Kotto announced, on the occasion of the official launch of the Quebec digital cultural strategy today. 
"These are first very important milestones in the accompaniment of cultural circles towards the digital that will ensure that Quebec culture has a favorable and innovative position in national and international markets. Access to state-of-the-art facilities is needed for Quebec creators to exploit their full potential. This is an essential condition for our culture to complete its entry into the digital age, uses its full potential for creativity and radiates more intensely on the international scene, "said Maka Kotto. 
This investment will be used for the financing of digital infrastructures in the dissemination places such as the performing rooms or the production and presentation spaces of the stage, to which will be devoted $ 5.3 million. A help of $ 2.5 million will be paid to public libraries, so that they carry out the integration of digital books into their collections. Quebec parallel cinemas will receive $ 1 million to complement their transition to digital. Finally, an amount of $ 1.4 million will be used to implement a pilot networking project of stage arts broadcasters and indigenous communities and to promote the influence of aboriginal crops, here and abroad, by creating a virtual dynamic space. 
"This sum will help give the impetus for digital development to make up the delay that these sectors accuse. It will maintain and enrich the attractiveness and interactivity of the places of diffusion in the territory of Quebec. It will allow the development of creative projects involving several regions, the radiation of Aboriginal culture and better access to all the diversity of Cinematography and Quebec literature. The influence of the culture and expertise of Quebec will be increased globally through these structuring investments, "concluded Maka Kotto. 
