Quebec- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, confirmed today, as part of the presentation of the National Strategy for Sustainable Mobility, an increase in are allocated to the adapted transport for the current year and those to come. 
"This strategy places the user at the heart of our actions. Adapted transportation is essential to the quality of life and the autonomy of many of our often the most vulnerable fellow citizens. We give an answer to the needs of people with disabilities and reduced mobility, "said Gaudreault. 
The government's goal is to provide people with reduced mobility, regardless of their limitations, more flexibility and autonomy in their travels. To this end, it announces the renewal and recurring bonus of $ 6.0 million from the specific government aid for adapted transportation. 
The program aims to cover part of the transportation costs incurred by the appropriate municipal transport services and public transit companies for displacement by persons with disabilities. It will benefit from a budget of $ 96.5 million in 2013-2014 and $ 482.5 million for the 2015-2020 period. 
Thanks to the maintenance and enhancement of the specific aid for adapted transportation, the government is able to initiate four major initiatives: 
In concordance with several government policies, the National Sustainable Mobility Strategy puts forward a series of initiatives that promote the universal accessibility of public transport services. These measures include the payment of subsidies to the transport authorities of transport, conditional on the accessibility of services and infrastructures as well as the standardization of practices facilitating access to public transit for people with reduced mobility to the whole public transit companies. 
The government also announces the renewal and bonus of funding from the grant program to adapt taxis and intercity coaches to transport people moving in wheelchair. This funding was $ 2.0 million in 2013-2014. Starting in 2014-2015, $ 1.0 million for a total endowment of $ 3.0 million annually, $ 15 million for the 2015-2020 period. This program aims to adapt taxis, buses, as well as some bus terminals to make them accessible to people traveling in wheelchair and also to grant a grant for the acquisition of universally accessible taxis from the design. Finally, the government will support pilot projects to test an accessible vehicle for use by taxi services. 
"In an inclusive society, people with disabilities and reduced mobility must have access to the same collective services as other citizens. By focusing on collective transportation, the national sustainable mobility strategy implements measures that will facilitate the movements of all users so that everyone can take full part of social life, "concluded Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
Report - National Strategy for Sustainable Mobility (PDF) Leaflet - National Strategy for Sustainable Mobility (PDF) 
