Quebec, on June 29, 2017- The official opposition spokesman for the status of women, Mireille John, welcomes the government's newstéguegie for equality between women and men around 2021, unveiled today after a long wait . However, it considers that several measures are missing and denounces the fact that funding is mainly planned for the final phase of the strategy. 
IN SHORT 
"Finally, a strategy! It was more than time. We welcome the actions proposed by the government, but it lacks an important thing in this strategy: its financing for the first years. Everything is expected according to the final phase, in 2021. Recall that the government has cut into major programs that promote equality between women and men. However, nothing in this strategy tells us that the government intends to reinvest. It is good to present a framework law but, concretely and in the short term, the minister responsible for the status of women, Lise Thériault, will she restore the budgets of the programs she has amputated? , Asked the member. 
Sexuality education 
Mireille John, however, emphasizes the PAS crossed by the government, who wants to "give a more formal place to sexuality education by implementing learning each year of preschool until the end of the secondary". "In this way, the government finally rallies to the consensus expressed by civil society groups and the Parti Québécois, that education is a priority to deconstruct myths and counter violence suffered by women. However, in order to spend words with the acts, the Minister of Education must involve the actors of the community in the development of the educational canvas, through an expanded consultation. The necessary teaching resources must also be provided for each school board so that teachers receives mandatory training on equality and sexuality education. Finally, the minister must ensure that sexologists governing the development of knowledge and that a sharing of the best tools and practices can be done, "she continued. 
Women-Men Parity in Politics 
The spokesperson further noted that the minister had promised a year ago, the filing of a draft law on women's gender parity. We always wait for it. "There are few things in this strategy to encourage women to do politics. What does the minister do, so what will soon be held municipal elections? She has already talked about little money, but she does not propose concrete. The Québécois party took 10 commitments at the Summit of Women on this subject, "she insisted. 
Accountability 
Finally remember that at the request of the Parti Québécois, Minister Thériault had committed, during the study of budget appropriations, to study the possibility of making public, each year, the follow-up cards with indicators for each measurement for each measure of the strategy, in order to measure the effectiveness of the actions and to make it possible to correct the shot, if necessary. "I expect the Minister to look at him. It must implement this accountability measure, not only for this strategy, but also for all those which are coordinated by the Secretariat on the status of women. I also believe that independent bodies should be associated with an annual evaluation of the results, and that the balance sheets should be made public, as well as the statements of situations, portraits, opinions and memoirs produced by the Council of the Statute of Women to improve Policies promoting gender equality, "concluded Mireille John. 
