Quebec- The member for Vachon and sentence of the official transport and maritime strategy, Martine Ouellet, has raised several problems related to the government's maritime strategy, whose highlights have been unveiled by the media. Then confirmed by the delegate minister, Jean d'Amour. 
Logistic pole 
The minister first confirmed, during the question period, that morning he would go forward with a logistical pole in Vaudreuil-Soulanges. "By subsidizing the establishment of a logistical center in Vaudreuil? Soulanges, the Minister will promote the arrival of a new direct competitor for the port of Montreal: the port of New York. The Minister does not take into account CN warnings, which stated that promoting Vaudreuil-Soulanges is to subsidize unfair competition for the Port of Montreal, "said the spokesperson. The choice of the government is all the more surprising that the Vaudreuil-Soulanges site requires the dismissal of agricultural land among the best of Quebec, and that it firm during the winter period. Martine Ouellet reiterated that the choice of the reluctant site remains the best for the rise of the Quebec economy. 
Oil transport on the St. Lawrence 
Martine Ouellet has also been worried about the Minister's remarks that the maritime strategy was aimed at increasing traffic; Here, more oil from oil sands will circulate on Quebec waterways. "Although the new center of expertise on the prevention of spills on the St. Lawrence is good in itself, it should not be a diverted way to promote the social acceptability of oil transportation on the Saint -Aurer, "she insisted. 
Federal infrastructure 
In addition, Jean d'Amour confirmed that he had not concluded any agreement with Ottawa regarding the ports of federal jurisdiction. "The minister wants to invest in ports that do not even belong to Quebec. These are federal infrastructure, abandoned by Ottawa for several years. Without real agreement with the federal government, the maritime strategy will remain incomplete and without concrete effect on the Quebec economy, "said the member for Vachon. 
Finally, in terms of the protection of maritime zones, the strategy announces a decline; We had been promised measures for 2015, but they are now planned for 2020. "All these arguments put together make the demonstration fairly clear: the government's maritime strategy is neither complete nor coherent. It also proves dramatically that the only way to endow Quebec with an effective maritime strategy for the Quebec economy would be to make Quebec a country. Quebeckers could thus decide what passes through the river, "concluded Martine Ouellet. 
