Quebec- Following repeated requests from the official opposition, the Minister delegated to Rehabilitation, the Protection of Youth and Public Health, Lucie Charlebois, finally made public, this morning, the agreement in principle She signed with the federal government about the fight against homelessness. However, as the member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the official opposition in social services, protection of youth, home care and prevention, Jean-François listed, the minister has just confirmed , by the very fact, that she abdicated in front of Ottawa. 
Indeed, Lucie Charlebois left the federal government dictating the method to be preferred to fight against homelessness, at the Quebec, because Ottawa forces him to devote 65% of the amounts to a single approach, that of the "housing of on board ". "It's a historic decline and a sad day for the environment of homelessness and for all people who find themselves in a precarious situation or high vulnerability," said Jean-François Lisée. 
"The federal approach addresses a single facet of the phenomenon of homelessness. Of course, housing is an important aspect of the problem, but devote the majority of project financing to one type of housing is a denial of the Forces du Québec on the fight against homelessness. This attitude of inféodation that the Liberal government faces today against Ottawa is quite unworthy, especially since the Quebec approach to combating roaming, using a diversity of tools, has already made its evidence ", continued the member. 
It should be noted that at the same respects groups that work on the ground at the ground with people with roaming situations, "they are entire sections of the Quebec homelessness intervention model that are jeopardized by the Government of Quebec. 'It is preventive measures, front-line interventions, but also contributions to the development of social housing with Community support ". 
"The Liberal government places organizations in a delicate situation because, because of this orientation, they will have to give up carrier projects that focus on a variety of approaches to help people at risk or with homelessness. Quebec's Solidarity Rooming network indicates that there are about 300 stakeholder positions and services rendered to more than 50,000 people in situations or at risk of roaming that are threatened. The Minister must return to negotiate with the federal government, especially since two unanimous motions asking him to respect Quebec's orientations were voted at the National Assembly; She should take them seriously, contrary to what the Minister Conservative Maxime Bernier does! ", Concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
