Quebec, on October 27, 2016 -The spokesperson for the Quebecois Party for Women's Status, Mireille John, presents the officials of the official opposition for the presentation, tomorrow, of the government strategy to prevent and counter sexual violence 2016-2021. 
"As a result of the many events that have succeeded in recent years, political actors can not remain crossed arms; They must act concretely to fight against the culture of rape, and provide adequate funding to the various measures that will be put forward, "said Mireille Jean. 
Too much time has elapsed since the consultations and itinerant forums to take stock of the last action plan for sexual assault, held in 2015. It took three years for the government to finally find its 2016 strategy. To prevent and counter sexual violence, which is essential to address these issues, both globally and specific, and in each sector of activity. 
Pass speeches to concrete actions "in the field of denunciation and supervision of victims, we see that the procedures are far too long, complex and stigmatizing. Victims often feel humiliated or judged. Immigrant and Aboriginal women are particularly isolated, because of their language or culture, and are limited in their access to services, "detailed the member. Therefore, the Parti Québécois gives priority to the following actions: 
The use of a multidisciplinary approach promoting the sharing of information between stakeholders, researchers, police and doctors, to accelerate the denunciation procedures;  the obligation for companies to have a plan for equality and a uniform policy on harassment;  the establishment of francization courses for immigrant women and financial support for independent interpreters;  The establishment of an awareness campaign to encourage witnesses, men and stakeholders not to tolerate sexual assaults and to denounce them;  The care of the victims in hospitals, schools, companies, etc. 
In addition, an appreciable proportion of Quebecois does not even understand what consent means. There is also an increasingly important tribalization of sex in minors. The Parti Québécois gives priority to the establishment of a consumer awareness campaign to explain the notion of consent. 
Then, in terms of information and prevention, the consultations found that 80% of sexual aggression prevention budgets were cut. In general, the population lacks information on sexual education. The Parti Québécois gives priority to the following actions: 
the establishment of a speech that is specifically addressed to men;  the use of social media as means of awareness;  the valorization of the therapies for aggressors to reduce recurrence;  the establishment of a communication campaign to companies to promote prevention, like campaigns to counter work accidents;  The update of the statistics for the decisions taken rely on evidence. 
"In terms of education, the pilot project of sexual education courses has not been submitted to the community groups for consultations, however necessary. In schools, we can find a trivialization of violence and hypersexualization, "continued the spokesperson. The Parti Québécois therefore gives priority to the following actions: 
The establishment of a sexual education course in all schools, from the primary, in order to explain the equalitarian reports and the notion of consent, to take into account the realities of persons with disabilities, resulting from the LGBT community or other communities, and those of immigrant women;  Work with university chairs in urban areas, in rural areas and indigenous reserves, to act with these communities. 
Finally, with regard to the LGBT community, it is necessary to adapt the prevention and the fight against sexual violence to its realities. The Parti Québécois gives priority to the following actions: 
the adoption of an intersectoral approach to understanding the dual discrimination situations of which LGBT people are;  the training of professionals of all sectors to these realities;  The implementation of measures for transgender and transsexual people in detention centers. 
