Quebec- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, today announced, as part of the presentation of the National Sustainable Mobility Strategy, that the Government Wish to strengthen regional leadership and improve the supply of collective transport in rural areas. 
"Our strategy proposes to implement initiatives of decentralization of collective transport services in rural areas. It will rely on the leadership of regional county municipalities and promote a service offering developed in consultation between private carriers and municipal authorities, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
The government announces three rounds of public transit initiatives in less urbanized areas as well as intercity collective transportation. 
The Government renews and enhances the aid to collective transport in rural areas. Within the Government Assistance Program for Improving Public Transport Services, the Government increases regional collective transportation to $ 9.5 million in 2014-15 and 40 million for the Set of the 2015-2020 period. This program supports transit agencies in their efforts to increase service offer as well as the development of collective transport in the region. 
In addition to the Government Assistance Program for Improving Public Transport Services, the government implements other programs, some of which are aimed at rural areas. This is the case with the government assistance program adapted to persons with disabilities, with an envelope of $ 96.5 million for the year 2014. It covers part of the transportation costs incurred by municipal services. adapted transportation and public transit companies for displacement by persons with disabilities. 
The National Sustainable Mobility Strategy proposes a coherent approach with all government policies and strategies, particularly the economic policy of Québec- Priority employs Lastratégie of transport electrification, taking into account the realities specific to the regions of Quebec. 
"The aging of the population and the rural exodus are concerns to which we need to find solutions to ensure the vitality of our communities throughout the territory. With the measures we propose, we will improve the supply and public transport services in all regions of Quebec, "concluded Minister Gaudreault. 
Report - National Strategy for Sustainable Mobility (PDF) Leaflet - National Strategy for Sustainable Mobility (PDF) 
