Québec- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, has confirmed today, as part of the presentation of the National Strategy for Sustainable Mobility, an unprecedented turn In order to concretize the necessary convergence between territorial planning and transport. 
"The government poses a major gesture by setting up an integrated planning for land use and transportation. Thanks to this integration, transport initiatives will benefit from coherence and efficiency that all Quebeckers will benefit. We propose a new way of occupying our territory, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
Transport and spatial planning are intimately linked. In order to achieve this reality, the government announces the amendment to the Landscaping and Urbanism Act, in order to implement in all of Québec an integrated planning of land use planning and transport. This way of doing things represents a major innovation in terms of planning and significant gain in terms of efficiency. 
This amendment will be to mandate the integrated planning of spatial planning and transportation in the various documents developed by the RCMs as well as by metropolitan communities. Such planning is currently optional in the RCMs and may be limited only to part of the territories of the metropolitan communities of Montreal and Quebec. 
The effects of this new obligation will be reflected in planning plans and regulations developed by local municipalities. The government wants to proceed quickly. 
The establishment of integrated planning of spatial planning and transport also includes the revision of government planning guidelines, which contain guidelines guiding development and development on Quebec. The Government will thus prioritize the identification of the guidelines to be taken into account in the integrated planning of planning and transport. The three objectives pursued are: 
"Too often in the past, land use planning and transport have been considered separately. In 100 years of history, the Department of Transport never took into account the contemporary issues of land use planning as integrated. What we propose today is a strategy to cope with the 21st century challenges, "concluded Sylvain Gaudreault. 
Report - National Strategy for Sustainable Mobility (PDF) Leaflet - National Strategy for Sustainable Mobility (PDF) 
