Quebec- In the light of the information unveiled by several media about the Canadian Energy Strategy, the member for Marie-Victorin and the official opposition on energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, as well as the member for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs and Spokespersons, Stéphane Bergeron, urge Prime Minister Philippe Couillard to announce today the withdrawal of Quebec from the strategy. 
"This strategy is too expensive paid to just satisfy Philippe Couillard's willingness to please the rest of Canada. The Prime Minister must retreat and announce the withdrawal of Quebec from this pan-Canadian strategy. It reflects Canadian energy values, and these are the opposite of Quebec values. We have clearly developed an energy identity of its own. We are among the world leaders in renewable energies, "said Bernard Drainville. 
"By joining the Canadian Energy Strategy, in August 2014, Philippe Couillard has not only accepted a major and unprecedented encroachment in Quebec's exclusive fields of competence, but we now see that it hired Quebec on a Slippery slope having potentially the effect of facilitating and accelerating the development and export of fossil fuels. The Prime Minister has supported oil sand transportation project without any consultation by Quebeckers, "added Stéphane Bergeron. 
Quebeckers should not pay for the priorities of others 
The Canadian energy strategy that will be unveiled Wednesday in St. John's, on the occasion of the meeting of the premiers of the provinces and territories, will aim to accelerate the deployment of pipeline projects, according to the information published. In addition, it would have few commitments to combat global warming. 
"The Liberal Party outlines Quebec by not defending its interests. If there is an area where Quebec must affirm its difference and choose its own strategy, it is energy. The Liberal government must admit its error and withdraw from this Canadian strategy that threatens to weaken our power to decide in the best interest in Quebec. Quebeckers do not have to pay the cost of energy decisions made for the sole benefit of the rest of Canada, "have entered Members. 
