Sept-Îles-The member for Duplessis, Ms. Lorraine Richard, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, is proud to announce financial assistance to the Perrocated Island Corporation for the continuation of revitalization work. the headlight station. 
The help of $ 230,000, granted by Tourisme Québec, comes from the tourism industry development program - tourist development north of the 49th parallel. Financial support will be used to enhance the four-star accommodation site in the Guardian's House. The project will allow the corporation to bring a boat to offer its customers a commented transportation as well as local flavored meal services. The organization works tenaciously for modernization of the site in order to discover its heritage and natural wealth. In fact, in October 2013, the corporation put an end to the first phase of the revitalization work of the Phare Station, which resumed life after 40 years of inactivity. 
"I am extremely proud to announce substantial assistance to this project that will undeniably energize the tourism industry in Minganie. This support will help generate concrete regional economic benefits, including the creation of direct jobs and the purchase of local products. Visitors will live an authentic and unique experience where the beauty of our territory and the products of our terroir will be in the spotlight, "said the member Richard. 
For its part, Minister Bérubé reported that "the distinctive accommodation that will be offered at the Pérofinian Island Phare Station, either high-end dishes, will attract visitors in search of change of scenery and large spaces. The establishment of this project is diversifying the tourist offer and promote the retention and extension of stays in the Duplessis region. " 
Remember that the Quebec tourism strategy in the north of the 49th parallel is one of the measures of the 2012-2020 tourism industry development plan. It is aimed at the development of world-class tourism north of the 49th parallel and focuses on the development of distinctive infrastructure, attractions and tourism products, training and human resources management, promotion and marketing and the need to act in partnership. 
