Québec - The Parti Québécois denounces improvisation (again!) From the Minister of Natural Resources, Nathalie Normandeau, this time, concerning the absence of a vigilance it has shown at the last meeting of ministers of energy held in Alberta. 
"Last week, Minister Normandeau was worried about the federal attempts to establish a pan-Canadian energy strategy and fiercely opposed it. In a week, she made a spectacular volt-face and endorses this idea. Not only does it accept a major encroach in Quebec's exclusive jurisdiction, but it is also to support Alberta oil sands as a sustainable source of energy! These are two fundamental reasons why Minister Normandeau has to retreat and announce today that Quebec will not participate in the pan-Canadian energy strategy, "said the member for Jonquière and the official opposition. energy, Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The member for Jonquière believes that Minister Normandeau and his government do not understand and do not realize Quebec's historic decline they are preparing to do. "The Liberal Party of Quebec enlists Quebec by not defending its interests. If there is a place where Quebec must affirm its difference and choose one's own strategy, it's in energy. This is the stake of the 21st century, "he added. 
For its part, the member for Vachon and sentence of the official opposition in the field of environment, sustainable development, parks and water, Martine Ouellet, refutes the loud explanations provided by Minister Normandeau who tries in vain. Walnut the surprise support of Quebec to the oil sands in an official press release published as a result of the meeting of energy ministers. 
"Once again, in the environment, the Liberal government of Jean Charest speaks on both sides of the mouth. By not dissociating the final communiqué, as Ontario has done, the Charest government entails Quebec in support of the Harper Government's strategy, Kyoto's largest grave guidelier, and in a support for oil sands. The oil industry in the West. It is a heavy gesture of consequences because in these subjects, Quebeckers are to the antipodes of Canadian values. Now hope that the Quebec Minister of the Environment, Pierre Arcand, will dissociate himself from his colleague very quickly, "concluded Martine Ouellet. 
