Chibougamau- The Minister responsible for the North-du-Québec Region, Alexandre Cloutier, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, accompanied by the member for Ungava, Mr. Luc Ferland, announced an investment of $ 750,000 for tourism development in the region Eeyou Istchee / James Bay. 
The financial assistance granted by 2017 the injection by Tourisme Québec of $ 600,000 over four years for the development of tourist offer on the territory, as part of the Quebec tourism strategy north of 49th parallel. This amount is added financial assistance of $ 150,000 over three years from the development support program for the strategic sectors and niches of excellence (PADS) of the Ministry of Finance and the economy. The PADS supports the implementation of niche development strategies for excellence as part of the Agreement (concerted action of regional development cooperation). 
The Quebec tourism strategy in the north of the 49th parallel as well as that of the niche of excellence Nordic Tourism rely on large spaces and respect for local cultures to develop tourism. 
"The Agreement approach is a priority of government action to develop the economy of the regions of Quebec and is based on the consolidation, mobilization and dynamism of business people and economic stakeholders in the region. I am pleased that the Marois government is committed to those of the partners of the Eeyou Istchee / Baie-James region to optimize the contribution of the tourism industry to their economy. Financial assistance will, among other things, allow hiring human resources that will develop Northern Attractions, which will therefore have an impact on job creation, "said Minister Cloutier. 
"This investment project will strengthen the exceptional collaboration developed between tourism associations in the region Eeyou Istchee / James Bay in recent years. It will certainly contribute to these regions as an international class destination in Aboriginal and Outdoor Cultural Tourism. The development of a sustainable tourism industry should have several positive effects, including community development, job creation among young people and strengthening culture, "continued the member for Ungava Luc Ferland. 
"The financial contribution of Tourisme Québec is particularly valuable at this stage of the development of tourism in Eeyou Istchee / James Bay. Thus, Tourisme Québec supports the three regional partners that are Tourisme Eeyou Istchee, Cree Association of Outfitter and Tourism and Tourism Baie-James by financially contributing to the hiring of specialized supply resources. The consultation and development of tourism in this region are exemplary since they rally three distinct regional bodies resulting from two different cultures and evolving in a trilingual linguistic framework. Originally, this partnership was a real challenge that these partners have shown. Culture, nature and adventure are the fundamental elements of a tourist development jointly planned by the Eenouch (Cree) and Jamesian actors, "added the Executive Director of Tourism Eeyou Istchee and the Cree Association of Outfitter and Tourism, Ms. Robin McGinley, and the Director General of Tourism Baie-James, Mr. Jean Chartier. 
Remember that the Quebec tourism strategy in the north of the 49th parallel is one of the measures of the 2012-2020 tourism industry development plan. It is aimed at the development of world-class tourism north of the 49th parallel and focuses on the development of distinctive infrastructure, attractions and tourism products, training and human resources management, promotion and marketing and the need to act in partnership. 
