Sainte-Anne-de-Sorel- Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Yves-François Blanchet, and the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank And Member of Parliament for Richelieu, Ms. élain Zakaïb, today announced financial support of $ 596,000 from the MDDEFP to Ducks Unlimited Canada (CIC) for the realization of a wildlife management project in La Baie Lavaller. Phase I of this project aims, inter alia, to develop the Marais Saint-Louis to preserve this favorite habitat for waterfowl and for several species of fish. 
"With this partnership with Ducks Unlimited Canada, our government concretely participates in the protection and enhancement of wildlife habitats. We are very proud of it. Our intervention strategy for the future of Lake Saint-Pierre, which we made public on February 15, establishes three major priority guidelines to ensure the survival of Lake Saint-Pierre. The project we announce today is entirely in this line and will allow us to highlight the lake ecosystem and its economic potential, "said Minister Blanchet. 
At the end of the development work, the Saint-Louis marsh will occupy an area of 117 hectares inside Lavallière Bay. The project involves the establishment of a water level control structure, dikes and a pumping station to maintain a free water area for the use of wildlife during the dry season of the period summer. With the addition of contributions from different partners, the total investment for the completion of the work is estimated at $ 835,000. 
"The restoration of Bay Lavallière is a major project that will contribute to the recovery of the population of perchauds and the nesting of waterfowl in Lavalière Bay, thus contributing to strengthening the ecotourism vocation of the region. The Saint-Louis marsh will indeed have a definite influence on the recognition of the Wildlife and Natural Heritage of the MRC Pierre-de Saurel, which is one of the gates of entry to the Biosphere Reserve of Lac-Saint-Pierre, recognized by UNESCO in 2000. The people of the region have every reason to be proud of this project, which is part of our sustainable development guidelines, as well as the technocentre in industrial ecology, Agenda 21 and the Ecocollectivity, "said Minister Zakaïb. 
