Quebec- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, confirmed today, as part of the presentation of the National Strategy for Sustainable Mobility, an increase in are allocated to collective transportation for the current year. The minister also invited the municipalities of Quebec to a vast project on funding under the Québec-Municipalities Agreement. 
With this strategy, which aims to meet the needs of sustainable mobility of all Quebeckers and targets a 30% increase in the public transit service offer by 2020, the government announces several financial measures that place the 'user at the heart of the initiatives. 
By 2020, inside the transport infrastructure plan envelope dedicated to transportation, the government will have transferred $ 930.8 million to the PQI collective transport, passing the latter from 21 to 27% of the PQI Transport. These sums will be allocated to projects aimed at maintaining assets, a priority targeted by the strategy. This decision increases the amounts devoted to the collective transport of $ 27.7 million in 2014-15 and $ 930.8 million during the 2015-2020 period. 
"We are convinced that our government makes a responsible choice that matters people's concerns about the safety and sustainability of existing infrastructure" mentioned Minister Gaudreault. 
In addition, the government increases support for operations for 2014-2015, allocating $ 143 million. It also devotes $ 35 million to support active transportation. The national strategy for sustainable mobility also encourages increased carpooling and carriage. These sums are added at $ 3.7 billion already planned. The value of government interventions dedicated to collective transportation is thus increased to more than $ 1.2 billion for 2014-2015. 
The Government also invites cities and municipalities to a major project on the financing of collective transport on the sidelines of the Québec-Municipalities Agreement. The objective is to adopt a new collective transport funding framework that can apply in 2015. 
"We respond positively to a desire expressed by our municipal partners. This project will challenge our responsibility to all, as elected at the national and municipal levels. It was together we will establish our funding strategies, "added Mr. Gaudreault. 
The strategy is accompanied by these complementary aid programs: 
The Government Assistance Program for Improving Public Transport Services aims to support transit agencies in their efforts to increase service offer as well as the development of collective transportation in the region. It also includes financial support to travel management centers and the promotion of alternative modes of transportation to the automobile. 
The Adapted Government Assistance Program contributes to a portion of the transportation costs incurred by adapted municipal transportation services and public transit companies for displacement by persons with disabilities. 
The National Sustainable Mobility Strategy proposes an economic approach, consistent with all government policies and strategies, in particular Quebec's economic policies- Priority Employee and Lastrategy of Electrification. "This strategy complies with a strict budget framework, while increasing investments in maintaining public transit assets for the next six years," the Minister of Transport concluded. 
Report - National Strategy for Sustainable Mobility (PDF) Leaflet - National Strategy for Sustainable Mobility (PDF) 
