Quebec- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, today announced, as part of the presentation of the National Sustainable Mobility Strategy, that the Government Propose a revision of governance in the agglomerations of Montreal and Quebec-Lévis to better integrate and coordinate the movements of public transit users. 
"We are aware of the major challenges of collective transport governance. Urunning the year 2014, the various actors of the transport community of the metropolitan areas of Montreal and Quebec-Lévis will be invited to decide on a proposal of governance that we will submit them. Our goal is to reach our goal together, with our partners, working in the greatest consultation, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
By implementing this strategy, the government intends to meet the needs of sustainable mobility of all Quebeckers. It puts on to get there on collective transport, while encouraging other alternative modes of transport to self solo. It also attaches as a target a 30% increase in the public transit service offer by 2020. All these challenges directly challenge the urban environment. 
To this end, the Government announces in its strategy four important measures which aim to ensure the sustainable mobility of people in urban areas: 
The government will soon file a proposal for a review of collective transport governance in the agglomerations of Montreal and Quebec-Lévis. This proposal will deal with the harmonization of services, a tariff system integrating all titles and one one-stop shop for information and ticketing. It will also include a modification to the Metropolitan Transportation Agency Act, and the revision of the roles, responsibilities and obligations of the various authorities responsible for planning and organizational services. The Government wishes to submit this proposal to the partners this spring for consultation, before making a bill that we wish to table by the end of 2014. 
Investments dedicated to maintaining collective transport assets are increased immediately. The increase represents $ 27.7 million in 2014-15 and $ 930.8 million during the 2015-2020 period. These sums are added at $ 3.7 billion already planned. In addition, the government increases support for operations for 2014-2015 to support municipalities at a financing project under the Québec-Municipalities Agreement. The purpose of this project will aim to propose a new framework for collective financing applicable from 2015. In parallel, the government simplifies the rules to enable investment agencies to make more quickly use available funding. 
The government is a major gesture by setting up an integrated planning for land use and transportation. Thanks to this integration, transport initiatives will benefit from coherence and efficiency that all Quebeckers will benefit. 
The National Sustainable Mobility Strategy proposes an economic approach, consistent with all government policies and strategies, in particular Quebec's economic policies- Priority Employee and Lastrategy of Electrification. "The implementation of the national sustainable mobility strategy requires the participation of all partners involved in the transportation of persons. It now belongs to everyone to be appropriate and to be ambassadors throughout the territory, "concluded Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
Consult all releases issued during the presentation of the National Sustainable Mobility Strategy 
Report - National Strategy for Sustainable Mobility (PDF) Leaflet - National Strategy for Sustainable Mobility (PDF) 
