Bonaventure - Minister Delegate to the Regions, Minister responsible for the Gaspé-Islands-de-la-Madeleine Region and MP Gaétan Lelièvre, accompanied by the hon. Member for Bonaventure and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Sustainable Development, of the Environment, Wildlife and Parks (Fauna and Parks), Mr. Sylvain Roy, are proud to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, regions and occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière , Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault and on behalf of the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, that the Government of Quebec undertakes to pay to the Bioparc of Gaspésie inc. Financial assistance up to $ 1,585,000 for the completion of the second phase of expansion and the consolidation of Gaspésie Bioparc infrastructures. The Government of Quebec has granted a preliminary authorization for this project and this aid comes from the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructures Program (PIQM) conditionally for the engagement of other financial partners. 
To this assistance is added a financial contribution of $ 150,000 from the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP) to acquire a floating dock and two electric motor pontoons. This project will be carried out in the territory of the Aquatic Reserve of the Estuary-de-Rivière-Bonaventure in partnership with the Bonaventure Coastal Concertation Table (TCLB). 
Esticative and ecological animal park, Gaspésie's biopark offers visitors to discover the richness and diversity of the Gaspé fauna and flora. The second phase of development of this project includes a new housing for seals, a pavilion for the amphibians and reptiles of Quebec and the addition of four new animal species requiring habitat development adapted to their needs. These unique facilities in Quebec for indigenous species will help strengthen the collection of Gaspésie's Bioparc and especially to lengthen the duration of visits and stays on the site. Thus, the work provided in this phase of the project aim to strengthen the animal pole in addition to enlarge and consolidate existing infrastructures. 
"This important support from our government to the completion of the second phase of expansion of the exceptional site of the Gaspésie Bioparc is an excellent news for the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region and for Quebec. This project is part of the government intervention strategy for the development of the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region 2013-2018, whose objective is to support the economic growth of the region by highlighting its Multiple resources, "said Minister Gaétan Lelièvre. 
"I am very pleased with the development of Gaspésie's Bioparc's development today. This support will make it possible to carry out the development of the second phase of the project, to improve the financial profitability of this animal site in addition to stimulating the local economy as well as that of the Gaspésie region. As a tourist industry, the Gaspésie Bioparc is a product of calls that can attract more visitors and generate important economic benefits for the city of Bonaventure and the surrounding area, "said the member. Sylvain Roy. 
The Government of Quebec's contribution to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) released last April. It should be remembered that this decennial plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Quebec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the associated costs and to make informed choices. 
