Bonaventure- The hon. Member for Bonaventure and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (Fauna and Parks), Mr. Sylvain Roy, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs , regions and occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the granting of $ 50,000 Government Assistance at Gaspésie's Bioparc Inc. To complement the work of the second phase of its development plan. This assistance comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship (PIEC) infrastructure program. It should be noted that this financial contribution is added to that granted by the Government of Quebec last September, in the amount of $ 1.7 million, for the realization of this second phase of the project. 
"I am very pleased with the support of the Government of Quebec, which will complement the second phase of the Gaspésie Bioparc Development Plan. This educational and ecological animal park is a major tourist attraction and allows visitors to discover the richness and diversity of the Gaspé fauna and flora. These visitors are not only tourists coming from the outside, but also people from the region who like to revisit the park each year. This makes it so special and attests to the importance of supporting it in its progression, "said MP Sylvain Roy. 
As a whole, this project aims to expand and consolidate service infrastructures. The work includes the stabilization of the animal hub and existing infrastructures as well as the improvement of service infrastructures. The project also provides for the establishment of facilities to enable the organization of nautical excursions in the Aquatic Reserve of the Estuary-de-LA-Rivière-Bonaventure. 
The completion of all this work requires a total investment assessed at $ 4,935,674. The Government of Quebec will pay a maximum amount of $ 50,000, under the PIT. Other partners contribute to this project, including the Local Development Center (CLD), the Regional County Municipality (MRC) and the City of Bonaventure. 
In addition, emphasize that the Gaspésie Biopark has also invested $ 250,000 for the completion of the second phase of its development plan. 
Constituted in 1995, the Bioparc of the Gaspésie inc. opened its doors to the public in June 1998 as a result of sustained efforts in the environment. Recognized as a social economy enterprise by the social economy cluster, this mission is to present and protect the Gaspé fauna and flora so as to transmit to visitors an ecological vision encouraging the action , all in an entertaining experience. In 2008, the Bioparc initiated the first phase of its development plan. The work carried out during the period 2008 to 2010 then increased significantly increased site traffic, passing from 18,000 to 28,000 visitors annually. 
For its part, the President of Bioparc of La Gaspésie Inc., Mr. Aurélien Bisson, welcomes the support of the Government of Quebec to this project which will allow the organization to continue its activities, thus contributing to the economic and tourist development of The city and the region of Gaspésie. 
Equipped with an investment envelope of $ 10 million, the PIC aims to support social economy companies in the implementation of projects of refurbishment, expansion, construction or acquisition of commercial infrastructure or industrial. The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy companies, contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories and to promote the preservation and valorization of the quality of the environment. 
