Quebec- The member for Joliette and sentence of the official opposition in the field of culture and communications, Véronique Hivon, and the hon. Member for Sanguinet and Spokesman for Treasury Board, Alain Therrien, deplore that the Liberal government has Refused to support the motion submitted today to the National Assembly by the official opposition for the government to become a leader in the emergence and deployment of the suffix ".quebec". 
"The Liberal government misses, once again, a good opportunity to affirm Quebec identity around the world. This demonstrates a serious lack of vision and ambition for Quebec. Philippe Couillard sees Quebec as an average province among others, rather than as a nation that uses all the resources available to ensure its development and radiation, "said Véronique Hivon. 
The Refons Refusi St Petri Leonux Secis About the Skon Swimming: 
"That the National Assembly emphasizes the entry into the digital territory, today, of the suffix" .Quebec ", an exclusive domain in Quebec; 
That it recalls the motion of 11 June 2008 presented by the former member of Outremont, Mr. Raymond Bachand, and adopted unanimously, who supported this project, in particular to promote the influence of Quebec and its identity as well. that the success of its companies; 
Whether it asks the government to assume a leader role in the emergence and deployment of the suffix ".Quebec" and to engage in a process of addressing addresses for its ministries and agencies. » 
The hon. Member for Sanguior emphasizes that according to many experts questioned, the government's argument, the cost of $ 12 million for the conversion of Quebec state's web addresses, does not hold the road. "Nobody adhere to this financial argument; The Liberal government could have made a gradual migration to the virtual space .Quebec or, at the very least, switch on the movement based on the considerable work that has already been carried out by several stakeholders in this file. The Minister of Culture and Communications, Hélène David, and the President of the Treasury Board, Martin Coiteous, must tell us why they refuse to engage in this process of migration of the addresses of the government and its organizations, "concluded Alain Therrien. 
