Quebec- The member for Rosemont and spokesperson for the Quebec's social services, youth protection, home care and prevention, Jean-François Lisée, and the member for Bourget, Maka Kotto, met the Press this morning to demand the restoration of resources for organizations fighting roaming. On this occasion, they were accompanied by Mr. Sébastien Pageoon, Director General of the Naha Center. 
"In front of the Conservative government in Ottawa, the Minister Delegate to Public Health, Lucie Charlebois, failed in the task by renouncing the Quebec approach to the fight against homelessness. Result: For a year, about thirty of Montreal community organizations have seen their amputered budgets. In Montreal, the Naha Center, which hosts vulnerable men in a homelessness, had to give up his only evening speaker. Now, a few days ago, a man took off the life, and no one, on the spot, could not help him, "lamented Jean-François Lisée. 
"We want to express our sincere condolences to the relatives of this man, and to remember that prevention and support actions are crucial for the support of vulnerable people," continued members. 
"The federal government has just announced an additional $ 17 million over two years to combat homelessness. The Quebec Minister must commit to providing the necessary resources at the Naha Center now to prevent another tragedy from happening, "said the member for Rosemont. 
"On many occasions, we warned Minister Charlebois about the fact that a considerable number of homelessness organizations would cut their budgets and would be forced to reduce their services. Street workers were finally removed by dozens, and many organizations had to review their downwards to survive. This time, we are in front of a case of suicide. One, it's a too much. We are here to draw the alarm: the minister must act now to restore the organizations on the ground the means to do their job, "added Maka Kotto. 
"Among the failures of this Liberal government, among other things, there is a shifting lack of leadership and column before the federal government. Minister Charlebois must ensure that the sums are allocated now, so that the Naha center can rebuild a night worker and that all other organizations that have had to reduce their services can continue to properly intervene with people. homelessness, "concluded Mr. Lisée. 
