Québec- It is during a work meeting held this morning with the head of the Quebec Assembly of Quebec and Labrador (APNQL), Ghislain Picard, and a dozen other major leaders and leaders, that The Premier presented the stock balance sheet and reported the latest advances in its Government on Aboriginal affairs conducted since the Trusted Territories and Resources Summit on December 3, 2012. 
"In the last six months, the Government of Quebec has focused its energy to advance some important issues for many Aboriginal nations. We have made major gains, both economically and socially, and we gave a new breath of our relations with Aboriginal people. Although we still have a lot of work to be done, I am happy with the results achieved so far, "said Pauline Marois. 
The Prime Minister first welcomed the draft law establishing the Regional Government of Eeyou Istchee Baie-James, a new body that sets up an innovative governance regime whose joint representation is provided by cries and Jamesians . It also evoked a block of 150 MW to the three Mister Communities of Listuguj, Gesgapegiag and Gespeg, for a wind project that should bring more than $ 150 million over the next 20 years. 
In addition, the land surrender at Kahnawake Mohawk Reserve and the Final Agreement concerning the territory with the Mistissini Cree Reserve have been cited as considerable advances for these communities. Finally, Ms. Marois mentioned the $ 7,298,468 from the Aboriginal Initiatives Fund (FIA and FIA II) that were paid to all Aboriginal nations to support social, economic and community projects. 
At the meeting, Ms. Marois was accompanied by the Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs, Elizabeth Larouche, the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, Minister Delegate to the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspésie Region? Islands -Madeleine, Gaétan Lelièvre, as well as the member for Ungava and Parliament Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (Northern Affairs Component), Luc Ferland. 
During the exchanges, the representatives of the Government of Quebec and First Nations members reiterated their common interest in maintaining a nation-nation relationship. This will has already been demonstrated at meetings held between the Aboriginal leaders and the ministers concerned by specific issues, such as public safety or natural resources. Participants nevertheless agreed that there is still a long way towards the four issues targeted by the APNQL at the summit of December 3, namely royalties, the co-management of the territory, its conservation, as well as the consultation and the consultation. accommodation. 
From the social point of view, the Prime Minister recalled the expected advances in connection with the implementation of a government action plan for domestic violence, in which a quarter of the measures are intended specifically for the Aboriginal population. 
Minister Elizabeth Larouche has reiterated his commitment to a month in the history of Aboriginal people, in order to emphasize the importance of the culture of the Aboriginal peoples of Quebec, a project to perfect with the collaboration of the APNQL. 
"We are committed to that the Aboriginal nations of Quebec are heard, consulted and considered. Their concerns about royalties, co-management and conservation of the territory, consultation and accommodation have been discussed and negotiated since last fall. The Quebec government, First Nations and Inuit in Quebec can rejoice in the progress we have done together so far. Our cooperation must continue in the best interest of all, "concluded the Minister Aboriginal Affairs. 
