Quebec - Minister Delegate Aboriginal Affairs, Mrs. Elizabeth Larouche, went yesterday in the Attikamek community of Opitciwan. The objective of his visit was to explain the content of the agreement regarding the management and development of natural resources and the territory, which had been initialed by all negotiators on October 22, 2013. 
Following the sign of the agreement, Ms. Larouche had offered Opitciwan's Atikamekw's council to travel to their community to discuss the details of the agreement and to establish a dialogue to better understand the aspirations of each Parties. 
"I always want the realization of this historic agreement, which will pose the first milestones of a frank and transparent relationship between our nations. This bilateral agreement will maximize the economic development of the three Attikames communities, while integrating their vision into the management of the territory and the resources thereof, "explained Minister Larouche. 
Following the initiale of all negotiators, the agreement had been endorsed by the Manawan Band Councils and Wemotaci. The Chief of Opitciwan, Mr. Christian Awashish, had chosen to submit the question to a referendum, at the end of which the agreement had been rejected by his community. 
The minister wanted to reassure members of the Opitciwan Community: "This agreement will in no way affect your ancestral rights or your hunting and fishing rights. Its implementation will not prevent the continuation of your traditional activities in the territory, "she assured. 
Ms. Larouche also recalled the importance of signing this agreement with the three Attikameks communities, because, in fact, the first step towards the signing of a treaty that will allow the Attikamek Nation to increase its autonomy on the territory. 
Recall that the implementation of a "high-level political table" is planned to ensure compliance and proceeding of the agreement, including access to resources, such as the granting of volumes of wood and sylvicultural work, the transfer of an outfitting, the concession of aggregate operating sites for the benefit of Attikameks, as well as the payment to Attikameks totaling $ 35 million for economic development purposes. Improving the living conditions of Attikameks and job creation. 
The Minister has entered into the information session by inviting community members to continue their thinking and recalling that it remains open to ways of solutions that would achieve the advances offered by this agreement. 
