Quebec, May 1, 2017- In the wake of the announcement, today, of the implementation of six superclinic in Laval, Diane Lamarre, spokesperson for the Quebecois health, accessibility to care and Home support, notes that the government denies its commitment that they must be opened 84 hours a week, 7 days a week. 
IN SHORT 
- The Liberals renounce their commitment; Superclinics will not all be open 7 days a week, 12 hours a day. "Once again, the Minister of Health folds the cool in front of the physicians.- Gaétan Barrette seems to have" forgotten "to inform the Prime Minister of his failure. 
In the technical document released today, it is mentioned that only 2 clinics announced out of 6 will be open on weekends, alternately. However, the liberal commitment - repeatedly repeated by the Minister of Health and the Prime Minister of Quebec - provided that the superclinic would be open 84 hours a week. 
"It seems to be impossible for this minister to guarantee care, apart from the emergencies of hospitals, weekend nights. People do not have the right to be sick two nights a week. But the disease does not take rest on Saturdays and Sundays! Already, the Minister of Health has allowed the GMF not to be open on weekend nights. He answered that it would be the responsibility of the superclinics. What is now clear is that he crushed in front of the doctors who did not want to work on weekends. After folding for the opening hours of GMF, it's another failure signed Gaétan barrette. 10 or 20 doctors per clinic, it's been 2 weekend a year; This is not abusive! We try to make believe that patients do not have urinary, otitis or abdominal pain infection on Saturday and Sunday night? Asked Diane Lamarre. 
"The Minister of Health has always presented the opening hours elongated as the added value of the superclinic. But it only renames "superclinical" network clinics. By being unable to concretely increase access to weekend nights for the population, he still makes concessions for physicians and empties this initiative of his meaning. It was already suspected, but we now have the confirmation that the superclinics will not meet the immense needs of all the people who go to the emergency room because everything is closed elsewhere. The superclinics he claims to open already exist and offer tens of thousands of appointments! It's a false good news and it's a shame to have false hopes to Quebecers, "she added. 
"The minister has an archaic approach to health care. Everything must still go through the doctors. The problem of emergencies is only the symptom. It is access to front-line care and home support that will adjust emergency overflows. But the minister's commitments to doctors prevent him from making the right decisions that would give care at the right time, in the right place, by the right person and the right cost. In short, because the minister bent the coin in front of the doctors, we understand that it is still Quebeckers who will be deprived of legitimate access to care and who will have to adjust to the system and not the opposite ", notes in In addition to Ms. Lamarre. 
Remember that less than a month ago, on April 4th, Prime Minister Philippe Couillard declared, "What is the superclinics? (...) It is places where parents can bring children at the end of the day, after coming home, 7 days a week, 12 hours a day, with blood tests, on-site radiology tests for Avoid going to the hospital. "Would the Minister of Health" have "forgotten" to report his failure to the Prime Minister? , Is questioning the hon. Member. 
