Quebec- The member for Vachon and spokesperson for the official transport in terms of transport, Martine Ouellet, the member for Labelle and spokesperson for healthy lifestyle, recreation and sports, Sylvain Pagé, the member De Bertrand and tourism spokesperson, Claude Cousineau, as well as the member for Jonquière and spokesperson for sustainable development and environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, have again denounced the liberal decision to have deleted funding of the green road maintenance program. 
"From the announcement of the Cup of Budgets dedicated to the Green Road, we questioned the Minister of Transport, but he has been ceasing to turn a deaf ear. However, we are no longer alone in believing that this decision is completely insane. This Liberal Government Cup generated beyond 150 resolutions adopted by municipalities, RCMs, corporations and regional tourism associations to ensure that the maintenance of the maintenance of the green road maintenance is ensured. Will the minister go to the obvious? This is a very bad decision for the whole Quebec, particularly for the regions, "said Martine Ouellet. 
"This 2.8 million Cup jeopardizes with the axes of tourism development that has become essential in several regions of Quebec. These infrastructures ensure the safety of users and encourage physical activity of millions of Quebecers. The last report of the National Institute of Public Health of Quebec figures the costs directly associated with obesity at $ 1.5 billion a year. For the Quebec nation to become one of the most famous in the world, we need to invest in our infrastructure with a direct impact on public health; In this sense, the Green Road is one of our most beautiful successes, "said Sylvain Pagé. 
The green road, important for the economic development of the regions  "This bike network crisscrossing Quebec over more than 5000 kilometers does everyone's desire; He was also placed at the top of the world's best cycles by the Geographic National Magazine. The Green Road is important for the economic development of the regions of Quebec. According to an economic impact assessment of the Quebec Institute of Statistics, the Linear Park The P'tit North Train reports more to the government than the total cost of the green road program, "continued Claude Cousineau. 
"According to another study of the Bicycle Circuit Corporation" Tour du Lac Saint-Jean ", in 2010 only, the Blueberry Vecellent has generated $ 9.5 million. Invest in infrastructure like the green road, not only does it provide economic benefits for all Quebec regions but, in addition, it allows us to define the bases of a society that invests in sustainable mobility and The fight against climate change by reducing greenhouse gases, "concluded Sylvain Gaudreault. 
