Replica with the open letter from Pierre Arcand, Quebec Minister of Energy and Natural Resources 
The Philippe Couillard government welcomes the adoption of the Canadian energy strategy. 
Yet, she does not have good for Quebeckers. 
First, let's say that the Canadian energy strategy focuses on three things: 
Canadian prime ministers want to accelerate the construction of pipelines, with the complicity of the Couillard government. He fell into the panel and wastened to sign an agreement that states that the territory of Quebec will only serve one thing: export oil sands oil. In fact, Quebec takes all risks, without being able to hope for lasting profit. 
Minister Arcand wants us to believe that through this agreement, Quebec will be in a better position to sell its electricity to other provinces. False: just a few days after the signing of this interprovincial pact, we learned that Newfoundland and Ontario negotiated an agreement so that the first sells its electricity to the second, through the United States. Either avoiding Quebec. 
Recall, moreover, that the federal government has already granted an advantageous loan guarantee of $ 6.3 billion in Newfoundland to develop the Muskrat Falls hydroelectric complex. Ottawa has also been favorable to subsidizing a transportation line to "exit" this Labrador electricity and send it to the US market. 
In both cases, this federal hydropower support of Newfoundland will be paid in part by Quebecers, to the detriment ... Quebeckers, who have always paid their own energy infrastructure. 
The Liberals also say that thanks to the Canadian energy strategy, we will export the energy of Quebec. Definitely, we are taken for suitcases. It has been decades that we sell our own electricity to our neighbors, whether Canadians or Americans. Hydro-Québec has never asked permission to anyone, especially not to the Canadian provinces, to export its energy. 
Our Chef, Pierre Karl Péladeau, all of my colleagues and myself believe that Quebeckers do not have to pay the cost of energy decisions made for the only benefit of the rest of Canada. 
Towards the Paris Conference 
While the Paris Conference on Climate Change is preparing, a strategy is adopted to accelerate the development of oil sands and pipeline projects. We should, however, make the exact contrary if we want Quebec to be a leader in the development of clean and renewable energies, and in the fight against greenhouse gases (GHGs). 
With its accession to the Canadian Energy Strategy, Quebec will say, "We want to become the first green economy of the Americas and we are proud to participate actively in the export of oil oil all over the world!" Frankly, it's not serious. The minister will have to explain his approach. 
When Quebec is an independent country, we will be able to develop our own energy strategy without having to participate in the development of oil sands. We will also be able to sign our own energy agreements with our Canadian, state-state partners, giving priority to Quebec's interests. 
No, really, the Canadian energy strategy does not suggest good for Quebeckers. 
