Quebec- The member for Jonquière and official opposition spokesman in sustainable development and the environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, and the member for Marie-Victorin and spokesperson for energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, welcome with great satisfaction the decision of the Superior Court of Quebec, which suspends TransCanada's geotechnical drilling by October 15, 2014 that the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment and the fight against climate change had authorized. , David Heurtel. 
By confirming the major flaws in Minister Hauttel's decision to grant a certificate of authorization to TransCanada on August 21, 2014, the judge criticizes very severely his management. "Contrary to the repeated declarations of David Heurtel, the Court concludes that the minister never had the best available scientific information in his hands to grant his certificate of authorization. It is very serious, for an environmental minister who has the duty to be more rigorous and consistent than anyone with the Government of Quebec about the protection of a species at risk like the beluga. The Court even emphasizes that the Sustainable Development Act has not been respected in the Minister's decision. It's very disturbing and unacceptable! The Minister must immediately give up certificates of authorization to TransCanada and immediately mandate a BAPE on the entire project, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The reasons for the Court go even further; They describe the decision of the minister of "unreasonable" and argue that it is based on "unexplained reasons". "The judgment of the Court is a cooking failure for the Liberal government, which placed the TransCanada agenda above the protection of the environment and the public interest. The judgment demonstrates that the minister has not shown any coherence or rigor. It is clearer than ever: TransCanada's oil export project involves disproportionate environmental and security risks for Quebec, without convincing economic benefits, "said Bernard Drainville. 
Finally, this judgment is proof that the Liberal government simply does not defend the territory of Quebec. "We have been saying for a long time that the environment is a competence of Quebec and that it must enforce its laws and regulations and decide what is happening on its territory. Obviously, it would be time for TransCanada to respect Quebec environmental legislation and to cease to consider it as optional in the Eastern Energy Evaluation Process, "concluded Sylvain Gaudreault. 
