Montreal- The Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the French Language Charter, Ms. Diane de Courcy, and the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region Mr. Jean-François Lisée, asked the Canadian government this morning to maintain the suspension of referrals in the case of Haiti, given the situation still prevailing in that country. 
Québec ministers also asked the Minister of Citizenship, Immigration and Multiculturalism, Jason Kenney, to put in place a policy of public interest for disbouved asylum seekers for at least three years But who, because of the temporary suspension of references whose country of origin is the subject, are still in Quebec. 
Madame de Courcy and Mr Lisée were involved in a meeting with nationals, established in Quebec, countries covered by a temporary suspension of references, mainly from Haiti and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. 
Nearly 5,000 Haitian citizens are in Quebec and could be affected by a possible surplus of references, introduced by Canada in 2004. Several of these people have taken refuge in Quebec following the earthquake affected Haiti in January 2010. 
Ministers announced that the Quebec government will formally request the Minister of Public Safety, Mr. Vic Toews, and the Minister of Citizenship, Immigration and Multiculturalism, Mr. Jason Kenney, to maintain the suspension of referrals to Haiti.  Recently, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees informed the Canadian authorities that the situation in Haiti still did not allow to meet the basic humanitarian needs of the population. The Office of the Office recommended maintaining the suspension of referrals until the situation improves. 
"Not only do we share the Office of the High Commissioner on the situation in Haiti, but our government is also of the opinion that we have a responsibility towards people who live in Quebec and who are struggling with a precarious status so that they have the opportunity to regularize their status and can participate fully in Quebec society, "said Minister Jean-François Lisée. 
Currently, five countries are targeted by a suspension of references: Afghanistan, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Zimbabwe, Iraq and Haiti. Canada considers that these countries are currently exposing the civilian population to a widespread risk arising from an armed conflict, a significant natural disaster or other general temporary circumstance. However, in 2012, Canada has evaluated that the situation in Haiti had sufficiently improved to request a progress report in June 2013. It is in the context of this progress report that the Office of the High Commissioner issued its opinion. and that the representatives of the Haitian community and the Quebec government made their proposals known. 
"A policy of public interest, decreed by the Minister of Citizenship, Immigration and Multiculturalism, Mr. Jason Kenney, would allow people whose asylum request was refused, but who three years later are still In Quebec because their country is the subject of a temporary suspension of references, to apply for permanent residence accompanied by an opinion on their integration path formulated by Quebec, "said Minister Diane de Courcy. This policy would apply to anyone established in Canada and in a similar situation. 
"Several of these foreign nationals live under a suspension of referral for many years. Why wait for the end of the suspension of referrals to offer them a chance to settle and fully participate in society? We believe we can and we have to do better. We also know that the granting of permanent residence is the trigger of real social and economic integration, "said Madame de Courcy, which believes that the proposals of Quebec will provide a sustainable solution to these people. 
Haitian nationals who, at the time of the earthquake, were in Quebec as visitors, temporary workers or foreign students, or people who were urgently evacuated by the Canadian government, will also benefit from this policy if the federal government responds there. 
Minister Diane de Courcy emphasized that "none of the proposed changes call into question the integrity of our immigration policies". The two Quebec ministers want the federal government to confirm, in the short term, maintaining the suspension of referrals to Haiti. 
