Quebec, April 2, 2019 -The MP for Jonquiere and Spokesperson for the Third Opposition Group in Health, Sylvain Gaudreault, is very pleased with the positive welcome that the request for the Health Committee. and Social Services (CSSS) seizes an initiative mandate regarding the consumption of psychostimulants in children and young people. 
IN SHORT 
On February 18, by the voice of the member for Jonquière, the Parti Québécois demanded that parliamentarians can look at the consumption of psychostimulants in young Quebeckers, especially to regularize Lestdah. "We have noted a worrying increase in the consumption of these drugs since the early 2000s. We want to understand why. We also want to know if the psychological distress of children and young people is more marked here than elsewhere and, where appropriate, how to remedy the situation, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The hon. Member stresses that he was not alone in demanding such an exercise. "Last schedule, nearly fifty pediatricians denounced the overcast of children, deploring the use too rapid to psychostimulants to treat behavioral problems. Since then, several other health professionals have joined the movement; All call for great collective reflection for the good of young people. That's exactly the goal of the parliamentary committee we have achieved, "he continued. 
Thus, parliamentarians will be able to hear experts from the point on this situation more than worrying. Solution tracks can then be released, which will be added to those already advanced by the specialists: Best dialogue between parents, teachers, psychologists and doctors, bonified offer of physical activity for young people, further assessment of what causes Behavior disorders, improved psychosocial services ... "The issue is essential; It touches the health and quality of life of children. It's up to us, adults, to adapt, find solutions. I am pleased that my CSSS colleagues thus also hear, and that they have affirmed unanimously, "Sylvain Gaudreault concluded. 
