The Tuque-as a result of the Liberal Party's statements, the Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, believes that the leader of the Liberal Party, Philippe Couillard, has the toughee because workers and forest managers found an ally. in size with the government of the Parti Québécois to develop the forest environment. 
"The declarations of the Leader of the Liberal Party, Mr. Philippe Couillard, and the member for Laviolette, Ms. Julie Boulet, once again testify to the total incomprehension of the Liberal Party of the Forest Middle. I believe that Philippe Couillard has toughered because we are not talking on both sides of the mouth: we defend the interests of workers and regions, with all knowledge of the cause, "said Martine Ouellet. 
When During National Forest in Saint-Félicien, the Parti Québécois government announced a bonus of more than $ 20 million for silvicultural works budgets in public forest and private forest compared to the last Liberal financial framework. The $ 147 million announcement for silviculture for non-commercial work complies with this commitment. 
"This is the first time that budgets for silvicultural work are announced so early in the year. Entrepreneurs are very happy with this announcement. They also know, like us, that the situation changes in the forest world and that budgets must be adjusted. The Parti Québécois, unlike the Liberals who sent our forest workers to the mines and who allowed lost 30,000 forest jobs because of their inertia, has a plan for the forest. The National Forest Rendez-vous is the proof and the sums announced in silviculture are a first demonstration, but surely not the last, "added Denis Trottier, Member of Parliament for Roberval and Deputy Parliamentary Forestry. 
By confirming the investments for the completion of the sylvicultural work for 2014-2015 in January, the Government of the Parti Québécois has worked on predictability, both in terms of budgets and the nature of the works, compared to the Liberal Party. Never understood and even considered important to do. Thanks to this budget predictability, silvicultural entrepreneurs will be able to better plan their activities and workforce, and thousands of workers will benefit from greater stability. More than 3,000 jobs will be maintained with these investments. 
"The Liberals have never faith in the forest industry. They had decided to turn the back to Quebec's resources regions. The leader of the Liberal Party had even dared to strongly suggest workers in the forest industry to turn to jobs in mines, a sector he considered to be more promising. Workers and sylvicultural entrepreneurs have long suffered the counterparts of their disarming liberal improvisation. It was time for us to do Quebec a structured and planned approach to wood production. This is all the difference of the Parti Québécois, listening to community and work stakeholders to find solutions adapted to the new reality of the forest territory, "added Martine Ouellet. 
