Baie-Saint-Paul- In the wake of the launch of the Food Sovereignty Policy, the Prime Minister of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, M . François Gendron, met, today, for the first time, members of the Concertation Table of Quebec Bioalimentary Partners. The table is mandated to bring light on the minister and the government on the implementation of the new policy as well as on different issues of interest in the development of the bioalimentary sector. 
"While gathering the middle actors, the policy of food sovereignty will generate undeniable benefits for all Quebeckers, both as consumers and as citizens. It constitutes a mobilizing collective project that will ultimately implement the potential of the bioalimentary sector for the Quebec economy, "said Gendron 
"The success of the policy is based on the ability of the environment to consult. I am very pleased with the conduct of this first meeting, during which we discussed the priority actions to be carried out to begin the implementation of the policy of food sovereignty. About forty tracks of action have been proposed and the work of the table have made it possible to agree on priority actions to put forward in order to move quickly to action, "said Francois Gendron.  It should be noted that the table is composed of 22 people named by the Minister, who presides himself to the work. It brings together the senior executives of the organizations considered the most representative of the different links of the bioalimentary sector and the interested partners of Quebec society. 
Thus, more than about fifteen organizations participate. They come out: 
For more information on food sovereignty policy, we invite you to regularly consult the blog (www.politicsa.gouv.qc.ca) of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and its website (www .mapaq.gouv.qc.ca / Policya), or to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
