Saguenay- The Minister of Public Safety, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, accompanied by the member for Chicoutimi and Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean Region, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, announces the maintenance of correctional services in Saguenay. A mandate was entrusted to the Quebec Real Estate Company (ISP) to assess the possibilities. 
"What we advocate is the construction of a cellular neighborhood adjacent to the Chicoutimi Courthouse. We believe that it would be an ideal solution to maintain, if only for functional reasons, a correctional capacity in Chicoutimi. We therefore entrust to the SIQ the mandate to examine the technical possibility, the costs and the timeline for carrying out this new construction, "said Minister Bergeron. The evaluation of the costs and the technical feasibility of the project will require approximately 9 months of work from the SIQ. 
This project would allow the accommodation of 20 offenders. These new services will address in particular to the defendants before appearing Monday to Friday and the incarcerated persons who will purge a discontinuous detention sentence on weekends. 
In addition, facilities will be available to facilitate meetings between lawyers and their clients for the purpose of preparing the various stages of their file in court. These developments stem from representations made by Saguenay criminalists. 
"Today's decision is not only complying with the commitments we have made to the region's population by maintaining correctional services in Chicoutimi, but is part of our desire to maintain quality services and Proximity. It corrects the action of the Liberals coming against the regional consensus for maintaining two facilities. I would like to thank the Minister of Public Safety for his opening on this issue, but also all the people who participated in the development of this solution, "said Minister Bédard. 
Minister Bédard also got the assurance that some jobs will be maintained until the work of this new construction. 
