Quebec- Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Chaudière-Appalaches Region, Ms. Agnès Maltais, today announced that the Residence Body The springboard has received, from the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), the confirmation that 16 Community housing units were reserved for the implementation of a project deposited under the AccessLogis Québec program. 
This announcement is an important step for this organization, which is now invited to submit to the SHQ the documents necessary for the continuation of the analysis of its application for financial assistance. 
"I am delighted that the project of the Residence Organization the springboard is in the process of carrying out because I know it will help to offer a better quality of life to several disabled people in the Chaudière-Appalaches. The latter, who may have had to leave the area for lack of accommodation adapted to their needs, will be offered an affordable, quality and safe environment, in the environment that is expensive. Thus, these new community housing units will contribute to countering the devitalization of the sector and to promote the dynamism of the community, "said Minister Agnès Maltese. 
The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, joined his voice to that of his colleague to clarify that "the investments of the Government of Quebec for Creating affordable housing are part of a vast plan based on social solidarity and aimed at ensuring that every Quebecker has access to decent living conditions and can play an active role in society. " He added that he was "important to pursue housing interventions, since they represent a great way to combat poverty and promote greater equality between citizens." 
Since the implementation of AccessLogis Québec and affordable housing programs from the SHQ, 1,780 community housing units have been built or are in the process of being in the Chaudière-Appalaches region, which represents investments totaling nearly 187 M $. 
It should be remembered that in its newest budget, the Quebec government has announced an envelope of $ 231 million for the construction of 3,000 homes. 
The SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Every year, thanks to its programs and many partners, it helps more than 230,000 Quebec households. For more information on its programs and services, see www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. 
