Quebec- The Minister of Education, Leisure and Sport and Minister responsible for the Montérégie Region, Mrs Marie Malavoy, today announced that the solidarity cooperative in housing the lordship of Boucherville received, on the part From the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), the confirmation that 80 Community housing units were reserved for a project deposited under the AccessLogis Québec program. 
This announcement is an important step for this organization, which is now invited to submit to the SHQ the documents necessary for the continuation of the analysis of its application for financial assistance. 
"As a minister responsible for the Montérégie region, I am delighted that a project as important as we announce today is on track. For me, it is important to offer affordable and quality housing for citizens who have to deal with low incomes. I also put my chapeau of minister of education, leisure and sport to emphasize the importance of setting up healthy living environments that promote the development and development of youth and youth, "said the Minister Marie Mary Maravoy. 
The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, joined his voice to that of his colleague to clarify that "the investments of the Government of Quebec for Creating affordable housing are part of a vast plan based on social solidarity and aimed at ensuring that every Quebecker has access to decent living conditions and can play an active role in society. " He added that he was "important to pursue housing interventions, since they represent a great way to combat poverty and promote greater equality between citizens." 
Since the implementation of AccessLogis Québec and Affordable Housing Programs from the SHQ, 3,316 community housing units have been built or are in the process of being in the Montérégie region, which represents investments totaling more than $ 354 million. . 
It should be remembered that in its newest budget, the Quebec government has announced an envelope of $ 231 million for the construction of 3,000 homes. 
The SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Every year, thanks to its programs and many partners, it helps more than 230,000 Quebec households. For more information on its programs and services, see www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. 
