Quebec- The Minister of Finance and the Economy and MPs of Rousseau, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, today announced that two organizations in the region have received, from the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ) Confirmation that 49 Community housing units were reserved for the realization of projects filed under the AccessLogis Québec program. Of these, 28 units are reserved for the body the residences of the bass and 21 to the body the Saint-Lin-Laurentides dwellings. 
This announcement is an important step for these organizations, which are now invited to submit to the SHQ the necessary documents for the continuation of the analysis of their application for financial assistance. 
"I am delighted that these projects are on the right track, because I know they will not only help to offer a better quality of life to several citizens of the russian riding, but that they will also have significant economic repercussions for our region. We have known, for a long time, that intervening to improve the housing conditions of the most vulnerable people is an investment, not an expense, of which our society can not deprive themselves. Moreover, a recent study on behalf of the SHQ has clearly demonstrated that our housing investments help reduce poverty and associated costs, "said Minister Nicolas Marceau. 
The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, joined his voice to that of his colleague to clarify that "the investments of the Government of Quebec for Creating affordable housing are part of a vast plan based on social solidarity and aimed at ensuring that every Quebecker has access to decent living conditions and can play an active role in society. " He added that he was "important to pursue housing interventions, since they represent a great way to combat poverty and promote greater equality between citizens." 
Since the implementation of AccessLogis Québec and Affordable Housing Programs from the SHQ, 1,079 community housing units have been built or are in the process of being in the Lanaudière region, which represents investments totaling nearly $ 107 million. 
It should be remembered that in its newest budget, the Quebec government has announced an envelope of $ 231 million for the construction of 3,000 homes. 
The SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Every year, thanks to its programs and many partners, it helps more than 230,000 Quebec households. For more information on its programs and services, see www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. 
