Joliette- The member for Joliette, Minister Delegate to the Social Services and the Protection of Youth and Minister responsible for the Lanaudière Region, Ms. Véronique Hivon, today announced that the Challenge Logis Lanaudière has received, from the Part of the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), the confirmation that 12 housing units were reserved for the AccessLogis Québec program. This is an important step in the realization of this adequate and safe community housing project for adults with intellectual disabilities or an invasive development disorder. It is also a first in the Lanaudière region. 
"I look forward to the initiators of the project, the parents and the committed volunteers who worked so hard in recent years so that this dream becomes reality. And above all, I am happy for these future tenants who can flourish in an environment adapted to their needs. Finally, I am very pleased as a member of Parliament as Joliette, seeing this project positively evolve for the well-being of our community, as a minister delegated to social services, having contributed to this progress thanks to the investment $ 10 million that I announced in the spring, of which $ 1.8 million for Lanaudière, to accurately support people aged 21 and over with disabilities. A first $ 75,000 from this envelope is dedicated, from this year, to the project. I wish the best of the organization for the continuation of things and I anticipate with joy this great achievement, "said the member and Minister Véronique Hivon. 
The Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, joined his voice to that of his colleague to clarify that "the investments of the Government of Quebec for Creating affordable housing are part of a vast plan based on social solidarity and aimed at ensuring that every Quebecker has access to decent living conditions and can play an active role in society. " He added that he was "important to pursue housing interventions, since they represent a great way to combat poverty and promote greater equality between citizens." 
Following this announcement, the organization is now invited to submit to the SHQ the necessary documents for the continuation of the analysis of its application for financial assistance. 
Since the implementation of AccessLogis Québec and Affordable Housing Programs from the SHQ, 1,079 community housing units have been built or are in the process of being in the region, which represents investments totaling nearly $ 107 million. 
It should be remembered that in its newest budget, the Quebec government has announced an envelope of $ 231 million for the construction of 3,000 homes. 
The SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Every year, thanks to its programs and many partners, it helps more than 230,000 Quebec households. For more information on its programs and services, see www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. 
