Quebec- The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, sorry for the partisan attitude of the members of the Liberal Party of Quebec and the Coalition Future Québec, who have chosen once again to campaign in favor of A drastic increase of 20% of hydropower tariffs. Indeed, the two opposition parties voted against the replacement of this increase by indexing tariffs, a fairer solution for Quebeckers. 
Remember that Raymond Bachand announced, in March 2010, a 20% increase in the rate of the electricity heritage block. The Future Quebec coalition had taken this idea at the last election campaign. 
In last November budget, Minister Marceau has replaced this increase through the indexation of the patrimonial bloc rates, which preserves the purchasing power of families. We are talking about an average saving of $ 288 per family. 
"By opposing the law of law NO25, Liberal and Caquist deputies voted against the abolition of the rise in unjust and unfair rates initiated by the former Liberal government. Our approach is more balanced. It will avoid a drastic rise in tariffs on the pockets of Quebecers while reducing the debt, "said the minister. 
In addition, by refusing to make legislative changes to allow Hydro-Québec to proceed quickly to the allocation of the 800 MW additional wind energy announced, the opposition parties give a slap to the populations of Gaspésie and the Bas-Saint-Laurent. 
"The opposition acts contrary to the interests of the regions and particularly the region of Gaspésie - Islands-de-la-Madeleine in addition to threatening the Gaspésian wind industry. Did the leader of the Quebec Liberal Party, Philippe Couillard listened well the economic speakers of Gaspésie during his pass last week? The question may arise, since the first gesture of its political training has been to block the measures necessary for the allocation of an additional 800 MW granted by the Marois government. The continuation of the development of the wind industry will generate $ 2 billion in investments and 2000 jobs. Remember that the previous government is dragging for several years before announcing a few days before the 2012 election trigger, its intention to grant 700 MW orphans who were claimed by industry and communities. The Minister Delegate to the Regions, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre said. 
"The regions demand these measures, but the opposition parties choose to block these advances. Ironically, the Liberal Party of Quebec and the Future Québec Coalition create uncertainty in these regions by preventing us from implementing the development of 800 MW additional wind energy, "concluded Mr. Marceau. 
