Quebec- "Studies published by the Quebec Office of the French language (OQLF) on the language of trade and business confirm it once again, law 101 is not respected. The Liberal regime can use his friend Luc Ouellet suddenly for thousands of dollars to try to swallow the pill and make the numbers say what they do not say about display and language of commerce, French Declining, English advance and institutional bilingualism is strongly implanted. » 
This is said today by the member for Drummond and spokesman for the official opposition in terms of language, Yves-François Blanchet, after having read the conclusions of the five studies unveiled today by the OQLF. 
These studies reveal that in 2012 18% of the businesses do not display an enterprise name consistent with the provisions of the Charter of the French language in downtown Montreal. It is also learned that among the companies that derogate from the law, 63% of them have trademarks without generic or slogan in French only. In 2010, 89% of the businesses in downtown Montreal welcomed their customers in French. This proportion slips, two years later, at 74%. In short, for the language of display on the whole of the island of Montreal, 28% of the shops contravene the law. 
"Nearly one in five trade does not respect the current provisions of the display chart. It's enormous. Similarly, it is particularly worrying that the bilingual welcome is progressing massively to the detriment of French and that in a twenty-one business, we are unable to address customers in French. The magnitude of this decline in just two years leaves pantois, "said Yves-François Blanchet. 
This other retreat from the language of host and service has a direct impact on the language of work, points out the member for Drummond. "It means that in these businesses, the language of work is not French. This means that we knowingly requires control of English to employees. This anglicise encouragement Montreal because it is the personal preference of the boss. We do not need studies to understand that! Continued the member for Drummond, who questioned the OQLF's decision to delay the publication of working language studies in the fall. 
For the Parti Québécois, these studies show that nothing has been done or nothing has been successful in correcting the situation. "Minister Christine St-Pierre does not have the will or permission of his leader to enforce the Law 101. The Liberal regime puts more time, effort and money to make up a disturbing observation than to settle this that the OQLF confirms and that we all knew. It took five years to admit lips a decline in French in Quebec and Montreal in particular. We were entitled to an advertising campaign and bonuses in companies who have not deigned to respect our language for years, "said Yves-François Blanchet. 
"We could order and wait for reports again for years, put our money in there rather than on the ground and engage the Prime Minister's friends so that their accomplice inaction seems as little as possible. In the long run, it will cost us our language, "he added. 
For the Parti Québécois, the need to rewrite the Charter of the French language is no longer to be demonstrated. "Imperatively, you have to enforce the charter. It is a minimum, but the Liberal regime is unable to do so for political reasons. In addition, to help Francize the language of commerce, it is necessary to extend it to companies from 11 to 49 employees. In addition, the French future of Montreal necessarily involves effective immigrant integration and francization policies, which is not currently the case, recalled the spokesman. We must give the taste of a French Quebec to all Quebeckers, but to get there, you have to start by showing our determination and respect ourselves, "concluded Yves-François Blanchet. 
