Montreal -The MP for Gouin and Official Opposition spokesman, Nicolas Girard, suspects the Minister of Transport of Quebec, Sam Hamad, and his federal counterpart, Denis Lebel, to be wick and want We can not know relevant and essential information about the state of the Champlain Bridge by refusing to make public inspection reports, under the pretext that "insecure" citizens. 
"Sam Hamad recently affirmed that Quebeckers would not understand the Inspection Reports of the Mercier Bridge; Yesterday, it was the turn of the Federal Minister Denis Lebel to give us the same answer for the Champlain Bridge. Both are paternalistic and arrogant. They insult the intelligence of Quebecers, "said Nicolas Girard. 
The member for Gouin pointed out that last June at the National Assembly, the Liberal MP of Pinière, Fatima Houda-Pepin, also demanded the publication of inspection reports. "Why did Sam Hamad choose to play the hiding place with Denis Lebel rather than showing transparency and supporting his member of Parliament who also wants to end all possible speculations on the state of the state of Champlain Bridge by making studies public? "In question Mr. Girard. 
The Parti Québécois should remind that the Government of Quebec assumed 40% of the invoice of feasibility studies and that, for the sake of transparency and accountability, the Minister of Transport must make them public. "The lack of accountability at the Quebec Ministry of Transport was a severe complaint from the Johnson commission in 2007. Although it is a federal structure, the Champlain Bridge is borrowed largely from Quebeckers. Minister Hamad should re-read the Johnson report and give the right time, "said MP Girard. 
"Currently, it is the attitude of the two transport ministers that creates this unhealthy insecurity. What to be feared is that Minister Hamad plays the political game of the federal government that always processes for the construction of a new bridge in Montreal. The role of Sam Hamad is not to be the spokesman for Denis Lebel, but to be the spokesman for Quebeckers who claim a new bridge, "concluded the member for Gouin. 
