Quebec, on September 21, 2017 -The Parti Québécois spokesperson for seniors, Harold Lebel, the Quebec Association for the Rights of Retired and Pre-Tree (AQDR), the Quebec Association of Retirees (s) of sectors Public and Parapublic (AQRP), the Association of Retirees and Retirees for Education and Other Public Services of Quebec (AREQ), the FADOQ network and the interprofessional group of retired health services (Riirs) stakeholders rejoice The mobilization that the petition for holding general states on the living conditions of seniors will have aroused. The government will have no choice but to respond to the 15,000 signatories. 
IN SHORT 
"The government must achieve the importance of the aging of the population. We must think about what will happen in 10, 15 or 20 years, and prepare the ground. However, online consultations or other forums at the hotel are insufficient because they do not imply very few people. Again this summer, we echoed cases of abuse, unhealthy residences, isolation, separate seniors for administrative reasons, and I pass. All this brought thousands from Quebeckers to claim holding General States, "said Harold Lebel. 
"Living and aging in dignity, it is based first on decent income. But close to a one-five senior person lives in poverty. Health, housing, transportation, social participation of seniors, in particular, are affected. Ultimately, the whole society pays the price. Holding General States would provide us with a global vision of the different issues. We could thus find concrete and concerted solutions that would ensure a better quality of life for Quebec elders, "said the President of AQDR, Judith Gagnon 
"The aging of the population is not a problem in itself, but the government must have a global match plan to meet the many challenges linked to it. If he continues to process each file to the room, we will lack resources. We need a real aggregate aging policy, "has renounced President of the Fadoq, Maurice Dupont network. 
"The 2016 Census Results show an increase in Quebec 2.5% of the number of people aged 65 and more considered to be low-income. It is worrying, and that's exactly the kind of questions that general states would face, "said Illustredonald Tremblay, president of the AQRP. 
"The government should further consider the living conditions of seniors. In terms of their well-being, they face major obstacles; Among other things, people at home, often inaccessible or insufficient in some regions of Quebec. Cross these barriers for today's seniors, and we will ensure a better future for all Quebeckers, "added the President of the AREQ, Lise Lapointe. 
"A large consultation must be switched off quickly to develop a comprehensive service and home care policy. We want to help maintain seniors at home, but it must be done in respect and provide sufficient resources, "concluded André Lamontagne, President of the Riirs. 
