Quebec- The member for Marie-Victorin and the official opposition on energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, has strongly denounced the fact that the Hydro-Québec State society, property of the whole Quebecers, imposes a ridiculously high interest rate for clients who are struggling to make ends. 
Recently, several questionable practices have been taken from Hydro-Québec: investments of $ 1 billion for a transportation line whose need is not demonstrated, installation of intelligent meters on houses called to be demolished, $ 67 million in bill costs invoiced, while the operation, in principle, no longer exists ... During this time, the Crown corporation imposes an annual interest rate of 14.4% to Quebec families who are struggling to Paying their electricity bill - They are some 300,000 to have entered into a repayment agreement with Hydro-Québec. Does the minister find this normal situation? Does it estimate this reasonable interest rate? Asked the member, this morning, the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, Pierre Arcand. He has not moved from the situation, preferring to make diversion rather than taking it in hand. Would the Liberal Party be so obscured by its fear of the new leader of the official opposition he becomes unable to defend the taxpayers of Quebec? 
In addition, in its reported report this morning at the National Assembly, the Criticism Auditor sigross Hydro-Québec for sold a new turbine worth about $ 80 million for only $ 75,000. She talks about a "little rigorous" assessment of the equipment and questions the ardor with which the Crown corporation sought potential buyers. 
"Obviously, Hydro-Québec has duties to do; With one hand, she liquids Quebecers' assets and, on the other, she imposes a scandalous interest rate. Hydro-Québec's customers are therefore captive, since it is a state monopoly, and it is all the more ironic that they are also the owners. The minister must commit to ending this indecent practice, "demanded Bernard Drainville. 
