Quebec, February 3, 2017- After 10 months of struggle, the spokesman for the Quebecois Agriculture and Food Party, André Villeneuve, welcomes the news that the Liberal government will finally cancel its unacceptable reform of the program. agricultural land tax credit (PCTFA). "As of April 2016, during the study of budgetary appropriations, I warned the minister then, Pierre Paradis, that the changes he wanted to make to the PCTFA would compel Quebec farmers to release several thousand dollars additional. their pockets. After treating the farmers of liars for months, the government has finally decided to back down, "he said. 
For months, the Union of Agricultural Farmers (UPA), the Quebec Federation of Municipalities (FQM), the Federation of Québec Snowmobile Clubs and the Parti Québécois require the government to cancel the PCTFA reform. "It took the mobilization of farmers and municipalities, in addition to demonstrations, questions to the National Assembly, of several independent reports, of a given mandate to the taxiste Luc Godbout, the threat of a blockade of the trails of the trails of snowmobile and, finally, a change of minister so that the government finally see the light. During these 10 months, the Liberal Party has made the thousands of farmers live in uncertainty. Why have exuded there are real negative impacts on the tourist season to act? ", Questioned the spokesman. 
The UPA had calculated that farmers would undergo an average increase in taxes up to 40%. The firm Raymond Chabot Grant Thornton had confirmed these calculations, and another independent study of Forest Lavoie had arrived at the same time. Yet Minister Paradis chose not to believe farmers; Last December, he gave the mandate to Luc Godbout to check their sayings. "Liberal intransigence, in addition to causing a lot of uncertainty, will have cost a verification contract that will be unnecessary. While the Liberal Party asks Quebeckers to tighten the belt, he spends public funds because a minister refuses to recognize that he was wrong, "the member continued. 
It should be noted, however, that despite this decline in the Liberals, Foncière Agricultural taxation remains problematic, particularly because of the expanding rise in land value for two decades. "The problem of agricultural land taxation remains relevant, and the government should not sweep the issue under the carpet. It is still imperative to create a work table where the government, municipalities and farmers will be able to determine how to review the mode of taxation of agricultural land, "concluded André Villeneuve. 
