Quebec- The Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Regions of the Chaudière-Appalaches and the Capitale-Nationale, Ms. Agnès Maltais, announced, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the award of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 250,000 inxpertsea solutions inc., a company specialized in the field of Marine optics. 
Totalizing $ 625,000, this aid aims to optimize the XperCount counting apparatus that allows the enumeration and characterization of aquatic microorganisms. Changes to the device will be a significant improvement in the current product, including the modification of the data processing software that is collected by the optical sensor system. 
"By its ability to innovate and expertise in the marine optics sector, Xpertsea Solutions contributes to the reputation of the Applied Technology Niche of the Capitale-National Region," said Agnès Maltais. "We are particularly proud of the realization of this structuring project that allows the influence of our region as a pole of innovation and technological development. » 
"It is essential, for our government, to support companies being started with a high potential, such as Xpertsea Solutions, so that they can grow," added Zakaïb Élain. "Thanks to this financial support, the company will ensure its competitiveness and strengthen its position of excellence in a booming applied technology industry. » 
Founded in 2009, the company Xpertsea Solutions inc. Develops, manufactures and markets optical systems for the counting and characterization of aquatic microorganisms, including shrimp larvae, molluscs and fish as well as microalgae and living food. 
"Our company has given the mission of developing and adapting technological concepts to optimize management and operating performance in the aquaculture industry," supported the Company President Xpertsea Solutions Inc., Mrs. Valérie Robitaille. "The Support of the Government of Quebec is therefore a valuable assistance to promote the achievement of our objectives, including addressing the counting and characterization problems of small aquatic organisms. » 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
