Shawinigan- On the occasion of its tour of several regions of Quebec, the Minister delegated to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Mrs. Élain Zakaïb, announces, with the member for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, the allocation of a non-refundable financial contribution from $ 789,712 to Shawinigan Technologies Bionest for a project estimated at $ 2,106,716. This initiative is to demonstrate the effectiveness of a new municipal wastewater treatment technology. 
Bionest® technology increases the processing capacity of aerated ponds to extend their life. The demonstration, which will be held over a period of three years, will be carried out on the Wemotaci's Aboriginal Community Water Water Treatment Station website, located 250 km north of Shawinigan. This station has two aerated ponds, whose water content is 6,528 m3 and 4,352 m3, respectively. 
"To promote sustainable economic growth, we need to focus on the growth of green technologies. Our government has also committed to positioning Quebec towards sustainable development that combines prosperity, social benefit and protection of the environment, for current and future generations. In this regard, the Bionest Technology Project is part of our vision and we are very pleased to support it, "said Elale Deputy Minister Zakaïb. 
"Through its support for the Bionest Technology Project, our government confirms the importance of supporting Shawinigan's development by promoting the diversification of its economy. Since its inception, the company has created several solutions to meet the needs of consumers and diversify its clientele. She is an ally in achieving our growth goals for the region, "said the member for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel. 
Created in 1999, Technologies Bionest designs, manufactures and markets advanced processing solutions for wastewater. The company, which currently employs 130 employees, markets a good part of its products abroad, especially in France, the United States, the Middle East and Latin America. Over the years, Technologies Bionast has acquired a solid reputation by bringing water purification to a level significantly exceeding global standards. 
"In addition to increasing the life of the aerated ponds, our technology offers the advantage of requiring little infrastructure and to respect the existing ground footprint during its installation. This makes it a potentially more economical technology than competing technologies. The support of the Government of Quebec and the Wemotic Community in the realization of our project of demonstration will help us stand out in the market treatment markets and to demonstrate our expertise in this area, "said the Vice-President Executive and General Manager of Technologies Bionest, Mr. Pierre Saint-Laurent. 
The project announced today will be carried out in collaboration with the following partners: Wemotaci's Atikamekw Nation Council, which puts its facilities available to Technologies Bionest; AXOR Consultants, for the accompaniment, the analysis of the results and obtaining a technical sheet; and the National Center for Electrochemistry and Environmental Technologies (CNETE), for sampling. 
The Deputy Minister undertook the tour of several regions of Quebec to present its guidelines for regional economic development, to explain the mandate of the Quebec Economic Development Bank and to draw out the outline of industrial policy and measures. aimed at increasing the productivity and competitiveness of Quebec companies. She took the opportunity to listen to what regional actors have to tell him about the strengths, challenges and needs of their own region to adjust the bank's project accordingly. 
