Montreal- The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, today announced the participation of the Government of Quebec at the Capital III Fund, for an amount of $ 50 million . This fund's mission is to invest in clean technology companies. 
"The government has given the goal of financing clean technology companies and thus promote the establishment of a green economy in Quebec. This is a growing sector in which we can develop an expertise that will be more and more sought after. The Capital III Fund is a tool that will allow us to participate in the development of promising companies, which will contribute to our economic prosperity, "said the Prime Minister. 
Managed by Capital Management, an investment platform that includes investment professionals, strategic advisers and experts in sustainable development and green technologies, the Cycle Capital III Fund will invest in technology companies specific to the development stage . It will focus on energetic efficiency slots, intelligent infrastructures, renewable energy, value-added recycling, green transport, green chemistry, green agriculture, industrial energy and recovery systems. of waste. 
In addition to the amount paid by the Government of Quebec, Hydro-Québec will contribute to the Fund for $ 20 million. Private partners, including Teralys Capital, CSN Fondaction, Alumane Alouette, Cascades and Gaz Métro, will also participate in its capitalization. In total, the Fund will have an envelope of $ 108 million. 
Minister Marceau noted the importance of venture capital for a young sector like clean technology. "The clean technology sector is a sector of the future. However, it must be able to rely on sufficient and available venture capital to ensure its development. That is why the Government of Quebec adopts in the field of innovative public policies that promote the involvement of private investors in companies, "he said. 
The Premier recalled that Quebec's industrial policy, which will be filed in the coming months, particularly on the strength of several sectors in which Quebec excels, including the green technology sector. This policy will provide an envelope of $ 200 million that will include, among other things, to support the development of green technologies and transport electrification. 
