Sherbrooke- The Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister Responsible for Elders, Minister responsible for the Estrie Region and Member of Parliament for the riding of Saint-François, Dr. Réjean Hébert, announced, on behalf of the Minister Delegate Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the payment of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 135,700 to Studios GolemLabs, for the development of simulation software, and The realization of the related experiments, which will be used for the training of nurses. This financial support comes from the development support program for strategic sectors and niches of excellence. 
"This innovative initiative will promote the development of advanced expertise in the training of nursing staff," said Minister Réjean Hébert. "The Estrie region is already distinguished by the presence of many researchers, clinicians and practitioners recognized for their know-how in the field of care and services to the elderly. To this great capacity for innovation adds a network of companies of any size and international scale which, through their development and marketing activities, contribute to the socio-economic growth of the region. » 
The software developed by Studios GolemLabs will reproduce an emergency room, its environment as well as its patients. Nurses will face, in real time, to different trauma scenarios and fulfill the appropriate acts for each situation. The software will allow dozens of users to evolve in the same situation through network interconnection and can be used both at home and class. The project will be developed in close collaboration with researchers from the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, the Faculty of Education, the Faculty of Science and the Department of Computer Science at the University of Sherbrooke. 
"The project developed by Studios GolemLabs demonstrates the wealth that a company can produce that uses its creativity and expertise to innovate," added the Deputy Minister Zakaïb. "For our government, it is essential to support and encourage entrepreneurs who perform actions to innovate, diversify and drill new markets. To prosper, we must bring together the know-how of our entrepreneurs and the expertise of the research community. This project is a very good example of what this collaboration can give. » 
Founded in December 2000, Studios Golemlabs marketed global video games. Specialized in strategy games, the company has subsequently diversified its activities by integrating the simulation game market, which is growing strongly. The current project is part of this new orientation.  "The financial support of the Government of Quebec will allow us to develop the various scenarios that will be offered by the software based on targeted groups," said Jean-René Couture, president of Studios Golemlabs. "When the design of it will be completely complete, we will be able to carry out the first tests with users. I am very proud of this project that ultimately will be an integral part of the training of health professionals. » 
Dr. Hébert also took advantage of his visit to Sherbrooke to report the evolution of the niche of excellence Biotech Health Agreement. The latter was repositioned, announced last January, to further orient its actions towards the areas of aging and the autonomy of seniors. Dr. Hébert also introduced the two new co-chairs of the niche, mm. Carol Fillion, Director General of the Health and Social Services Center - Sherbrooke University Institute (CSSS-IUGS), and Christian de Grace, President of Rideup Mobility. 
"I would also like to emphasize the collaboration between the Elongation of Life Charles Foix, through Soluage, and our niche of excellence in Estrie," said Minister Hébert. "In fact, since last March, more than forty players in the region participate in a cooperation exercise that allows them to discover the innovative initiatives of our French colleagues in, among others, the gray economy sector. » 
"In consultation with these French experts and the interveners of the community, we are currently building our action plan," said Carol Fillion. "The goal is to reach a new offer of personalized services and technologies for greater autonomy of the elderly. » 
"Our relationship opens the field of possible, the implementation of major international academic projects through the acceleration of business opportunities for our respective companies," said Benjamin Zimmer, responsible, development and innovation, SOLIAGE FRANCE. 
