Quebec, March 12, 2021 -The Member of Jonquière and spokesman for the Quebecois environment and climate change, Sylvain Gaudreault, the member for the Magdalen Islands and spokesperson transport and maritime strategy, as well as the member for Joliette and spokesperson for Quebec-Canada Relations, Véronique Hivon, join their votes to those of citizen groups and elected municipal elected officials who claim the holding of A study of the Office of Public Hearings on the Environment (BAPE) about the Laurentia project, an intermodal terminal of deep water containers that we want to develop the port of Quebec and its partners. 
IN SHORT 
- The BAPE must address the Laurentia project to answer the legitimate questions of the elected representatives and the population of Quebec. - In this case as in all others, Quebec should be the only level of government to decide on projects that can be carried out on Our territory.- This is an opportunity that the CAQ can not leave: get concrete results, beyond beautiful speeches. 
"Laurentia is a major project, whose impacts, if realizes, will be felt for decades. But more and more voices are rising; In particular, it is questioned, in particular, on the effects on air quality, on the presence of fine particles, as well as the predictable increase in heavy traffic in the sector. Because it is the only one to provide satisfactory responses to the legitimate concerns of the population and elected representatives of Quebec, the BAPE must examine the project in all its aspects, before its realization, "claimed Joël Arseneau, who specifies that in its current form, Laurentia does not meet the minimum criteria of social acceptability. 
Sylvain Gaudreault refuses that Ottawa contraines the population of Lower Quebec City to accept this megaproject. "The Port of Quebec is under the authority of the federal government; Against any logic and totally aberrant, Quebec laws do not apply! In our view, from an environmental point of view, in particular, Quebec must be the only one to decide what is happening on its territory; Then we demand the retrocession of the port of Quebec, or we are adopted without delay our Bill 391, which affirms the primacy of the competence of Quebec on the environment, "he recalled. 
Véronique Hivon emphasizes the request expressed by the Prime Minister of Quebec, François Legault, to the heads of federal parties at the last federal election campaign: that Quebec can carry out environmental assessments on the territory of Quebec, including Federal projects. "With the Laurentia project, the Caquist government has a great opportunity to put into practice its federalism that would have an assumed autonomist component, submitting the project to BAPE hearings. This is a concrete result that the CAQ is committed to obtaining. The government must join us and support the demand of citizens and elected municipal elected representatives of Quebec, has concluded the member for Joliette. 
- 30 - 
SOURCE : 
Laura Chouinard-Thuly 
Press Officer 
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois 
514 880-9594 
Laura.c After i's -t care liquid @as is NAT. Second. Wipe 
