Quebec- proud to end too long episode of uncertainty in the history of this public park, the minister responsible for the regions of the Capitale-Nationale and the Chaudière-Appalaches, Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, confirms the governmental decision to retain the public vocation of the site and reiterates its commitment to highlight the land of nearly 600,000 m2, the equivalent of half of the area of Old Quebec,. The Society of Outdoor Institutions of Quebec (Sépaq) and the National Capital Commission of Quebec become owners. In addition, the sepait is entrusted with the mandate to carry out a concerted approach for its development. 
"Since 2006, the population of Quebec lives the mourning of its zoological garden and its park. Today, as a minister, I announce that the necessary and essential conditions are met to ensure a viable solution to this exceptional site. That's why the government mandates a renowned organization, separate, to highlight and ensure the sustainability of this recreational tourism jewel for the region and for all Quebec, "said Minister Maltese. 
"By confiding the separation mandate for the development of these lands, the Government has made the choice to maintain the public character of the site and ensures, thanks to the expertise of the Crown corporation, that its implementation Value will be made in the greatest respect for government guidelines and the environment, in consultation with the regional community, "said the Minister Blanchet. 
"The sepait is entrusted with a mandate quite in connection with its mission of enhancement, development and conservation of public territories, tourist equipment and natural and cultural heritage as well as its recreational and tourist niche. We are proud of the trust that is once more granted to us, "said Raymond Desjardins, President and CEO of the SEPQ. 
"Already responsible for the magnificent Park of Moulins, the National Capital Commission is pleased to be associated with the sepait by participating in the development committee of the former site of the zoological garden. Once again, the Commission wants to collaborate in implementing a public rallying project, "said the President and Executive Director of the National Capital Commission of Quebec, Françoise Mercure. 
The Secretariat, attached to the Ministry of the Executive Board, advises the Government and the Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale, Ms. Agnès Maltais, on any question or measure having a significant impact on the region and its economic, cultural, tourist and social development . 
The Secretariat acts in consultation with its various governmental and regional partners, while financially supporting the implementation of projects contributing to the growth of the Capitale-Nationale. 
