by Sylvain Gaudreault, Scott McKay and Martine Ouellet 
The Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment and Parks (MDDEP), Pierre Arcand, issued last week the list of members and the mandate of the committee who will be responsible for carrying out the strategic environmental assessment (EES) on the shale gas. The imbalance in the composition of the committee and the lack of consultation in the EAS process order a change of course from the Liberal government. 
Indeed, on the eleven people chosen, none represents an environmental group or a citizen group while the gas industry has two registered representatives like lobbyists for Junex and Talisman ENERGY. Even among academics, links with the industry appear worrying. 
Under the current conditions, it is the gas industry that will lead the ball of the EES. We want the members of this committee to be chosen according to their independence of mind. For us, the ability to analyze and criticize all aspects of this delicate file should prevail, whether they are scientific, social, environmental, political or technical. 
The reality is all: the gas will be judges and parts of a committee to examine their own practices! This really makes sense because the gas will have privileged access to influence the work and decisions of the Committee both in terms of the authorization of fractures and the content and monitoring of studies. Will their representatives really be questioned "the socio-economic relevance of the operation of the gas resource" while it is one of the fundamental aspects of the mandate entrusted to this committee? We strongly doubt ... 
After the devastating report of the Commissioner for Sustainable Gas Development, which concludes that the Liberal government had failed in the management of this issue, the population was expecting the establishment of an impartial and transparent process from the part. of the Liberal government. Minister Arcand once again failed and here we are now in front of a simulacre of Ees who is vicious at the same base. 
The Québécois party had proposed, many months ago, that the EAS be led by the Office of Public Hearings on the Environment (BAPE) which, by its independence and expertise, would actually reassure Quebeckers and the Quebecers on the impartiality of the evaluation process that will begin in the coming weeks. Remember that BAPE has already conducted similar assessments in the past, especially during the generic hearings on water and the swine industry. 
Although we still believe that it would be the best solution, the minimum would be that environmental groups and citizen committees involved in the file can be members of the committee. Gas and private companies are currently overrepresented. However, the BAPE should receive the reporting mandate of the report before the MDDEP analyzes its proposals and that the government only make decisions. 
On the other hand, we strongly question the relevance of carrying out other hydraulic fractures during the EAS. While France has just banned this process, some recent events remind us that hydraulic fracturing is not safely: leak of two wells in monterégie; Major explosion of a well in Pennsylvania with significant impacts for water; The study of Duke University in North Carolina which confirms the presence of methane in groundwater tablecloths for homes close to a shale gas well. 
In order to avoid any risk, the Parti Québécois requires that there is no more hydraulic fracturing new wells for the duration of the EAS. In our view, the information gathered here with the 18 wells already fractured is sufficient to meet our scientific needs on this subject. If the Liberal government continues to authorize new fractures, it will only be more evidence that it prefers to serve the commercial interests of the gas rather than the public interest. 
It therefore appears to us that three modifications to the current process are needed. First, change the composition of the committee so that the gas no longer lead the ball. Then, failing to entrust the EAS to BAPE, at least it is necessary to give it a consultation mandate on the report. Finally, cease hydraulic fracturing because drilled wells so far are already problematic enough. This change of course is essential to establish a minimum of confidence of the population. It's not too late to straighten the bar! 
The authors of this text are deputies of the Parti Québécois 
Sylvain Gaudreault, Member of Parliament for Jonquière and Spokesman for the Official Opposition in Energy 
Scott McKay, Member of Parliament for the Assumption and Spokesperson for the Official Opposition in Mining 
Martine Ouellet, Member of Parliament for Vachon and sentence of the official opposition in the field of environment, sustainable development, parks and water 
This text has among other words published in the Sun of May 28, 2011. 
