Quebec, October 5, 2016 -The Member of Taschereau and spokesperson for the Quebecois and Integrity Party, Agnès Maltese, denounces, once again, the care of Laurent Lessard when it comes to activities of his employees. This morning he confirmed that then he was Minister of Forests, no action had been taken as a result of the departure of his press officer, Pierre-Olivier Lussier, for a company in the forest sector, Remabec. 
"A cabinet employee who leaves his duties must wait a year before having the right to be hired by a company with which he had links. Minister Lessard defended, referring to a letter that Mr. Lussier signed and in which he writes that he will respect the rules. Why, then, when he was hired by Remabec, did the minister not ask the Ethics Commissioner to investigate to ensure that his press officer had indeed respected the rules ? It is not enough to say that we will respect the rules, we must act concretely in this sense to make sure it, "said the hon. Member for Taschereau. 
Remember that Article 26 of the Regulation concerning the ethical rules applicable to staff members of a ministerial firm sets out the following: 
A staff member of a firm can not, in the year following the cessation of his duties as such: 
(1) accepting an appointment to the Board of Directors or as a member of an organization, company or other entity which is not an entity of the State within the meaning of Article 56 of the Code and with which he had official, direct and important reports during the year who preceded the cessation of his duties or agree to hold a job, a position or any other function within such an organization or a such an enterprise or entity. 
"Only the minister and the Prime Minister may request an investigation by the Ethics Commissioner for an employee. When the Minister of Forests, Laurent Lessard, learned that his press officer would work for a company in the same sector, why did he accept this situation without asking any questions? Why did not he ask the ethics commissioner to investigate that he respected the rules? , "Said the spokesperson. 
"In the spring of 2015, there was definitely a lot of negotiations to the cabinet of Laurent Lessard. The Minister's press officer left for Remabec in April, at the same time the company bought the Parent Sawmill. The following month, Pyrobiom got a grant for a project at this same sawmill, and Yvon Nadeau left the office of the minister on the same day. All these "coincidences" raise serious questions about the minister and his entourage, "concluded Agnès Maltese. 
