Quebec- The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, makes public the committee on the conditions of employment of higher employment holders from outside the public service of Quebec, a few days after his deposit. In accordance with the mandate entrusted to it, the Committee, chaired by Mr. André Perrault, makes recommendations to the government in the attraction and retention of holders competent to higher-level positions. 
"The government will study the recommendations transmitted by the committee chaired by Mr. Perrault. The Objective of the Government of Quebec is to recruit from the outside of the public service and to retain its use of the competent holders, and to ensure that the integration of qualified personnel in the public service meets demanding ethical standards . The recommendations open for this purpose a number of interesting tracks, that the government will analyze carefully, "said Marois. 
The mandate of the Committee, formed in December 2012, was to fuel the reflections of the Government of Quebec in the attraction and retention of holders competent to higher level positions. 
The committee makes a set of recommendations for recruitment, selection and integration into employment, job security, remuneration and other working conditions, contract issues and ethics and management framework. . In particular, the Committee presents specific suggestions regarding the granting of job security for the holders from outside, the renewal of a contract of employment, the starting allowance, as well as the rules of ethics to observe under mandate and after the mandate. 
The Committee's report also includes a comparative study on the conditions of employment of licensees from outside the public service, carried out on its initiative by the Observatory of the Public Administration of the ENAP. 
"By creating this committee, the government wanted to give themselves the means to go to the outside of the public service of the competent and qualified persons, while inspired by the best practices in terms of ethics. The work of the Committee identified a number of possibilities for this purpose. On the merits, the government wants to ensure that the Quebec state can rely on a higher administration of very high quality, integrates and dedicated to the public interest. The Committee's report proposes several ways to ensure it, "concluded the Prime Minister. 
To view the Report of the Committee on the Terms of Employment of Higher Job Holders from outside the Public Service of Quebec, AuHTTP appointments: //www.mce.gouv.qc.ca/publications/ publications.htm. 
