Quebec, on May 19, 2020 - While Quebec was preparing to begin a record year in the field of watering to combat the epinette budworm epidemic, the hon. Member for Bonaventure and spokesman for the Quebecois Party Forestry, Sylvain Roy, denounces the Government's decision to reduce sorrow the area treated, and this, giving arguments with variable geometry. 
IN SHORT 
In the eyes of Sylvain Roy, the reasons that led to this decision are unclear. "While all stakeholders in the forest sector have been making efforts, for weeks, to put in place health protocols to ensure the safety of workers, a question of being able to successfully launch the 2020 season despite the CVIV-19, the company of Protection of forests against insects and diseases, SOPFIM, justified last week a complete stop in the fight against the torduse by invoking, precisely, these security issues. Subsequently, the Government has revised its position and announced that finally, this year, 17% of the territory to be treated at the base would be, this time by brandishing a scientific opinion that the watering can be done only one year on of them. These explanations seem to me to be labeled, it is the least we can say, "said the member. 
It is rather the opinion that the decision is more justified by a goal of rationalization of budgets. "In doing so, $ 50 million less will be invested, this year, in the protection of our forest heritage. This fiscal compression will therefore eventually result in heavy consequences for the hundreds of towns and villages in Quebec who live from the forest economy, given the constant progression of the insect, "he analyzed. 
In other words, after realizing that the security argument did not hold the road, the government attempted to justify its decision with a scientific study, not validated. But the ultimate goal is to make compressions in the fight against the wristwinder. "I ask the government to come back to this decision. The regions of the Gaspésie, Bas-Saint-Laurent, Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean and the North Shore can not afford to leave the epidemic destroy the forests that constitute the livelihood of thousands of families "Sylvain Roy concluded. 
It should be noted that from 2009 to 2019, the number of hectares of Quebec Forest affected by the custody made a phenomenal jump from 321 to 9,608,488. If the current decision is maintained, only 111,500 hectares will be processed this year, Barely more than 1% of the territory involved. 
