G Aspon- On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of the members of the Government of Quebec in the regions of Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie, the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister Responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Malteis, accompanied by the Minister Delegate to the Regions, Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Bas-Saint-Laurent Region and MP Gaétan Lelièvre, announced financial support from the Government of Quebec Two companies in the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine to promote the development of skills of their workforce. 
"At the end of this day, I can say that I met with business people who care about the development of their region, as well as motivated workers and wishing to increase their knowledge. I am pleased to see that the Gaspésie focused on training so that it benefits everyone, "said Minister Maltese. 
Agnès Maltese, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women. 
"I note that the work done by the job staff-Québec bears fruit and that the use of the financial supports granted to companies makes it possible to improve the skills of the workforce of here," added the Minister delegate Regions, Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Bas-Saint-Laurent region and MP Gaétan Lelièvre. 
Gaétan Lelièvre, Minister Delegate to the Regions, Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Bas-Saint-Laurent region and deputy of Gaspé. 
Minister Maltese began his tour at Grande-Valley by the announcement of a grant granted to the Multi-Services Home Assistance Corporation, a social economy organization to promote home maintenance of people in Autonomy loss. She then went to Rivière-Au-Renard to announce an investment to the company Fisheries Marinard, one of the largest northern shrimp processing companies in Quebec. 
The sums announced today will come to support the two companies in the deployment and implementation of development projects of their staff. "The Government of Quebec is proud to support workers, and consequently to promote the prosperity of Gaspé companies and Madelinoises," concluded Minister Maltese. 
Ritoucois ge 28 Best l'More wants it from the minisis's has met to Cautim's Gonna and creation Events of Cutucus des de déseil and minisis 
