Shawinigan- On the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, Announced today, along with the member for the riding of Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, government investments of $ 643,765 to allow the Central Québec School Board to carry out extensive renovations to two of his schools: Shawinigan High School (Shawinigan High School) and High School of the Tuque (the High School Tuque). 
The project that will be carried out at Shawinigan High School consists in particular to replace some of its sanitary facilities. The work carried out at the secondary school of the Tuque is to redo the jointment of several exterior walls of the building, so as to prevent any water infiltration. 
"The government continues to act responsibly and judiciously to provide all students in Quebec with the best possible conditions to learn and develop. Today's announcement proves once again our sincere commitment in this regard, "said Malavoy. 
Ms. Marie Malavoy, today announced, with the member for the riding of Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, government investments of $ 643,765 to the Central Québec school board. (c) Luc Trudel 
Government assistance is paid in the Réno-Schools program, one of the main measures arising from economic lapolitics: employment priority, unveiled last fall. A total of $ 430.4 million will be invested in accelerating the improvement, renovation and rehabilitation of schools throughout the school system and quickly intervene to address air quality issues in some schools . 
"Our government invests massively and judiciously in school heritage. For us, the school is more than a building where knowledge is transmitted. It is a real living environment where tomorrow's dreams hatch. The more our educational institutions will be functional, attractive and safe, the more our young people will be inclined to spend some time, to succeed and prepare their future, "said the member Trudel. 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers meet February 5 and 6 in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will proceed with more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
"For a year, we have not stopped taking steps to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe and accommodating living environments. We are increasingly engaged in this way by the carrying and strong gestures that we ask today, "concluded the minister. 
