Joliette- On the occasion of his tour of the regions of Quebec, the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, announces a loan of $ 700,000 granted by Investissement Québec and financial support Non-refundable $ 247,300 from the Stageline Ministry of Finance and Economy Inc., for a project estimated at $ 1,571,000. The company designs and manufactures mobile scenes. 
The project aims to manufacture a new scene of external shows for rental purposes. Unique by its template and its design, it will be adapted to the technical needs of large productions. The company will then be able to offer wind-resistant scenic equipment that will meet the highest standards of the industry. This new concept will be based on stage technology developed by stadeline and will represent substantial savings for its clientele. 
"The Quebec government is a duty to support bold and creative entrepreneurs. Thus, the stage of stadel represents a considerable technological breakthrough for this industry and, through its innovation and creativity, the company is an important economic actor for Lanaudière. We would like to support businesses in all regions of Quebec and to provide the necessary tools for their success in order to promote the growth of a prosperous and sustainable society, "said Minister delegate Zakaïb. 
Created in 1987, Stageline designs, manufactures, sells and rent mobile scenes for special shows and events. This is the first company to introduce the mobile scene covered on the event market. In 2008, STAGELINE doubled its area and now has a fleet of 80 moving scenes serving North America. Since its creation, the group has sales in more than 35 countries. 
"The Financial Assistance of the Government of Quebec will allow us to stand out from the competition and to overcome a deficiency in the industry," said Yvan Miron, founder and CEO of Stageline Group Group. "We will therefore be more efficient and will offer a product more adapted to the needs of our customers. In addition, the commitment that is taken today will add 15 jobs to the 92 we are currently involving. This project is concretized through the collaboration of the regional investment teams Québec and the Ministry of Finance and the Economy. " 
The Deputy Minister undertook the tour of several regions of Quebec to present its guidelines for regional economic development, to explain the mandate of the Quebec Economic Development Bank and to draw out the outline of industrial policy and measures. aimed at increasing the productivity and competitiveness of Quebec companies. She took the opportunity to listen to what regional actors have to tell him about the strengths, challenges and needs of their own region to adjust the bank's project accordingly. 
