Grand Métis- On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of the members of the Government of Quebec in the regions of Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie, the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank , Élain Zakaïb, accompanied by the Minister Delegate to Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region, Pascal Bérubé, announced loans totaling $ 823,450 to the non-profit organization of the Métis gardens. This intervention will contribute to the realization of an estimated project to more than $ 2.1 million to modernize Villa Estevan, a heritage building located in the heart of the gardens. 
"Tourism is a vital sector to stimulate the economic dynamism of regions like that of Bas-Saint-Laurent," said Minister Zakaïb. This is why my government is very pleased to deploy all the necessary means to preserve this heritage jewel with ancestral character at the heart of a unique horticultural artwork and which constitutes a tourist destination of choice. » 
// (c) Valérie Christmas-Létourneau. 
The project, funded by Investissement Québec, aims to modernize Villa Estevan, which serves as a museum and restaurant. With more than 4,000 square feet and 35 pieces, this villa is a remarkable example of Eastern Quebec Fishing Camp Architecture. The project plans to protect the villa against fires to secure this heritage classified building as well as its collections. It also includes the renovation of the building and the establishment of a ventilation system on the second floor of the museum, which will ensure the comfort of the visitors and the protection of the collections in exhibition. In a second phase, the project aims to restore the caretaker's house, which currently serves as the Métis Gardens Administrative Center. 
"Internationally recognized, the Métis gardens and Villa Estevan are an exceptional historical and cultural attraction, supported Minister Bérubé. Considered as the eleventh wonder of Quebec and classified heritage site, they represent one of the main tourist appeal products in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region. They ensure that it is an important radiation in Quebec and elsewhere in the world. » 
"The realization of this project is in the wake of the celebrations of the 125-year-old Villa Estevan. These modernization work will help preserve the authentic stamp for the next generations of visitors, in addition to providing a safe and enjoyable environment to our entire team, "said the Director General of the company, Mr. Alexander Reford. 
Ritoucois ge 28 Best l'More wants it from the minisis's has met to Cautim's Gonna and creation Events of Cutucus des de déseil and minisis 
