Saint-Narcisse- On the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Government of the Parti Québécois in the regions of Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec, the member for Champlain and President of the Planning Commission, Madame NoëlThe Champagne, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, is pleased to announce the payment of $ 100,000 financial assistance to the Parish of Saint-Narcisse, in the Mauricie region. This amount, which comes from the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities - Municipality of Seniors' Municipality (PIQM-MADA), will be used to install an elevator at the community center to improve access to seniors. 
Thanks to the PIQM-MADA, the municipalities incurred in the MADA approach have access to funds to support them in the realization of small infrastructure projects that meet the needs of seniors. 
"I am very pleased with today's announcement that supports the commitment made by the parish of Saint-Narcisse with respect to seniors. Thus, the aid granted will be used to install an elevator at the community center to facilitate access to seniors and restricted persons, which will promote the participation of more of these persons. Activities of the active community. This new equipment will also facilitate the work of the many volunteers in parish organizations with the aim of improving the quality of life and to better serve the community, "said MP Champagne. 
"I am proud of our government's commitment to seniors as part of the MADA approach, this great initiative ahead of a few years ago and to which the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the occupation of the territory, of which I am responsible. Improving the living conditions of our elders is to contribute to their fulfillment as a person in the community. To assume together a responsibility that concerns us all to make Quebec a place where it is good to age, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
"This project, like many others who are emerging in all regions of Quebec, confirms the priority that our government gives to the quality of life of seniors. I wish to salute the initiative of the Parish of Saint-Narcisse, which comes to meet the needs of elderly people, thus contributing to their safety and quality of life while allowing them to remain active as long as possible, "added Minister Hébert. 
Briefly, the Saint-Narcisse project aims to install an elevator and equipment as well as various demolition and internal redevelopment work at the Community Center. This addition will allow optimal operation of the various organizations by making the whole building accessible to all. It should be noted that the majority of volunteers are seniors. For example, the Golden Age Club is very active in the middle with more than 230 members and he alone organizes nearly 200 activities a year. The realization of this project, which is part of a concerted approach with seniors, aims to improve their quality of life and to promote active aging. 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers will meet on 5 and 6 February, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They will benefit from this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will make more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of these regions. 
"Several issues affect the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. I am happy to see that they have been at the heart of government thinking and they will also be at the heart of its interventions. Local initiatives, such as the one announced today, contribute significantly to the development of our environment, "said Yves-François Blanchet, Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister Responsible for the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
Remember that the PIQM-MADA has an annual $ 3 million envelope from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the occupation of the territory, reserved for the financing of infrastructure adapted to the needs of seniors. Since 2010, more than 130 projects have benefited from this envelope accessible to municipalities engaged in the MADA approach. These investments are part of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan. The PIQM-MADA program is also an action listed in the aging policy and living together, at home, in its community, in Quebec. 
Strong today's membership of 712 municipalities or MRC, the MADA approach was established in Quebec by the Elder Secretariat in 2008 and continues under the responsibility of the Minister responsible for seniors and Minister of Health and Social Services. This is inspired by an approach developed by the World Health Organization (WHO), and the model it proposes has been designed to enable citizens to age while remaining active in their community. The collaboration of the entire community is one of the winning conditions of the approach, but it could not succeed fully without the participation of seniors themselves and that of local organizations that represent them. Quebec is considered by WHO as the most advanced company in the world in the application of this approach based on the adaptation of municipal policies and services to the aging of the population. 
