Listuguj - On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of the members of the Government of Quebec in the regions of Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie, the Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs, Ms. Elizabeth Larouche, accompanied by the hon. Member for Bonaventure, M . Sylvain Roy, announced the award of a grant of $ 430,394 to the Council of the Nation Listuguj Mi'gmaq, to support commercial fishing activities. 
"Annual sales of fishing products are several million dollars. For this community, it is a neuralgic and profitable industry, which employs many Aboriginal workers, "said Minister Larouche. 
During the high season, the Fleet of the Council of the Nation Listuguj Mi'gmaq employs more than 70 people including 90% are Aboriginal people. In addition, the projects covered by financial assistance will individually consolidate some 150 seasonal jobs in Matane, Gaspé and Sainte-Thérèse processing plants. 
"Supporting the fishing industry for the Mi'gmaq Nation Listuguj also includes a historical recognition aspect, because the Mi'gmaq are a people of the sea and have known, for thousands of years, part their subsistence. They will exploit efficiently and experience the resources of our marine environment, "said Sylvain Roy, hon. Member for Bonaventure. 
Elizabeth Larouche, Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs. // © Antonine Yaccarini 
On this financial assistance of $ 430,394, an amount of nearly $ 63,000 will be devoted to the maintenance of board fishing vessels, promoting their profitability and sustainability. With a financial assistance of $ 352,000, the Board will also acquire a crabber, which will allow it to capture the entire snow crabs quota granted by the federal law. Quotas are currently not affected because of the very short fishing season. Finally, $ 15,000 will be devoted to hiring a business strategy and solutions specialist, which will conduct a market research on the potential of the community in terms of processing and marketing fish and Seafood. If research is conclusive, the increase in quotas and the creation of a packaging plant would have the potential to create about twenty jobs within the community. 
"The financial assistance granted by the Quebec government to this day is highly appreciated, and we hope to maintain fruitful relationships in the future. The financial support announced today allows us to take a step further towards the realization of our full fishing potential, "said Listuguj, Dean Vicari. 
Dean Vicar, Chef of Listuguj. // © Antonine Yaccarini 
Rappouts Before Les The Depert of Party to Part Genisinges of the cairman Geucus deserts etu Conseil deseil des Minisceres and 36 
Financial assistance comes from the Aboriginal Aboriginal Initiatives II (FIA II) Fund for Aboriginal Affairs, Economic Development component. The main objective of this fund is to support projects that may have significant benefits on the development of Aboriginal circles in Quebec, whether economically, socially or community. 
