The tuque - as part of an outstanding tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, the Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, today announced, on behalf of From the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, an important project for the renovation of the Municipal Colosseum of the Tuque. 
The work, the costs of which are estimated at $ 2.4 million, consist of completely redeveloping the ground floor and the subsoil of the Colosseum as well as its service block. The Quebec government supports the project with $ 1 million financial assistance. 
"It is essential that we encourage young people to play sports. The first thing to do in this regard is to provide them with quality, secure and attractive facilities near them. That's what the investments I announce today and I am very proud of it, "said Minister Martine Ouellet. 
This project has been analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the sports and recreational facility support program - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the Eligible costs. 
Across Québec, more than 80 construction, renovation, sports facilities and recreation projects materialize through investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from an envelope of $ 50 million allocated as part of the second component of the Sports and Recreation Support Program - Phase II of the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport. At this envelope adds additional $ 80 million to support new projects now. 
"For a year, we have multiplied the actions to improve public infrastructure. We do even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing heavily in sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the well-being and quality of life. In my view, these are strong and responsible gestures, "Malavoy said. 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers meet February 5 and 6 in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They will benefit from this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will proceed with more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
