Kangiqsualjjuaq-Tour at Nunavik, September 12th and 13th, Quebec Premier, Pauline Marois, said concerned and touched by the various social issues that Nunavik lives. On this occasion, she announced the creation of the Saqijuq Nunavik-Quebec Coordination Table, which will look at a new approach to social intervention. "Our goal is to develop concrete, effective and sustainable measures," she assured. 
The coordination table will ensure the deployment of the SAQijuq project (which means, in Inuktitut, change of direction of the wind). This is a common approach that includes all partners, and aimed at identifying concrete solution for the issues identified by the region. 
From this perspective, the Quebec Prime Minister announces that it mandates the Minister Delegate to the Social Services and the Protection of Youth and Minister responsible for the Lanaudière Region, Véronique Hivon, as well as Minnie Gray, President of the Regional Partnership Committee , to coordinate all the work. 
"I welcome with great enthusiasm this project that is initiated and worn by the Inuit environment, and I intend to assist the success of this initiative. This approach will certainly contribute to promoting greater social cohesion. It is with commitment that I will start the task with the goal of giving better future prospects to hundreds of young people, families and adults Nunavimmiut, "said Minister Hivon. 
"The Saqijuq Nunavik-Québec Coordination Table will allow all stakeholders to speak with a single voice of Nunavik problems. For the partners, it's a step forward that we are crossing today and we look forward to starting the work, "said the Director General of the Regional Health and Social Services Nunavik and Chairperson of the Partnership Committee Regional, Minnie Gray. 
"Our region is struggling with serious social problems that we need to bring culturally adapted solutions. The SAQijuq project will serve as a pillar for the reconstruction of the social fabric in Nunavik. The establishment of the Saqijuq Nunavik-Québec coordination table is an important step towards the implementation of the project, and we welcome the commitment of Quebec to work with Nunavik organizations in this innovative approach that will surely be favorable to the best. Inuit of Nunavik, "added the president of Makivik, Jobie Tukkiapik. 
"Thanks to the mobilization of all resources, this new approach will improve the way families and stakeholders from the various services and organizations work together. This is an innovative approach that will adapt to the realities of Nunavik, "the Prime Minister concluded. 
