Trois-Rivières- On the occasion of an outstanding tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region, the Minister of Health and Social Services, Dr. Réjean Hébert, and The member for Champlain, Ms. NoëlThe Champagne, are pleased to announce a non-recurring investment of $ 6,581,000 for the establishment of a new hemodynamic service at the Regional Universal Affiliate Hospital Center of the Health and Social Services Center ( CSSS) of Trois-Rivières. 
"I am very proud to announce the implantation of this new service. This is an excellent news that was strongly expected in the area. The population basin served by the CSSS of Trois-Rivières justifies the establishment of a hemodynamic service in the region. The number of coronary proceedings that could be carried out locally. This volume is quite important to ensure the quality of the medical act and encourages us to maintain the service corridor with the Montreal Cardiology Institute solely for more complex or high-risk cases and that require ultraspecialized care, "has Declared Minister Hébert. 
Concretely, this investment will enlarge from 610 m2 the basement of the Wing B of the Regional Universal Affiliate Hospital Center of the Health and Social Services Center (CSSS) of Trois-Rivières, and 323 m2 its ground floor -Grash. This construction work, estimated at $ 3.7 million, will be assumed up to $ 1 million by the Regional Health Foundation of Trois-Rivières and $ 2.7 million by the Health and Social Services Agency of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. The Department will invest for its part $ 2,881,000 for the acquisition of equipment and furniture. To these investments totaling $ 6,581,000 is also added an annual budget of $ 2,750,000 to the CSSS by the Department for the operation of the new service. 
"I am very pleased with this announcement that will allow the people of Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec to have access to hemodynamic procedures within an optimal time and, most importantly, near her. By supporting this project, our government once again demonstrates its willingness to improve access to health care across all regions of Quebec, in addition to reiterating its trust in a hospital center of great importance to people. Here, "says Madame Champagne. 
Remember that hemodynamics, blood circulation science, makes diagnoses and treat various issues mainly affecting the arteries feeding the heart. These problems, among other things due to cholesterol, smoking and several other risk factors, can sometimes lead to infarction. One of the most commonly used techniques used by hemodynamics is percutaneous angioplasty, which includes using an inflatable balloon to expand a narrowing artery to restore blood circulation. 
The Minister Hébert also took advantage of his transition to the CSSS of Trois-Rivières to announce that the establishment, in consortium with the Rehabilitation Center Interval, has passed the appointment process up, and thus form the regional center in management of Chronic pain of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
This new consortium, which will work closely with the Mauricie's Health and Social Services Agency and Center-du-Québec, will provide real leadership in the planning and coordination of care and services for people suffering from Chronic pain on the territory. 
More concretely, its mandate will be to ensure the provision of second-line clinical services for people with chronic pain, ensuring the dissemination of knowledge specific to this field of activity, and to provide support to first line of the region. This teaching and knowledge transfer component will need to meet the needs of health professionals in a context of continuing education and materialize with the collaboration of the Chronic Pain Management Expertise Center of the Integrated University Health Network 'Montreal university. 
"The designation of regional centers for the management of chronic pain is part of our desire to ensure a continuum of hierarchical services to improve the accessibility and quality of care offered to people with chronic pain across Quebec The Minister Hébert concluded. 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers met on the 5th and 6th of February in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They took advantage of this meeting to tour nine constituencies in the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec region. In less than a week, they will proceed with more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
