Québec- On the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, and the member for Saint-Maurice , Mr. Luc Trudel, with the Chairman of the Tourism Board of Tourisme Mauricie, Mr. Benoit Gauthier, are pleased to announce a help of $ 275,000 to the city of energy. 
Financial assistance includes $ 225,000 from the Tourism Tourism Projects Program for the creation of the Night Show "Amos Daragon, the Second Adventure". This production, presented in the summer of 2015 for a period of three years, will help maintain the equivalent of 270 jobs for a period of five years. To this amount is supported by $ 50,000 from the Mauricie Regional Tourism Partnership Agreement (EPRT), for the enhancement of the show "Amos Daragon, the first adventure", in particular to make it bilingual. 
"I am very proud to announce this financial support that will help improve the attractions of the Mauricie region in cultural tourism, an important niche for all regions of Quebec. In addition, this project is an excellent news for the region's economy. By its structuring nature, it will help increase the reputation of Shawinigan and to strengthen the tourist offer of the destination. This announcement will make it possible to concretize this project for the greatest benefit of the population. A news that, I'm sure, will delight the entire community and enjoy all Quebec, "said Minister Bérubé. 
"Several issues call the region of Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec region. I am happy to see that they have been at the heart of government thinking and they will also be at the heart of its interventions. A project like that of the city of energy is of particular importance and serves as a model for all entrepreneurs wishing to put in place tourist infrastructures on which the diversification and development of the economy of the region can be supported. Local initiatives such as the one announced today contribute significantly to the growth of our environment, "said MP Luc Trudel. 
As for the Chairman of the Tourism Board of Tourisme Mauricie, Mr. Benoit Gauthier, he wanted to add that: "The City of Energy has long been a flagship product for Mauricie and it is essential to support it in the pursuit of his mission. It has stopped astonishing us, both by its development, by the renewal of its offer and its many projects that only ask to see the light of day. Apart from major urban centers in Montreal and Quebec City, regions need these financial support from higher governments. They are very appreciated. 
Based on a successful novel, the first edition has up to now more than 46,000 visitors, which suggests the success of this second edition, according to the Director General of the City of Energy, Mr. Robert Trudel. "This financial support will allow the City of Energy to continue its growth and act as a tourist development engine for the region, by proposing an enriching and entertaining visit to the widest possible public. Forecasts of 26,000 spectators annually leave us very confident for the success of this new creation. " 
Recall that the CPTR aims to focus investments in the tourism industry based on regional priorities and strengthen the role of partners in this process. Tourisme Québec, Tourism Mauricie, the Regional Conference of the elected representative of Mauricie, the Local Development Center of Haut-Saint-Maurice, the local Channel Development Center, the local Maskinongé MRC Development Center, the local center of Mekinac development, the city of Shawinigan and Innovation and Economic Development Trois-Rivières are the financial partners of the agreement. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupancy of the Territory also participates in the Management Committee. 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers met on the 5th and 6th of February in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They took advantage of this meeting to tour nine constituencies in the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec region. In less than a week, they will have carried out more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads contribute to the development and growth of these regions. 
