Quebec- The hon. Member for Jonquière and Official Opposition Leader, Sylvain Gaudreault, is proud to announce that his member of Parliament for Taillon and spokesperson for the Quebecois Health and Accessibility Party, Diane Lamarre, comes To meet the citizens of the riding of Jonquière and many regional actors in the health network, this Friday, September 16th. 
"Diane Lamarre has already visited several regions to speak with Quebeckers of their health system and meet the groups and organizations that work there, in order to take the pulse of the different regional situations. In Jonquière, many groups responded to our call; So we have a series of very interesting meetings that will allow us to take stock, together, liberal reforms and impacts here at home, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"Wherever I went, I have seen a great centralization as well as a decrease in access to care and family physicians, despite all the promises of Minister Gaétan barrette. In Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, the minister refused to work with the local authorities to allow Jonquière Médie - a solution implanted here, by and for the people here - to continue his activities. Passageways therefore had to be found for this essential service to persist, and we will continue to claim the necessary amenities so that the people of Jonquière can keep it in the months and years to come. The "wall to wall", it does not work and, which is clear is that the liberal cuts of nearly $ 40 million since 2014 in the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Saint-Saint-Saint-SAINT-SAINT-SAINT-SAINT. Jean undermine access to care. I'm counting on these exchanges with many stakeholders in the region to target avenues of action to improve access and mitigate the effects of the dismantling of the regions orchestrated by the Liberal government, "has added Diane Lamarre. . 
Among the groups faced by the official opposition officer and the hon. Member for Taillon, mention the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean complaints and complaints center, Jonquière Médi, the user committee of the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, the Northeastern Quebec Health Stakeholder Union and the Alliance of Professional and Technical Staff and Social Services. 
