Québec-touring in the Nunavik region, the Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois announced yesterday an investment of $ 1,050,000 over three years to support the tourism development of the region. A sum of $ 300,000 per year will be paid to the Kativik Regional Authority (ARK) as part of the Quebec tourism strategy north of the 49th parallel. This amount is added a financial assistance of $ 50,000 a year for the implementation of the development strategies of the niches of excellence resulting from the development support program of the strategic sectors and the niches of excellence of the Ministry of Finance. and the economy. 
The Quebec tourism strategy north of the 49th parallel as well as that of the niche of excellence Nordic Tourism rely on large spaces and Inuit culture to develop tourism. The granting of this financial assistance reaches the objectives set in the Quebec tourism industry development plan, which aims to develop Nordic tourism potential to make it an international caliber destination. 
"The Nunavik region is distinguished by natural attractions that are both spectacular and unique. The amounts invested testify to the Government of Quebec's willingness to make Nordic tourism an important economic leverage. The aid will, among other things, allow the hiring of human resources that will ensure the development of the tourist attractions of the North, which, therefore, will promote the development of regional expertise. I am very pleased that our government is committed to those of the Kativik Regional Authority to invest in the development of a territory with exceptional tourism potential, "said the Prime Minister. 
This financial assistance will enable the ARK, which has a leadership role in Nunavik, to assume new responsibilities for the development of tourism offer and the implementation of the niche action plan. 
"We are proud of our region, our culture and our language, and we take advantage of the opportunity to share them with those who visit us. This agreement with the Quebec government will allow us to develop, together, the tourist potential of Nunavik, in the respect of our values and our traditions, "said the president of the ARK, Maggie Emudluk. 
The grant of the ARK grant aims, in terms of supply development, the following objectives: 
In terms of planning, regional consultation, reception and tourist information, the Kativik Regional Authority will work closely with the Nunavik Tourism Association. 
Remember that in 2012, the Nunavik region targeted tourism as a niche of excellence as part of the agreement approach. A committee composed of all partners has developed a plan of action, under the theme Nordic Tourism, Cultural Diversity in Adventure Tourism, which is peculiar with the Quebec tourism strategy north of the 49th parallel. 
