Shawinigan- On the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Government of the Parti Québécois in the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, the Minister of Education, Leisure and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, and The member for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, today announced government investments of $ 3,528,720 to enable the Energy School Board to carry out significant renovations in 17 of its educational institutions. . 
"This is an excellent news for students and teachers, who will continue to benefit from quality infrastructure for several years to come. Our government acts informed and responsible by investing in school heritage and offering the population attractive and conducive to success, "said Malavoy. 
"As a member of Parliament for Saint-Maurice, I look forward to this investment that will help further improve the learning conditions of students in the sector," honor the member Trudel. 
Thanks to the announced investments, the school board may carry out various fixes, from replacing the plumbing, through the repair of roofs, doors and windows, to the refurbishment of the external envelope and structure of the buildings. 
Government assistance is paid in the Réno-Schools program, one of the main measures arising from economic lapolitics: employment priority, unveiled last fall. A total of $ 401.2 million will be invested in accelerating the improvement, renovation and rehabilitation of schools throughout the school system and to intervene quickly to address air quality issues in some schools . 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the Government ministers meet in Shawinigan, on 5 and 6 February, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will proceed with more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
"For a year, we have not stopped taking steps to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe and accommodating living environments. We are increasingly engaged in this way by the carrying and strong gestures that we ask today, "concluded the minister. 
