Louiseville- On the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region, the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, confirmed the attribution of loans totaling $ 620,000 to the company Les Boiseries Leblanc inc. For an estimated project at $ 1,575,000 aimed at automating its production. The project will add 11 specialized jobs to the current 20 business jobs. 
Financial assistance includes the payment of a $ 370,000 loan from the Center-du-Québec Economic Diversification Fund and the Mauricie and a $ 250,000 loan from Investissement Québec. 
"The manufacturing sector is one of the major spearheads of our economy," said Zakaïb Élain. "We are therefore proud to help a manufacturing company to initiate the necessary turn to automation, which is at the heart of Quebec industrial policy. Indeed, we want to give a momentum to the manufacturing sector to make it more competitive in global markets, including improving its productivity through innovation, modernization, automation and greening of its activities. » 
Family business founded in 1985, LeBlanc woodwork specializes in the manufacture and sale of kitchen and bathroom cabinets as well as wood and furniture components for residential, commercial and institutional areas. The company wants to achieve this important investment to improve its productivity and competitiveness. 
"We are very pleased to be able to benefit from the support of the Government of Quebec," said François Leblanc, president of the company. "Thanks to this investment project, we will significantly increase our production capacity while decreasing our costs. Our forecasts suggest an annual increase of 20% of our sales. Although our company is more diversified, we intend to maintain all of our range of activities, profiling, filming, furniture and cabinetry. » 
Created in the fall of 2012, Lefonds of Economic Diversification of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricievise to attract private investment and to encourage the creation of successful and innovative companies, thanks to a budget envelope of 200 million dollars. 
"Once again, we have proof that the companies of the Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie are dynamic and innovative, and that they can contribute to the growth of the Quebec manufacturing industry," added Élain Zakaïb . "The company The LeBlanc woodwork is one of those that actively participate in the diversification and growth of the regional economy. » 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the Ministers of the Government are gathered from February 3 to 7 in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will carry out more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads testify to the contribution of the government to the development and growth of the two regions concerned. 
