Sainte-Eulalie- On the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Government of the Parti Québécois in the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, the Minister Delegate to the Regions, Minister responsible for the Gaspé-Islands Region -De-la-Madeleine and deputy of the riding of Gaspé, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce that The municipality of Sainte-Eulalie will benefit from maximum government financial assistance of $ 590,500 for the replacement of drinking water and wastewater pipes in the municipality. This assistance is granted as part of the Québec-Municipalities Infrastructure Program (PIQM). 
Briefly, the project aims to replace several drinking water and wastewater pipes under certain segments of the rank of the maples. At the end of this work, nearly 600 meters of water pipes will be renewed in the municipality of Sainte-Eulalie. 
Minister Gaétan Lelièvre announces the replacement of several water behavior in Sainte-Eulalie. 
"I am very pleased with the financial support today granted by our government to the municipality of Sainte-Eulalie for the implementation of these water infrastructure work. All Quebeckers must be able to benefit from access to quality public services. That's why our government is committed to providing municipalities with the support needed to renew and develop their infrastructure, "said Minister Lelièvre. 
"By contributing to the maintenance and renewal of our public infrastructure, the government reiterates its willingness to support the social and economic development of municipalities and regions, in the interests of all Quebeckers and all Quebeckers", Minister Gaudreault reported. 
The realization of this project requires maximum government financial assistance of $ 590,500 under the PIQM 1.5 component. With a total envelope of $ 462 million, this part of the PIQM program allows not only to ensure the sustainability of the infrastructures, but also to enhance the quality of life of the population and to create many jobs in all of the Regions of Quebec. 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers met on the 5th and 6th of February in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They took advantage of this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will proceed with more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
"Several issues call on the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. I am happy to see that they have been at the heart of government thinking and they will also be at the heart of its interventions. A project like the one that is announced today is of great importance for our region, because it allows to ensure the well-being, on a daily basis, people who live there and who work there, "to let Mr. Yves-François know Blanchet, Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
The support of the Quebec government to the project is part of the 2013-2023 Quebec Infrastructure Plan (PQI) released last April. It should be remembered that this decennial plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebeckers, to measure the costs associated with them and to make informed choices. 
