Bonaventure- On the occasion of its tour in several regions of Quebec, the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, announces the construction of a multifunctional factory dedicated to the refurbishment railway vehicles in the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region. For this project, the Government of Quebec attributes to Rail GD Inc.. Refundable financial support of $ 469,500, as well as a $ 900,000 loan guarantee administered by Investissement Québec. A non-refundable contribution of $ 150,000 is also attributed by the Ministry of Natural Resources. 
In addition, the Deputy Minister Announces the Renewal of the Region's Recreationourism Niche Agreement, resulting from the agreement. This agreement will enhance the region's tourism specificities, particularly with respect to nature, adventure, cultivation and tourism products, as well as convention and cruising tourism. 
Rail GD inc. is a new division of the company Gaspésie Diesel inc., which has been operating since 1983. The company carries out maintenance and repair on heavy road transport and maritime vehicles and mechanical facilities. It also sees the sale of components, such as engines, transmissions and differentials. In all, nearly $ 4 million is planned for investments for the construction of the new multifunctional plant, which will eventually generate 25 new jobs. 
"Thanks to this project, Rail GD inc. Provides real economic diversification to the region by operating a brand new business sector that requires advanced technologies. The company is positioning more than ever as a leading player in the development of Gaspésie. It is with pride that we support it in this strategic project that will ensure significant economic benefits in the region, "said Ms. élaine Zakaïb delegate. 
"By providing financial assistance for the realization of this project, our government clearly demonstrates its concerns about the local economy. We want to create wealth from regional resources and promote sustainable development, "said the hon. Member for Bonaventure, Mr. Sylvain Roy. 
"The financial support of the Government of Quebec will allow us to diversify our activities in the field of maintenance of trains wagons and to promote our growth. Our team will first level five cars for the company Rio Tinto Alcan, and we are currently working to respond to other calls for tenders that are most promising, "mentioned the President and CEO of Rail GD inc., Mr. Gilles Babin. 
The signing of the recreotourism niche agreement of the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region will allow the niche partners to realize their action plan for the years 2012 to 2017. 
"The renewal of this agreement is an important step for niche partners. Together, they will continue their efforts so that the region is more distinguished thanks to an innovative and sustainable approach to the global tourist offer. By our support, we want the region to be recognized among the leaders of recreationourism in Canada and around the world and become a four-year international season destination, "said Zakaïb. 
"Since its creation in 2006, this niche of excellence has allowed partners to multiply synergies and interventions to resize their region. Today, the renewal of this agreement makes it possible to position the region as a pole of expertise in recreationourism and confirms the accuracy of the interventions of the partners who are committed to the success of their tourism sector, "said the Minister delegate to tourism , Mr. Pascal Bérubé. 
"La Gaspésie and the Îles-de-la-Madeleine are characterized by an exceptional environment. There are grandiose landscapes, warm and welcoming people, as well as major recreational amenities and exceptional geological sites. The nature between sea and mountains offers visitors a diversity of outdoor activities, a rich culture and recognized local products. Above all, which makes the strength of the region and its niche, it is the notoriety that the actors of the tourist environment acquired over the years and the great development potential for the four seasons, "said the Director of the Niche of Excellence Recreotourism, Mr. Jean-Sébastien Cloutier. 
Remember that the Gaspé-de-la-Madeleine is the starting point for a tour of several regions of Quebec during which Minister Zakaïb will meet the various business communities, including local development centers (CLD) , Chambers of Commerce and Entrepreneurship Tables. In addition, it plans to carry out business visits and discuss with the municipal elected officials on the issues specific to each region. 
"Quebec's economic development necessarily involves the full boom of the regions. My goal During this great tour is to meet entrepreneurs and business stakeholders, as well as regional decision-makers, in order to present my vision of the development of the regions and to take the pulse of the realities and issues that are clean. I am confident that working together at the service of each region, we will carry out great achievements for Quebec and that these achievements will be sustainable and profitable for all Quebeckers and all Quebeckers, "concluded the Minister delegate Ms. élain Zakaïb. 
