Rimouski- On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of the members of the Government of Quebec in the regions of Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie, the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible From the Status of Women, Agnès Maltese, accompanied by the member for Rimouski, Mr Irvin Pelletier, announced the granting of $ 197,196 to companies Sygif and Sygif International for the development of a training program that will allow Sisters companies to keep and create jobs. These grants are part of the Companies Support for Employment Recovery (AERE) program funded by the Labor Market Partner Commission. 
"I am pleased to be passing through the Bas-Saint-Laurent region to announce financial support to companies wishing to increase their competitiveness by focusing on the development of staff know-how. Increasing the skills of the workforce is one of our government's priority actions. I am pleased to see that she is also for these companies, "said Minister Maltese. 
"In the Sygif business sector, technology is changing rapidly and it causes changes in the ways of doing things. Workers and workers, as well as the company, must be able to adapt. In this context, the establishment of employee training plan is needed because they can continue to be successful. In the end, it is the entire regional economy that will benefit, "said Minister Delegate to Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region and MP Pascal Bérubé. 
// (c) Roland Thériault. 
"The expertise developed in recent years by Sygif companies allows them to radiate international markets. The organization can count on a team composed of highly qualified workers. In order to continue to progress and prosper, it is essential to maintain current jobs and create new ones. The Government of Quebec is proud to support this industry that contributes greatly to regional economic diversity, "said the hon. Member for Rimouski, Mr. Irvin Pelletier. 
This grant is part of Sygif's desire to adapt to global trends in the industry with respect to information and communication technologies. Both entities, Sygif Group and Sygif International, want to develop the use of web technology to maintain a competitive service offer. To do this, a training program for staff must be put in place. 
"The financial support announced today by the Quebec government will allow us to optimize our working methods to seek new clienteles. For us, improving the productivity of a business undeniably passes through the development of staff skills. It is encouraging that we have the support of the government, "said Sygif Group General Manager Daniel Landry. 
Created in 1996, the Sygif company specializes in geomatics and software development specialized in the management of private lots. In 2008, the company set up an international division named Sygif International. 
Ritoucois ge 28 Best l'More wants it from the minisis's has met to Cautim's Gonna and creation Events of Cutucus des de déseil and minisis 
