Trois-Rivières- On the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region, the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank , Ms. élain Zakaïb, accompanied by the member for Champlain, Mrs. Noëlla Champagne, announced the attribution, in the framework of the economic diversification framework of the Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie, a financial assistance totaling more than 1, $ 3 million for the completion of two expansion projects. 
The first project, estimated at $ 365,000, concerns the expansion of the air-maintenance NC financial assistance includes the payment of loans totaling $ 185,000, or $ 100,000 attributed by Investissement Québec and $ 85,000 from the Economic Diversification Fund. The second project, at a total cost of $ 4.2 million, consists of construction, innovation and economic development (FDI) Trois-Rivières, a building that will house an incubator for technology companies. A $ 1,135,000 grant is attributed to the organization. 
"By promoting the economic diversification of the regions, we ensure the growth and prosperity of Quebec," said Élain Zakaïb. "It is therefore proud that we support these two projects. The expansion of the Aero-Maintenance NC company will strengthen our expertise in the aerospace sector, and the creation of an innovation space by IDE Trois-Rivières will promote the creation of companies in the technology sector of L information and communications. These two projects will certainly contribute to the dynamism and economic vitality of the Mauricie region. » 
(c) Cabinet of the Minister Zakaïb 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the Ministers of the Government are gathered from February 3 to 7 in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will carry out more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and development of the two regions concerned. 
"We have, in the Mauricie region, a skilled workforce, which uses its know-how in the inspection, maintenance and maintenance of aircraft as well as service services. Starting companies, the benefit of the aerospace and information and communications technology sectors, "added Christmas Champagne. "NC Aero-Maintenance and Innovation and Economic Development Trois-Rivières will therefore consolidate our reputation for excellence in these areas, in addition to creating 5 new jobs and, above all, to consolidate more than 35 quality jobs in our region. » 
"Thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec and Investissement Québec, we will be able to increase our productivity and offer our services to more commercial customers," supported one of the founders and associates of the company Aero-Maintenance NC, Mr. André Nadeau. "This project will also allow us to distinguish ourselves and ensure our competitiveness by exploiting new niches, such as avionics, and by doing specialized maintenance work for aviation that are not offered in the region. » 
"With the valuable help of the Center-du-Québec Economic Diversification Fund and Mauricie, we will be able to create an innovation space that will host start-up companies, private research centers and companies wishing to use our facilities periodically. Specialized, "said the Director General for Innovation and Economic Development Trois-Rivières, Mr. Yves Marchand. "Our project will promote the creation of new businesses and the realization of innovative projects. » 
For more information on the Fund, the Table and Plan for the Economic Diversification of Center-du-Québec and Mauricie as well as on supported projects, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
