Drummondville- On the occasion of an outstanding tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the regions of the Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie, the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for these two regions, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, on behalf of the Minister Delegated to the Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakab, the payment of financial aid totaling 2, $ 25 million to two companies in Drummondville, either HumanWare Technologies and Mercier floors. These financial contributions aim to make projects valued at more than $ 8.7 million. 
These financial aid come from the economic diversification of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie, a fund with an envelope of $ 200 million and intended to support structuring projects to stimulate the economy of the two regions in the wake of the Decommissioning of the Gentilly-2 nuclear power plant. 
"Our government is committed to boosting the companies and workers of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie to diversify their economy and propel them into areas of the future, and it does. All stakeholders in the regional economy have worked together to present stimulating projects that will create jobs and wealth. I am happy as a minister responsible for these two regions, to participate in their economic development, "said Yves-François Blanchet. 
"All the projects we support using this diversification fund will make the transition to a more varied economy that will offer new opportunities for growth and development," said Zakaïb Élain. "Our government intends to continue to support entrepreneurs here in their efforts and future plans that will create employment and make our economy advance. » 
HumanWare Technologies is a global leader in the design and marketing of technologies adapted to the needs of people living with visual impairment or learning problems. The company will receive a $ 250,000 grant and an interest-free loan of $ 500,000 to support the realization of research and development projects for new products for the low vision market. Thanks to this investment, 135 jobs will be consolidated and 10 will be created. 
"Research is essential in order to offer state-of-the-art products that will provide greater autonomy to our customers," said Woodjoli, Vice President, Business Development, HumanWare Technology. "Government support will allow us to continue the development of innovative products. » 
Specialized in the manufacture of hardwood floors, the company Mercier floors wants to acquire equipment to improve productivity. It intends to buy equipment to manufacture itself a product currently imported and for which demand is growing. These are composite wood floor slats consisting of a plywood surmounted by a thin hardwood saw. A $ 500,000 loan from the Diversification Fund and another $ 1 million from Investissement Québec are granted to the company for this project. 
"With these investments, we will be able to offer an entirely manufactured product in Quebec and better manage supplies to reduce the risk of scarcity of imported products," said Danie Bouchard, financial director of the Mercier floors. "This project allows us to consolidate the 115 current positions in our business and create 5 new jobs. » 
A $ 500,000 loan from the Diversification Fund and another $ 1 million from Investissement Québec are granted to the company Mercier floors. (c) Yves-François Blanchet 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the Ministers of the Government are gathered on 5 and 6 February, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will make more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads testify to the contribution of the government to the development and growth of the two regions concerned. 
"The challenges facing public finances and the Quebec economy will be raised through a single solution: job creation and adequacy between employment supply and demand. Each job created or maintained is more income for a family, of course, a capital gain for the company, but also more income and a less expenditure for the state ", has concluded in conclusion the Minister Blanchet. "From now on and until you have come to the end, you will hear me repeating that again and again. This is the way for the future for Quebec, and Drummondville is a clear model. » 
For more information on the Fund, the Table and Plan for the Economic Diversification of Center-du-Québec and Mauricie as well as on supported projects, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
