Louiseville- On the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Government of the Parti Québécois in the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, the Minister Delegate to the Regions, Minister responsible for the Gaspé-Islands Region. Of the Islands -the-Madeleine and deputy of the riding of Gaspé, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce the attribution Financial assistance from $ 43,129 to Maskinongé MRC for the realization of a feasibility study aimed at a high-speed wireless Internet deployment project throughout its territory. This amount comes from the Cyprusural Development Fund. 
The Maskinongé MRC has been looking for a wireless high-speed Internet service for a few years to all of its citizens, regardless of their geographic location. However, because of the extent of the territory and the topography of the land, service providers focus mainly on urban perimeters. Thus, most of the residents still do not have access to an adequate service. The detailed study that the MRC intends to define the best technological solution to be adopted to meet the needs and expectations of its citizens and to establish the costs associated with the deployment of high speed wireless Internet on the set of its territory. 
Assignment of $ 43,129 financial assistance to Maskinongé MRC for the realization of a feasibility study aimed at a high-speed wireless Internet deployment project throughout its territory. (c) Catherine recruited 
"It is with pride that I announce this contribution from the Government of Quebec, which will stimulate the economic, social and cultural growth of Maskinongé's MRC while contributing to the development of its rural communities and the occupation of his territory. Indeed, by this announcement, our government reiterates its willingness to offer all citizens and citizens of Quebec a high-speed Internet connection so that they can count on this indispensable tool in today's world. Where knowledge and information and communications technologies play an increasingly strategic role in the socio-economic development of rural territories, "said Minister Gaétan Lelièvre. 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers will meet on 5 and 6 February, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They will benefit from this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will make more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of these regions. 
"Several issues affect the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. I am happy to see that they have been at the heart of government thinking and they will also be at the heart of its interventions. Local initiatives, such as that announced today, contribute significantly to the growth of our environment. Ultimately, the realization of this project will allow citizens to plug in the world, "said Yves-François Blanchet, Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Responsible Minister regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
