Trois-Rivières- On the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, the Minister of Education, Leisure and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy , and the member for Champlain, Mrs. NoëlThe Champagne, today announced the award of $ 71,960 financial assistance at the Mauritian Services and Popular Education Organization Center (COMSEP) for the renovation of infrastructure. The house of solidarity. 
"The house of solidarity will undergo a true rejuvenation cure. It must be said that it has been welcoming the active people of the region for many years, who are happy to find facilities to improve their fitness. They will soon be able to do it in a healthier and safe environment, and I rejoice for them, "Ms. Malavoy said. 
The planned work, the costs of which are estimated at more than $ 0.2 million, consist of removing masonry, floors, the main entrance, as well as a roof section. The furnace of the building will also be replaced. 
This project has been analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the sports and recreational facility support program - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the Eligible costs. 
Across Québec, about 80 construction, renovation, development and development projects of sports and recreational facilities should be achieved through investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from an envelope of $ 50 million allocated as part of the second component of the Sports and Recreation Support Program - Phase II of the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport. At this envelope adds additional support of $ 80 million, thanks to the acceleration of investments, to support new projects now. 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers meet the next 5th and 6th of February, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will proceed with more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
"For a year, we have multiplied our actions to improve our public infrastructure. We do even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing heavily in our sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the well-being and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible gestures, "Malavoy said. 
