Shawinigan- On the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec regions, the Minister of the Family, Ms. Nicole Léger, and the member for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, are pleased to proceed with the project of the enlargement of the Early Childhood Center Pipandor in Saint-Boniface. 
"I am delighted to see expansion projects materialize. The Government of Quebec participates for an amount of $ 514,840 on a total project of $ 666,053 to this important project that will meet the demand in this corner of Mauricie. The other good news in this case is that this enlargement is made possible thanks to an extraordinary commitment of the community, a model for CPEs in the region and all Quebec, "mentioned Minister Nicole Light. 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the Ministers of the Government will be brought together on February 5 and 6 in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They will benefit from this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the region of Mauricie du Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will make several ads of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and development of these regions. 
Nicole Léger and Luc Trudel unveil the construction site of the CPE Expansion Le Pipandor in Saint-Boniface. (c) Luc Trudel 
"Several issues affect the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. I am happy to see that they have been at the heart of government thinking and they will also be at the heart of its interventions. A project like that of the CPE expansion The Pipandor is of particular importance for a region like ours and especially for the Community of Saint-Boniface, which is still familiar with considerable development. Local initiatives such as that unveiled today participate in the growth of our environment. People from here are taking in hand and, with the support of the Government of Quebec, they come into action to offer new places in addition to creating six jobs at home, "concluded the member for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel. 
