Listuguj- On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of the members of the Government of Quebec in the regions of Bas-Saint-Laurent and the Gaspésie, the Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs, Mrs. Elizabeth Larouche, accompanied by the hon. Member for Bonaventure, M . Sylvain Roy, announced the award of $ 320,000 financial assistance to the Mi'gmawei Mawiomi Secretariat (MMM), so that Listuguj, Gespeg and Gesgapegiag communities can participate in major consultations initiated by the Government. of Quebec. 
"This help will provide the three communities of expertise, knowledge and resources to adequately respond to the consultations that have important implications for Aboriginal people and the development of Quebec. They will have access to credible, reliable and rigorous data, which will promote full and full involvement of Micmacs to the development of the region, "said Minister Larouche. 
The consultations held by the Ministry of Natural Resources will focus on mining, energy, territory and forest. Those held by the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks will focus on water policy, environmental assessment and ecological heritage. The Department of Transport will consult with Micmacs about Route 132 in Gesgapegiag. Thanks to these funds, SMM representatives sit on the Natural Resources and Territory Commission (NRNT), the Integrated Resource and Territory Management Tables and other consultation tables in the Cré de la The Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine. 
"The ability to consolidate harmonious links with the various communities that occupy this large territory is essential to the development and emancipation of all citizens who live there. For these reasons, it is fundamental that the micmama communities have in hand the consultation tools that will guide the consolidation of harmonious relations and agreements that will be a source of prosperity for all. "Said the hon. Member for Bonaventure, Mr. Sylvain Roy. 
The Mi'gmawei Mawiomi Secretariat is the political and administrative unity that represents the three communities of the Micmaque nation. "The funding granted by the Aboriginal Affairs Secretariat (SAA) over the last four years has enabled Micmacs to establish relations between representatives of the various ministries and leaders of Mi'gmawei Mawiomi. Financial contributions have facilitated the consultation process between the Government of Quebec and the Micmacs, in addition to establishing good working relations between the two nations, "said the head of Gespeg and President of the Mi'gmawei Mawiomi Secretariat. , Claude Jeannotte. 
Minister Larouche took advantage of his visit to Gaspésie to meet the Micmacs chiefs and visit the Secretariat in Listuguj. Recall that on August 28 and 29, members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers will be gathered in Carleton on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. 
This financial assistance comes from the Aboriginal Aboriginal Initiative Fund II (FIA II) of the Aboriginal Affairs Secretariat, support support for consultation. This fund provides for the financing of the participation of nations or indigenous communities in consultation processes initiated by the Government of Quebec, up to $ 20 million over five years. This envelope aims to facilitate the implementation of the constitutional obligation, which is the responsibility of the Government of Quebec, to consult the indigenous communities. 
