Sainte-Valère- On the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Government of the Parti Québécois in the regions of Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, today announced, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, the award of $ 101,379 funding to the municipality From St. Valere, for the construction of a new intergenerational pavilion. 
"We can see here the mark of a municipality listening to his population and who wants to improve the quality of life in his territory. I congratulate the craftsmen of this project, especially for the special attention they give to seniors. Thanks to this project, I am pleased to see that exchanges and communication between generations will be favored, "said Duchesne. 
The work envisaged, the costs of which are estimated at more than $ 200,000, consist in building a separated pavilion into two distinct parts that will communicate from the inside. The first section will serve as the maintenance and formatting of seniors as well as their social activities. The second will be reserved for young people, who will be able to gather there and practice interior sports activities. 
This project has been analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the sports and recreational facility support program - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the Eligible costs. 
Across Québec, about 80 construction, renovation, development and development projects of sports and recreational facilities should be achieved through investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from an envelope of $ 50 million allocated as part of the second component of the Sports and Recreation Support Program - Phase II of the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport. At this envelope adds additional $ 80 million to support new projects now. 
"For a year, we have multiplied the actions to improve public infrastructure. We do even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing heavily in sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the well-being and quality of life. In my view, these are strong and responsible gestures, "Malavoy said. 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers met on the 5th and 6th of February in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They took advantage of this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will proceed with more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
"Several issues affect the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. I am happy to see that they have been at the heart of government thinking and they will also be at the heart of its interventions. Investments, such as the one announced today, contribute significantly to the development of our environment, "said Yves-François Blanchet, Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
