Trois-Rivières- On the occasion of an outstanding tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region, the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, the Doctor Réjean Hébert, accompanied by the member for Champlain, Ms. Noëlta Champagne announced today that the Trois-Rivières Health and Social Services Center has just been officially designated Affiliate Center for the treatment of lung cancer . 
"Our government has made a commitment to intensify the fight against cancer and improve the quality and accessibility of related care and services. It is precisely for this purpose that our approach is to designate reference centers and affiliated centers for the treatment of lung cancer and esophagus. This recognition process will promote better patient care and help improve the quality of services by focusing on skill development and maintenance of activities in regional centers, "said Minister Hébert. 
The Trois-Rivières CSSS is one of the 17 hospitals now designated as affiliate centers or reference centers for the treatment of lung cancer and / or esophagus. These institutions are distributed in 13 regions of Quebec. 
To be designated a reference center or affiliate center, an institution must meet a series of criteria that have been the subject of extensive consultation and which will be revised every two years in a concern for quality assurance. These criteria include the volume of patients supported, processing times, participation in a diagnostic committee and cancer therapies, as well as the contribution to fundamental, clinical or evaluative research protocols. 
Lescentres of references have been recognized for their state-of-the-art expertise and add up annually a volume of patients sufficient to maintain the skills of their staff. They plus a supraregional team dedicated to the identified tumor seat (lung or esophagus). 
Lescentres affiliates also a significant amount of patient, but lower than the reference centers. They must establish a formal collaboration agreement with a reference center, in particular to participate in the diagnostic committee and cancer therapies, to use its investigative, processing and follow-up algorithms, and to transfer cases. more complex, if necessary. They have an interdisciplinary team designated to ensure complementarity and continuity in the care and services offered to cancer patients in their region. 
"Encourage collaboration between institutions while maximizing the complementarity of their expertise is without a doubt a great way to optimize the fight against cancer at the regional and national level. It is a great continuation that our government gives to the cancer action plan adopted last year, and I am delighted that the expertise of the CSSS of Trois-Rivières is thus recognized and used, "concluded Mrs Champagne . 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers met on the 5th and 6th of February in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They took advantage of this meeting to tour nine constituencies in the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec region. In less than a week, they will proceed with more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
