Trois-Rivières- On the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, the Minister of Education, Leisure and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy , and the member for Champlain, Mrs. Noëlta Champagne announced today government investments of $ 560,000 to allow the school board of the Roy-du-Roy to carry out significant renovations in its establishments, the high school Pioneers, Saint-Dominic school, Saint-Philippe School and the International Education Primary School. 
"In the four corners of Quebec, our government invests massively and judiciously in school heritage. For us, the school is more than a building where knowledge is transmitted. It is a real environment of life where the dreams of tomorrow take shape. Through these investments, we demonstrate our desire to give young people the best possible environment to succeed and prepare their future, "Ms. Malavoy said. 
Thanks to the announced investments, the school board will be able to perform various fixes such as replacing the power supply system and windows. 
Government assistance is paid in the Réno-Schools program, one of the main measures arising from economic lapolitics: employment priority, unveiled last fall. A total of $ 401.2 million will be invested in accelerating the improvement, renovation and rehabilitation of schools throughout the school system and to intervene quickly to address air quality issues in some schools . 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers meet February 5 and 6 in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will proceed with more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
"For a year, we have not stopped taking steps to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe and accommodating living environments. We are increasingly engaged in this way by the carrying and strong gestures that we ask today, "concluded the minister. 
