Saint-Ferdinand- On the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the regions of Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec, the Minister Delegate to Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Saint Region Laurent, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, today announced, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, government investments of $ 90,000 to enable the Appalachian School Board to proceed with Significant renovations at Notre-Dame School, located in Saint-Ferdinand. The project aims in particular to repair the roof. 
"For our young people to have the taste to spend time at school and develop their full potential, we need to offer them a functional, stimulating and safe living environment. That's why we believe that investing in school real estate heritage is a prominent choice, "said Mr. Bérubé. 
Government assistance is paid in the Réno-Schools program, one of the main measures arising from economic lapolitics: employment priority, unveiled last fall. A total of $ 401.2 million will be invested in accelerating the improvement, renovation and rehabilitation of schools throughout the school system and to intervene quickly to address air quality issues in some schools . 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the Government ministers will meet on the next 5 and 6 February, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will proceed with more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
"For a year, we have not stopped taking steps to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe and accommodating living environments. We are increasingly incurred on this path by carrying and strong gestures that we posite today, "concluded Malavoy. 
