Quebec- On the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the regions of Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec, the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, accompanied by the Chairman of the Management Committee of The Center-du-Québec's Regional Tourism Partnership (EPRT) agreement, Mr. Yves Zahra, is pleased to announce the projects that will benefit from financial assistance totaling $ 180,000 under this agreement. The selected projects will generate tourist investments by more than $ 32.5 million in Central-du-Québec. 
"I am very proud to announce the financial support provided to these projects. This is an excellent news that will enhance the tourist offer related to resort stays, winter tourism, golf and business tourism in this very active entrepreneurship region. This announcement is concretized for the greatest benefit of the population in addition to contributing to the development of the region. A news that, I'm sure, will delight the entire community in addition to enjoying all Quebec. I would like to welcome the initiatives of the promoters who have already filed projects and invites others to do the same in the coming months, "said Minister Bérubé. 
"We are always proud to support projects aimed at improving the quality of our tourism businesses, and thus enhance the visitor experience. For the entire region, it is essential that our promoters and PHT partners believe in the tourist success of Central-du-Québec, an important engine for our economy, "said the Chairman of the EPRT Management Committee From the center-du-Québec and Managing Director of Tourism Center-du-Québec, Mr. Yves Zahra. 
These initiatives stem from the Central-du-Québec TPR signed in May 2012. Its aims, among other things, to increase and renew the tourist offer of the Center-du-Québec region, to promote the maintenance or Job creation, increase the complementarity and sustainability of tourism products, services and infrastructure, while encouraging management practices that focus on sustainable and responsible tourism. The signatory partners of the agreement are Tourisme Québec, Tourisme Center-du-Québec, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, the Regional Conference of the elected representative of the Center-du-Québec and the Regional Association economic development of the Center-du-Québec. 
Tourism Center-du-Québec receives project deposits continuously. Interested tourist speakers can obtain information and submit an application by joining Tourism Center-du-Québec by email at the following address: Entente@tourismecentreduquebec.com. 
This announcement is held as part of an outstanding tour of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers to be held on February 5th and 6th, Shawinigan. In less than a week, they will proceed with more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of the regions of these two regions. 
