Victoriaville- On the occasion of an outstanding tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the regions of Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and the Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, today announced significant investments for the CEGEP of Victoriaville: one of $ 430,000 for the permanent implementation of the specialized education program, and another of 100 $ 011 for the rejuvenation of its furniture park. 
"I am pleased to announce that the Victoriaville CEGEP Specialized Education Program will now be offered on a permanent basis. This will better meet the need for skilled labor in this area in the Center-du-Québec region, allowing some 60 young people to register each year. This program also contributes to increasing the offer of collegiate training in the region, while there are now more young people. This corresponds to one of the site's objectives on the collegial training offer, which derives from the Summit on Higher Education, "said Minister Duchesne. 
Since 2011, CEGEP has been able to offer this program of study on a temporary basis to 60 new students each year. In order to allow the program implantation permanently, $ 55,000 has been allocated by the Department for the acquisition of equipment and animation equipment, specialized software, furniture and computer equipment. An additional $ 375,000 has enabled the redevelopment of the premises, the area of which is 430 square meters. 
"I welcome this important support for the benefit of training activities in special education techniques," said Vincent Guay, Chief Executive Officer of CEGEP Victoriaville. 
Minister Duchesne also took advantage of his visit to Cégep de Victoriaville to announce an allocation of $ 100,011 for the rejuvenation of his furniture park. Recall that last November, the minister announced a bonus of $ 6.4 million for the rejuvenation of infrastructure and equipment in 48 CEGEPs. 
The amount allocated to the CEGEP of Victoriaville will allow it to replace equipment related to technical training, since CEGEP offers programs that require the use of expensive equipment and devices that evolve rapidly. It will also renew the equipment of science laboratories. 
"Thanks to this allowance, the students of the Cégep de Victoriaville will benefit from a more attractive and stimulating training environment. They will be able to perfect their knowledge using modern equipment, which will be all about their advantage when they integrate the labor market, "said Minister Duchesne. 
In recent years, "Cégep de Victoriaville has taken a significant technology shift in recent years. This support consolidates our efforts to enable us to offer the best training activities to our students, "said Mr. Guay. 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the ministers of the government met on 5 and 6 February in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will proceed with more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of these two regions. 
"Several issues affect the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. I am happy to see that they have been at the heart of government thinking and they will also be at the heart of its interventions. An investment like the one announced today is of great importance for our region, as it allows to meet skilled labor requirements, while maintaining our young people in the region, offering them training quality and focused on workplace practice, "said Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the regions of Mauricie and the Center -of Quebec. 
