Saint-Narcisse-de-Rimouski- On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of members of the Government of Quebec in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and the Gaspésie, the Minister delegated to Industrial Policy and the Bank of Economic Development of Quebec, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, and the hon. Member for Rimouski, Mr. Irvin Pelletier, today announced, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, that aid Up to $ 450,000 is granted to the municipality of Saint-Narcisse-de-Rimouski for the construction of its multifunctional center of culture and recreation. 
"By this investment, the government demonstrates its willingness to offer the population of Bas-Saint-Laurent modern sports facilities. In the context where we want to encourage citizens to move and stay in shape, this project, which responds to an important need of the community, is undoubtedly a great way to get there, "said the minister Zakaïb. 
The work that will be carried out consist mainly of building a new service building near the different municipal sports grounds, which will have lighting systems to provide users with more hours of use. In addition, the rink will be moved near the center and asphalt. 
"I am delighted with the realization of this project that is particularly important to the Narcisso community. Thanks to the considerable efforts that have been deployed, small and large will soon benefit from new facilities to have fun, come true and surpass. That will have tangible effects on the health and quality of life of our community, "said the deputy Pelletier. 
This project, to which the municipality is financially participated, has been selected as part of the Support Program for Sport and Recreation - Phase II of the Fund for Sport Development and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the eligible costs. 
"Each of the projects we support financially under this program is rigorously analyzed according to the eligibility criteria established in the rules and standards of the latter. The projects meet the needs of the population concerned and will allow greater accessibility to various clients, thus promoting the adoption of a physically active way of life by the greatest number of people possible, "said Malavoy Minister. 
Ritoucois ge 28 Best l'More wants it from the minisis's has met to Cautim's Gonna and creation Events of Cutucus des de déseil and minisis 
By the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, the Government of Quebec wants to ensure that all regions benefit from modern and safe sporting and recreational facilities. For more information on this fund, visit www.mels.gouv.qc.ca. 
