Rivière-du-Loup- On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of the members of the Government of Quebec in the region of Bas-Saint-Laurent and the Gaspésie, on the sidelines of the presensive caucus of the parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois. Carleton, the Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Fauna and Parks, Scott McKay, announced on behalf of the Minister Blanchet as the Priority Intervention Area ( ZIP) from the South-De-Estuary will coordinate the work of the Regional Concertation Table of the Southern Region of the Middle Estuary. Accompanied by the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, and the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, Mr. McKay also announced that this mandate, granted in The framework for the implementation of the St. Lawrence Integrated Management, will be accompanied by financial support totaling $ 625,000 for the next five years. 
"The St. Lawrence River is a living symbol of our history and culture. All as far as we are, we must make sure to keep all the wealth of this national treasure. Today's announcement integrates perfectly with this broad conservation approach. Regional dialogue is the first step towards more responsible management of the St. Lawrence, "said McKay. 
It is on the unanimous recommendation of the regional municipalities of Montmagny County, Islet, Kamouraska and Rivière-du-Loup that the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP) entrusted this mandate to the ZIP Committee of the South-de-Estuary. This regional consultation meets several objectives of the law affirming the collective nature of water resources and to strengthen their protection as to the implementation of water governance based on integrated and concerted management. This is also part of the Canada-Quebec Agreement on the St. Lawrence 2011-2026, which aims, in particular, to promote the sharing of the expertise and efforts of the two governments in the development of the Saint Laurent. 
LAGISL is a permanent process based on the consultation of all decision-makers and users for planning and better harmonization of St. Lawrence River's protective and use measures. This process is concretized by the holding of the Forum Saint-Laurent, which includes annually all the actors affected by these issues. 
The GISL also provides for the gradual setting up of 12 regional consultation tables (TCR) covering the entire St. Lawrence route. By accepting the mandate that it was proposed to it, the ZIP Committee of the South-De-Estuary becomes responsible for coordinating the creation of the TCR and to develop a Regional Integrated Management Plan (PGIR) representative of concerns and priorities. local action. The PGIR will propose interventions to achieve, particularly with regard to the conservation and development of water, riparian environments and aquatic ecosystems of this area of the St. Lawrence. 
According to the financial contribution agreement signed with the MDDEFP, the TCRs will have a maximum of five years to develop their regional integrated management plan. As Coordinator, the South-De-East East ZIP Committee will have to ensure a balanced representation of the various interested users and environments in the work of the TCR. The territory of this new TCR is between the municipalities of Isle-Verte and Berthier-sur-Mer. 
"To allow future generations to enjoy the St. Lawrence River as we do today, we must act collectively and locally to ensure its preservation. The creation of regional consultation tables is a necessary step in the implementation of effective integrated management of this exceptional ecosystem. These tables will mobilize communities around decisive issues and implement strategies to restore all the wealth of St. Lawrence from a sustainable development perspective. Our government is proud to support these local initiatives that will have large-scale positive effects, "McKay concluded. 
