Québec- On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of the members of the Government of Quebec in the regions of Bas-Saint-Laurent and the Gaspésie, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and the Fisheries. Food, Mr. François Gendron, in concert with the Minister Delegate to Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, is pleased to provide financial assistance totaling more than $ 125,000 to three companies of the region. 
"I am proud to support initiatives that require the commitment and collaboration of agricultural actors and producers in the region. This testifies to creativity, the meaning of innovation and dynamism of people from here. I pull them my hat! "Said Pascal Bérubé. 
Thus, a financial assistance of 61,812 dollars is granted to the cheese factory on the BIO, to support the start of this young company, under the Program Diversification and Marketing in the Circuit Short in the Region and the program to support the development of Agriculture and agri-food in the region, which are implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (MAPAQ). The head on the bio sells its products directly to the counter of its establishment and also counts on the public procurement to promote it. 
In addition, the Témiscouata Floor Management Club is awarded $ 20,000 to support an innovative initiative that will allow the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and that of Gaspésie to share their strengths. In order to implement two new organic governance crops, that of buckwheat and naked oats. This help comes from the Mapaq's InnovBio program. 
Finally, in order to promote the development of a value chain in the cattle sector, financial assistance will be awarded to the Cooperative Natur'Bœuf, under the Support Program for Sectoral Development Strategies, resulting from the Canada-Quebec Agreement about agri-flexibility. The details of this help will be unveiled in the coming weeks. Natur'Bœuf is based on a business partnership uniting producers, processors and distributors who have become a goal of marketing a beef from Quebec farms and satisfying a specific specifications. 
The Ministers François Gendron and Pascal Bérubé with representatives of the Cooperative Natur'Bœuf // (c) Valérie Christmas-Létourneau. 
"I still feel immense pleasure to meet men and women who are at the origin of projects that have tangible suites on the development of their region and, above all, people who are committed to highlighting products. from home by giving them a real identity by increasing their added value. It is thanks to all these constructive initiatives that we create a bioalimentary remunerative sector, employment generator, which respects the environment and which contributes to the dynamic occupation of the territory. The projects of the three companies we support today thus perfectly fit with the objectives of the policy of food sovereignty, "said Francois Gendron. 
To learn more about the food sovereignty policy, the blog (www.politicsa.gouv.qc.caou websitewww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politique) of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
Remember that the Caucus of Party Party members and the Council of Ministers hold a meeting in Carleton on 28 and 29 August. 
