Plessisville- On the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region, the Minister Delegate to Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé announced, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to the Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaib, the allocation of an interest-free loan of $ 382,500 to the manufacturing company EPP Metal for the modernization of its facilities. This assistance, granted under the Center-du-Québec Economic Diversification Fund and the Mauricie, will allow the creation of 4 new jobs, in addition to consolidating the 28 existing jobs. 
"I am very proud to announce our support for the EPP Metal Company project, which will contribute to diversifying the manufacturing and metallurgical sectors of the Center-du-Québec region," said Pascal Bérubé. "The Center-du-Québec Economic Diversification Fund and Mauricie is an effective tool that allows for projects with significant economic benefits for these two regions and the entire Quebec. » 
Minister Zakaïb has stimulated the importance of the manufacturing sector for regions and the need to promote business modernization. "Quebec industrial lapolitics 2013-2017 is exactly in supporting manufacturing companies that want to improve their productivity and expand their offer to better position themselves in global markets," she said. "Investments such as the one announced today help maintain the competitiveness of manufacturing companies, in addition to consolidating and creating quality jobs. » 
Minister Pascal Bérubé confirms financial support for the EPP Metal Company Modernization Project. The project aims at the expansion of the plant as well as the acquisition of technological equipment. This announcement allows the consolidation of 28 jobs and will create 4 new. (c) Valérie Létourneau-Noël 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the Ministers of the Government are gathered from February 3 to 7 in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will carry out more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and development of the two regions concerned. 
The EPP Metal company has been specializing for more than thirty years, in series manufacturing of high added value metal products that require successive processing processes. The project, estimated at $ 1.53 million, aims at the expansion of part of the company plant located in Plessisville and the acquisition of technological equipment, such as a plate roller and a Laser cutter. 
"With the support of the Government of Quebec, we have acquired new state-of-the-art equipment, with which we will be able to expand our service offering to our customers," supported the Director of Operations. EPP Metal Company, Mrs. Karine Gouin. "At the same time, the expansion of our factory will allow us to increase our production and to intensify our diversification, in addition to ensuring our competitiveness in the metallurgy sector. » 
Minister Pascal Bérubé in front of the new Grave Machine for Investment. In the photo, to the right of the minister, the founders of EPP Metal, M and Mrs. Paul and Céline Piché with some factory workers. (c) Valérie Létourneau-Noël 
To learn more about the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicidustrielle. 
For more information on the Fund, the Table and Plan for the Economic Diversification of Center-du-Québec and Mauricie as well as on supported projects, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
