BelOIL- As part of the Tours of the Quebec People's MEPs in Montérégie, the member for Jonquière and official opposition spokesman on the environment and sustainable development, Sylvain Gaudreault, the member for Marie-Victorin and Door -PAROLE In terms of energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, the hon. Member for Bonaventure and Spokesperson for Forests, Sylvain Roy, as well as the former member of the Quebecois Party in Borduas, Pierre Duchesne, met the Representatives of several environmental organizations located in Montérégie and in the constituency of Borduas, including those of the Foundation Cowboys, of the Consultation and Enhancement Committee of the Richelieu River Basin and the Collective Morning Alternative Vigilance Intervention. 
"The Liberal government acts only in an economic logic of austerity. It suffers from a flagrant lack of ecological vision. For its part, the Parti Québécois is committed to promoting Quebec's environmental sovereignty. In this sense, let us remember the filing of Bill 390, affirming the primacy of Quebec's environmental competence. It is essential to send a strong signal to the federal government, to let it know that Quebec, together with its citizens, defends its environment and to keep the last word on all the projects that concern it in this matter, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"The report of the BAPE on the future of shale gas is categorical: the projects would not be economically profitable, they would have significant environmental impacts, particularly on the water, and, anyway, the company does not want it. . In 2015, the Liberal government must repair its mistake to have promoted shale gas in Quebec, ensuring citizens who live near abandoned wells that their water supply will not be affected in the long run, "added Bernard Drainville. 
"The issue of water is crucial, not only for the environment, but also from a perspective of sustainable development of the territory. Watershed organizations are engaged to bring all water users together towards integrated management of this resource. These pillars must be supported, revise and implement the national water policy, and stretch the protection of water with land use planning, "said Sylvain Roy. 
"These meetings, held in the constituency of Borduas, have made it possible to point to the projectors on central issues for the promotion of sustainable development in Quebec. At the time of the Liberals have a duty to update the 2015-2020 Sustainable Development Strategy and the 2016-2025 Energy Policy, in particular, the Parti Québécois demonstrates that it listens to environmental awareness railleists and that 'It is determined to act to make Quebec a green and blue country, "concluded Pierre Duchesne. 
