Drummondville- On the occasion of an outstanding tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the regions of the Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the Minister of Sustainable Development , the environment, wildlife and minister responsible for the regions of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie, Yves-François Blanchet, are pleased to announce that the Government of Quebec associates with the City of Drummondville to maintain 40 jobs and give a new impetus to his literary and cultural life by financial assistance of $ 6,526,000, so that it acquires a new municipal library. 
"It's a major investment for the Quebec government. What's better than investing in knowledge, dissemination and access? The city of Drummondville will offer its population a state-of-the-art library with grouped services. This is an eloquent example of what the Quebec library network is headed, anchored in its environment and turned to the future, "said Maka Kotto. 
This new building will bring together the Municipal Library of Drummondville and the Drummond History Corporation Archives Center, in a spirit of consultation between two organizations that will testify to great success for access to documentary services for citizens and the citizens. The new building, expected in the perspective of sustainable development, will allow the setting of the archive center to ensure proper conditions of conservation of the documents. 
"The upgrading of equipment such as the Drummondville library has long been requested, and in urgent. This investment had become more than necessary in view of the remarkable population growth experienced by the city, and its central role in the MRC and Center-du-Québec. Local initiatives such as the announced today contribute significantly to the growth of an environment that is a model for Quebec, "concluded Yves-François Blanchet. 
In addition, this investment in culture will provide a library for citizens with a larger area, with a collection of bonified books and state-of-the-art technology tools such as loan terminals. Citizens and citizens will benefit from better access to reading, because not only will the building be located in a strategic, easy access location, in the heart of the city, but the library services will be offered. free. 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers met on the 5th and 6th of February in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They took advantage of this meeting to tour nine constituencies in the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec region. In less than a week, they will make more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
