Saint-Hubert- As part of the tour of the members of the Quebecois party in Montérégie, the member for Terrebonne and sentence of the official opposition in family, Mathieu Traversy, as well as the member for Saint-Jean and President of the Regional Caucus of Montérégie, Dave Turcotte, have met today the representatives of the CEP group of Montérégie, in order to exchange with them on their reality and the impacts of the measures put forward by the Liberal government. 
Mathieu Traversy took the opportunity to discuss the decline of the Minister of the Family, Francine Charbonneau, concerning the sanctions she planned to impose on parents through Bill 27. "Since the submission of the bill in November We say to the minister that she's wrong and that imposing a fine for parents is inadmissible. I'm glad she ended up realizing it and decided to back down, "he said. 
On the other hand, pursued the hon. Member, Bill 27 provides no solution to the real problems of the child care network, the scarcity of the places and the lack of flexibility in the supply of services. "The minister seems undecipiated as a result of things ... It's simple, she must withdraw her bill and propose a new one that will really meet the needs of Quebec's parents. We also ask him to set up a project monitoring committee on the quality and durability of child care and the optimization of their funding. As far as we are concerned, as we have been doing for several months, we will continue to mobilize and support Quebec families. » 
"Here, in Montérégie, as everywhere in Quebec, the CPEs are very concerned about the Liberal brake applied to the development of child care places. Parents are waiting for these places, and child care was ready to start implementation and development. However, the government has decree due to an ideological accounting year. For us, child care is not an expense; This is a sustainable investment for our society and socio-economic development, "said Dave Turcotte, for its part. 
