Québec- On the occasion of a tour of members of the Government of Quebec in Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, draws up a balance sheet of culture investments that were announced in These regions since the arrival of the government of the Parti Québécois. 
"The investments announced in these areas of great cultural and patrimonial wealth were very expected and welcomed. This support is the best guarantee of the commitment of the Government of Quebec to support, at the best of its budget, the artistic and cultural development as well as the protection of heritage in the regions of the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine and From Bas-Saint-Laurent, "said Minister Kotto, who was on his third visit to these regions since his entry. 
"I am convinced that the announced investments, especially as part of the Government Intervention Strategy for the Development of the Gaspé-Islands-de-la-Madeleine Region, will inspire stakeholders from Gaspésian culture and Madelinot cultivation. . I am particularly thinking of the renovation of the Gaspé Salle, a carrier project that will not only improve access to culture for users but also the working and life conditions of the artists and artisans of the region. And I still remember the visit made by my colleague Kotto at the closing party of the festival in Petite-Valley song last July, "said Gaétan Lelièvre, MP and Minister responsible for the Gaspésie region. Îles-de-la-Madeleine. 
Reminder of the main announced investments 
"The cultural projects supported here are of a representative diversity of the great cultural and patrimonial richness of the Bas-Saint-Laurent. Whether because of the renovation of a performance room, the preservation of a heritage building or the renewal of cultural development agreements, it can be said that this year has been striking. The patrimonial ranking of the magnificent Métis gardens and the Villa Estevan, announced on site last June by Maka Kotto, is also an example of the most eloquent, "made Pascal Bérubé, MFA member for Matane and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent region. 
Reminder of the main announced investments 
Rappelons Enfin Meduel from the part Quebré du Reading Etis to cartetent Et Dairance Et: Cover desputon et du Conseil des Minisestres. 
