G Aspon- On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of the members of the Government of Quebec in the regions of Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie, the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élain Zakaïb, and the Minister Delegate to the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspé-Islands-de-la-Madeleine Region, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, confirmed the support of the government to the wind sector in the region, with payment Non-refundable financial aid totaling $ 1.27 million to two member organizations of the windshield of excellence, resulting from the Agreement: the wind technocentre and the start-up enterprise B & B brake pads. 
"Sustainable development is no longer a choice, but a political, economic, social and moral obligation," said Élain Zakaïb. "By encouraging the rise of a green and sustainable economy, we make sure to keep Quebec among the most innovative and competitive societies in the world. It is in this spirit that we support the growth of sectors of the future such as wind, including supporting companies and dynamic organizations here in Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine. » 
"The wind sector occupies a prominent place in the economy of the Gaspésie-de-la-Madeleine region, and the Wind Partners of Cleanen has been mobilizing for several years to promote prosperity," emphasized for his part Gaétan Lelièvre. "The Government of Quebec has also recognized the development of the wind industry as a priority in its strategy of government intervention for the development of the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region. The niche partners aspire to make the latter a pole of research and development expertise and a pillar of the supply chain of the wind industry. They are keen on the creation of unique business partnerships and synergies between middle players. » 
© Tardif Jérôme 
Created in 2000, the wind technocentre is a collegial technology transfer center mandated by the CEGEP of Gaspésie and the islands. As such, he participates in the development of a Quebec know-how in terms of wind energy, particularly with respect to the Nordicity and the complexity of our territory. 
Government aid attributed to the organization is $ 975,383, of which $ 677,383 comes from the Ministry of Finance and Economy and $ 298,000 from the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and technology. It will achieve seven projects totaling more than $ 1.17 million, including the administration of the windshield of eol. 
For its part, the company B & B brake pads manufactures brake pads made of metallurgical powders and intended for high power wind turbines. The project announced today is estimated at $ 594,840 and aims to adapt the production, processes and technology of the company so that it can market its products on a larger scale. Government support is $ 295,798, of which $ 206,798 comes from the Department of Finance and Economy and $ 89,000 from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory. 
"Our innovative and promising technology allows us to produce quality brake pads. The support of the Government of Quebec represents an important step in order to make us known among major international manufacturers and North American wind farms, "the President of BR & B brake pads said, Mr. Christian Babin. 
"Our economic vision is facing the future and we need the valuable contribution of business stakeholders, including entrepreneurs, true creators of wealth and jobs. It is with great pride that we support the B & B brake technocentre and brake pads in the realization of their carrier projects, both for their region and for Quebec, "concluded Élain Zakaïb. 
Rappouts Eleth a Departures E 22 The most reveprints was the Minisceres Duans de petouston similar to cart Digeton et public food et du Conseil des minised des Minisres et 
To learn more about the Agreement and Sceneaux of Excellence, see pagewww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/accord. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
