Kingsey Falls- On the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Parti Québécois Government in the regions of Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec, the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks and minister responsible for these same regions, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, on behalf of the Minister Delegated to the Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaib, the award of a grant of $ 230,000 to Kingsey Falls paper, a division of the company Cascades Canada ULC, for a modernization project representing an investment of more than $ 1 million. 
This financial contribution comes from the economic diversification of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie, which is accompanied by a budget envelope of $ 200 million. This fund aims to attract private investment and to encourage the creation of efficient and innovative companies. 
"When setting up the Fund, we were committed to it to serve as a leverage to develop the economy of the region of the Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie in a sustainable way. The Kingsey Falls paper project is part of our vision for these two regions, which combine economic growth, maintaining competitiveness and productivity, long-term stimulus and quality jobs. You know the importance of waterfalls for the Quebec economy; Imagine its importance for Kingsey Falls and the region, "said Yves-François Blanchet. 
This modernization project will allow the Quebec company to produce a more rigid cardboard by modifying its equipment and adjusting its production chain. This is an important innovation in this sector of activity. This will support the competitiveness of the company and maintain some 70 jobs. 
"One of the three axes of ompolitics industrialists to increase the competitiveness of the manufacturing sector by focusing on the modernization and greening of companies here," said Zakaïb Élaine. "The Kingsey Falls paper project is exactly the type of records that our government aims to support. In addition, long before sustainable development is a topical topic, the Lemaire family practiced it. I would like to congratulate them for considering these principles as the only way to follow, and I wish them the greatest success in this project investment. » 
Founded in 1972, the Kingsey Falls paper division specializes in the manufacture of uncoated cartons made from 100% recycled fibers. These uncontrolled cartons are used to produce tips of coils, mandrels, partition cartons and cartons for the packaging industry. 
"This project will allow us to produce a more rigid and better cardboard," said Mario Plourde, President and Chief Executive Officer of Cascades. "This new process will promote the creation of new products, will allow us to further satisfy our current clients, will give us access to new markets and consolidate existing jobs. » 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers met on 5 and 6 February, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They took advantage of this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they have completed more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads testify to the contribution of the government to the development and growth of the two regions concerned. 
