New Richmond-touring in the Gaspésie and Bas-Saint-Laurent region, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, accompanied by the hon. Member for Bonaventure, Sylvain Roy, announced the results of the call for projects in broadcasting of the author's cinema. A $ 500,000 will be distributed among 52 non-profit organizations, cine-clubs or culture homes that are working to disseminate and make autopilot cinema accessible throughout Quebec. 
"This support from the Government of Quebec will enable our organizations to play a fundamental role throughout the territory, in the diffusion of the author's cinema, in the stimulation of the imaginary of our moviegoers and in the creativity of our craftsmen . The works of author occupy a place apart in the cinematographic heritage and inspire those who are sensitive to the diversity of expression of culture, "said Minister Kotto. 
"I welcome the announcement of this financial assistance that will allow organizations in the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Magdalene region to continue their mission of broadcasting the cinema. Men and women work with conviction to make cinema accessible to the people, and I congratulate them for the excellent work they do, "added the hon. Member for Bonaventure, Sylvain Roy. 
The financial assistance paid by the Ministry of Culture and Communications will be used to increase the number of author films presented at the four corners of Quebec and to increase the attendance of the rooms which, in addition to their vocation as broadcasters, offer activities animation and promotion around the author's cinema. 
Among the supporting agencies, five of them, either Ciné Coil, Filmale, the movie of Gaspé inc., Productions of the Floor Room and Sofilm Parallel Cinema, are located in the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region. , and the total help for these is $ 48,000. This sum will not only allow the diffusion of the cinema of both Quebec and abroad, but also access to cinema in all its forms. 
All information on the Call for Auteur Cinema Projects is available on the Ministry of Culture and Communications website at address www.mcc.gouv.qc.ca. 
Rappouts E BEST Deputons and Lesbécois et PinisceTe du SantuVeter duney meaning using Coaimus des Deputés Et du Conseil Des Minisrist. 
