Rimouski- The member for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, accompanied by the member for Rimouski, Harold Lebel, the member for Vachon and Spokesperson for Maritime Strategy, Martine Ouellet, the member. Joliette and Spokesperson for Higher Education, Véronique Hivon, the member for Chicoutimi and Spokesperson for Economics, Stéphane Bédard, the member for Gaspé and Spokesperson for the Development of the Regions, Gaétan Lelièvre , from the member for Berthier and spokesperson in agriculture, fisheries and food, André Villeneuve, as well as the hon. Member for Bonaventure, Sylvain Roy, takes advantage of his passage in the region to meet several stakeholders from the maritime environments, economic and educational of Rimouski. 
"These visits are part of the dialogue we have begun with Quebeckers and Quebeckers. Democracy does not just mean a vote every four years; It is by listening to the citizens that we do our work of elected officials. Today we met several people from the maritime environment. The regions of Bas-Saint-Laurent and the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine should be at the heart of the Maritime Marketing Strategy of the Liberal government. But what I have seen for a week in these regions confirms that the maritime strategy is in fact only a mosaic of measures already planned. There is no real add, no clear policy, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
The member for Vachon recalls that the bad news is accumulating. "While the government promotes its supposed maritime strategy, in the field, the impacts of cuts are serious and particularly affect our regions. The Interdisciplinary Center for Oceans Mapping Development as well as Innov & Export SME lost their funding; Two Rimouski organizations that stimulate employment and the blue economy in Quebec are now weakened. Where is the maritime strategy for Rimouski? It is not powder in which our regions need, but a real support from the government to create employment; He could begin by committing not to abandon the national research and innovation policy, introduced by our government, "added Martine Ouellet. 
"Rimouski and Bas-Saint-Laurent are full of development opportunities. Projects abound. The Liberal government must remain listening to the region. We have everything you need to make a centerpiece of our nation's economic and maritime development, including educational and research institutions, as well as transport infrastructure, not to mention the clear will of people from here ", Continued Harold Lebel. 
The maritime strategy, relevant only in a sovereign Quebec 
The Leader of the Official Opposition finally recalled that Quebec does not control all of its maritime infrastructure, including ports and wharves, which are under federal jurisdiction. "What is a maritime strategy if we do not control our ports? These are federal infrastructure, abandoned by Ottawa for several years. Do the Liberals intend to invest millions of dollars in federal ports that have not benefited from the investments necessary for their good maintenance? , "He concluded. 
