G Aspon- On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of the members of the Government of Quebec in the regions of Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie, the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, accompanied by the Minister Delegate to the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspé-Islands-de-la-Madeleine Region, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, confirmed the renewal of the five-year agreement for the implementation of the niche. Excellence Resources, Science and Marine Technology in the Bas-Saint-Laurent regions, the North Shore and the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine. 
"The Gulf of St. Lawrence and its river form a huge unique cold water basin in the world, which is full of resources," said the Deputy Minister Zakaïb. "For more than ten years, Niche Partners of Excellence Resources, Science and Marine Technologies are based on the exploration, exploitation and valuation of these resources to ensure the prosperity of their region. This niche is part of the agreement, set up by the government in 2002 to take advantage of the regional forces for the benefit of the economic growth of Quebec and its international influence. » 
The Niche of Excellence Resources, Sciences and Marine Technologies consists of four main sectors: aquaculture, marine biotechnology, capture and processing as well as marine technologies. It represents more than a thousand companies in total. This niche relies on the assets of each of the three maritime regions as well as on a dynamic environment composed of research and development centers, training institutions and networking and support organizations. 
"The Agreement and Scrolls of Excellence are strategic tools to ensure the economic development of the long-term regions and to create wealth and jobs across Quebec," said Minister Gaétan Lelièvre. "This initiative aims to position the regions of Quebec as places of industrial skills recognized around the world. To achieve this goal, niche members rely on the mobilization and dynamism of the business community, entrepreneurs and partners, as evidenced by the niche of Excellence Resources, Science and Marine Technologies. » 
© Tardif Jérôme 
"The sea resources and the navigation activities have always been at the center of the economy of our region and the Maritime Quebec," said the member of the Madeleine Islands and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Agriculture , fisheries and food (fisherry component), Ms. Jeannine Richard. "In addition to counting a large number of fishing and processing companies, this niche of excellence is characterized by a very active scientific and technical basis that makes our pride and allows us to distinguish ourselves on the international scene. » 
For each of the four sector of the niche of excellence resources, science and marine technologies, an action plan has been developed around seven major axes defined according to the strengths and weaknesses of the niche, the needs of the companies and the objectives. The agreement approach. The development of new products and markets, innovation and technological transfer as well as sustainable development and the environment are part of the axes privileged by the niche. 
Since the implementation of the first niche action plan in 2006, more than 200 projects and activities have been completed, thus generating investments of more than $ 70 million in the three regions and four niche sectors. 
On behalf of the Presidents of the Regional Committees Agreement and those of the niche committees of Excellence Resources, science and marine technologies of the three maritime regions, the president of the niche committee for the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine, Mr. Robert Langlois, said: "We are particularly proud of the work that has been accomplished by the three regions associated with this niche, and the announced agreement today reinforces this beautiful interregional dynamic. » 
Rappouts Eleth a Departures E 22 The most reveprints was the Minisceres Duans de petouston similar to cart Digeton et public food et du Conseil des minised des Minisres et 
To learn more about the Agreement and Nicks of Excellence, consult Pagewww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/accord/. 
