Sainte-Anne-des-Monts- On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of the members of the Government of Quebec in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and the Gaspésie, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, of science and technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, accompanied by the Minister Delegate to the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine Region, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, announces the award of a grant $ 360,000 over a 5-year period, Cégep de Matane for the establishment of a school training offer by removal at the Continuing Education Center of Sainte-Anne-des-Monts. 
"In recent months, I have repeatedly mentioned the importance of first-generation graduates who open the door to the following generations. Thanks to the new technologies, the population of Haute-Gaspésie will have access to a college education, a news that gives me up to the highest point. I want to mention that today's announcement is possible as a result of an unprecedented mobilization of the environment. This is an exemplary demonstration of a successful collaboration between local stakeholders, "said Minister Duchesne. 
The minister also pointed out that a $ 28,000 allocation is added, in 2013-2014, for educational applications related to information and communication technologies. 
The teaching collegiate training offer meets a real need for accessibility for the population of Haute-Gaspésie. Thus, the Cégep de Matane will simultaneously offer the same training to its students and a group of students located in Sainte-Anne-des-Monts. In the event of an increase in the number of students, the courses could be given on the spot in Sainte-Anne-des-Monts by teachers of Cégep de Matane. 
"Given the extent of the MRC territory of Haute-Gaspésie and the size of its population basin, this distance learning training is an appropriate solution. The programs offered will facilitate the retention of young people by allowing them to follow on-site training in sectors of activity that feature labor requirements. This project is significant for people who want to live, work and flourish in our region. This action is part of one of the projects of the Government Intervention Strategy for the Development of the Gaspésie-de-la-Madeleine Region which aims to develop the offer of all levels of School training on the territory, "said Minister Lelièvre. 
(c) Tardif Jerome 
The CEGEP of Matane has been able to count on the mobilization of the environment to support these training activities. Several local partners have collaborated on this project: La Creé de la Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine, the RCM of Haute-Gaspésie, the Health and Social Services Agency of Gaspésie-Îles-de-la -Madeleine, the CSSS of Haute-Gaspésie and the Chic-Chicus School Board. 
"I am extremely proud to announce that the population of Haute-Gaspésie will have access to college education. Thus, thanks to the magic of teaching, very small groups of class students in Sainte-Anne-des-Monts will be able to walk with a group in class at Cégep de Matane. And this pride is all the greater as already, for the fall session, eight students benefit from this new service and take DEC Tremplin and nursing courses, a first DEC whose graduates are very expected by the CSSS from Haute-Gaspésie. I thank all our partners for their valuable support. They helped make this project a reality, "said Cégep de Matane, Emery Beland. 
Ritoucois ge 28 Best l'More wants it from the minisis's has met to Cautim's Gonna and creation Events of Cutucus des de déseil and minisis 
At the end of the Higher Education held in February 2013, five work sites were put in place, one of which relates to the offer of collegial training. By June 2014, recommendations will be made on the establishment of the collegiate training offer in Quebec, the definition of regional training niches and the optimization of the continuing training offer. For more information on construction sites arising from the Higher Education Summit, visit www.messt.gouv.qc.ca/le-sommet/Changeys-Decture. 
