Rivière-Ouelle- On the occasion of the unprecedented tour of the members of the Government of Quebec in the regions of Bas Saint-Laurent and the Gaspésie, the Minister delegated to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb, announced the signing of the 2013-2018 Action Plan 2013-2018 Implementation Agreement of Peat and Agri-Environment of the Bas-Saint-Laurent region. The announcement was held at the facilities of the company Tailbow Lambert inc. from Rivière-Ouelle. 
The Minister was accompanied by the Chairman of the Regional Committee Agreement of the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region, Mr. Martin Beaulieu, the president of the niche pertus and agri-environment, CLAUDIN BERGER, and the President of the regional conference of the elected of the Bas- Saint-Laurent, Mr. Michel Lagacé. 
"The niches of excellence from the Agreement 's approach put in place in 2002 aim to support the dynamism of our companies in the regions. They contribute to the development of our full economic potential, "said Élain Zakaïb. "It is therefore proud that our government supports the implementation of the Peat and Agri-Environmental Niche Strategy and Plan of Action, whose economic benefits will be notable for Bas-Saint-Laurent and for all Quebec. » 
The niche of excellence peat and agroenvironment of the Bas-Saint-Laurent region brings together 26 companies from the horticultural and agricultural products sectors, environmental products and specialized equipment. 
This niche represents nearly 1,500 jobs in Bas-Saint-Laurent and 2,500 in Quebec, for an annual turnover of $ 500 million. It aims to strengthen the industrial synergy of the peat sector in Quebec by the establishment of partnerships and to promote a business environment for business growth, the development of new products and the emergence of innovative technologies. 
"As part of the Agreement, the support of the Government of Quebec is a valuable assistance for the growth of our companies in the region," said the Chair of the Regional Committee of the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region, Mr. Martin Beaulieu. 
"This agreement will consolidate the leader's position of this niche of the Bas-Saint-Laurent region within the entire Quebec peat and agri-environmental technology industry," added Zakaïb Élain. "Our Government also relies on collaboration and consultation between the different regions of Quebec, to ensure the success of the strategy and the action plan. » 
The 2013-2018 Action Plan aims to promote continuous improvement in companies, accelerating the development of new products and technologies and to provide market development support. The plan also aims to increase the attractiveness of the sector's jobs, including training, and to contribute to the establishment of favorable conditions for the growth of companies. 
"We are particularly happy with this renewal, because our members are actively engaged in several projects for the industry, and the enthusiasm remains very present after five years," concluded the president of the niche, Mr. Claudin Berger. "This beautiful synergy in the group will therefore be able to continue through the many initiatives of our 2013-2018 Action Plan. » 
Ritoucois ge 28 Best l'More wants it from the minisis's has met to Cautim's Gonna and creation Events of Cutucus des de déseil and minisis 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
