Saint-Adelphe- On the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and of technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce the award of financial assistance of 19,316 $ to the municipality of Saint-Adelphe for the redevelopment of some premises of its community center. This amount comes from the Cyprusural Development Fund (FCD). 
The Community Center of Saint-Adelphe is a place of neuralgic gathering in the heart of the municipality. However, its premises, which are found in the city hall built more than 50 years ago, are too small or poorly adapted for the activities of the organizations that occupy them. The project, which comes in three components, will remedy this situation. 
Minister Pierre Duchesne with Luc Trudel, MP for Saint-Maurice and Paul Labranche, Mayor of Saint-Adelphe. // (c) Joel Bouchard 
The first component provides for the expansion of the library and the bonus of services offered there. The project also targets the relocation of the youth house, whose mission is to help young people aged 12 to 17 to make the transition to adulthood. Sanitary facilities, a kitchenette and TVs will also be added and the current recreational activities will be grouped into the new local. Finally, the third component relates to the relocation of the premises of the local history society, on the erection of structures and cabinets for the storage of documents belonging to the collective memory of the citizens of the municipality as well as on the In value of the archives, including the creation of a documentation and preservation center. 
"The support of our government to this structuring and unifying project testifies, once again, our commitment to ensure the dynamism and vitality of municipalities, taking into account their realities. Ultimately, the citizens of Saint-Adelphe will be able to benefit from an adequate community center, which will truly meet their needs and that will encourage them to take an active part in the life of their community, "said Minister Duchene. 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers will meet on 5 and 6 February, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They will benefit from this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will make more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of these regions. 
"Several issues affect the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. I am happy to see that they have been at the heart of government thinking and they will also be at the heart of its interventions. Local initiatives, such as the one announced today, contribute significantly to the development of our environment, "said Yves-François Blanchet, Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister Responsible for the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
