Shawinigan- On the occasion of an outstanding tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region, the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Éllaian Zakaïb, accompanied by the member for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, announced the grant award totaling nearly $ 152,000 to two companies in Shawinigan, Movex Innovation and Zedbed International Corporation, for their innovation projects. 
From the Center-du-Québec Economic Diversification Fund and the Mauricie, these government contributions will be used to carry out investment projects estimated at $ 746,180 and aimed at product development and commercialization. These will help consolidate about fifty jobs. 
"Our support for these companies will stimulate the growth of the manufacturing sector, a priority sector for our government, as the Quebec Industrial Industrial Confirms," said Élaine Zakaïb. "In all regions of Quebec, we want this key sector to our economy to fully play its role as a creator of wealth and jobs. Manufacturing companies have no choice: to maintain their competitiveness and preserve jobs, they need to modernize and offer innovative products. Innovation Movex and Zedbed International Corporation have understood it. » 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the Ministers of the Government are gathered from February 3 to 7 in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will carry out more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads testify to the contribution of the government to the development and growth of the two regions concerned. 
"I am proud to see, once again, that our entrepreneurs respond to the call by putting forward structuring and innovative initiatives, initiatives likely to give new impetus to the Mauritian economy by diversifying", Supported Luc Trudel. "The diversification fund gives the chance to dynamic and booming companies to carry out their projects and to create or maintain jobs. » 
The Movex Innovation Project, specializing in the design and manufacture of electric handling vehicles, including the TRACK-O remote vehicle, aims to develop a potency of a large load capacity that will be attached to the TRACK-O. The project, which represents investments of $ 582,000, includes vehicle marketing activities in the United States. He benefited from $ 111,800 funding. 
"The Track-O is an innovative product to meet the multiple needs of our customers, which evolves in various sectors of activity, such as mines, petrochemicals or hydropower," said the president of innovation. Movex, Mr. Fabien Lavoie. "Our vehicle has the advantage of giving access to any type of land and closed spaces. It can even climb stairs and receive several specialized tools. It has a high potential for marketing. » 
As for Zedbed International Corporation, specializing in the manufacture of mattresses, it wants to develop and market a hybrid mattress with both springs and memory foam. The project, which includes the development of the product and its marketing, represents a total investment of $ 163,430 and has financial support of $ 40,112. 
"For twenty years, our company manufactures products of high quality that have made our reputation," said Vice President of Corporation Zedbed International, Mr. David Gélinas. "In order to position our new hybrid mattress, we must adopt the right brand image, the one that will ensure a single investment in the markets. » 
Let us remember that Lefonds of Economic Diversification of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie has an envelope of $ 200 million. It aims to attract private investment and to promote the creation of efficient and innovative companies. In the Mauricie region, it has supported a dozen projects to date. 
To consult the 2013-2017 Quebec Industrial Policy, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/politicitistrielle. 
For information on the Center-du-Québec Economic Diversification Fund and Mauricie, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
