Saint-Philippe de-Néri- On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of the members of the Government of Quebec in the regions of Bas-Saint-Laurent and the Gaspésie, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and MP for Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, accompanied by the Minister of Natural Resources and Minister responsible for Nordic Development, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, as well as the member for Repentigny and Deputy Parliamentary Deputy to the Minister of Sustainable Development, The environment, wildlife and parks (Fauna and Parks), Mr. Scott McKay, is pleased to announce that the municipalities of Sainte-Françoise and Saint-Philippe-de-Néri will share total government assistance from 1 $ 564,880 for the realization of important water infrastructure work. This assistance is granted to these two municipalities under the 1.4 component of the Infrastructures Québec-Municipalities (PIQM) program. 
"Our government wants to ensure the population of quality infrastructures for all. That's why I am very happy with the financial assistance given to the municipalities of Sainte-Françoise and Saint-Philippe-de-Néri for their water infrastructure work. In the long term, these projects will enable these municipalities to ensure essential services to citizens, which will benefit from infrastructure networks that meet the standards in force, in addition to enhancing the quality of public services, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"These major investments in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region testify to our government's desire to improve public infrastructure and basic services to the population. While contributing to the well-being of citizens, this infrastructure work will help preserve the environment from a sustainable development perspective, "said the Minister Delegate to Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region, Pascal Bérubé. 
The Sainte-Françoise project includes the construction of a ventilated pond treatment plant along Route 296, which will include air and chemical sphosphastation systems for the treatment of wastewater. It also aims to replace pumps and redevelopment of the pumping station as well as the establishment of a discharge line between the pumping station and the projected wastewater treatment plant. In the long term, this project will benefit about 250 people. 
All of this work requires a total allowable amount of $ 1,288,220. The Government of Quebec pays $ 1,095,047 for this project and the municipality of Sainte-Françoise participates for $ 193,243. 
As for the project of the municipality of Saint-Philippe-de-Néri, it aims to improve the quality of drinking water thanks to the layout of a new supply well with connection to the current tank and Upgrading the already existing well. It also provides for the construction of a new technical building housing a chlorination disinfection system and instrumentation and control equipment, as well as various related work. At the end of this project, 745 people will be served by these improved infrastructures. 
The completion of this work requires a total allowable amount of $ 939,666. The Government of Quebec and the municipality of Saint-Philippe de-Néri each contributes for an amount of $ 469,833. 
The Support of the Government of Quebec to these two projects is part of the 2013-2023Rendred Public Infrastructure Duplan (PQI) framework last April. It should be remembered that this ten-year plan will eventually result in $ 8.1 billion investments for the municipal infrastructure component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. 
The PQI also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
Ritoucois ge 28 Best l'More wants it from the minisis's has met to Cautim's Gonna and creation Events of Cutucus des de déseil and minisis 
