Plessisville- On the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Government of the Parti Québécois in the regions of the Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and the Technology and MP for Borduas, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, is pleased to announce a financial assistance of 51 $ 132 at the Maple Community Development Corporation (CDCE) for the exterior renovation of Chanoine Community Square A. Boulet de Plessisville. This assistance comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship (PIEC) infrastructure program. 
Among the main expected work, include the proper insulation of the building, the replacement of the exterior coating, the repair of the roof and the installation of an automatic door at the input. These interventions will contribute to optimizing the energy economy of this collective infrastructure indispensable for the continuation of the activities of the CDCE and eight other tenant community organizations. 
"The Chanoine Community Square A. Boulet offers proximity services that contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the Maple MRC territory and the aid granted is a way for our government to recognize it. I am proud of the investment announced today for the external renovation of the Maple Community Development Corporation. Once renovated, this infrastructure will allow several organizations to access better adapted workplaces. This support will allow them to continue their mission by offering a range of sociocommunity services to the population in addition to fighting poverty and social exclusion, "said Minister Duchesne. 
The total eligible cost of this project is $ 118,267. In addition to the contribution of the Government of Quebec, within the framework of the PIEC, other partners participate in the project, including the Local Development Center (CLD) of the maple. 
Recognized as a social saving company in the collective real estate sector for its merchant component, CDCE is a non-profit organization. Its mission is to consolidate and ensure the active participation of all Community organizations in the socio-economic development of the MAPE MBRA territory. In 1992, the Corporation acquired the Chanoine Community Square A. Boulet to provide organizations from the rents at lower cost while promoting their development and consolidation. The place also houses a service point of the Québec Automobile Insurance Company that contributes to the improvement of the quality of life of citizens by giving them access to a local local service. 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers met on 5 and 6 February, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will make more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of these regions. 
"Several issues affect the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. I am happy to see that they have been at the heart of government thinking and they will also be at the heart of its interventions. A project like the one we announce today is of particular importance for a region like ours, since its benefits will be felt throughout the community, "said Yves-François Blanchet, Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, wildlife and parks and minister responsible for the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
Recall that the PIEC has a budget envelope of $ 10 million. It aims to support social economy companies in the implementation of projects of repair, expansion, construction or acquisition of commercial or industrial infrastructure. The objectives of the CEP are to promote the development of social economy enterprises, contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories as well as to promote the preservation and valorization of the environment. 
