Trois-Rivières- On the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Government of the Parti Québécois in the regions of Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, and the Minister responsible for the Mauricie Region, Minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec Region and Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, M . Yves-François Blanchet, today announced two investments in the field of metallurgical research: one of $ 900,000 for the Research and Innovation Consortium in Metal Transformation in Quebec (CRITM) and a second of $ 205,426 in Cégep de Trois-Rivières. 
They made these announcements at the time of the inauguration of the new premises of the Quebec Metallurgy Center (CMQ). 
Announcement of two investments in the field of metallurgical research: one of $ 900,000 for the Research and Innovation Consortium in Metal Transformation in Quebec (CRITM) and a second of $ 205,426 at CEGEP of three -Rivières.  (c) Joel Bouchard 
"The investment I announce today for the research and innovation consortium in metal transformation in Quebec is part of the wake of the national research and innovation, I launched last October and which is part of the Government's Employment Economic Strategy. Companies in the field of metal processing face important challenges with respect to global competitiveness, productivity, energy and environmental footprint, and it is important to support them, "said Minister Duchesne. 
"The financial assistance that we grant will allow the realization of industrial research projects, which will help enhance the competitiveness of this sector. Thus, the Quebec government is resolutely committed to strengthening the Quebec economy. This is an excellent news for businesses and researchers from the region, but also for all Quebec! ", he added. 
"An investment like the one we announce today for the consortium is of particular importance, since the metal processing industry represents for the Québec economy more than 125,000 direct jobs. Since collaboration and partnership are now the keys to research and innovation development, companies, universities, research centers and several other associations that benefit from the consortium initiatives. These have significant impact on the region, "said the Minister Blanchet. 
The Research and Innovation Consortium in Metal Transformation in Quebec (CRITM) is a non-profit organization that funds collaborative research projects carried out in Quebec and where two or more companies are associated as well as public research institutions. In concrete terms, government investment will allow for industrial research projects with a total value of $ 1.5 million. It will also promote the exchange of strategic information between Quebec companies and research centers in the field of metal processing. 
"To perform in global markets, we must constantly invest in improving our products and methods. It's essential for the survival of our industry. The support of the provincial government to the CRMT will effectively equip companies by their efforts to improve their competitiveness and support 125,000 Quebec workers in the face of international pressure, "said the President of the CRITM, Mr. Louis Plante. 
Ministers also announced the payment of financial assistance from $ 205,426 to the CEGEP of Trois-Rivières for the rejuvenation of its furniture park. Remember that last November, Minister Pierre Duchesne announced a bonus of $ 6.4 million in investments for the rejuvenation of the Furniture Park in 48 CEGEPs. The amounts allocated are used to replace equipment related to technical training, which requires the use of expensive equipment and devices that evolve rapidly. They also renew the equipment of science laboratories. 
"All the Cégep staff in Trois-Rivières is pleased that amounts are allocated for the rejuvenation of his furniture park. I am honored to inaugurate the new premises of the Quebec Metallurgy Center, enlargement made possible in particular by the support of the Government of Quebec and the City of Trois-Rivières. With these investments, the Quebec Metallurgy Center (CMQ) and its Advanced Alloys Technology Center become even more important players in applied research, including the Quebec Metal Transformation Research and Innovation Consortium. He is a proud founding member. We will be able to continue to contribute to the implementation of the National Research and Innovation Policy, with a perspective of Economic Development of Mauricie, "said CEGEP's Director General, Raymond-Robert Tremblay. 
With its new premises and unique advanced equipment in Quebec, the Quebec Metallurgy Center (CMQ) can now transfer its expertise to businesses. In May 2013, Minister Pierre Duchesne announced the payment of $ 2,524,000 in the Center for its expansion and purchase of specialized equipment. The CMQ is one of the most efficient centers of the Transfer Centers Network (Trans-Tech). 
"I thank the companies that trust the Quebec Metallurgy Center. We provide services through our technological research and assistance at more than 150 companies in Quebec, more than 40 of them are located in Mauricie. I also thank all partners who supported the Center and other research institutions in the creation of the Research and Innovation Consortium in Metal Transformation in Quebec, "concluded the Director General of the Center, Mr. Gheorghe Marin. 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the Government ministers will meet on the next 5 and 6 February, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They will benefit from this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will make more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
