Papineauville- On the occasion of its tour of several regions of Quebec, the Minister delegated to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, announces, in the presence of Mrs. Lise Goulet, Political Advisor of the Minister of Public safety and Minister responsible for the Outaouais Region, M Stéphane Bergeron, the allocation of non-refundable financial support from $ 686,420 to Femmessor Outaouais, a non-profit economic development agency dedicated to women's entrepreneurship In the region. 
Recently created, Femmessor Outaouais's mission is to promote female entrepreneurship, to foster networking and offer support, training and tailor-made financing for women entrepreneurs in the region. Femmessor Outaouais adds to the twelve other Femmessor organizations present through Quebec and who are born from the willingness of the business community to meet the specific needs of women in terms of entrepreneurship. 
"For ten years, FEMMESSOR organizations have been used to diversify the entrepreneurial base by increasing the number of women entrepreneurs in several regions of Quebec. For our government, Femmessor are size allies to promote business creation and ensure the sustainability of those already in place. This is a winning initiative that takes into consideration the many realities to which women entrepreneurs are subjected. To promote the growth of a sustainable economy, we need to rely on the contribution of all in all regions of Quebec, "said the Deputy Minister Zakaïb. 
In all, there are thirteen Femmessor in Quebec: in Abitibi-Témiscamingue, Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, Mauricie, on the North Shore, in the Bas-Saint-Laurent, in Gaspé-Îles-de-la- Madeleine, in Estrie, Montérégie, Montreal, Center-du-Québec, in the Capitale-Nationale, in Nord-du-Québec and Outaouais. Since their creation in 2002, FEMMESSOR organizations have awarded more than $ 7.68 million in loans, generating investments of $ 45.49 million and creating or now 1,600 jobs in Quebec. 
"Like other FEMMESSOR organizations, Femmessor Outaouais intervenes at all stages of the evolution of a company, whether when starting, acquiring, expanding or consolidating. Our action unfolds in all sectors of activity and our services are offered to women of all ages. The entrepreneurs in the region can have access to support and funding, in addition to being able to take advantage of their management, negotiation, business development and networking skills, "said the president of the Board of Directors of Femmessor Outaouais, Ms. Louise Cormier. 
"By accompanying the entrepreneurs from here in their business projects, Femmessor Outaouais greatly contributes to the economic growth of the region. For our government, supporting the organization in carrying out its activities is of great importance. In fact, our support for Femmessor testifies to our desire to promote the economic development of the regions of Quebec, focusing on the undeniable contribution of women entrepreneurs, "concluded the delegated minister. 
The Deputy Minister undertook the tour of several regions of Quebec to present its guidelines for regional economic development, to explain the mandate of the Quebec Economic Development Bank and to draw out the outline of industrial policy and measures. aimed at increasing the productivity and competitiveness of Quebec companies. She took the opportunity to listen to what regional actors have to tell him about the strengths, challenges and needs of their own region to adjust the bank's project accordingly. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the following RSS feed: www.mdeie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
