New- On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of the members of the Government of Quebec in the regions of Gaspésie and Bas-Saint-Laurent, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, accompanied by the Parliamentary Assistant of the Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Wildlife and Parks and MP Bonaventure, Mr. Sylvain Roy, proceeded to the official inauguration of the intergenerational housing cooperative the habitation, in New, Gaspésie. 
Located in the heart of the municipality, this 12 affordable lodging building, where families and elders rub shoulders with a slight loss of autonomy, offers a meal service and common areas including a community rooftop garden. This innovative project, carried out through the AccessLogis Québec program of the SHQ, required an investment of more than $ 2.2 million from the Government of Quebec and its environmental partners. 
"In May, the Premier Pauline Marois unveiled Lastrategia of government intervention for the development of the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, one of whose objectives is to maintain the exceptional quality of life prevailing on the territory. In addition to contributing to the achievement of this objective, a project like this promotes intergenerational solidarity that is so important to the enrichment of our society, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The Government of Quebec, through the SHQ, has granted a grant of just over $ 955,000 for the realization of the habit. In addition, the SHQ guarantees the mortgage contracted by the Cooperative of Solidarity Avignon to complement the financing of the project. The total contribution of the environment is more than $ 417,000, of which some $ 259,000 comes from the new municipality. Also note that the project has received a grant of more than $ 177,000 through the Rénovation Québec program of the SHQ. 
"A project like the one inaugurated today is of particular importance for a region like ours, which faces significant challenges in occupancy and sustainable development of the territory. Local initiatives such as the dwelling cooperative the habit of the living and enriching living environment for the elderly and families who share the same living space, but also for future generations that will benefit from This beautiful infrastructure, "said MP Sylvain Roy. 
"The dress is an innovative project for our region and a life project for seniors and families who enroll in the heart of our community. Thank you for helping us build a bridge between the generations, "said Mrs Valérie Thériault, Executive Director of the Solidarity Cooperative Avignon. 
Note that additional financial assistance of just over $ 103,000, spread over five years and 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the municipality of New, offers the possibility for 6 households of the habit ' Ages to benefit from the rent supplement program. Thus, these low-income households pay a rent similar to that of a modest rent housing, or 25% of their income. 
Among the community contributions, emphasize that the project has received a subsidy of some $ 25,000 from the Department of Natural Resources' Energy Efficiency and Innovation Bureau to ensure that it meets the Novoclimat program standards. This ensures tenants an appreciable economy on the heating costs of their housing. 
Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Every year, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000 households. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Habitat Espace, the WEB magazine of the SHQ, which deals with the spin-offs of the interventions of it on the whole of Quebec society. 
Desputés and the part Ile D députés and ben among the words Et 290 
