Sainte-Angele-de-Prémont- on the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, the Minister Delegate to the Regions, Mr. Géatan Lelièvre, a Taken a visit to the New France Farm to announce, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, a help of $ 75,000 allocated to the development of the company's infrastructure, for the benefit of the tourism clientele. The project allowed the creation of 15 new jobs. 
"I am very proud to announce this financial support that contributes to enhance the attractions of the Mauricie region in cultural tourism. The development of new infrastructures, in connection with the Quebec agrotourism offer, is part of the diversity of the activities and products offered by the New France Farm and allows the region to offer a unique experience to visitors, which in does an original and innovative project. This announcement is concretized for the benefit of the population. A news that, I'm sure, will delight the entire community and enjoy all Quebec, "said Minister Lelièvre. 
For his part, the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, welcomes this announcement. "The tourism industry is an important economic engine for the Mauricie. By the authenticity and uniqueness of its product, the New France Farm contributes to structure the tourist offer of the destination by highlighting the rural and agricultural heritage of the region. I am delighted with the financial support granted to this project. 
Outcome of the Tourisme Québec Tourist Projects Program, the aid granted has allowed the Farm New France to develop a set of infrastructures to discover the visitors of new products, to enhance the heritage by the Exhibition of objects relating the past of the region, in addition to offering a regional showcase for agri-food products and agrotourism. The infrastructures put in place are defined, in particular, by the animation of thematic circuits promoting the agricultural territory and the rural heritage, the creation of a country market and a halt-bike and the construction of a room events that can accommodate 175 people. 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the Government ministers will meet on the next 5 and 6 February, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They will benefit from this meeting to tour nine constituencies in the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec region. In less than a week, they will proceed with more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and development of these regions. 
