G Aspon- On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of members of the Quebec government in the Bas St-Laurent and Gaspésie region, the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Accommodation, accompanied by the Minister responsible for the Gaspé-Islands-Îles-de-la-Madeleine Region and MP, Gaétan Lelièvre, announced an investment of $ 6.2 million at the Mgr-Ross Accommodation Center, an installation From the health and social services center of Côte-de-Gaspé. This investment will be used to redeflower two of the living units of the accommodation center by 2015. 
As Minister Hébert explained, "This center was built in 1948 to accommodate patients with tuberculosis. Its layout corresponded to the needs of the time, but it is no longer adapted to its current mission, to provide long-term care for people in great loss of autonomy. " 
This first stage of the center renovation covers the 200 and 250 units, located on the first floor of the building. The arrangements will allow the concept of living environment for our residents and their families. We will enjoy work to build dining rooms and living rooms for residents and families, as well as to renovate sanitary facilities, coatings and electromechanical systems. 
Réjean Hébert and Gaétan Lelièvre announce an investment of $ 6.2 million at CHSLD Mgr-Ross. 
The Minister responsible for the Gaspésie region, Gaétan Lelièvre, said, "We are proud to give today the green light to this very expected project in the region. This real estate initiative will significantly improve the quality of life of residents and provide a more functional workplace to team members, for even better quality services. " 
From the real estate angle, we will redevelop an area of 1,115 square meters. The project also provides for the temporary development of Unit 500 to accommodate those hosted for the duration of the work. Funding comes from the Department of Health and Social Services, which invests $ 2.1 million, and $ 4.1 million from real estate envelopes already attributed to the region. 
In addition, the Ministers Réjean Hébert and Gaétan Lelièvre confirmed the granting of additional budgets of $ 1,019,100 to improve home care and services offered to the elderly of Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine. 
"Improving senior services in loss of autonomy is one of our government's top priorities, as also confirms the approach we advocate for autonomy insurance. Immediate improvement in home support will serve more seniors, even more wisely help those who are already receiving services in addition to supporting families, "said Minister Hébert. 
These new credits have three components: 
$ 774,300 for the intensification of home services provided by institutions and social economy companies. 
$ 109,600 for the consolidation of service networks integrated with the elderly of institutions, which promote the integration, coordination and continuity of seniors services. The addition of stakeholders and case managers for personalized people's follow-up is an essential element of improving seniors' services. 
"As elsewhere in Quebec, we make decisions favorable to the maintenance of seniors in a community that is familiar to them, as long as possible. This budget addition will benefit not only with the elderly loss of autonomy, but also to the caregivers ", has commented on the minister responsible for the region of the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine, Gaétan Lelièvre. 
Ritoucois ge 28 Best l'More wants it from the minisis's has met to Cautim's Gonna and creation Events of Cutucus des de déseil and minisis 
