Carleton-sur-Mer- On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of the members of the Government of Quebec in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region and the Gaspésie, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, the Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, accompanied by the hon. Member for Bonaventure, Mr. Sylvain Roy, announced the aid of $ 1,498,000 to the Initiation Center for Research and Development Assistance Durable (CIRADD). This one is a collegial technology transfer center (CCTT) affiliated to the Carleton-sur-Mer campus of the Cégep de la Gaspésie and the islands. 
The minister took advantage of this announcement to confirm the renewal and recognition of the CCTT for the next five years. For the current fiscal year, the funding granted is $ 298,000 and $ 1.2 million for the subsequent four years. 
"I am very proud to announce the renewal of the CCTT for the next five years. This is a very good news, which was strongly expected here. This announcement is concretized for the greatest benefit of students in addition to contributing to the socio-economic development of Gaspésie. A news that, I'm sure, will delight the whole community. These investments will allow CIRADD to continue its mission by offering scientific research services and contributing to the rise of rural areas, "said Minister Duchesne. 
The aid granted aims to fund some of the applied research, technical assistance, training and information dissemination activities as well as part of the Center's operating and management costs. 
"The CEGEP of Gaspésie and the islands is a prowed in Quebec with its applied research centers and the establishment of a research and innovation service. By their actions, they participate in the creation of wealth and appreciable economic benefits for the region, but also for all Quebec. Moreover, innovation has become an essential issue in the perspective of regional development and competitiveness of our companies, "said the deputy Roy. 
CIRADD offers a support and support service in scientific research to organizations, businesses and communities in Gaspésie, and contributes to the training of students enrolled in the humanities and in nature sciences at the CEGEP of Gaspésie and Islands. Among the projects in the course of CIRADD include the establishment of community gardens, the socio-economic analysis of the oil sector development model in Gaspésie and the development of entrepreneurial qualities among young people. 
"The government intervention strategy for the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, announced last May, contained a site dedicated to the development of adequate research and innovation expertise. Today's announcement is part of this project and gives the CIRADD's ways to increase its knowledge in the field of territorial development, "says Minister Duchesne. 
"The CEGEP of Gaspésie and Islands is very pleased to see that its students will be able to benefit for more several years of a single learning place, which is another element of appeal for the recruitment of Cégep's clientele. In addition, the CIRADD has become, by its achievements, an important player in the community and a proud partner in the establishment of regional projects, "said CEGEP's Chairman of the Board of Directors, Mr. Leon Després. 
"CIRADD activities provide a culture of innovation within its community. This culture is synonymous with wealth for future generations, because the creation of new companies contributes greatly to regional economic development. Quebec is based on an industrial and social research network that stands out, and CIRADD is a good example. Support the excellence of research and innovation is essential for our government, "concluded Minister Duchesne. 
Ritoucois ge 28 Best l'More wants it from the minisis's has met to Cautim's Gonna and creation Events of Cutucus des de déseil and minisis 
For more information on departmental programs and services, visitwww.messt.gouv.qc.ca. 
