Inverness- On the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the regions of the Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec, the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, on behalf of the Minister of the Education, leisure and sport, Marie Malavoy, announced the construction of a recreational center in the municipality of Inverness. Financial assistance up to $ 451,414 will be granted for this purpose. 
The planned work, whose total costs are valued at more than $ 900,000, mainly target the construction of a building consisting of a covered ice rink that would be mainly used as the icy game surface during the winter and a multifunctional section. which would serve throughout the year. 
"The feeling of belonging and the well-being of a community is mostly through projects like this. This is especially true in the region. A healthy and stimulating environment largely contributes to countering the exodus of young people. I am very proud to be part of a government that highlights the quality of life in the region, a quality of life that is greatly fueled by the diversity of resources that are put at our disposal to remain active, "said M . Bérubé. 
This project has been analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the sports and recreational facility support program - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the Eligible costs. 
Across Québec, about 80 construction, renovation, development and development projects of sports and recreational facilities should be achieved through investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from an envelope of $ 50 million allocated as part of the second component of the Sports and Recreation Support Program - Phase II of the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport. At this envelope adds additional support of $ 80 million, thanks to the acceleration of investments, to support new projects now. 
"For a year, we have multiplied our actions to improve our public infrastructure. We do even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing heavily in our sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the well-being and quality of life of people. In my view, these are strong and responsible gestures, "Malavoy said. 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers meet the next 5th and 6th of February, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will proceed with more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
