Rivière-du-Loup - Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, announces the award of a $ 3 million investment Québec loan to the company Lepage Millwork of Rivière-du-Loup, for the expansion and modernization of its facilities. Lepage Millwork, which manufactures high-end wooden doors and windows for prestigious residences and heritage renovation, to invest more than $ 10 million in this project. 
This financial support will enable the company to improve its production capacity and increase its export sales. Specifically, the project includes the enlargement of the main building to install more efficient paint rooms, as well as a cafeteria for employees. In addition, an expansion of the wood preparation section and the acquisition of a molding are planned. 
"Lepage Millwork sees great and we are very proud to support it. Thanks to the Loan of the Government of Quebec, the company can focus on the development of new markets. In addition to consolidating the 260 existing jobs, it plans to create 48 others in the coming years. This is a great news for the economy of the region and the ecoconstruction niche, resulting from the agreement approach, "said Minister Zakaïb. 
Thanks to the abundant and diversified natural resources of the Bas-Saint-Laurent region, the ecoconstruction of excellence niche is to become a North American reference in the development, production and use of products that are less environmental impact for the sector. Habitat-Construction. In the region, nearly 200 companies have an integrated offer of ecological products and services for residential construction. Lepage Millwork is a good example of a company that, by its product offer, joins the directions of the niche and contributes to its dynamism. 
Founded in 1950, Lepage Millwork was acquired in 2001 by Guy Bonneville. In recent years, the company has invested intensively in its capital assets. In addition, production has been oriented towards high added value products and the company also pays special attention to the environment. Its products are mainly made of recyclable materials, such as wood, steel and glass. It represents a flagship of the regional economy. 
"We are very pleased to count on the financial participation of the Government of Quebec. For more than a year, we have spent many hours and significant amounts of money on this project. This financial support will allow us to make productivity gains while engaging our high-end product with a wider clientele, "concluded Mr. Guy Bonneville, President of Lepage Millwork. 
