Québec-Tour in Nunavik, the Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, yesterday, proceeded to the inauguration of Kuururjuaq National Park, located east of Ungava Bay, near the Inuit community of Kangiqsualujjuq. Ms. Marois was accompanied by the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Yves-François Blanchet, and the President of the Kativik Regional Administration (ARK), Maggie Emudluk. 
"This national park ensures the conservation and development of grandiose landscapes and exceptional natural ecosystems that characterize Nunavik. It also does the pride of Inuit, who assume management, in addition to providing quality jobs to young people, which, in my opinion, constitutes major assets for the sustainable development of the North, "said the first minister. 
With an area of 4461 km2, this national park offers among the most spectacular landscapes, including the massif des Monts Torngat which includes the highest peak of Quebec, the Mont d'Iberville, which culminates at 1646 meters above sea level. It is also in these mountains that the Koroc River has its source. Kuururjuaq National Park offers a high degree of protection to almost all the watershed of this river. 
"Kuururjuaq is a unique place in Quebec, an exceptional Nordic territory, we are seeing it today. I am particularly pleased that this jewel of our natural and cultural heritage is protected while supporting the tourism development of Nunavik. It is a very nice gift that is collectively, to ourselves as to the generations that will follow us, "said the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Yves- François Blanchet. 
"The creation of the park allows us to protect this territory that our elders have always been busy and we want young people to thank us one day from having sheltered from development. Kuururjuaq National Park will serve as a lever for tourist development of our community and Nunavik, and will be a focus of intercultural exchange with those who will visit us, "said the Kativik Regional Administration Chair, Maggie Emudluk. 
Kuururjuaq National Park has been established through close collaboration between the Government of Quebec, the Kangiqsualjjuaq Inuit Community, Makivik Society, Kativik Regional Administration and Qiniqtiq and Epigituk Foncières Corporations (Taqpangayuk). As is the case for the other national parks of Quebec in Nunavik, the ARK assumes management. It has put in place the necessary equipment, either a workshop in the village of Kangiqsualjjuaq and a welfare comprising a permanent exhibition, as well as camps and infrastructures to some of the strategic places of the park. 
The annual budget paid by the Government of Quebec for the operation of Kuururjuaq National Park is $ 1.1 million. It offers seven permanent jobs and more than 13 people from the Kangiqsualjjuaq community have been incurred to make a variety of works, which is significant for a community of about 1000 inhabitants, of which a little more than the majority is less than 25 years old. Let us mention that between January and June 2012, more than 750 people visited the greeting pavilion. 
