Saint-Étienne-des-Grès- On the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Government of the Parti Québécois in the region of Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec, the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, of The fauna and parks and minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec and the Mauricie, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to the Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élain Zakaïb, the attribution of a loan of $ 840,000 to the company Greenhouses of the St. Lawrence, who produces the Tomato Savoura, for a $ 1.4 million modernization project at its Saint-Étienne plant - sandstone. 
"This support, resulting from the 200 million dollar diversion diversification from the two regions concerned, will give this company the opportunity to contribute to the economic vitality of Mauricie," said Yves-François Blanchet. "Our government is committed to providing all the necessary tools for both regions so that they can accelerate the economic diversification of their territory. I am proud to demonstrate that we hold our commitments. » 
Minister Blanchet supports the modernization of the company's Saint-Étienne-des-Grès plant the Greenhouses du Saint-Laurent. (c) MDDEP 
"Improving productivity is crucial to ensure the competitiveness of manufacturing companies. This is the raison d'être of our industrial policy. With the Fund, as with Quebec industrial lapolitics, we prove that we can do things otherwise by providing a better targeted help in carrying out carrier projects, "said Zakaïb. "It is therefore important to support projects like that of Savoura, which is also part of our policy of food sovereignty. » 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the Ministers of the Government are gathered from February 3 to 7 in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will carry out more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and development of the two regions concerned. 
The Greenhouses of the St. Lawrence is the largest serricole company in Quebec. Over the years, it has introduced new specialty products for the Quebec market, but also to export markets such as Ontario and Northeastern United States. The planned changes will help reduce distribution costs and improve productivity in the production and packaging stages. 
"We are very pleased to be able to benefit from the support of the Quebec government for this project," said Marie Gosselin, President and Chief Executive Officer of the company's St. Lawrence Serres. "According to a preliminary analysis, we believe that all the investments that will be carried out in Saint-Étienne-des-Grès will allow us to make annual cost savings of approximately $ 950,000. » 
For more information on the Fund, the Table and Plan for the Economic Diversification of Center-du-Québec and Mauricie as well as on supported projects, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
