Quebec, April 3, 2017- As part of the SME priority tour, the leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, will be passing through the Roussillon MRC, today, to meet the meeting of entrepreneurs. Alain Therrien, hon. Member for Sanguinet and spokesperson for the tour, will be at his side. 
"I have the pleasure of being in Roussillon's MRC today, with my colleague, to meet with members of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry Royal Roussillon. Together, we will discuss issues that affect them and economic nationalism measures we want to highlight. Since the beginning of the year, I have met several entrepreneurs, women and businessmen, in several regions, and I presented to them our vision of economic development. Currently, Quebec lives a historic summit: never there were so many young people who want to start their business. It must be enjoyed, to give them air, to support them, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
"Today we have held constructive meetings with dynamic Roussillon entrepreneurs. It was also essential to go to the Regional Chamber of Commerce, especially given its recent project to create an entrepreneurial center. We were more than happy to answer his invitation, "sued Alain Therrien. 
All entrepreneurs, the members who make up the team Priority SME - Alain Therrien, Mireille Jean (Chicoutimi) and Martin Ouellet (René-Lévesque) - received the mandate to surrender, in the coming months, meets the people of Business to identify irritants and propose solutions, as well as to determine the best paperwork reduction practices in cities and government agencies. 
Among other things, the team will suggest measures to reduce the regulatory burden imposed by departments, agencies, agencies and municipalities, the latter to be challenged in particular. The tour must also propose a lightened regulatory framework that would be applied during the first five years of a new business. "Basically, we want to allow entrepreneurs to work by releasing the current administrative mazes," said Mr. Therrien. 
"SMEs are the spine of our economy. Starting a business is a bold act that requires a huge effort. That this effort be complicated, hampered, blocked by an excessive regulatory burden is an insult to common sense and healthy economic policy. Our intention is clear: the government of the Parti Québécois that I will cease to cease to consider SMEs as being at the service of bureaucracy; On the contrary, it will ensure that the bureaucracy supports SMEs in their efforts to respect the rules, while creating jobs and wealth, "said Jean François Lisée. 
Tuesday, the member for Sanguinet will continue the tour in the Roussillon; He will meet entrepreneurs from the Prairie and Sanguinet who have succeeded in their respective fields with determination and, above all, of innovation. "Starting a business will never be any rest. On the other hand, we are convinced that the Government of Quebec can do more to alleviate the burden of those who embark on the adventure and it is strong of the experience of established entrepreneurs we will target the obstacles they. have encountered in the development of their business, "concluded Alain Therien. 
