Saint-Hyacinthe- As part of the Tour of the Quebec Party members in Montérégie, the member for Berthier and official opposition spokesman in agriculture, André Villeneuve, the member for Abitibi West, François Gendron , the member for Beauharnois and spokesperson in the field of wildlife and parks, Guy Leclair, as well as the member for Gaspé and spokesperson for municipal affairs and regional development, Gaétan Lelèvre, met, today Hui, representatives of the UPA Montérégie and the Agricultural Technopole of Saint-Hyacinthe. 
"Agriculture must be involved in Quebec's economic development. Agribusiness is an important area for job creation, but it will remain so if it gives it the means. Already, the Liberal government has cut 130 million in agricultural financial financial, farmers' bottom. Minister Pierre Paradis must be listening to the agricultural environment to integrate it into Quebec's economic development, "said André Villeneuve. 
"The food sector and that of agricultural production must be supported, particularly in the perspective of the policy of food sovereignty, which I had the honor of presenting when we were in the government. All Quebeckers will win if more and more products here are consumed here. As far as we are concerned, we continue our work so that all necessary efforts are made in this direction, "François Gendron continued. 
Regional concerns 
"The possible transfer of responsibilities, particularly with regard to dismissal, the Committee on Protection of the Agricultural Territory of Quebec to the MRC worries several local stakeholders, both within the agricultural community and in the municipal world. The government has still not closed the door to this possibility; We invite him to be attentive to the opinions of people on the ground, "added Gaétan Lelièvre. 
"Here, in Montérégie, as in several regions in Quebec, the issue of agricultural land grabbing by private corporations is very worrying. Farm succession, in particular, is rightly worried about impacts. However, thanks to the work of my colleague André Villeneuve, a parliamentary committee will look at this situation, hear stakeholders and make recommendations to the minister, "said Guy Leclair. 
