Chandler- On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of the members of the Quebec government in the Lower St. Lawrence and Gaspésie region, the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert Today announced a project to build an outpatient outpatient service unit on the lands of the health and social services center (CSSS) of the rock-pierced Chandler. He was accompanied for the opportunity of the Minister Delegate to the regions and minister responsible for the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region, Gaétan Lelièvre, and the hon. Member for Bonaventure, Sylvain Roy. The Department's investment for the implementation of this project is $ 4.5 million. 
"This expected project in the region is the guidance of our government in terms of autonomy for the elderly. The service offer of this new unit will allow more seniors to live at home longer, as the majority of them, "said Minister Hébert. 
This unit, which will make available to the CSSS a total area of 1,418 square meters, will accommodate thirty offices, activity rooms, support areas and circulation and service areas. Many premises will be dedicated to elders, including a physiotherapy rehabilitation room that can contain seven stretchers. In addition, a kitchen, a dining room, a laundry room and a bathroom will be converted to the benefit of the clientele, and will also serve for training purposes. 
Gaétan Lelièvre said, "It's a gain for the people of the region and for the CSSS. This clinic will facilitate access to second and third line specialized services for the elderly, which will, among other things, reduce emergency waiting time and optimize the use of beds in long accommodation. Duration. » 
The contribution of the Ministry of Health and Social Services to this project is part of the 2013-2023 Infrastructure Plan. It should be remembered that this decennial plan will eventually lead to investments by nearly $ 19.4 billion for the health and social services component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained on average per year. This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the needs, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the costs associated with it and to make informed choices. 
In addition, Messrs Hébert, Lelièvre and Roy also reported that the Villa Pabos accommodation center will receive a $ 131,000 allowance for a functional renovation of adding a dehumidification system to its current ventilation system. 
"It is essential in our view to ensure that people staying in hosting and long-term care centers can live in a pleasant environment. Their well-being is important in our eyes, just like the quality of the services offered to them and that of the living environments consecrated to them, "said Minister Hébert. 
Indeed, this new refrigerant dehumidification system will help prevent any problems that may result from a high humidity, ensuring that residents are drier and comfortable. 
"These investments in our constituency demonstrate that our government is sensitive to the development of remote areas and that the needs of the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region are also at the heart of its concerns," concluded the hon. Member for Bonaventure. , Sylvain Roy. 
Rationalized Subutting from the parts of the part venet of Genisceres du Manyneres Du Tille Reultame in The Cautus Des Secouted et du Creduil Des Minisrist. 
