Rivière-du-Loup- On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of the members of the Government of Quebec in the regions of Bas-Saint-Laurent and the Gaspésie, the Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, accompanied by the Minister Municipal affairs, regions and occupation of the territory and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, as well as by the member for Repentigny and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks , SCOTT MCKAY, on behalf of Minister Yves-François Blanchet, announced that the River-and-Lakes School Board will benefit from $ 500,000 financial assistance. 
"We are proud to support the three-pistle high school project that, by converting its equipment, reduce its lightweight fuel consumption. These adaptations will reduce greenhouse gas emissions of more than 380 tonnes of CO2 equivalent per year, which is equivalent to removing nearly 110 vehicles from the road network, "said Martine Ouellet. 
The three-pisto high school has 480 students and 29 teachers. The school belongs to the School Board of the River-et-des-Lacs. 
More specifically, the financial assistance granted will allow the establishment of a residual forest biomass boiler room with a capacity of 1000 kW. The construction of a forest biomass reserve will allow a four-day autonomy in times of great demand. In addition, the implantation of the proposed measure will reduce the annual operating expenses of the three-pisto high school for water production. In addition to being an energy efficiency project, this measure contributes to the development of forest biomass in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region. Three three-pistoles high school previously used a lightweight thermal power station for its heating. 
"The School Board of the River-and des-Lacs demonstrates that it has the attention to rigorously manage its energy spending. We need to support solutions that optimize energy efficiency of public, industrial and residential infrastructure. This is an essential issue to prepare Quebec's energy future, "added Martine Ouellet. 
Ritouptons E BEST DeTuits Duties doing Misisres and Dounzres du Manyin font Reinis to Acupulton and du Creduilt Des Minisrist. 
The Forest Biomass Support Program provides financial support in the form of non-refundable contribution for the implementation of measures for measurable and sustainable reduction in fossil fuel consumption and, as a result, greenhouse gas emissions. 
