Drummondville- On the occasion of his tour in several regions of Quebec, the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Mrs. Élain Zakaïb, announces, with the chief government whip and responsible for the regions From the center-du-Québec and the Mauricie, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, the allocation of non-refundable financial support of $ 400,000 to the company Soucy International, for a project estimated at $ 2,533,700 which will consolidate 280 jobs. 
The company specializes in the development and manufacture of track systems for off-road, industrial, military and agricultural vehicles, as well as parts and accessories for recreational products. The project announced today is to design three templates of traction systems. 
"Soucy International is a recognized company for the quality of its products and its great ability to innovate. Thanks to its advanced expertise, she knows how to meet the specific needs of her clientele by offering exclusive products. Through its financial support for the Souly International project, our government recognizes the importance of supporting the economic development of the regions, "said the Deputy Minister Zakaïb. 
"To promote its prosperity, the Center-du-Québec can count on the immense contribution of dynamic companies such as Soucy International, which is one of the strong links of the economy of the region. By the implementation of his investment project, it demonstrates, once again, its proactive side and willingness to remain among the most competitive companies in its sector. It is with pride that we support it in the continuation of its activities here in the center-du-Québec, "mentioned the member Yves-François Blanchet. 
Soucy International is a division of the Soucy Holding Group, an important group in the Center-du-Québec region. The latter, headquartered in Drummondville, employs more than 1,250 people in his eight factories across Quebec. These factories, complementary to each other, design and manufacture various components for the main manufacturers of recreational, industrial, agricultural and defense vehicles. 
"Our company is a leader in its sector of activity. With the support of the Government of Quebec, we aspire to position ourselves as the first manufacturer offering reliable and efficient systems for high power tractors. Our technology is promising and it will allow us to stand out from the competition. Above all, we can count on highly qualified teams and on peak equipment, "said Director General, Crawler, Parts and Accessories Division, Soucy International, Mr. André Todd. 
