Rivière-du-Loup- On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of the members of the Government of Quebec in the regions of Bas-Saint-Laurent and the Gaspésie, the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Work and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltais, has announced financial support totaling $ 112,098 to Campor Inc.. and Campor Environment, from Rivière-du-Loup. The aid granted is complementary to investments of $ 95,719 by the company to deploy training plans for its staff. 
"By this funding, the Government of Quebec supports an organization that contributes greatly to regional economic prosperity. The increase in competition in international markets bring Campor Inc. and Campor Environments to adapt and develop new business niches based on a widest range of services, increased efficiency and more and more versatile and specialized workforce. Training plans deployed in the two Campor divisions will allow workers to acquire new skills, which will allow the company to remain competitive, "said Minister Maltese. 
"I think it's by gestures like these that we manage to maintain quality jobs, to hold our workforce and attract new workers to our country. I am proud to be able to say that thanks to the investments granted by the Government of Quebec, Campor can improve its performance and continue to contribute to the economic health of Bas-Saint-Laurent, "said Minister Delegate to Tourism, Minister responsible for The Bas-Saint-Laurent region and Matane-Matapédia deputy, Mr. Pascal Bérubé. 
// (c) Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity. 
Campor Environnement is currently developing a new component in its service offer, either the industrial and commercial cleaning, which should allow it to annualize several seasonal positions. In addition to promoting the development of staff skills, the company's training plan will facilitate employee mobility and the transfer of specialized expertise. The training plans set up in the Campor Inc. division. will be promoting the transfer of skills between staff members. 
"The versatility of our staff is now needed as a must at Campor. In addition to gaining new technical and organizational knowledge, our employees will benefit from the training plan in terms of where we want to give them increased responsibilities. Our concern is to optimally use the workforce in place in order to continue to offer quality services while allowing our workers to evolve in a stimulating setting, "explained the Managing Director of Campor Environnement, Mr. Patrick Gagnon. 
Founded in 1989, Campor provides a set of environmental management solutions. The company has its own facilities and processing plants. In 2009, the company was split into two separate business entities: Campor Environnement Inc., which provides environmental services in the field and factory, and Campor Inc., which provides the administrative and management tasks of the first entity. Over the years, the organization has developed expertise in residual material development processes. These elements allowed him to become a recognized leader in his field. 
Ritoucois ge 28 Best l'More wants it from the minisis's has met to Cautim's Gonna and creation Events of Cutucus des de déseil and minisis 
