Saint-Ferdinand- On the occasion of an outstanding tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region, the Minister Delegate to Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Saint Region Laurent, Mr. Pascal Bérubé announced, on behalf of the Minister Delegated to the Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élain Zakaib, the payment of a loan without interest of $ 51,000 to the Lake Manor William for the construction of new facilities, a project estimated at $ 263,500. 
Coming from the Fonds of Economic Diversification of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie, this support will allow the construction of four thermal basins as well as an external sauna in a location highlighting the site and Lake William. 
"I am proud that our government financially helps businesses in the Center-du-Québec region that are distinguished by their dynamism and determination," said Pascal Bérubé. "Our support for the mansion project will contribute to the reputation of Lake William as a four-season tourist destination, in addition to consolidating 91 jobs and create 4 new. It is an initiative that allows us to take a step towards achieving the economic diversification goals we have given ourselves for the region. » 
Remember that the Center-du-Québec Economic Diversification Fund and Mauricie has an envelope of $ 200 million and that it aims to attract private investment and to promote the creation of efficient and innovative companies. 
"The decisions our government is always accompanied by concrete measures adapted to the reality of entrepreneurs," said Zakaïb Élain. "This is the case for the diversification fund and it is also the case for Quebec industrial policy. These are effective and accessible levers for businesses and contribute to the economic growth of the two regions concerned. I am pleased to see that our entrepreneurs seize the opportunities offered by this winning approach. » 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the Ministers of the Government are gathered from February 3 to 7 in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will carry out more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and development of the two regions concerned. 
Property of the Lessard family since 1992, the Lake William mansion is nestled in the picturesque village of Saint-Ferdinand. Over the years, the mansion has become a four-star certified hotel offering accommodation and catering services and a relaxing spa and several holiday packages. 
"The Lake William Manoir is unprecedented, as evidenced by the money awarded in 2013 at the Québec Tourism Grand Prix Gala," said the President and CEO of the Lake Manoir. William, Mr. Franco Lessard. "The acquisition of a relaxing spa, ten years ago, has allowed us to diversify our offer and, now, the addition of thermal basins and an outside sauna will maximize the benefits generated by the unique environment and Very sought after that surrounds the mansion. » 
For more information on the Fund, the Table and Plan for the Economic Diversification of Center-du-Québec and Mauricie as well as on supported projects, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
