Quebec- On the occasion of an outstanding tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and the Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, and the member for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, are pleased to announce an investment of $ 68,504 at Shawinigan College for the rejuvenation of his furniture park. 
"Thanks to the bonus announced today, the students and the staff of the Shawinigan College will benefit from facilities and equipment conducive to learning. By having access to state-of-the-art equipment, students will be more inclined to pursue studies in science while developing an interest in research. They will also be able to learn and practice with equipment that will be more apparent to what is used in the field, "said Minister Duchesne. 
It should be remembered that last November, the minister announced a bonus of $ 6.4 million in investments to rejuvenate infrastructure and equipment in 48 CEGEPs. 
The amount allocated to the Shawinigan College will serve in particular to replace technical training equipment, as the college offers programs that require the use of expensive equipment and devices that evolve rapidly. It will also renew the equipment of science laboratories. 
Let us mention that the maob (furniture, equipment, tooling and library), developed by the department in collaboration with the college network, makes it possible to establish the needs of furniture park in the college network and to distribute between CEGEPs. Budget envelope for the renewal of this park. 
"This new amount will modernize CEGEP's equipment and facilities so that it can respond even better to the needs of students. They will benefit from a more attractive and stimulating training environment that will allow them to perfect their knowledge. This is an excellent news for our region! "MP Trudel mentioned. 
"Shawinigan College, in its 2011-2016 Strategic Plan, wants to ensure the continued development of a dynamic, efficient and quality environment. I am pleased with this financial assistance that allows the College to stay at the crossroads of multiple development projects, "said André Gingra, Managing Director of College Shawinigan. 
It should be noted that members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers will meet on 5 and 6 February, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will proceed with more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
"Several issues call the region of Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec region. I am happy to see that they have been at the heart of government thinking and they will also be at the heart of its interventions. An investment like the one announced today is of particular importance for a region like ours, which faces significant challenges in qualified labor training. Investments like the one who is announced today contribute significantly to the development of our environment, "concluded the responsible minister for the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet. 
