The Prairie - Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Mrs. Élain Zakaïb, and the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Mr. Jean -François Listed, met with socio-economic actors in the metropolitan area during the Consultation Tour on the Economic Development of the Corridor of Highway 30. Representatives of the Montteregian sectors of agriculture and tourism were also present. 
This consultation process aims to gather the opinion of the various stakeholders on projects related to the economic growth potential of Highway 30, in order to develop a strategy that allows the entire Montérégie and to The metropolitan area to make the most of the new infrastructure. 
"In addition to providing the metropolitan area of a bypass by southern Montreal Island, Highway 30 must become a profitable growth tool for all affected territories," said Élaine Zakaïb. "This consultation tour will allow us to better understand existing assets and to mobilize the actors involved in this major project. » 
The minister listed recalled the importance of the bypass for the metropolis. "This route will position the metropolis as a merchandise transportation pole at the international level," he commented. "This is a major project that will allow the radiation of the region and all Quebec and which will promote the growth of our economy. An overall vision, which takes into account the stakes of the territories concerned, is therefore essential to the realization of this project of first importance for our region. » 
From left to right, the Ministers Élain Zakaïb, Jean-François Lisée and Marie Malavoy with representatives of the Greater Montreal Region. (CNW Group / Office of the Minister delegated to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank. // (c) Minister Delegated to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank 
It should be remembered that in May 2013, an interministerial subcommittee composed of eight ministers was created to develop a government strategic vision on the Corridor of Highway 30 from Sorel-Tracy to Vaudreuil-Soulanges and a plan for relevant development. This subcommittee, co-chaired by Élain Zakaïb and the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Sylvain Gaudreault, reports to the Ministerial Committee of the Metropolitan Area. 
"We must therefore privilege a common vision, which will respect the vocation of the workpath of Highway 30, and take into account the economic potential and aspirations of the regions concerned while respecting government guidelines, particularly in terms of development and sustainable development of the territory, "added Marie Malavoy. 
