Wickham- On the occasion of an outstanding tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, the Minister Delegate to the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspé-Islands region. -The Madeleine and MP, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, accompanied by the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Minister responsible for the regions of Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec and MP Johnson , Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, confirmed the granting of nearly $ 6 million to rural RCMs in the Center-du-Québec region for the implementation of the national rurality of rurality. Following a commitment from the Prime Minister of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, to improve rural pacts, the national rurality policy has been renewed for a period of ten years with an envelope of $ 470 million. Created in 2001 by the Parti Québécois, the national rural policy provides unprecedented support to rural and regions of Quebec. 
"The aid announced today will allow those who care about the development of their community to give a new impetus to the most inspiring and promising projects in their environment. Long mature, this policy is based on the capacity of rural areas to mobilize and work on an intersectoral basis: an innovative and decisive approach to occupation of territory and rurality in Quebec. This new national rural policy will allow the establishment of major projects in the regions of Quebec, "said Minister Lelièvre. 
A sum of nearly $ 2 million will be devoted by 2014-2015 to the MRC Center-du-Québec for the financing of rural pacts and rural development agent positions in the region. The minister has also confirmed an additional $ 3.75 million, for up to $ 750,000 per $ 750,000 per ten years, to the realization of "plus pacts" on the rural territory of the region. Large novelties of the new policy, "Covenants Plus" are aimed at supporting the realization of major intersectoral projects and bringing the future across the MRC. The intersectoral approach will now have to characterize the management of the rural pact as well as that of the "pacts plus" since it is by rallying around a common vision and ensuring the complementarity of their actions that the actors of rural development will be optimized the fallouts on their environment. 
Pivots of the National Rural Policy, rural pacts are contracts between the Government and the RCMs to finance projects in rural territory. As for rural development agents, they are real actors of change for rural communities. 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers will be brought together on February 5th and 6th, Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They will benefit from this meeting to tour nine constituencies in the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec region. In less than a week, they will proceed with more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
"I look forward to the important amounts announced today to support the realization of projects that will undeniably contribute to building stronger and more dynamic communities in Central-du-Québec. Our government sends a clear signal of its willingness to support rural Quebec. The Parti Québécois demonstrates that it is the true party of the regions, "concluded the Minister Blanchet. 
