Plessisville- On the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Government of the Parti Québécois in the regions of the Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec, the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and the Technology and MP for Borduas, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and MP Officer of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, is pleased to announce the payment of financial assistance up to $ 59,277 to the Parish of Plessisville, in the Center-du-Québec region. This financial assistance, which comes from the Infrastructures Québec-Municipal Infrastructures Program - Municipality of Seniors (PIQM-MADA), will be used for the development of Kelly Park and Somerset Domain. 
Thanks to the PIQM-MADA, the municipalities incurred in the MADA approach have access to funds to support them in the realization of small infrastructure projects for seniors and their loved ones. 
"Today's announcement supports the parish of Plessisville's parish with respect to seniors. Thus, the aid granted will allow more citizens, including seniors and people with reduced mobility, practice sports and physical activity by facilitating their accessibility to Kelly Park and Somerset. Thanks to this initiative resulting from a concerted approach, they will be able to take full advantage of the recreational collective services offered by the parish. Promote active aging in our communities, it's winner! "Said Minister Duchesne. 
"I am proud of our government's commitment to seniors as part of the MADA approach, this great initiative ahead of a few years ago and to which the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the occupation of the territory. Improving the living conditions of our elders is to contribute to their fulfillment in the community. To assume together a responsibility that concerns us all to make Quebec a place where it is good to age, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
"This project, like many others who are emerging in all regions of Quebec, confirms the priority that our government gives to the quality of life of seniors. I would like to salute the Plessisville Parish Initiative for the development of Kelly Park and Somerset Park that meet the needs of seniors and restricted mobility needs of this community. In the long term, this project will contribute to their safety and quality of life while allowing them to remain active as long as possible, "said Minister Hébert. 
Briefly, the project is to improve the Kelly Park and Somerset Infrastructure, including redeveloping the surroundings of these parks to facilitate their access to seniors and people with reduced mobility. The project also provides for the addition of urban furniture and lighting as well as embellishment work. 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the ministers of the Government gathered in Shawinigan, on 5 and 6 February, on the occasion of the Caucus of the Members and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will make more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of these regions. 
"Several issues affect the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. I am happy to see that they have been at the heart of government thinking and they will also be at the heart of its interventions. A project like the one we announce today is of particular importance for a region like ours since its benefits will be felt throughout the community, "said Yves-François Blanchet, Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment , fauna and parks and minister responsible for the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
