Quebec-on tour in Nunavik, the Prime Minister, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Yves-François Blanchet, and the Minister Delegate to Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, to the Francophonie Canadian Governance and Minister responsible for the North-du-Québec Region, Alexandre Cloutier, yesterday confirmed the creation of the Nunavik Cooperative Development Fund. This fund includes an envelope of $ 15 million, including the Constitution over a 10-year period. 
From this amount, $ 5 million, in the form of an interest-free loan, will come from the Quebec government through Investissement Québec. The Federation of New Quebec Cooperatives also participates in funding for $ 5 million. The payments will be in the order of $ 500,000 a year for 10 years. Makivik, for its part, will invest $ 2.5 million at the time of the creation of the Fund by acquiring privileged shareholdings. Finally, the Kativik Regional Authority (ARK), through 14 Nunavik cooperative associations, will also inject $ 2.5 million at the time of creation of the Fund. 
The Nunavik Cooperative Development Fund will support structuring projects for the growth of the cooperative sector that will contribute to the rise of Inuit communities. The amounts paid will be allocated to the realization of business projects in different sectors of activity. 
The cooperative movement is securely established in Nunavik. These cooperatives provide the large part of local services in Inuit communities, such as grocery store, hardware, gasoline, Internet services and cable television, hotel and banking services and shipping. . In Nunavik, the 14 member cooperatives of the New Quebec Cooperatives Federation play a decisive role in the economy by being the largest private employers from Nunavik. They operate general stores, hotels and hunting and fishing camps. These 14 cooperatives now have a combined turnover that exceeds $ 80 million. 
"Thanks to the implementation of this fund, the Government of Quebec and its partners will contribute to the collective effort of the Inuit Communities of Nunavik," said Pauline Marois. This fund should generate more than $ 60 million in investments over the next 10 years. This will result in the creation of 150 direct and indirect jobs, and by consolidating more than 700 existing jobs. For more than a century, the cooperative movement has been a marking trait of Quebec society, our economy and our entrepreneurship. This movement is distinguished in North America and around the world by its dynamism as well as its capacity for innovation and mobilization. » 
"This fund will launch and pursue economic initiatives and public services that will increase the quality of life of the various communities of Nunavik," said Yves-François Blanchet. In addition, the Fund will generate significant socio-economic benefits in terms of jobs and local services for all Nunavik villages. The amounts constituting the Fund will include financing development projects, such as retail, accommodation, the improvement of oil facilities and other similar projects. » 
"Our main objective is to improve access to long-term financing for the Nunavik cooperative network, in the form of attractive conditions, has indicated Alexandre Cloutier. The Fund will also serve to intensify the presence of the Cooperative Entrepreneurship Model in Nunavik. The cooperative movement has contributed exceptionally to Quebec's economic and social growth. This is a collective dynamism that must continue to highlight. » 
"Makivik is pleased to support the cooperative movement in Nunavik and contribute to this project that should strengthen economic activity and to promote the creation of new jobs in our region," said Jobie Tukkiapik, President of the Company. Makivik. 
"The investment of $ 2.5 million from the ARK in the 14 Nunavik cooperative associations demonstrates our long-term commitment to the cooperative sector as well as our enthusiastic support for the presence of strong and prosperous cooperatives in The region, "said Maggie Emudluk, president of the Kativik Regional Administration. 
"In many Inuit Nunavik communities, cooperatives are the main and sometimes the sole point of sale and distribution of property, mentioned the Director General of the New Quebec Federation of Cooperatives, Heng Kun. The partnership with the Quebec government sends a positive message for the coming years. The generated economic activity will provide a promising future for Nunavik youth and will therefore contribute to the rise of different communities. » 
