Trois-Rivières- On the occasion of an outstanding tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the President and Director General of the Council of Arts and Letters of Quebec (CALQ), Stéphan La Roche, the President of the Regional Conference of Elected (Crés) of Mauricie, Gérard Bruneau, and their partners have unveiled the content of a new agreement promoting the Artistic development in Mauricie. A fund of $ 667,500 spread over three years is thus available for the realization of artistic projects related to the community community. 
"I am confident that this agreement will allow the creators of the Mauricie to share their passion with their fellow citizens, contributing to better access to culture and the arts. I deeply believe that the cultural vitality of Quebec goes through that of our regions. In this regard, today's announcement for Mauricie is good news for all Quebeckers and all Quebeckers, "said Maka Kotto. 
This specific agreement between the CALQ and the Mauricie Crees aims to provide financial support to the artists, writers and professional bodies of the region, in order to carry out projects in close collaboration with their community. This fifth agreement has added three signatories, the city of Shawinigan, the city of the Tuque and the Regional Commission of Natural Resources and the territory of Mauricie (CRNT). The city of Trois-Rivières is also a partner of this agreement. 
"The CALQ is proud to contribute to the cultural enrichment of the entire Quebec territory through these agreements adapted to the realities of each region. It is always very encouraging to work with partners who believe that the arts and letters are essential to the fulfillment of their community. I am delighted with the commitment of the towns of Shawinigan, Tuque and Trois-Rivières, who join the Cré and Calq to stimulate the cultural vitality of Mauricie, "said Stéphan La Roche. 
"Such an agreement represents an important lever for artistic practice in Mauricie. It allows us to encourage artists and writers to continue their professional activities in our region, thus contributing to the cultural vitality of our communities and, by the very fact, to the construction of a Mauritian identity that is its own. For the Cre, this professional artistic practice is essential to the regional socio-economic dynamism, "concluded Gérard Bruneau. 
According to the terms of the specific agreement on the support for artistic creation and its diffusion motivated by its connection with the community of Mauricie, the CALQ invests $ 277,500, La Cré de la Mauricie $ 225,000, the three cities a Total $ 135,000 and the $ 30,000 CRRNT. 
The agreement aims to support artistic creation and dissemination involving links with the community. It also offers the opportunity to increase and diversify the sources of revenue for professional artists and writers in Mauricie, contribute to the retention of professional artists and writers, including those of the youth succession to break their isolation and to promote their recognition within the community. It also wants to promote the emergence of artistic succession, in addition to encouraging and supporting the development and influence of professional art organizations in the territory and outside. 
This agreement therefore makes possible, for the 2013-2014, 2014-2015 and 2015-16 exercises, the implementation of the Program for the Arts and Letters of the Mauricie which includes the following four components: 
Component 1: Support for the projects of professional artists and writers related to the community of Mauricie; 
Step 2: Support for Projects of Professional Art Organizations related to the Community of Mauricie; 
component 3: Support for the consolidation and development of professional art organizations from Trois-Rivières; 
Step 4: Support for the promotion and dissemination of the agreement. 
Details about programs and registration forms are available on the CALQ, AuHTTP: //www.calq.gouv.qc.ca/regions/04.htm website. 
Four of the subsidized projects through the previous specific agreement are available in video capsules: 
Josette Villeneuve | Going or stay here: http: //youtu.be/ttxamefdvbo; youth hop hop mauricie | Urban Blitz: http: //youtu.be/xw2cq8snjd4; Isabelle Gauvin | Barnique: http: //youtu.be/gqhnl7k2l2y; Carolane St-Pierre | All it takes from bowls of air and water to make a river: http: //youtu.be/ywcfk9nfx9y. 
This announcement takes place on the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Government of the Parti Québécois in the region of the Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec. The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers meet February 5 and 6 in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They will benefit from this meeting to tour nine constituencies in the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec region. In less than a week, they will make more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
