Warwick- On the occasion of an outstanding tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, Minister Delegate to Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé today announced, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, government investments of $ 649,510 to allow the Bois-Francs School Board to proceed with At major renovations in two schools: the fermother's alternative school, located in Warwick, and Saint-Gabriel-Lalemant school in Victoriaville. The project concerning the school The fermenter is aimed in particular to repair the roof and the exterior coating of the building. The other project involves sealing the foundations and replacing the peripheral drain of Saint-Gabriel-Lalemant school. 
"These two schools are real circles of life, where every effort is made to offer personalized support for students. On our side, it is up to us to make every effort to make healthy and safe places, which the investments I announce today, "Bérubé said. 
Pascal Bérubé announces government investments of $ 649,510 to allow the Bois-Francs School Board to carry out significant renovations in two schools. // (c) Valérie Christmas-Létourneau 
Government assistance is paid in the Réno-Schools program, one of the main measures arising from economic lapolitics: employment priority, unveiled last fall. A total of $ 401.2 million will be invested in accelerating the improvement, renovation and repair work of the entire school network and to intervene quickly to address air quality issues in some schools. 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the Government ministers will meet on the next 5 and 6 February, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will proceed with more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
"For a year, we have not stopped taking steps to ensure that our schools are attractive, healthy, safe and accommodating living environments. We are increasingly incurred on this path by carrying and strong gestures that we posite today, "concluded Malavoy. 
