Princeville- On the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the region of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, the Minister Delegate to the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspé-Islands Region. Of the Islands -The Madeleine, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, confirmed, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to the Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, the award of a grant of $ 102,558 to the DEMTEC company for the design and marketing of a new genre modular house, a project estimated at nearly $ 490,000. 
"I am proud that our government supports such innovative projects, which contribute to diversifying the economy of the Center-du-Québec region," said Gaétan Lelièvre. "This project, funded as part of the Center-du-Québec Economic Diversification Fund and the Mauricie, will increase Quebec expertise in the machining house manufacturing sector, in addition to consolidating 35 quality jobs. in the region and to create new ones. » 
Remember that the Center-du-Québec Economic Diversification Fund and Mauricie has an envelope of $ 200 million. It aims to attract private investment and to promote the creation of efficient and innovative companies. 
"Our government is making constant efforts to support and revitalize the economy of all regions," said Zakaïb Élain. "In this sense, the diversification fund is a valuable and specific tool for other government programs, including measures included in Quebec's industrial policy. The DEMTEC project contributes to the economic growth of the region and its diversification. » 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the Ministers of the Government are gathered from February 3 to 7 in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will carry out more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and development of the two regions concerned. 
Demtec is a company specializing in plant design and manufacture of houses, modules, walls and panel floors in a controlled atmosphere. The company has one of the only automated panel manufacturing channels in Quebec, currently employs 35 people at its Princeville facilities. 
"Thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec, we can design and market a new gender house, which will promote the optimization of light and space while wearing highly aesthetic peculiarities," supported the President of Demtec, M . Philippe Picory. "The possibilities for this type of house are innumerable, and this new market will certainly strengthen our competitiveness in the manufacturing sector machined. » 
For more information on the Fund, the Table and Plan for the Economic Diversification of Center-du-Québec and Mauricie as well as on supported projects, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
