Sinte-André- On the occasion of an unprecedented tour of the members of the Government of Quebec in the region of Bas-Saint-Laurent and the Gaspésie, on the sidelines of the presensive caucus of the parliamentary wing of the Partileton Party in Carleton , the parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Park (Fauna and Parks), Mr. Scott McKay, announced on behalf of the Minister Blanchet the creation of the projected biodiversity reserve of Lèèvres Under the Natural Heritage Conservation Act. Accompanied by the Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, and the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation, Sylvain Gaudreault, Mr. McKay also announced that the management of this area Protected would be ensured by Duvetnor, which has more than 30 years of experience in the field of conservation. 
From left to right: Sylvain Gaudreault, Scott McKay and Martine Ouellet. 
This announcement follows the acquisition of the hare's island by the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks last January. Duvetnor Ltd. retains a plot of land where it will continue its conservation, enhancement of natural environments, ecotourism and education in compliance with the status of protected area and its activities. The partnership with Duvetnor Ltd. also consolidates an important ecotourism product for the economy of the Bas-Saint-Laurent region. 
"With the creation of this proposed new biodiversity reserve, our government confirms its intentions in the conservation of Biodiversity of the St. Lawrence Marin. Today we ask an additional gesture in order to reach the target targeted, or to protect 10% of the St. Lawrence Estuary and Marine environment by 2020, in accordance with international objectives in this matter, "said Mr. McKay. 
The projected biodiversity reserve of Île-aux-Lèvres will allow the conservation of representative habitats of the average St. Lawrence estuary and the protection of colonies of coastal and marine birds. This designation will also contribute to strengthening the protection of the Saguenay-Saint-Laurent Marine Park, within which lip island is located. 
