The tuque - on the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the region of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, the Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, announced, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élaine Zakaïb, the award of a $ 400,000 loan of Investissement Québec and $ 200,000 financial assistance from the Department of Finance and the Economy at the Transfobec Mauricie company for the acquisition of specialized equipment aimed at diversifying its range of high added value products. The project, which also includes the acquisition and layout of a new building, is estimated at $ 1.6 million. 
"The diversification of Quebec companies is essential to maintaining a healthy and prosperous economy, particularly in the forest sector," supported Minister Martine Ouellet. "Transfobec Mauricie is a good example of a growing business that has chosen to invest the capital needed to modernize its offer. This project is proof that we have all the potential and adequate resources to boost the industrial base of the Quebec Forest sector. » 
Transfobec Mauricie specializes in the chipping of roundwood balls and the sale of wood residues for cogeneration plants. The project aims to allow on-site transformation of all woody material, thus maximizing the valorization of forest biomass while providing value-added by-products, such as garden mulch. 
"We are very proud to contribute to the rise of a green company that reuses responsibly and effectively the forest resources we have," said the Minister Zakaïb. "Transfobec Mauricie has noted the challenge of diversification by combining innovation and economic development. It thus ensures its growth, in perfect cohesion with sustainable development. » 
Founded in 2004 and established at the Vallières site, in the territory of the tuque, the company ensures the transformation and resale of wood by-products to large paper mills or other forest companies, like waterfalls, Kruger, Chapais Energy and Rocktenn Canada packaging. 
For Mr. Nicolas Potvin, President of Transfobec Mauricie: "Our desire was to diversify our product offer to increase our performance. The production of mulch is an interesting avenue, since it allows to value the raw materials so far unused. We are pleased to count Quebec investment among our financial partners. The company has been in the first lodges of our diversification strategy. » 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the Government ministers will meet on the next 5 and 6 February, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They will benefit from this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the Mauricie region and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will do more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
For more information on the Fund, the Table and Plan for the Economic Diversification of Center-du-Québec and Mauricie as well as on supported projects, visitwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/plancdqmauricie. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
