Quebec- On the occasion of an outstanding tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the Mauricie and Center-du-Québec region, the Minister of the Environment, Sustainable Development, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, Yves-François Blanchet, is pleased to announce that an investment of $ 600,000 is granted to the Camping du Voltigeurs to continue to set the standards of the Infrastructures. This investment generates the creation of 17 jobs, including 4 direct jobs. 
The Camping du Voltigeurs will benefit from this investment to renovate its reception desk and two sanitary blocks. The standards of the electricity grid serving the campsite will also be carried out and the playgrounds will benefit from a rejuvenation cure. 
"We invest with the aim of pursuing the standards of public service infrastructure and ensuring the sustainability of built heritage. In doing so, our government creates jobs that will accelerate Quebec's economic growth, in addition to contributing to the development of the region and its tourism industry, "said the minister. 
This investment is part of the economic policy of the Government of Quebec, Employee and Prime Minister of Quebec, Ms. Pauline Marois, last fall. 
Remember that this target economic policy, in its first component, four flagship measures to stimulate job creation now, including the acceleration of government investments for the renovation and modernization of public infrastructure, including those of the sepait. 
The second part of the Employment Priority Economic Policy aims in particular to stimulate the vigor of successful companies, TelleThe tourist industry of Quebec, to compete on the international scene. From this component, structuring investments will allow the sepaQ to participate in the tourism strategy as part of the development of the St. Lawrence River and the development of winter tourism in different regions. 
Overall, the investment that derives from the Priority Priority Policy at the Camping des Voltigeurs allows you to create 17 jobs, including 4 direct jobs. Across Quebec, the investments associated with the two components of this policy should create 702 jobs, including 384 direct jobs, and report $ 10 million in tax revenues and parafiscal in the Caps of the State by 2017. "These Investments confirm the role of separiba as a lever for economic development in the regions of Quebec, "said the President and CEO of the SEPQ, Mr. Raymond Desjardins. 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the Government ministers will meet on the next 5 and 6 February, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They will benefit from this meeting to tour nine constituencies in the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec region. In less than a week, they will proceed with more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
