Trois-Rivières- On the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the regions of the Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, announces the attribution From a grant of $ 173,200, for the seigniorial Moulin Restoration project, also known as the seigneurial Moulin of Pointe-du-Lac, in Trois-Rivières. 
"The seigniorial mill of Tonnancour was built more than two centuries ago. Located on the path of the Roy, it is one of the heritage and tourist flowers of the region of Mauricie. By contributing to its restoration and development, we assure Quebeckers and Quebeckers access to this Pan of our history, "says Maka Kotto. 
Maka Kotto announces the award of a $ 173,200 grant for the seigniorial mill of Tonnancour Moulin. (c) Casy Lachance 
This grant will allow the corporation of the seigniorial mill in Pointe-du-Lac to proceed to the two of the works of which the first was carried out in 2012. The planned work concerns, among other things, the restoration of skylights and walls, the replacement sanitary pumps and the installation of radiant heating. This work will ensure the preservation of the mill and the maintenance of museum activities by guaranteeing adequate reception conditions for visitors. 
The sum of the work carried out is $ 192,460 and is divided as follows: $ 173,200 is allocated by the Ministry of Culture and Communications, under the Capital Assistance Program, and $ 19,260 comes from the mill corporation. seigniorial of Pointe-du-Lac. 
Additional information regarding the seigniorial mill of Tonnancour, as well as all the heritage elements entered in the cultural heritage register are available on the website of the Cultural Heritage of Quebec (RPCQ), atwww.patrimoine-cultural.gouv.qc. it. 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers will meet on 5 and 6 February, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They will benefit from this meeting to tour nine constituencies in the Mauricie region and the Center-du-Québec region. In less than a week, they will make more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
