Shawinigan- On the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the regions of Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec, the Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for The status of women and minister responsible for the regions of the capital and the Chaudière-Appalaches, Ms. Agnès Maltais, and the member for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the territory and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, are pleased to announce the award of $ 60,000 in the Shawinigan popular table .For the relocation of one of its points of service. This amount comes from two sources, $ 50,000 from the CPONCTURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND (FCD) and $ 10,000 of the Discretion of MP Luc Trudel. 
For thirty years, the Shawinigan popular table is inc. Offer daily more than 100 healthy and balanced meals to the poor in three points of service of the city of Shawinigan. However, the former Mother Service Point of Youville was no longer adapted to the needs of the organization and had to be relocated last December. The organization will benefit from this relocation to centralize some of its operations, which will allow it to perform, in one place, the transformation of food into meals to supply the other two points of service. This new way of promoting better inventory control and will limit the waste of food. In addition, the new location is even more accessible to people with reduced mobility. 
(c) Luc Trudel 
"Support services to the most vulnerable of us, this is an issue that affects us particularly to the government because it is directly part of the commitment we have made to make of lasolidarity one of the pillars who guide our action. . That's why we are proud to support this socially structuring project that will allow this flagship organization in the region to consolidate its supply of food services to poor people and to continue its important social mission to the community, "has affirmed Minister Maltese. 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the government ministers will meet on 5 and 6 February, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They will benefit from this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will make more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of these regions. 
"Our government has always been committed to providing essential services to all Quebeckers, especially those who are in vulnerability. That's why I am happy to confirm today this highly anticipated financial assistance by the community. This support was increasingly necessary to ensure the survival of this organization that helps to improve the well-being of the most vulnerable people and to consolidate solidarity in Shawinigan, "said the member Trudel. 
