Sainte-Thècle - on the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Government of the Parti Québécois in the regions of Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and Minister Responsible for the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, visited the site of the Villa des Lacs, in Sainte-Thècle. This building of 15 affordable homes for seniors slightly loss of autonomy represents an investment of nearly $ 1.1 million from the Quebec government. 
Passage in the municipality of Sainte-Thècle, Minister Sylvain Gaudreault, accompanied by the Mayor of Sainte-Thècle, Mr. Alain Valley, was able to see the progress of the work of the Villa des Lacs which should welcome its first tenants next spring. 
"I am always affected to see the efforts that are deployed in the field by dozens of people to set up projects of such a magnitude. In the case that occupies us, I know that people in the community and municipal community, stakeholders from all walks of life have grouped together to create a promising project for the municipality of Sainte-Thècle, a living environment adapted to the needs of seniors who will live, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
Minister Sylvain Gaudreault visits the construction of a housing project AccessLogis Québec for seniors in Sainte-Thecle. (c) Yann Langlais-plant 
Realized with the AccessLogis Québec program of the SHQ, this project will result in an investment totaling nearly $ 2.8 million. In addition to the financial contribution of the Government of Quebec, many community partners have mobilized and have raised more than $ 795,000 to build the construction of this housing project. Of this amount, some $ 242,000 have been invested by the municipality of Sainte-Thecle. It should also be noted that this project benefited from an additional $ 74,000 grant under the Rénovation Québec program of the SHQ. 
"All the initiator members of the Local Development Committee of Sainte-Thecle are proud of the realization of this major project, because these housing will fill a urgent need for older citizens who wish to remain or return to their native village, an environment that Their expensive, located near their family and relatives, "said the chairman of the Board of Directors of the Solidarity Cooperative in Housing of Sainte-Thècle, Mr. Grégoire loomed. 
All buildings for seniors with a slight loss of autonomy, built as part of the AccessLogis Québec program since 2004, are equipped with a sprinkler system or equivalent measure when there is no network of 'aqueduct, all in line with the Quebec Construction Code. In addition, the installation of a fire alarm system is mandatory in all buildings, even if the Quebec construction code does not require it. This system takes into account the physical condition of the customer. 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the Ministers of the Government are gathered until February 7 in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of the Deputies and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will make more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of these two regions of Quebec. 
Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000. households each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Habitat Espace, the WEB magazine of the SHQ, which deals with the spin-offs of the interventions of it on the whole of Quebec society. 
