Trois-Rivières- on the occasion of an exceptional tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, the member for Champlain, Ms. Noëlta Champagne, and the member for Saint-Maurice, Mr. Luc Trudel, are pleased to announce that the Government of Quebec grants additional $ 15 million to help owners of households damaged by pyrrhotite. This investment will be $ 30 million with financial assistance from the Quebec government to victims of pyrrhotite. 
"This envelope will help hundreds of households waiting for financial assistance. This additional gesture demonstrates that we are perfectly aware that the needs are important and that we are sensitive to the tragedy that afflicts homeowners whose foundations are damaged by pyrrhotite, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"This announcement was impatiently awaited by my fellow owners of affected residences. Many of them express their concerns and disarray. I have brought this message to my colleagues and the announcement of today confirms that the call for the help of the population was heard by the Government of Quebec, "said MP Christmas Champagne. 
This investment will be $ 30 million with financial assistance from the Quebec government to victims of pyrrhotite. (c) Yann Langlais-plant 
To date, the SHQ program has helped help nearly 300 households. Remember that financial assistance covers 75% of the cost of eligible work. With regard to residences that are not covered by the guarantee plan for new residential buildings, the maximum aid that can be granted is $ 75,000. As for the buildings covered by the plan, but for which the rehabilitation work of parts located in the basement would not be covered, the maximum grant is $ 15,000. 
"Our government is listening to the needs of the people of Mauricie and that is why we are pleased to provide additional aid of more than $ 29,000 to the consumer help service for hiring a Information Officer who will provide valuable support to owners of residences affected by pyrrhotite in the Shawinigan area. It is therefore a second help resource that adds to the region to inform the victims, answer their questions and support them in their efforts to claim aid and reparations, "said the member Luc. Trudel. 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the Ministers of the Government are gathered until February 7 in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of the Deputies and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will make more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of these two regions of Quebec. 
Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000. households each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Habitat Espace, the WEB magazine of the SHQ, which deals with the spin-offs of the interventions of it on the whole of Quebec society. 
