Saint-Norbert-d'Arthabaska- On the occasion of an outstanding tour of the members of the Parti Québécois government in the regions of Mauricie and the Center-du Québec, the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, announced Today, on behalf of the Minister of Education, Leisure and Sport, Mrs Marie Malavoy, the construction of a soccer field in Saint-Norbert-d'Arthabaska. Financial assistance up to $ 28,737.20 will be provided for this purpose. The new installation, the costs of which are estimated at more than $ 58,000, will enable the municipality to increase its sports offer and thus better meet the needs of the population. 
"The announcement that I am today testifies to the importance of our government attaches to the health and quality of life of citizens of all regions. I hope that Norbertian families will be at the rendezvous to take advantage of this sports ground, "said Mr. Bérubé. 
This project has been analyzed and selected according to the criteria of the sports and recreational facility support program - Phase II of the Fund for the Development of Sport and Physical Activity, which provides maximum financial assistance equivalent to half of the Eligible costs. 
Minister Pascal Bérubé with Ms. Linda Trottier, DG of the City of St. Norbert-d'Arthabaska, as well as the Mayor of the City, Alain Tourigny to confirm an investment of the MELS for the construction of a field of soccer. A strong gesture expected by the municipality to stimulate economic development while contributing to the well-being of the population. (c) Valérie Létourneau-Noël 
Across Québec, about 80 construction, renovation, development and development projects of sports and recreational facilities should be achieved through investments totaling $ 130 million. These amounts come from an envelope of $ 50 million allocated as part of the second component of the Sports and Recreation Support Program - Phase II of the Ministry of Education, Recreation and Sport. At this envelope adds additional $ 80 million to support new projects now. 
"For a year, we have multiplied the actions to improve public infrastructure. We do even more today, determined to increase the level of physical activity and improve the physical condition of Quebeckers. By investing heavily in sports and recreational infrastructures, we stimulate economic development while contributing to the well-being and quality of life. In my view, these are strong and responsible gestures, "Malavoy said. 
The members of the Parti Québécois and the Government ministers will meet on the next 5 and 6 February, in Shawinigan, on the occasion of the Caucus of MPs and the Council of Ministers. They take advantage of this meeting to tour the nine constituencies of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. In less than a week, they will proceed with more than 80 advertisements of different orders. These ads will contribute to the development and growth of the regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. 
