G Aspon - On the occasion of the unprecedented tour of the members of the Government of Quebec in the regions of Bas-Saint-Laurent and Gaspésie, the Minister delegated to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Éllaian Zakaïb, and the Minister Delegate to the Regions and Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la-Madeleine Region, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, announced the payment of a non-refundable financial contribution of $ 400,000 to the CorporateEocycle Technologies Inc.de Gaspé. 
The Eocycle Technologies project consists of the approval and marketing of a 25 kW wind turbine, with a patented permanent magnet alternator, designed and manufactured by the company, for the production of decentralized energy. Financial assistance will be used to develop and implement a marketing plan that will allow the company to break new markets, such as those in the United Kingdom and the United States. 
"It is thanks to dynamic and innovative companies like oucly technologies that Quebec can consolidate its leadership place in a booming wind industry," said Élaine Zakaïb. "Our government is proud to support this promising business in the commercialization of clean technology that is part of sustainable development and renewable energies chosen by Quebec. » 
"Eocycle Technologies contributes to the radiation of the windshield of wind farm of the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine. The wind is a flagship sector for the economic growth of our region, "added Gaétan Lelièvre. "The Government of Quebec has also recognized the development of the wind industry as a priority in its strategy of government intervention for the development of the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine region. The sense of innovation and the competitiveness of ecocycle technologies make it a valuable actor of the niche and contribute to strengthening his expertise. » 
Eocycle Technologies is the only Quebec company holding its own wind technology. The company is also specialized in the manufacture of alternators using innovative technology. In terms of performance and competitiveness, this technology has significant advantages through an increase in annual productivity and considerable weight, volume and cost reductions. 
"Thanks to the support of the Government of Quebec, we will be able to accelerate the approaches related to our marketing plan, which aims to develop new markets, including the United Kingdom, one of the most dynamic in the world," said the President and Chief From the management of Eocycle Technologies, Mr. Richard Legault. "The certification of our 25 kW wind turbine, manufactured more than 75% in Quebec, will also allow our company to be distinguished here as internationally. » 
Rappouts Eleth a Departures E 22 The most reveprints was the Minisceres Duans de petouston similar to cart Digeton et public food et du Conseil des minised des Minisres et 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, register for the appropriate RSS feed at www.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
