Québec- As part of the National Week of Organ and Tissue Donation, which takes place from 21 to 28 April, the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert, accompanied by spokespersons The health of other political courses, today recalled the importance of consent to the donation of organs and tissues at a joint press. This press briefed in the presence of the national partners that are transplant Québec, the RAMQ, Héma-Québec and the Chamber of Notaries of Quebec, and aimed to raise awareness of the importance of making its consent. 
"Every year in Quebec, hundreds of people see their prolonged lives or improved quality of life through the transplantation of organs or tissues. When you know that a 20% increase in the number of donors would eliminate the waiting list, we can set an example and sign our consent to the donation of organs and tissues today. This simple signature is a gesture full of generosity that can contribute to saving lives, "said Minister Réjean Hébert. 
"In Quebec, in recent years, several measures and tools have been put in place to promote organ donation and we must continue in this direction. Today, we want to remember that organ donation is a gesture of solidarity. We invite Quebeckers and Quebeckers to mean their consent since we know, each donation account, "mentioned the official opposition for the health and deputy of Jean-Talon, Mr. Yves Bolduc. 
"To give to giving its organs and its tissues represents a gesture of great generosity not only for others, but also for oneself, because no one is immune from an illness or an accident that may require a transplantation. Sign your consent today! ", Addicted the spokesman for the Second Opposition Group for Groulx Health and MP, Ms. Hélène Daneault. 
"It's a necessity that no one doubts. Since the Movie Jesus de Montréal de Denys Arcand, Quebec must have itself, if only symbolically, to be at the forefront in the field of organ donation. I hope that Quebec offers the necessary legal framework and energetic logistical and financial support to facilitate and expand organ donation services. I invite all Quebeckers to sign and, in doing so, to put a great gesture to help others, "said Mercier's member for Quebec Solidaire, Mr. Amir Khadir. 
Since 2010, in addition to the sticker affixed to the health insurance card, it is possible to signify its consent to the donation of organs and tissues by the registration of its will at the National Register of Consents to the Donation of Organ Donation and tissues. Under the responsibility of the Quebec Health Insurance Régie (RAMQ), this registry, whose data is confidential, is accessible only to persons authorized by the Minister within the partner organizations that are transplanted Québec and Héma-Québec. The registry collects the consents to organ and tissue donations after death and facilitates the procedures for a possible levy. To date, nearly 1 million people are registered in the Régie register. This new tool adds to the register of consents to the donation of organs and tissues of the Chamber of Notaries of Quebec, which, since 2005, has made it possible to record 875,000 consents. 
Remember that people who renew their health insurance card, as well as those that fit for the RAMQ, receive the consent form for organ and tissue donation. Constant persons are then invited to complete the form, sign it and attach it to their request for a health insurance card. In addition, it is important to know that the consents can be collected at any time by ordering the form directly to the RAMQ. 
"By donating organs and tissues to his death, a person alone can save up to eight lives and give a better quality of life to fifteen others. Hence the importance of signing his consent, but also to discuss it with loved ones to make his decision known and ensure that it is respected. The donation of organs and tissues saves lives. Like the slogan if known: sign Don! The Minister Hébert concluded. 
For more information on organ and tissue donation, visit www.signezdon.gouv.qc.ca. 
