Quebec- The member for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, as well as the member for Rousseau and spokesperson for finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, emit serious reservations about the place that the Caisse will take deposit and investment in infrastructure financing in Quebec. 
"Collective transportation infrastructures are a public service, not a business that generates operating profits unless inflating the rates or bet on land speculation. This morning announcement demonstrates that the government is ready to take a serious risk with the Quebecker's bottom of wool and has no solution to proposing in the short term to support the economy. In election campaign, Philippe Couillard had committed to increase the $ 15 billion infrastructure spending; He had to give up it. Today, we are told that we will indirectly do what credit agencies do not allow the Liberal government to do directly; Indeed, the Liberals ask the fund to finance projects at the place of the government because they themselves have indebted Quebec beyond the reasonable limit and undermined the borrowing capacity of the state. In short, the government charges by the fund and its Electoral Promises, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
"The question of the independence of the Caisse, of paramount importance for its credit rating, also poses several questions, particularly because the government appoints directors and CEO. How to guarantee this independence, while the government will constantly ask for new infrastructures? The government, bringing the risks of investments and potential cost overruns of future projects to Quebec's retirement funds, highlights the independence of the Caisse, "added Nicolas Marceau. 
Concerns about the return of new fashion PPPs 
"The last time a Liberal government has proposed a miracle method for infrastructure, it was the PPPs. The negative results and cost overruns were seen in the case of the MUHC and CHUM. However, today, we are announced, neither more nor less, the multiplication of PPPs in Quebec, "continued the member for Rousseau. 
"In terms of collective transportation on the new Champlain Bridge, it has been proven that the Liberal government has completely lowered the federal arms, which should finance the SLR. The government must stand up, so that project risks are not borne by Quebec's pension funds, "concluded the official head of the official opposition. 
