Montreal- The Quebec Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, and the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltais, today unveiled a strategy entitled All for employment: a new impetus with partners, in order to promote the integration and maintenance of employment of an adequate workforce to meet the needs of businesses throughout Québec. 
Quebec lives a significant mutation. The labor market is called to change because, shortly, the number of people of working age will begin to decline. By 2021, nearly 1.4 million jobs will be available in all regions. Already, some sectors of activity have difficulty filling their skilled labor needs, making this strategy of the most relevant. 
"More than ever, Quebec must ensure the development of the full potential of its workforce. People at work as unemployed must have the opportunity to put their skills in the service of Quebec society, to actively contribute to the development of our communities. It is by ensuring, together, to the development and optimal use of our human capital that we will do from Quebec a society that is always more just and prosperous. What our government is proposing is a human and economic vision of solidarity, "said the Prime Minister. 
To develop this strategy, three main priorities were set out by Minister Maltese: 
rethink solidarity and break the cycle of poverty; 
Refocus the action of the Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity (mess) to under-represented employment groups; 
The measures announced particularly target: 
On the side of the mess, a new impetus will be given to public employment services to improve the insertion or maintenance of the available workforce. The Labor Market Partner Commission (CPMT) is committed to supporting companies that will open up to people on the margin of the labor market and will integrate skills development in their practices. 
Thus, important resources of the mess will be refocused and mobilized to achieve these goals. Ultimately, $ 463 million a year will be dedicated to these clienteles. For example, all newly registered young people with the last resort will systematically be encountered over a specified period to accompany them in a personalized way and offer them every chance to integrate the labor market. 
"The challenges related to the economic security of people and families find response into employment. I recall that 2 young people under 25 in 3 who benefit from the last appeal are derived from provider families, and that 2500 new young people apply for financial assistance each month. That's why we decided to join forces to break the poverty cycle through a new targeted and effective intervention, "said Minister Maltese. 
This announcement was made in the presence of the President of the CPMT, Mr. Jean-Luc Trahan, and several members of the Commission, including the President Executive of the Federation of Chambers of Commerce of Quebec, Françoise Bertrand, and the Vice -President of the Confederation of National Trade Unions, Ms. Denise Boucher. 
"On behalf of labor market partners, it is with enthusiasm that we join this broad mobilization for employment and make a commitment to accentuate our efforts to establish a real culture of continuing education and development. skills in Quebec. It is with the expertise and contribution of our partners and companies we will do with our workers the Quebec brand of Excellence, here and on the world stage, "said Trahan. 
"I am pleased to be able to count on the labor market partners, who responded to the call. She has contributed remarkably to the development of this strategy by offering innovative solutions. The success of this operation will be based on the mobilization of workers, unions, employers, employability organizations, government partners and the education community, "concluded Minister Maltese. 
For more information on the subject of the planned measures and the main elements of the impact assessment of the four regulatory measures, visit the strategy-specific section for jobs on the Ministry of Employment and Social Solidarity website athttp: //www.mess.gouv.qc.ca/grands-dossiers/tous_pour_emploi.asp. 
