Quebec- "I am proud that in this last day of 12 days of action against violence against women, the National Assembly speaks with one voice with respect to the trafficking of persons," said the first vice-president From the National Assembly and MP in Hochelaga-Maisonneuve, Carole Poirier. 
This motion, resulting from the will of the circle of women parliamentarians, a group of non-partisan reflection and work that implies all the 41 elected women of Parliament, was as follows: 
"That the National Assembly  recognizes that the trafficking of  people, who is characterized by the  recruit, transport, from  receive, hold, hide or  to accommodate a person or exercise  control, direction or  influence on the movements of a  person to exploit it or  Facilitate its exploitation, touch  especially women and  teenage girls. 
That the National Assembly asks the  government to set up  measures to combat the  deals with people and starting a  Reflection on the return of courses  sex education at school. 
That the National Assembly asks the  Government to postpone its  action plan  sexual exploitation, action plan  arising from the Interministerial Committee  who will have to propose actions in sight  to counter sexual exploitation,  which includes hypersexualization,  prostitution as well as trafficking  women inside and  outside the country, and come to  help with women who want to leave the  Middle of prostitution ". 
"Human trafficking feeds the worst slavery. That the National Assembly denounce it with vigor and undertakes to act to eliminate me very proud, "continued Carole Poirier. 
"Whether through the struggle with hypersexualization, sex education courses or awareness campaigns, we must act upstream, without ever losing sight of we must fight for the girls and women who are currently In operating situations, "said Suzanne Proulx, MP for Sainte-Rose and Parliament Assistant to the Minister responsible for the Status of Women, for the Parti Québécois. 
"The trafficking of people does not have his place in Quebec, nor anywhere else in the world. Faced with the social scourge of sexual exploitation, we have significant choices of society to do. Beyond any partisan, we must go further than what is being done to ensure the protection of these women and children, "said Maryse Gaudreault, MP for Hull, for the Liberal Party of Quebec. 
"We are very proud to see this motion adopted, it is a reflection of our concern in the modern forms of farms and the need to protect women and adolescents against these violence. It is now time that we reintegrate sex education courses in the school curriculum of Quebec youth in order to inculcate equality between men and women, "said Michelyne St-Laurent, MP for Montmorency, for the Coalition Future Québec. 
"Do not imagine itself that it is a problem that exists only elsewhere. Contrary to the ideas received, victims of trafficking in Quebec are not only young women from abroad, but often Quebeckers, pushed to work in the sex trade, under constraint and violence. I have just learned that there are 28 massage shows in my riding. I intend to act on this forehead "promised Françoise David, member for Gouin, for Quebec Solidaire. 
