Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu-at the light of the impact study commissioned by the Federal Bridge Corporation, the member for Iberville, Marie Bouillé, and the member for Saint-Jean, Dave Turcotte, accompanied by the Word of the official opposition on transport and deputy of Gouin, Nicolas Girard, urge the Minister of Transport, Pierre Moreau, to go ahead now with the draft suburban train linking Iberville, Saint John and Montreal. 
"The report highlights the emergency that an announcement is made in favor of a new construction to replace the Champlain Bridge. It also recalls the importance of designing an alternative plan for collective transportation to save the economy of the metropolis. We need concrete solutions: the suburban train between Iberville, Saint-Jean and Montreal is one, "says Mémie Marie Bouillé and Dave Turcotte. 
In collaboration with MPs Bouillé and Turcotte, the eco-train agency Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu launches a promotional campaign under the theme rouvevenir.com. The population is invited to signify the authorities to support the Iberville - Saint-Jean - Montreal suburban train project through the website or Facebook page created specifically for this campaign, I want my train. Other promotional measures will be put forward, including stickers and digital advertising on highway 10 near Chevrier / Brossard incentive parking. 
The member for Gouin, Nicolas Girard, points out that, in the context of possible work on the Champlain Bridge, more than 200,000 motorists and 50,000 bus transporters who, daily in Montérégie, will have to review their use of means of transport. It is not counting the astronomical economic losses that road congestion, losses estimated at $ 600 million annually in the metropolis manufacturing sector, according to a recent study of the Federal Bridge Corporation. 
"The life of the current Champlain Bridge is over. Undeniably, it must be replaced, but more. All measures to facilitate the lives of motorists should be considered. The suburban train connecting Iberville, Saint-Jean and Montreal is an effective, inexpensive and ecological measure. Minister Moreau has to embark on this path, "said Nicolas Girard. 
The spokesperson for the Parti Québécois on transport recalls that the government has set ambitious goals to increase the supply and use of collective transport. In 2006, the government hoped to increase the offer of 16% by 2012. "It's midnight less one and the problem is even more shouting today. Without detour, it is necessary to bet on collective transport to improve the quality of life of the families of the suburbs. It lacks only political will, "concluded Nicolas Girard. 
