Boston -The Deputy of La Prairie, François Rebello, today got new support for the establishment of an effective rail link, including between Montreal and New York. This morning, he met at Holyoke at Massachusetts The representative at the John W. Olver Congress, an influential and strategic member committee on approval, which has, among other things, to vote trains budgets in the United States. 
"After presenting the draft night trains between Montreal and New York and between Montreal and Boston, Mr. Olver and I agreed to continue our exchanges to advance these projects as soon as possible," said the member for the Prairie as he continued his promotion work with American elected officials. 
The Committee on which Mr. Olver sits determines all the expenses made by the US government. Its members hold the cords of the stock market. "I have made aware of Mr. Olver, a fervent supporter of the rail network, the night train project between Montreal and New York to support it with the US authorities. It's really the person to meet to move this file forward, "François Rebello said. 
"The Congress representative takes care of Amtrak and firmly believes that we need to invest in the railway system. In addition, I believe it is important to sensitize Mr. Olver, who is also a member of the subcommittee with the responsibility of borders and customs, the establishment of the pre-deposit at the Montreal Central Station, important element for the development of new Effective rail links between Quebec and the United States, "said the member. 
During his stay at Massachusetts, the hon. Member for La Prairie will also meet with Mr. Marc R. Pacheco, senator of Massachusetts, as well as Mr. Thomas Mr. McGee, President of the Transportation Commission of that State. 
This mission from the member for the Prairie follows a first series of meetings he had last July in Washington, DC. He then met several representatives at the United States Congress, the authorities of the Amtrak company as well as organizations for rail development in the United States. 
