Quebec -Constating several irregularities in the treatment and path of access to information requests at the Quebec Ministry of Transport (MTQ), the Parti Québécois claims that the Access to Information Commission (CAI) does an inquiry formal. 
"The processing of information requests differs, even if it is the same request for two different periods. Moreover, it is abnormal that the minister or firm is informed not only of the demand, but also the treatment and response to this request for access. In this case, the CAI must investigate that this doubtful and questionable practice ceases to the MTQ, "said the member for Gouin and official opposition spokesperson, Nicolas Girard. 
Last September, the official opposition formulated a request for access to information to the MTQ concerning contracts which were the subject of an authorization from the deputy minister, as provided for in Article 17 of the Act on the Contracts of public bodies, for the period between January 1, 2006 and April 30, 2010 and between June 2, 2011 and September 27, 2011. This application was the result of a previous identical request for a more restricted period, that of May 1st 2010 to June 1, 2011. 
"The treatment of the answer is different. In the second application, suddenly, the department added a table to justify as many extras for contracts. Coincidence, the minister today cited the same answer today! It is unhealthy that the Minister knows the requests made by any person to his department through the Public Agency and Privacy Act ", continued Nicolas Girard. 
In 2002, following a request for investigation by MP Jean-Marc Fournier, CAI worried about this practice. In its five-year report of the same year, it argued that the person responsible for access must therefore enjoy great independence in the performance of his duties. Its autonomy must be strengthened and its role valued. As a result of this CAI survey, the Ministry of Health and Social Services had to review its methods of processing access to information applications. 
"Minister Pierre Moreau who has stated to be comfortable with the fact that the CAI can investigate the treatment and path of requests for pressing access, I conclude that this investigation will take place. It is a good gesture for our democracy and it goes in the sense of the culture of transparency that Minister Moreau has said he wanted to instill in the MTQ. Today, he missed his chance by refusing to deposit in the room the document he brandished with pride. It says a lot about the document he will make public shortly about extras, "concluded Nicolas Girard. 
