Montréal - The Parti Québécois believes that the waste of the East Train, with one-billion dollar cost overruns, requires a survey of the Auditor General of Quebec. "Announced in 2006 by Jean Charest for an amount of $ 300 million, the Eastern Train Project will finally cost 800 million. It's almost three times more than the initial sum. The reasons invoked are doubtful; Only the Auditor General could clarify this mystery, "said the member for Gouin and sentence of the official transport opposition, Nicolas Girard. 
For the Parti Québécois, the management of this project was made in hay brooch and the explanations provided to date by the Liberal government, particularly the President of the Treasury Board, Michelle Courchesne, are far from satisfactory. "The credibility of Minister Courchesne is irremediably tainted after the discovery, by the Auditor General, of his leading role in the daycare scandal. No doubt he will again make the light again for Quebeckers who, at the end of the track, will still have to pay for liberal maneuvers, "continued Nicolas Girard. 
The member for Gouin emphasizes that this bill could further increase, according to the decisions of the authorities on the security of the Mont-Royal Tunnel. "The Minister of Transport, Pierre Moreau, who plays the hiding place on the safety of users, will have to stop procrastinating and tell us the truth," said Nicolas Girard by recalling that four ministers had passed to the Ministry of Transport during that period and have All closed his eyes before the explosion of costs. Ministerial responsibility does not exist in the Charest government. Nobody is responsible for anything ". 
For its part, the member for Pointe-aux-Trembles, Nicole Léger, is sorry for the impact of this poor liberal management for the citizens of Eastern Montreal. "At the announcement in 2006, an entry into service of the new train line for 2008. We are in February 2012 and the estimates available indicate that train cars will not begin to ride before at least 2014. C is six years of delay, six years of lost, where we deprive our citizens of an important means of collective transport and which is targeted as a priority by the Eastern Community of Montreal to achieve its economic development objectives ", Light Nicole castigated. 
For its part, the member for the Assumption, Scott McKay, particularly owns the project managers who, for inexplicable reasons, have decided unilaterally not to construct the station scheduled for Charlemagne. "Not only will the project cost more, but in addition it will be amputated. Tax payers in the district of the Assumption are doubly victims; They will have to sponge the cost overrun of $ 500 million from the project while being deprived of the station in their neighborhood. It's just scandalous! Said Scott McKay, who denounces the choice of merging the two lines initially planned in one. 
For the Parti Québécois, it is an improvised political decision and make-up under covering of rationalization. The Parti Québécois fears that this decision has been made to avoid harming the profitability of the PPP of the bridge of the 25. 
"While the project of the eastern train trails from the paw, the citizens of the South Lanaudière continue to spend hours and hours in the morning and evening traffic caps. Every day, they spend close to the job by wondering how long will it be completed and how much money the Liberal government comes to draw in their pocket to fill its incompetence. The faster this project will be awarded on the rails, the faster it will fill the citizens, will be beneficial for the environment and the cheapest it will cost, "added the member for Terrebonne, Mathieu Traversy. 
For its part, the member for Masson, Guillaume Tremblay, recalls that the candidates of the Liberal Party of Quebec in the constituency, over the last three elections, promised the achievement of the Eastern Train. "The more the years advance, the more such a promise is repeated. Why? Because this project was poorly managed from the beginning. It's been years that the citizens of Mascouche dream of having access, by rail, to the island of Montreal. It's time for it to go, "Concluded Guillaume Tremblay. 
