Quebec- While the mediated cases related to the trafficking in girls multiply in Quebec, the spokesman for the Parti Québécois on the matter of women, Carole Poirier, as well as the spokesperson for public safety, Pascal Bérubé, Stop the new minister responsible for the Status of Women, Lise Thériault, in order to know what it intends to do to prevent and combat the sexual exploitation of girls. 
To follow up on the adoption, in December 2013, a motion aimed at setting up measures to combat the trafficking of persons, the Government of the Parti Québécois had begun the preparation of a plan of action against the sexual exploitation. The motion also asked the government to start a reflection on the return of sex education courses at school. 
"When he was in the government, the Parti Québécois acted. We conducted consultations with the organizations concerned in several regions of Quebec; Between September 2013 and February 2014, 261 groups were heard. We have set up a ministerial committee that made recommendations to the government, including the hypersexualization, prostitution and trafficking in women inside and outside the country. The time has come to implement the action plan against sexual exploitation, "said Carole Poirier. 
"Unfortunately, it seems that nothing has moved for nearly 2 years. We are worried, especially since the government has revised down the amounts allocated to the prevention of sexual exploitation and the recruitment of young women in street gangs. We ask the minister responsible for the female status of telling us when his government will follow the motion adopted by parliamentarians. We wish the rapid implementation of the action plan, as well as measures in prevention, prosecution, but also the protection of victims and physical, psychological and social recovery, "added Carole Poirier. 
"Lise Thériault is the former Minister of Public Safety. She must tell us what she did, when she was in this position, to counter the exploitation of young girls. In addition, as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, she must imperatively push her colleague Martin Closedeux to act on this issue, "concluded Pascal Bérubé. 
