Quebec, on December 12, 2019- The member for Matane-Matapédia and parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois, Pascal Bérubé, as well as the member for the Madeleine Islands and spokespersons in transport, Joël Arseneau, support the claims From the two-mountain gear committee and call for the postponement of the service stop of this large suburban train line, planned to allow the construction of the Metropolitan Express Network (REM). 
IN SHORT 
The Parti Québécois gives its support to the two-mountain gear committee, which leads an important fight to defend the rights of the citizens of the Lasons-Laurentides. Indeed, if nothing is done, these will be deprived of a virtually essential service: their train line to Montreal. Five stations will be closed from the beginning of January 2020 and, at mid-2021, the whole line will be decommissioned. Result: Thousands of people will put twice more time to travel to Montreal for years. 
"The management of the REM project is as catastrophic under the Caquists as under the Liberals. Already, in May 2018, we argued the Liberal government about the problems and disturbances that awaited the citizens of the Bass-Laurentians; It is absolutely unacceptable that we take them hostage! We ask the government to postpone the planned service stop, the time as real mitigation measures are put in place. Otherwise, several people will choose to take their car, which is likely to aggravate road congestion, already present, "Pascal Berube. 
"The necessary work will take years; Meanwhile, the citizens of the Bass-Laurentians must be able to count on a reliable and efficient service shuttle service on reserved lanes. However, what they are currently offered is to double their travel time and multiply the connections. The postponement of the service stop would also benefit employers, just as jostled; Thus, they would be given the time to put in place adequate teleworking measures or to open satellite offices on the North Shore. Finally, a postponement would supplement certain construction sites, reducing the number of road barriers. It is therefore a proposal with advantages for everyone, "concluded Joël Arseneau. 
