Quebec - The member for Vachon and spokesperson for the official opposition on shale mines and gas, Martine Ouellet, is stumbled to see that the Minister Delegate to Natural Resources and Wildlife, Serge Simard, rejected Amendments that the Parti Québécois wanted to bring to Bill 14, amendments which, however, responded to the will of the members of the Liberal Party of Quebec! 
In fact, in the thematic document for his congress that will take place at the end of the week, the Liberal Party of Quebec seeks to adopt a proposal for the effect 
Yesterday, in the detailed study of Bill 14, the Parti Québécois attempted to adopt amendments to promote the transformation of mineral resources in Quebec. Without success. 
"Minister Serge Simard is in complete contradiction with his party's desire. He refused to integrate devices into the law to promote the transformation of metals here in Quebec. Or he opposes the proposal of his party or this proposal is only there to impress the gallery. It must be explained, "said Martine Ouellet. 
She noted that Quebec has everything to gain by ensuring that there is more transformation on its territory. Some data suggest that transformation can create up to four times more jobs than extraction only. "With our energy and infrastructure, we have an extraordinary balance of power to negotiate with companies that want to extract our mining resources. For that, it takes political will, Minister Simard has not, "said the member for Vachon. 
In addition, on the occasion of the study of the Mines Bill in Parliamentary Committee yesterday, the Parti Québécois has made amendments to improve the royalty regime and for Quebeckers to get more for the extracted ore. The Liberal government refused the collaboration offered by the Parti Québécois. 
Worse, the Liberal government continues its campaign for fear by suggesting that the mining might flee Quebec if the royalty regime was amended for Quebeckers. 
"It's so a fake argument! Mining can not be relocated as other types of businesses since the ore is here. Moreover, as long as there is ore, mining will have an interest. The Liberal Party of Quebec wants to continue the dilapidation regime for our natural resources. The Liberal Party prefers an exploitation of our ore worthy of colonialism. It's time for it to change and we, to the Parti Québécois, we have a vision that respects the will of Quebeckers to withdraw more from our mineral resources, "concluded Martine Ouellet. 
