Quebec, September 14, 2020 - The member of the Madeleine Islands and spokesperson for the Quebec's transport, Joël Arseneau, argues that to stabilize the regional air transport market for citizens and small carriers, it is imperative that a reference price policy is put in place. 
IN SHORT 
"Air Canada, we know, has the ability to break market prices to rule out its competitors, and then impose travelers with unreasonable rates. You have to finish once and for all with this quasi-monopoly, this totally unfair competition, "said the deputy of the Madeleine Islands. This concern is also present in the fifteen submissions obtained by the member Arseneau, on the 22 submitted to the Ministry of Transport in the context of the work of the intervention group for the revival of regional air services (GIRSAR), but to which Its members did not have access. 
To respond concretely to this issue, the Parti Québécois proposes that a reference price policy be established for each regional air link. "Thus, if Air Canada displays a lower rate than the reference price for a given link, the government will be able to compensate for other carriers so that they can offer the same service at the same price," said Joël Arseneau; A healthier competitive environment will allow the higher price facility. » 
In addition to this measure, the member also asks the government to maintain and promote the program to reduce air tariffs. "As a result of his bonus, two years ago, this program was a great success. This is proof of doubt that an affordable price has a direct impact on traffic, "he supported. 
Finally, Joël Arseneau reiterates his request for a parliamentary committee to look at the future of regional air transport in Quebec. "All middle players, including small carriers and airport managers, need to be reassured and supported. They want predictability and long-term solutions. They wish, above all, to be heard publicly on the issues that concern them directly, "concluded the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois on transport. 
