Quebec- The member for Jonquière and official opposition spokesman in sustainable development and the environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, and the member for Marie-Victorin and spokesperson for energy and natural resources, Bernard Drainville, ask the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment and Fighting Climate Change, David Heurtel, to finally take his responsibilities and enforce the environmental laws of Quebec. 
The Parti Québécois stresses in particular that the holding of a complete environmental procedure on the Energy East pipeline project passes before the granting of any certificate of authorization for the maintenance of boreholes in the St. Lawrence. "Is there an environmental minister in the Liberal government? The role of Minister Heurtel is to make a decision based on the best scientific information available. He does not do it. However, the basic precautionary principle requires primarily protection and critical habitat, given the threat to the recovery of the population of Belugas, "said the member for Jonquière. 
Remember that TransCanada has not yet forwarded to the Minister Impact on the environment, mandatory to document the effects of the construction of the Petroleum Port in Cacouna on the beluga population. "In sum, the Minister does not have enough information to grant a certificate of authorization," added Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The Parti Québécois notes that the TransCanada project plans to make Quebec a path for export from oil sands oil. "If we rely on the information available, there is a disproportion between minimal economic benefits and the excessive environmental and safety risks for Quebec. This story is more and more similar to a game that Quebec is invariably losing, "concluded Bernard Drainville. 
MEPs of Jonquière and Marie-Victorin enjoin the Minister to return to his decision and to maintain the suspension of geotechnical drilling, to immediately publish all scientific advice, to require TransCanada as quickly as possible the impact studies on the Environment, and urgently convene a complete BAPE on the Energy Project is. 
