Quebec- The member for Duplessis, Mrs. Lorraine Richard, is pleased to announce, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron, the attribution to three companies From the North Shore of financial assistance totaling nearly $ 200,000. 
"It is essential to support our businesses in their innovation and modernization efforts so that they can draw their game pin into more and more competitive markets. Today's announcement is an excellent news for the North Shore, whose economy is largely based on the dynamism and creativity of its fishermen and marine product transformers, "said Lorraine Richard. 
The fish belonner of Havre inc., Located in Havre-Saint-Pierre, is granted financial assistance of $ 134,382 for the realization of its project to install a raw snow crab production chain. Such an initiative should allow the company to pierce new markets in Asia. 
For its part, I & S Seafoods has a financial support of $ 49,875 that will be used to cover some of the costs associated with the acquisition of an unloading pump and other equipment for the transformation of pelagic fish. By modernizing its factory, the company of good hope, located on the Lower North Shore, intends to increase its production, which will benefit in particular to its workers and fishermen who supply it. 
Finally, the Community Seafood Cooperative of Lower North Coast receives $ 14,437 for the acquisition of equipment for the transformation of value-added products. This equipment will enable Harrington Harbor to carry out its project to add a range of second and third processing products to its primary production of snow crab, lobster and glutin of Greenland. 
"LePlan d'Action 2013-2018. Developing our fisheries industry and commercial aquaculture, which I have just announced, is aimed at supporting initiatives such as contribute, including the development, competitiveness and sustainability of the sector. At the dawn of the deposit of the first Quebec Food Sovereign Policy, we must ensure that everything will be done so that the fisheries and aquaculture sector plays a significant role in the economic development of the maritime regions of Quebec, " specified the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Mr. François Gendron. 
People who wish to know more about the 2013-2018 Action Plan aimed at the Quebec Fisheries and Aquaculture Industry are invited to consult the content atwww.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/pecheaquacultureainsi than Watch the presentation of Minister at HTTP: //youtu.be/88bknic6dty. 
