Québec- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, rectifies certain information published following the conference entitled "Lac-Mégantic: Consequences and Risks of the Contamination by the oil spill "presented by Mr. Daniel Green at the House of Sustainable Development on February 20th. 
The Department confirms that it has received an application for access to information in November by Mr. Green by which he wishes to obtain the results of the 600 samples taken from the Chaudière River. However, Mr. Green fails to mention that he has received an answer to his request informing him on the one hand that certain information was already available on the MDDEFP website and, on the other hand, that some other information would be in a Delay not exceeding six months. Indeed, the data collected must first be the subject of a rigorous scientific assessment before being disseminated, with the aim of providing fair and verified information to the population. This approach is not only responsible, but it is also the only one that can satisfy the requirement of rigor and transparency expected by experts and environmental groups. Thus, the department will make public the documents, as it has always begun, at the latest in May, in accordance with the provisions of the Access Act. Let us mention that analytical results and other boiler river data are already available on the Department's website. "These are precisely methodological shortcuts and too short analyzes that have ensured that Mr. Green's claims were abused by the experts, deplores the minister, and I still do not explain that fiercely. Devocated servants of the public interest of the people of the Ministry of the Environment. Our people will continue to take the time to do things right. There will be no shortcuts to do at the risk of health and the safety of citizens. » 
Since the beginning of the tragedy, the department has taken all the measures required to ensure a safe environment and transmit all the information validated to the whole population, both on the situation in Lac-Mégantic and on the contamination of the Chaudière River. . Moreover, on January 28, the minister participated in an information evening for the citizens of Lac-Mégantic. The goal was to trace a report from the situation, to make known the steps to come, but also to answer their questions. During this evening of information, the scientific approach was clearly exposed to the citizens of Lac-Mégantic, always for the sake of transparency, and none did not say dissatisfied. 
Since last summer, hundreds of samples of sediment, surface water and benthic macroinvertebrates and fish communities have been taken for analysis. The mandated firms to carry out these sampling of surface water and sediment should give their final report respectively in February and March 2014 to the department. On the basis of all the results obtained and reports, a Committee of Experts will make an assessment of the impact of this incident and will file a residual contamination management plan for the boiler river in the spring of 2014. Final documents, including reports and analyzes, will be made public. 
With respect to contaminated buildings, the department has mandated a firm of experts to characterize all the city's downtown buildings that have not been destroyed during the railway accident. In collaboration with the City of Lac-Mégantic and other government partners, it is currently conducting individual meetings with the owners of buildings in this sector. Regardless of the downtown reconstruction scenario that will be retained, the Department will not make any compromises regarding the decontamination of Lac-Mégantic's private buildings and private lands. 
