Quebec, May 13, 2020 / CNW Telbec / - The member for Matane-Matapédia, parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois and spokesperson for the metropolis, Pascal Bérubé, wants the government to show leadership to protect the citizens of Montreal and From its suburbs, more affected than the average by the pandemic: the wearing of the mask must become mandatory in collective transport and public places in Montreal. 
IN SHORT 
It is obvious, it is too early to deconfine Montreal. The Québécois party, however, is of the opinion that the maintenance of sanitary measures must be accompanied by the port of the mandatory mask in the suburban trains, the metro and the buses, as well as in public places, to mitigate the negative effects in the long term , and this, both socially, economic and financial. "Several Arrondissements of Montreal - including Montreal North, River-des-Prairies-Pointe-aux-Trembles, Ahuntsic-Cartierville, Mercier-Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and Villeray-Saint-Michel-Park-Extension - and some suburban cities, including Laval, must be given special attention, "claimed Pascal Bérubé. 
It also insists that the metropolis took over several expenses related to the purchase and distribution of protective material, for example, while it sees its sources of income to dry up. "The city wants to buy masks to distribute them to the citizens, which is quite commendable and about, given the urban density. But the incomes column is in the red: we perceive less money in mutation rights, in contraventions, in access rights to various tourist attractions ... Not to mention that the income of the STM has fallen by 85%, " "It illustrated. "It's time to disburse for our metropolis. Let's give the means to the city of Montreal to buy the masks that are required to protect Montrealers. » 
"Certainly, we can not shove down ahead. So you have to help Quebec, and quickly! I invite the minister responsible for the Montreal region, Chantal rolls, to demonstrate leadership and mobilize the resources of the Government of Quebec at the service of Montrealers and Montrealers hardly proven today, "concluded Pascal Bérubé. 
