Boucherville- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb, announced the payment of a loan without interest from $ 5 million to the company Danone inc. for the realization of an investment project of $ 40 million. 
The project aims for the purchase of specialized equipment at the Danone manufacturing plant in Boucherville, in order to increase the annual production of Greek yogurt. 
"By supporting the Danone project, we encourage the food processing and product production sector that contribute to the influence of the Quebec's agri-food industry," Pauline Marois said. It is essential for my government to support such investments, which are perfectly stating with the objectives of the Food Sovereignty Policy filed last spring. By focusing on the development of our resources, while taking advantage of the potential for exports for the development of our economy, politics is an important leverage for the future of Quebec. » 
"Through Danone's investment project, Quebec is consolidating its leader position in yogurt production in Canada," added Zakaïb Élain. This major project contributes to the economic vitality of the Montérégie region and all Quebec, by creating wealth and specialized jobs in the agri-food sector. » 
The company Danone inc. specializes in yogurt production. It employs 550 people in Canada, including 500 in Quebec. Its unique manufacturing site as well as its head office are located in Boucherville, Montérégie. Danone manufactures and distributes the Trademarks Activia, Oikos, Danactive, Danino, Coolision, Silhouette and Creamy Danone. 
"This investment project allows us to increase the production of a flagship product in Quebec, the Greek Oikos yogurt, and generates additional income in the agri-food sector, supported Nick Krzyzaniak, President and Director-General of Danone in Canada . The announcement reaffirms more than ever the importance of Quebec in the development of Danone in Canada. And today, these innovations, these technological advances and these economic benefits make us proud, especially at the end of the day, a yogurt a day is to bring health for each of us, " he added. 
