Quebec, on April 10, 2021 - Following a study published by Simon Fraser University, which provides that the Trans Mountain pipeline will result in losses amounting to $ 12 billion for the Government of Canada, Paul St-Pierre Plamondon, leader of the Parti Québécois, requests the judgment of this retrograde project, as well as a restitution of the sums paid by Quebeckers; These can then be used to create a more just and green Quebec. 
IN SHORT 
A new study from Simon Fraser University taught us last week that according to the most likely scenario, the Trans Mountain Pipeline Extension Project will lose $ 12 billion in the federal government. Losses could even go up to $ 18 billion, and none of the scenarios has demonstrated that the project could be profitable. 
Like the researchers at this university, the Parti Québécois believes that the Government of Canada should immediately stop this project. "Once again, Canada is struggling to remain in the energies of the last century and refuses to take the necessary measures for a real energy transition. Meanwhile, in the United States, $ 2000 billion is investigated to green the economy, and the Biden administration cancels the KEYSTONE XL pipeline project. It becomes more and more embarrassing to see the federal government go to this dead-end corridor, "said Paul St-Pierre Plamondon. 
The Mountain's Trans Mountain Network Enlargement project returns to water, or rather to struggle into oil, billions of dollars that could be invested elsewhere. " It is a waste. Quebeckers contributed $ 2.5 billion in taxes and taxes in this project; These sums should be used to start a real green turn in Quebec, create sustainable jobs and finance a fair energy transition. Before the deposit of the Legault government budget, our expectations were clear: Quebec must take advantage of the recovery to take this turn. However, we are constantly slowed by the decisions of the federal government, "reiterated the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
Paul St-Pierre Plamondon has also taken the opportunity to remember that Quebec has repeatedly asked for the fair readjustment of health transfers without result. "In the middle of the third wave of the pandemic, it is urgent that the federal government is catching up and that it pays us the $ 6.2 billion that it owes us, instead of losing astronomical sums in a useless pipeline project. Finding thousands of kilometers from Quebec. Imagine what we could do if we had our money, and if we do not waste our time claiming our due! There is no thirty-six ways to get out of this situation where another government decides on the basis of the interests of Alberta or other provinces. There is only independence that will allow us to enrich us in a sustainable way. » 
- 30 - 
Source: Lucas MedernachDirector of CommunicationsParti Québécois 
