Louiseville - Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, today announced the award of a $ 400,000 loan guarantee and a $ 100,000 warranty From the credit margin to the premont food company to support the revival of a food processing plant located in Sainte-Angele-de-Prémont. 
"We are proud to contribute to the recovery of this plant that should generate beautiful benefits for the Mauricie region, including the creation of thirty jobs," said Élaine Zakaïb. "The determination of the stakeholders made it possible to concretize this project, which constitutes an excellent news for this municipality of 700 inhabitants. Our government considers it essential to support such initiatives, which promote the economic growth of regions and localities. » 
The project, which represents investments of $ 2 million, consists of the acquisition of the former Montpak plant in Sainte-Angele-de-Prémont by premont food. The transformation of the calf will be replaced by that of the pork. The new company, created in November 2012, intends to offer a wide range of pork cuts as well as ready-to-use foods. Leaders want to take advantage of the strong demand in Asia to open the markets of South Korea and Japan, in addition to the US market. 
"We are also pleased that this project is part of a niche deemed priority by the MRC and our government, that of agribusiness," said Delegate Minister Zakaïb. "We have just filled a food sovereignty policy that, in addition to encouraging Quebeckers to eat products from here, expenses or transformed, aims to promote the development of the agri-food industry, particularly with regard to the second and the third transformation. » 
"The support of the Government of Quebec has finally allowed us to move forward with our start-up project," said the president of the company, Mr. François Bisson. "It was more than a year since we were looking for a processing plant for the mapping of our activities. Fortunately, the plant of Sainte-Angele-de-Prémont has proven to be an ideal and strategic location to ensure the success of these. I want to emphasize the support of Investissement Québec to the realization of this ambitious project. » 
