Sinte-Thérèse-de-Gaspé - Minister Delegate to the Regions, Minister responsible for the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine Region and MP Gaétan Lelièvre, on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister agriculture, fisheries and food, Mr. François Gendron, and the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Élaine Zakaïb, announces the award of total government assistance $ 602,084 for the implementation of three projects oriented towards the collective diversification and marketing of the seabed products of Gaspésie. 
"For success, businesses are based on diversification of their production and a better positioning of their products in the markets, which will strengthen their competitive capacity. The initiatives that the government supported today consider with the objectives described in the Food Sovereignty and the Department's Priorities of the Department for Fisheries and Trade Aquaculture. We want to develop a strong industry and diversify markets for Quebec's marine products, "said Francois Gendron. 
Companies Lelièvre, Lelièvre and Lemignan Ltd. and Gaspésian Salt Fools Ltd. obtain respectively $ 190,500 and $ 106,222 from the Government of Quebec for the acquisition of equipment used for the lobster processing that they import the provinces. Maritime. This acquisition will allow them not only to increase the range of products they distribute on the markets here and elsewhere, but also to extend their periods of activity. 
As for Gaspé's arrival corporation, it receives financial assistance from $ 305,362 to carry out the second stage of its collective marketing project. It consists of three shareholder companies, Gaspé Cured Enr., Marinard Fisheries Ltd. and E. Gagnon and Son Ltd., which group six transformation plants. The Gaspésian group has completed its three-year marine marketing project on the Quebec market and wants to expand its activities in other Canadian provinces. It is targeting Ontario, particularly the agglomeration of Toronto whose population is around 5.8 million people and where eating habits are similar to those of Quebecers. 
"Our financial contribution is part of the niche of excellence Resources, Science and Marine Technology, which supports the creation, growth and dynamism of companies that are at work in the capture and transformation channels. , of aquaculture, marine technologies and marine biotechnologies, "said Zakaïb. 
"These projects are examples of the consultation between fish and seafood transformers in the region and the spirit of innovation that animates them. Their implementation will increase the reputation of Gaspésie's products outside Quebec, while energizing the local economy, "concluded Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre. 
For further information on the policy of food sovereignty, the blog dedicated to it (www.politicsa.gouv.qc.ca) or visit the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (www.mapaq.gouv.qc.ca/politiquesa). It is also possible to follow the ministry on Twitter at the following address: twitter.com/mapaquebec. 
