Quebec, on March 12, 2021 -The MP of the Madeleine Islands and spokespersons of the Parti Québécois on transport, Joël Arseneau, returns to the charge in the regional air transportation file; He claims that the Minister of Transport, François Bonnardel, deposits her intervention plan as soon as possible, to ensure the stability and sustainability of regional air tanks. 
IN SHORT 
- The regional air service recovery group has completed its work for four months now, and there are always the conclusions. The model must be reviewed in depth to ensure the sustainability of this essential service .- The program emergency support ends in less than three weeks; It is time for the minister to answer questions and calm concerns. 
The hon. Member recalls that the transparent group, set up by the minister in July 2020, finished his work last November. During these, several proposals have been put forward in order to define a better model to ensure a reliable and sustainable aerial service in the region. "We were all waiting for the report of the HEC Montreal expert associated with the file, James Roy, and his recommendations in January, as the Minister had suggested, after a first postponer. But since then it's silence radio, "says Joël Arseneau. 
This situation is all the more concern that in the region, many stakeholders are questioning the government's real desire to re-see the air service model, nine months after the abandonment of regional services by Air Canada. "If the CAQ does not act, is it because it does not really intend to review the model of this essential service? However, several mentioned it, during the work: the solution does not reside in simple short-term support to the regional actors already in place, "continued the member. 
It also recalls that the emergency program to support the essential carriers, set up on April 1,2020, expires on March 31, in less than three weeks. "The elected officials, the industry, the population, everyone is in the most total uncertainty. The minister must come out of his silence and confirm that the consultations of the last months have not been carried out pure loss! It has all that it needs to act, to support a robust aerial service network, both in the short term and long-term, for the benefit of the regions of Quebec and people who live there, "concluded Joël. Arseneau. 
- 30 - 
SOURCE : 
Laura Chouinard-Thuly 
Press Officer 
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois 
514 880-9594 
Laura.c After i's -t care liquid @as is NAT. Second. Wipe 
