Quebec- In the wake of the deposit, today, the report of the CNESST on the accident who caused the death of a trucker on Highway 40, in August 2016, the official opposition spokesman Transport, Alain Therrien, argues that much wider reflection should be held on the transport of hazardous materials. 
IN SHORT 
"After the accident that cost Mr. Gilbert Prince, the Minister of Transport of the time, Jacques Daoust, promised to review the regulations. His successor, Laurent Lessard, has been in office for almost a year, but we will always expect its proposals to improve the safety of the transport of hazardous materials. However, I remind him that last year, his own department admitted not to have all the necessary information concerning the transport of hazardous materials; Does he believe that everything is fine and that he can sleep on his two ears? ", Wonders the member for Sanguinet. 
Note that the government of the Parti Québécois had set up a working committee to reflect on the coaching of the transport of hazardous materials in Quebec. The Liberal government, however, ended it upon election, preferring to rely on the federal government. Today, Quebeckers are therefore entitled to wonder if security is one of the priorities of Minister Lessard. 
"We believe that the filing of the report of the CNESST is apparent to be given the file on the agenda. A parliamentary commission must take place to continue the abortive work of the Committee, draw up a full portrait of the transport of hazardous materials and to study solutions to better supervise it, "added the member. 
"Since its entry into office, the Minister of Transport has put several important ice projects. First, he dismissed the reform of governance at the MTQ, while the work of the Auditor General and the Charbonneau Commission demonstrated the urgency. Then, he set aside the reform of the Road Safety Code, while his predecessor claimed to be ready to go ahead from last fall. And in the file that occupies us today, again, parliamentarians will have to do the work instead of Laurent Lessard in parliamentary committee, "concluded Alain Therien. 
