Quebec, on April 14, 2021 - the deafening silence of the Minister of Transport of Quebec, François Bonnardel, and following the agreement between the federal government and Air Canada, the member for the Islands of the Madeleine and Doors - Parole of the Parti Québécois on transport, Joël Arseneau, reiterates his request for the deposit without further delay the intervention plan to ensure the stability and sustainability of regional air services in Quebec. 
IN SHORT 
§ Following the agreement between Ottawa and Air Canada, it becomes more urgent than ever to know the government's government's intentions. 
§ Quebec can certainly not rely on Air Canada to ensure its regional aerial desserts. 
§ The minister, who knows the recommendations of the working group he himself has put in place, must act now; The sustainability of this essential service depends on it. 
Rendered Public Yesterday, the agreement between Ottawa and Air Canada raises consupported and mixed reactions. According to what is agreed, to benefit from federal government aid, Air Canada will need to restore minimal regional service. However, unlike other provinces, Quebec services abandoned by the carrier will not be restored. "The fact that Air Canada does not come back to Quebec regions is not a problem in itself, many will rejoice. But what is the Quebec match plan for the future? What does the Government of the CAQ expect to demand the fair share of federal air transport investments for Quebec regions? ", Wonders Joël Arseneau. 
For years, the member has recalled, Air Canada has constantly attempted to eliminate the competition of Quebec's small carriers to protect his quasi-monopoly, playing with rates according to his mood. Quebec has nothing to expect from this company, and must quickly take the initiative to ensure a reliable and sustainable air service in the region. 
To deal with this question, Minister Bonnardel set up a transparent working group last July. His work concluded in November. But since then to the government is silence radio. "The report was to be tabled in January, after a first postponement. But we are still waiting. What prevents the minister from speaking? Why does not intervene, even if it is only to calm the concerns of regional actors? Can we deduce that it does not really intend to review the regional air transport model, as recommended by several stakeholders? Hurry up! Insisted the member for the Madeleine Islands. 
It also recalls that the emergency program to support the essential carriers, set up on 1 April 2020, expired on March 31st. "Since then, the elected, the industry, the population, everyone is outstanding, no one knows what the future holds for him. The minister, who has all the cards in hand, must come out of his silence today and disclose his match plan to ensure the sustainability of our regional air services, plan to which the federal government must contribute, "concluded Joël Arseneau. 
- 30 - 
SOURCE : 
Laura Chouinard-Thuly 
Press Officer 
Parliamentary wing of the Parti Québécois 
514 880-9594 
Laura.c After i's -t care liquid @as is NAT. Second. Wipe 
