Quebec- The member for Jonquière and Leader of the Official Opposition, Sylvain Gaudreault, the member for Verchères and spokesperson for Quebec's Quebec Relations Quebec, Stéphane Bergeron, and the member for Taillon and spokesperson Health and accessibility to care, Diane Lamarre, deplore the attitude of Prime Minister Philippe Couillard, who still refuses to act concretely against the decision of his Canadian counterpart Justin Trudeau to reduce health transfers. 
"The reform of health transfers, which will halve the progression of federal funding, will soon be realized if Justin Trudeau strives to not respect his commitments. With Stephen Harper, we knew that the funding for health would be cut off by the federal government. With Justin Trudeau, in addition to keeping the same cuts, conditions are added; It's worse! And, in front of that, the Prime Minister does nothing, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"The Minister of Health Gaétan Barrette announces that he will refuse any amount of money provided by the federal government. The result of this deaf dialogue between federalists is that Quebec patients are hostage. No agreement, no money, and too bad for patients! "Call your Federal MP": That's what the last find of the Minister of Health? Does the Prime Minister agree with this strategy? On his side asked Stéphane Bergeron. 
"One way to establish a real balance of power with Ottawa would be to put in reserve an equivalent amount from our GST payments, which we can use if the federal government does not raise its conditions for the financing of health. That's how to defend Quebec's interests without penalizing patients, "proposed the Leader of the Official Opposition. 
"The Minister of Health, he moves a lot, but does not get more results. It looks like he was clearly more clever when he traded for doctors and for himself than now, while he negotiates for Quebeckers. The Prime Minister liquefies in front of Justin Trudeau, as usual, and he lets his health minister make threats that he will not be able to implement without improving the accessibility of care. What is the concrete gesture what to do to do the Prime Minister? "Concluded Diane Lamarre. 
