Montreal- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister and Minister Responsible for the Montreal area, Jean-François Lisé, have submitted bonus to Turcot and announced the next launch of the process of the call for proposals for the award of the Construction Construction contract at a press conference held in Montreal. 
"The concerns expressed with respect to a better consideration of collective transportation will have allowed, with the support of the actors concerned, add $ 100 million in bonuses, including $ 40 million in collective transport and $ 60 million in development. of the territory, Ms. Marois announced. Other measures will also be added according to the evolution of the project and the key moments of the project. » 
The Premier stressed the strategic importance of Turcot as a hub of the economy. "It's a major commercial crossroads and reconstruction will result in significant benefits for the economy of the metropolis and all Quebec. Turcot, the largest road project in Quebec, will generate economic benefits in the range of $ 2 to $ 3 billion and it will create the creation or maintenance of about 13,000 direct jobs and 8000 indirect jobs. » 
"Turcot will be in accordance with the laws and rules that the present Government has to ensure the integrity of public contracts", mentioned the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and The occupation of the territory, Sylvain Gaudreault. "Quebeckers are entitled to demand that all project actors demonstrate probity, transparency and that the work is made upon respect for strict ethical rules. All companies invited to work on the project will have to obtain authorization from the Autorité des marchés financiers before the signing of any contract of more than $ 40 million. This project will be scrutinized very closely and no gap will be allowed, "he insisted Mr. Gaudreault. 
In 2013-2014, the pace of traditional mode works accelerates with, in particular, the demolition and reconstruction of the St. Jacques Street, the construction of the Pullman Boulevard and St. Rémi Street Streets and St. Jacques, and the construction of the stagnation bridge above the future rail corridor that connects the South A-15 to the West. It is $ 235 million that will be invested this year. 
Qualified candidates will be known in the coming days and the call for proposals for the Construction-Construction contract will be launched by Infrastructure Québec soon. In order to ensure cost control, the achievement budget will be limited. "A budget ceiling will be imposed on the consortium, after an independent review of the estimates that are currently in the order of $ 3.7 billion, which will force it to a tight management of the budget and the schedule, one Influencently influence the other, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
The Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Jean-François Lisée, testified the positive implications that the municipal project will bring to the municipal project. "Turcot represents a great opportunity to rethink a set of elements of the urban weft, both to improve the quality of life of the residents and to embellish the metropolis and preserve its environment," he said. As far as the environment, Turcot encompasses key industry development elements by promoting local travel and paying particular attention to pedestrians and cyclists. The minister added that beyond infrastructure, Turcot is thought for those who borrow it, but also for citizens who live in his neighborhood. 
The Premier reiterated his Government's commitment to rigorous contract management. "The Turcot project will be realized with all the financial rigor required. My government has made the fight against collusion and corruption an absolute priority. Thus, Turcot will be rebuilt in accordance with laws and rules to ensure the sustainability of infrastructure and transport systems, "concluded Ms. Marois. 
Turcot is borrowed daily by 300,000 vehicles, including no less than 30,000 trucks. The major infrastructure work will begin in 2015 and will continue until 2020. The full schedule, project maps and collective transit measures are available on the websitewww.turcot.gouv.qc.ca. 
Follow the Twitter account of the Turcot Clickings project. 
