Victoriaville- Minister of Finance and Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, today announced the granting of a $ 16.5 million loan by Investissement Québec to Sural Québec, a subsidiary of the Sural Group, so to ensure the construction of a new modern plant dedicated to the manufacture of aluminum alloy rods. The startup project, which requires investments of more than $ 45 million, will consolidate the Quebec aluminum sector and create more than 50 direct jobs at the time of complete commissioning of the plant. 
"The implantation of Sural Québec is perfectly aligned with the launch of the new industrial cluster of Quebec aluminum, which aims to double the transformation of aluminum to Quebec over a period of 10 years. Quebec expertise and the availability of the raw material have largely contributed to making Quebec a favorable investment place for starting this new factory. I am convinced that this project will attract other companies specializing in aluminum processing to Quebec, "said Minister Nicolas Marceau. 
With more than 35 years of experience in the field, Sural Group, headquartered in Caracas, Venezuela, is a leader in the manufacture of aluminum-based value-added products. The company manages two subsidiaries in Quebec, either intral, which specializes in the manufacture of threads and aluminum products, and Sural Quebec, which is being implemented in the Victoriaville industrial park. 
"The important collaboration of Investissement Québec has allowed us to carry out our implementation project, said Dr. Alfredo Riviere, President of the Sural Group. Our new factory, the inauguration of which is planned for 2015, will have new state-of-the-art equipment that will enable us to achieve a production capacity of 45,000 metric tonnes per year, which should increase our competitiveness on the market. We are very proud to count on solid financial partners as Quebec investment, which believed in our startup project and accompanied us throughout the financial assembly. » 
Investissement Québec's mission is to promote investment growth in Quebec, thus contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The company puts companies with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity capital investment, in order to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, it is responsible for the administration of tax measures and prospecting investments abroad. 
