Quebec- This morning, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, Minister Responsible for Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region and MP Memberl, on behalf of Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and occupation of the territory, accompanied by Mr. Georges Farrah, President and CEO of the Quebec Ferry Society (QST), inaugurated the entirely renovated premises of the station as part of the project changes to infrastructure Terrestrial from the Matane terminal for adaptation for the future vessel of the Matane-Baie-Comeau-Godbout cross. 
First of all, Mr. Bérubé pointed out that: "The modernization of Matane's river station testifies to the attention that the Ferry Society of Quebec grants to the bonus of the customer experience. Completed by the end of November 2013, the new footbridge for pedestrians will serve as an extension to the waiting room thanks to the development of some 60 additional seats. Undeniably, this railway station and this redeveloped gateway will highlight the Maritime Panorama of Matane and will charm passengers through their conviviality and functional aspect. » 
He added, "The F.-A.-Gauthier, new vessel whose delivery is scheduled at the end of 2014, will look great on the edge of this modernized terminal. » 
For its part, Mr. Farrah recalled the content of the other changes to the land infrastructure of the Matane terminal: 
Mr. Farrah emphasized: "Despite the constraints inherent in these major work, all departures scheduled for schedule were made. I want to mention that the Matane team has maintained all of its daily activities in temporary facilities on even this project. " 
"In the vast network of Ferry Society of Quebec, our experienced staff cares to offer a quality and safe maritime transportation. The excellent delivery of our services also goes through better adapted and more attractive infrastructures. And the train station and the Matane terminal bridge perfectly testify to this new era of a dummy customer experience. He said as a conclusion. 
Remember that the Matane-Baie-Comeau-Godbout crossing employs 115 people and achieves 1600 crossings annually carrying about 200,000 passengers and more than 92,000 vehicles. 
