Montreal, January 24, 2021 -Inquiets to see more and more cultural workers lose their jobs and reorient their career because of the pandemic, the leader of the Quebecois, Paul St-Pierre Plamondon, and the member for Matane- Matapédia, parliamentary leader and spokesman for the Culture, Pascal Bérubé, call the government, including the Minister of Culture, Nathalie Roy, to act quickly to reassure artists and better support them. 
IN SHORT 
The culture environment is probably one of the most affected by the crisis. "It is estimated to be 150,000 the number of artists and craftsmen in the cultural field in Quebec; Among them, one in four would have lost his job because of the pandemic. Full of resources, these people rolled up the sleeves and sought from work elsewhere, within another professional sphere, sometimes far from the arts; But can we really do without all this talent? Paul St-Pierre Plamondon. 
To explain this hemorrhage, the leader of the Parti Québécois board the government support measures, poorly adapted to the reality of the cultural environment, particularly in the regions. "The help offered to broadcasters and producers allowed them to temporarily live, but it is far from suffice to need. In addition, the measures quickly showed their limits, the $ 50 million emergency aid for broadcasters has not always been in small broadcasters in the region. However, all of this has a significant impact on artists, sector workers as well as accessibility to culture, "he added, also mentioning that for emerging or independent artists, the reality of the pandemic strikes even harder. 
The parliamentary leader abounds in the same direction, stressing that the only ones to be pampered by the Minister of Culture are perhaps the organizations of his constituency, Montarville; Indeed, these take advantage of its discretionary budget, and this, disproportionately. "We have asked the Auditor General to review these practices; The discretionary budgets of ministers must be accessible to organizations from all regions, especially since there are any real needs, "he recalled. 
Realistic, Pascal Bérubé believes that we must act now in future months. "Support measures are completed on March 31st. What will happen after this date? What is spent awaits cultural institutions, artists and workers in the sector? Minister Roy must now reassure the environment and provide a way of supporting it with enhanced measures because, in all likelihood, one will still have to be array of patience; It is difficult to predict a normal recovery of short-term activities, even in the medium term. If culture is really a priority for the Cavoist government, it must make sure to keep our experts and talents alive; Nationalism, it goes and it is expressed among others by our artists! ", Concluded the parliamentary leader of the Parti Québécois. 
- 30 - 
SOURCE: Lucas Mederenach 
Director of Communications 
Québécois Party 
