Quebec- The member for Roberval and official opposition on forests, Denis Trottier, is concerned about the future of silvicultural workers in the Quebec regions who could be forced unemployed because of the unrespected commitments of the Government of Jean Charest. "Despite the government's promise to maintain integral sums allocated for silvicultural work during the year, disturbing contradictory information circulate and fear the worst. Thus, many workers are at risk of being laid down in a few weeks due to cuts in the budgets. » 
The Minister of Natural Resources and Wildlife, Clément Gignac, had nevertheless committed, during the study of the appropriations last May, that the $ 189 million announced serve solely and in full to silvicultural activities, which is no longer the case. "The minister had also committed to putting in place a program to support forestry machinery owners. We find that there is still nothing on the table. Obviously, the minister did not hold. It's still broken promises, "he added. 
The member for Roberval recalls that the most important moment of the season for silvicultural work is happening right now. "We are in July and, in just a few weeks, the government is making ads on silvicultural work and the Forestry Enhancement Program - component II, but on the ground is something else. Thus, important cuts are announced at the time these companies need to be supported. These are hundreds of workers who will still make the costs of bad government decisions. » 
Denis Trottier is worried about the situation experienced by some forest contractors, including Lac-Saint-Jean, and future consequences. He wants both parties to discuss in order to reach an agreement and quickly revive the work. 
A government of the Parti Québécois will put concrete gestures for the forest. "We firmly believe in the forest industry and the Quebec forest. The positions we have been defending so long demonstrate well. We will ask the necessary gestures. We must develop the pride of Quebeckers to this resource that is noble, ecological and renewable. We will restore hope to the Quebec regions and rendering the forest its nobility, "concluded Denis Trottier. 
