Quebec, on November 4, 2014 -Ars that the mayors of the cities of Quebec and Lévis have agreed to ask the National National (CN) to finally take its responsibilities in the issue of the Quebec Bridge, the member for Taschereau and the House Leader. The official opposition, Agnès Maltese, asks the Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale Region, Sam Hamad, to say what he intends to do, concretely, for the painting to be completed. 
"Minister Hamad must tell us what the Quebec government intends to do on this issue. The work on the bridge must be completed; The procrastination and judicial proceedings have already lasted too much. Just as the minister said it last October 24th, it is a matter of pride. He also said that he had to look at, with the Federal and CN, who had to take care of repainting the bridge, "said Agnès Maltais. 
The judgment of October 22nd  Recall that on October 22, after more than nine years of judicial proceedings, the judgment fell into the cause between the CN to the federal government. Judge Louis Lacoursière ruled that the railway undertaking will not have to finish the painting work on the Quebec Bridge, even if they are half completed. He considers that CN, the owner of the structure since its privatization in 1995, respected the terms of the maintenance program agreed with the provincial and federal governments. 
Reacting to the judgment exempting CN, and obviously the opinion that the work must be completed, Minister Sam Hamad said, on 24 October: "It's certain that the Quebec Bridge needs a painting. . It's clear. I always said that painting has no effect on the structure. On the other hand, it is the entry of Quebec, it is the entrance to Lévis, it is a historical monument of civil engineering. And it is an important monument for Quebec. So, it takes someone who has to finish the job and paint it. Because we are proud people in Quebec City. 
"The minister has to spend speech on acts and clearly say the people of the region what he intends to do. He states that the painting must be completed on the Quebec Bridge; Has he had discussions with the Prime Minister or the Minister of Transport on this? Does he have a clear mandate to negotiate with the federal government and CN? Does the Quebec government intend to invest sums in bridge rehabilitation? Asked Agnès Maltese. 
