Quebec- The member for Bourget and sentence of the official opposition in immigration, Maka Kotto, the member for Berthier and spokesperson for agriculture, fisheries and food, André Villeneuve, as well as The member for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, deplore the inaction of the Minister of Immigration, Kathleen Weil, who was forced to recognize yesterday that the reform of the federal program of Temporary foreign workers would be imposed by the Ottawa government, regardless of Quebec's peculiarities. 
"Minister Kathleen Weil stated that Quebec officials have failed to agree with Ottawa to prevent the implementation of the announced changes to the economic development of Quebec. But it is not to officials to negotiate these agreements, it is to the minister! We could have expected more leadership on his part, but it merely deplored that Ottawa has made its decision without taking into account Quebec. She should have intervened well before and firmly to untie this impasse. This again shows us the need for Quebec to control all its immigration policies. We do not need any opinion or intransigence, nor the federal vision, "said Maka Kotto. 
The member for Bourget also added that the Minister, during an arrest at the National Assembly, on March 20, mentioned that she did not intend to request the repatriation of powers in Immigration, arguing that "the Canada-Quebec Agreement works very well" and that the ministries speak "often". Obviously, this has not been the case in the temporary workers' file. 
"Companies that recruit abroad, including those in the agri-food area, are already struggling with a labor shortage, and the new federal measures will only increase their administrative burden. The very survival of some companies can be at stake, and Ottawa does not take it into account, "lamented André Villeneuve. 
"In this case, as in many others, federalism increases the bureaucracy and undermines entrepreneurs, workers and agricultural businesses. Federalism does not work. Minister Weil recognizes receiving a letter and asked for a meeting, but without success. Thus goes life in the Canadian federal system; Although the Liberals practice to flat-ventry, Ottawa lifts the nose on the Quebec government. Does not the minister not see a new evidence that Quebec must control all of its powers, including immigration? Stéphane Bergeron concluded. 
