Montreal - On the eve of the International Women's Day, the Quebec Prime Minister and Head of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, announces that three outstanding women join the Partician team: Yasmina Chouakri, candidate in Anjou-Louis -Il, Leila Mahiut, candidate in Bourassa-Sauvé, and Evelyne Abitbol, candidate in Acadie. 
"Yasmina, Leila and Evelyne are women with great expertise, involved in professional and citizen, in areas as diverse as communications, education, immigration and the female status. All have chosen to live in Quebec, where equality between women and men as well as state secularism are fundamental values, "said Pauline Marois. 
Yasmina Chouakri is politicologist, currently responsible for the women's component of the organizations serving refugee and immigrants. It is also president of the equal action network of immigrant and racised women in Quebec, and researcher associated with the Immigration, Ethnicity and Citizenship Research Chair of UQÀM. She was also president of the Canadian Institute for Women's Research. 
With more than 20 years of experience as a management consultant in the field of information systems and holding a university degree in computer engineering, Leila Mahout also acts as Director of Public Relations at the Montreal Arab World Festival . 
In particular, Evelyne Abitbol was Director of Government Relations and Public Affairs of Concordia University, from 1997 to 2009. Currently Vice-President of the Saga Firm's Strategies and Public Affairs, she participated in several committees and citizen forums turned to relations international cultural. Moreover, Ms. Abitbol is a laureate of the Arab women trophy for his exceptional contribution to Quebec society. 
"We have proposed a clear vision of secularism. The charter project makes it possible to affirm the common rules we want to give us to live diversity in harmony. In Quebec, the equality of all citizens, including that between women and men, the separation of the Church and the state, these are fundamental values. We have affirmed them, and they will be the source of better understanding, harmony and cohesion for all Quebeckers and all Quebeckers, "said Pauline Marois. 
Pauline Marois has been packed by the arrival of many candidates who reinforce the Parti Québécois team and believes that Quebeckers will also be. "Yasmina Chouakri, Leila Mahiut and Evelyne Abitbol join a team of dynamic women who bring a whole wind of freshness to our political life. The team that we are constituting is remarkable, not only by the quality of the people who compose it, but also by their unwavering attachment to Quebec. » 
We have a plan and the team to succeed. Today, it's time to give us the means to go further. 
