Quebec - thanks to the combined efforts of the governments of Canada, Quebec, Quebec City and their community partners, people living with mental health issues and people in difficulty now have access to 77 housing units . 
The Sherpa housing complex, whose construction required an investment totaling more than $ 15.4 million, was inaugurated today in the presence of Senator Suzanne Fortin-Duplessis, on behalf of the Honorable Candice Bergen, Minister D State (social development), the Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Regions of the Capitale-Nationale and the Chaudière-Appalaches, Ms. Agnès Maltais, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs Regions and occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, and the Mayor of Quebec, Mr. Regis Labeaume. 
The Government of Canada, through the Canada Economic Action Plan, and the Government of Quebec, under the AccessLogis Québec program of the SHQ, jointly invested more than $ 6.2 million for the completion of this project. innovative. In addition, the SHQ guarantees the mortgage contracted by the Pech organization to complete the financing of the project. For its part, the City of Quebec has invested nearly $ 2.4 million for the construction of this building. Finally, there is a contribution of nearly $ 116,000 has been granted by Employment and Social Development Canada as part of the Roaming Partnerships Strategy. 
"Our government is working to help those who need it, that's why we are proud to have invested in this set of dwellings in Quebec City. These new homes are more than just a safe and affordable place to live. They are the key to a better life for people who will find one home. We continue to focus on four priorities, as set out by the Prime Minister, who are most important for Canadians: their families, the safety of our streets and our communities, their pride in being citizens of this country and, of course, , their personal financial security, "said Senator Fortin-Duplessis. 
"Counting among the Government's main commitments in the Capitale-Nationale region, Sherpa offers the opportunity for tenants to live in quality housing and at a lower cost, while benefiting from the support of the professionals of the Pech organization. With its modern architectural elements and its living colors, this construction does not lack character and helps to project a positive image of social housing in Quebec City. The social diversity that reigns in this project is like the one who makes the charm of the Saint-Roch district, "said Minister Agnès Malteis. 
Located in the Saint-Roch district, in Quebec City, the Sherpa building has 9 floors in its portion of Charest Boulevard and 6 floors in its portion of Notre-Dame-des-Anges Street. The premises of the Pech organization, which helps people living with a mental health problem, as well as a recovery center occupy the ground floor of the building. Tenants of the 77 dwellings on floors can therefore benefit from the services and support of the organization. The colorful building and modern architecture also includes community spaces, including a rooftop terrace. 
"Sherpa offers a unique social housing dialup in Canada by focusing on the relationship of individuals living exclusion and isolation with emerging artists from the city center. Sherpa joins two groups whose sensitivities are affecting more than one title, while allowing them to experience a cohabitation that gives Saint-Roch and downtown Quebec a color and quality of life if particular of which we are all proud. I want to emphasize the work of our government partners, and after discussions, the federal government has been open to the eligibility of organizations with the strategy of homelessness (SPLI) partnerships, " emphasized the Mayor Regis Labeaume. 
"The objective of the Sherpa project is to accommodate appropriately and especially to live together in order to become a citizen and share with others an emancipation course or just a little humanity. Thanks to our partners, and in particular to the SHQ, the city of Quebec City and Action-Housing of Quebec, which made possible this magnificent project, "said Benoît Côté, Director General of Pech. 
Note that additional financial assistance of more than $ 1.3 million, spread over five years and assumed to 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the City of Quebec, allows all the tenants of Sherpa to benefit from the program of Rent supplement, which makes they pay more than 25% of their income to lodge. 
This year, through CMHC, the Government of Canada will invest approximately $ 2 billion in housing. Of this amount, $ 1.7 billion will be devoted to supporting nearly 594,000 households living in social housing. In Quebec, this represents some 127 150 households. These investments improve the quality of life of low-income Canadians and households living in social housing, including homelessness and people at risk, seniors, people with disabilities, recent immigrants and Aboriginal people. 
To learn more about how CMHC supports the development of solid houses and prosperous communities for all Canadians, contact CMHC at 1-800-668-2642 or visitwww.cmhc-schl.gc.ca. 
Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the Quebec Housing Corporation contributes to improving quality. of life of 230,000 households each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. That is why the Quebec government has announced, in its most recent budget, a $ 231 million budget for the construction of 3,000 affordable housing units in the coming years. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Habitat Espace, the WEB magazine of the SHQ, which deals with the spin-offs of the interventions of it on the whole of Quebec society. 
