Québec- The leader of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, launched his election campaign today in the Greater Quebec City. "The choice to start our national campaign in Quebec is not a coincidence. We intend to reconquer Quebec by presenting a very strong team, "said Pauline Marois. 
She took the opportunity to present three new candidates who will bring the colors of the Parti Québécois in the Quebec City region. 
In the pintrie, the Parti Québécois will be represented by Jean-Luc Jolivet, the son of a former nipper Jean-Pierre Jolivet. This is a man who already has a great deal of experience in parliamentary affairs. "The Parti Québécois has always been my party. The sovereignty of Quebec, a long time ago I want to work concretely to realize it. It is therefore with great enthusiasm that I will bring my party's ideas to the citizens of the pintrie. I can not wait to meet them. » 
In Vanier-les-Rivières, the Québécois party candidate will be Marc Dean, the son of another Pussy minister and companion René Lévesque, Robert Dean. Marc is a specialist in international relations. "The team that Pauline Marois presents to Quebeckers, especially here in the Quebec City area, is exciting and I am very pleased to join this party dedicated strictly to the interests of Quebeckers. And I will admit that I am proud to take back the torch of my father on the way to Quebec sovereignty, "he said. 
Finally, in Montmorency, the leader of the Quebecois party presented Michel Létourneau, a well-known figure in the Quebec region having worked at the summer festival for several years. It is a manager, a cultural entrepreneur, a man who delivers the goods. "I think I can make a difference in Montmorency. I have political experience and I intend to make culture an important issue of this campaign. » 
"We are committed to the region of the Capitale-Nationale. We will be present to win in Quebec City with the team of men's men and women we present, "concluded Pauline Marois, recalling that the Parti Québécois is the largest political training in Quebec with its 90,000 members. 
