Quebec- The Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Quebec, Mr. Bertrand St-Arnaud, announces that the Ottawa region is one of the regions chosen to accommodate one of the three new local courts of justice that will see the day in Quebec. 
These centers will offer free information and legal guidance services to the population from the spring of 2014. They will be added to the other three centers operating in Montreal, Quebec City and Rimouski. 
The choice of applications was made after a call for projects launched last fall. It follows the Government of Quebec's willingness to deploy local justice centers over the entire Quebec territory, in the wake of its commitments to increase access to justice. 
"The call for projects solicited applications for two new local justice centers. However, the quality of the three files received convinced me to respond to the requests presented and to announce today not two, but three new centers. I welcome the contribution of all those associated with these initiatives that will be beneficial for their community. Thanks to your commitment, your fellow citizens will benefit from the unique, personalized and confidential approach that made the excellent reputation of local justice centers, "said Minister Bertrand St-Arnaud. 
The annual cost of the three new centers is estimated at a little less than a million dollars and it comes from the Justice Access Fund. Instituted at the Quebec Ministry of Justice in 2012, this fund serves in particular for the financing of projects aimed at closer to the justice of citizens. 
The Quebec Ministry of Justice and the various interim committees will be on a work of initiating the work leading to the opening of these new centers over the next year. The official dates of the beginning of their respective activities remain to be confirmed. 
Proximity justice centers are non-profit organizations. Their mission is to promote access to justice by promoting citizen participation, through information, support and guidance services offered in complementarity with existing resources. 
To date, the centers responded to more than 40,000 applications for legal information, whether at individual meetings or by telephone, in addition to organizing information sessions to popularize legal issues. Since April 1, 2013, local justice centers have permanent funding from the Justice Access Fund. 
