Montreal- On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, the member for Champlain, NoëlThe Champagne, today participated in the inauguration of the libraries of Saint-Wenceslas, Saint-Léonard-d'Aston and Saint-Célestin, as well as the announcement of a fourth cultural development agreement between the Ministry of Culture and Communications, the Nicolet-Yamaska MRC and the city of Nicolet. These events took place in the presence of the mayors of the different municipalities and the prefect of the MRC. 
"These are three municipalities that will be able to offer their population of improved library services and a bonified literary offer. Libraries are places to know and awake on reading and, as the new agreement announced today, they play a vital role in the cultural development of their environment, "said Minister Kotto. 
"In the life of a community, a library is a real crossroads conducive to discovery, exploration, relief and intellectual fulfillment. It is also a free access to the information media and books that invite to learn, travel, dream, to escape, to wake up interests and to forge its opinion. Now I want citizens to take ownership of their new libraries and enjoy all they have to offer them, "said MP Champagne. 
The inauguration of municipal libraries has revealed works of art made in the context of the architecture and environmental integration policy of buildings and government and public sites. The artists Denis Charland, Richard Purdy and Dominique Laquerre were present to talk about their works designed for the libraries of Saint-Célestin, Saint-Léonard-d'Aston and Saint-Wenceslas respectively.  The Ministry of Culture and Communications has provided $ 1,041,600 funding for library standards. Each municipality has participated in the realization of its library by contributing financially and using different partners. 
The city of Nicolet is also part of the new cultural agreement between the Nicolet-Yamaska Ministry of Culture and Communications and the MRC. This agreement will provide increased visibility for artists and cultural organizations in the region. Also, a dynamic library animation concept has been developed and will eventually allow 16 libraries of MRC municipalities to benefit from it. This project will increase the attendance of young people and families and is a first step towards the standards of libraries. The financial participation of the Ministry of Culture and Communications is $ 90,000. A total amount of $ 180,000 is thus invested in culture by the three partners of the three-year period. 
