Quebec - The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, today presented the members and the mandate of the team Priority SME: MEPs Mireille Jean (Chicoutimi), Alain Therien (Sanguinet) and Martin Ouellet (René -Tevesque). 
"Mireille, Alain and Martin each started businesses before becoming members of Parliament and acquired in the field of valuable entrepreneurship skills in innovation and business. They are all designated people to develop the ambitious SME priority policy, which we will put in place as government in 2018. Their mandate: to meet the SMEs to identify the irritants and propose solutions, determine the best practices. The paperwork in cities and in government agencies, and make proposals, in the coming months, "said Jean-François Lisée first. 
Among other things, the team will determine measures to reduce the regulatory burden in ministries and agencies, organizations and municipalities. The Parti Québécois team, for example, responds favorably to the Appeal of the Canadian Federation of Independent Company (FCEI) and undertakes to introduce a bill to devote the rule of one for one, which provides that For each new law or regulation that we impose on companies, an equivalent burden will be removed. SME priority must also mobilize municipalities, a considerable part of the administrative burden on SMEs being generated by the municipal landing. It must also propose a lightened regulatory framework that would be applied during the first five years of a new business. 
"The priority team SME will go on the ground to meet entrepreneurs and identify the best means and solutions to stimulate our economy and create prosperity. In all regions of Quebec, we need to promote entrepreneurship and innovation. It is by talking to entrepreneurs - to young people, as well as the organizations that argue that we will find the most promising practices, "added Alain Therrien. 
A team listening to entrepreneursaleau Therrien has the experience of creating and directed SMEs. He is a lecturer at HEC Montréal and UQAM, where he teaches economics. He became leader of the SME priority team. It will also be responsible for SME-entrepreneurship as well as Revenu Québec and regulatory relief. 
Mireille Jean launched a company, Trioniq, specializing in design and manufacturing electronic and computer systems. She was also president of the Quebec photonic network, representing more than fifty research companies and scientific professionals. It has an important expertise in the valorization of intellectual property. Its business years allowed it to control the development of technology products, industrialization, manufacturing, marketing, export, after-sales service, not to mention the management and financing of an SME. She is entrusted with the SME-innovation, productivity and export file. 
Martin Ouellet bought with his wife a ready-to-wear company and was for 8 years General Manager of the Community Development Assistance Society (SADC) Manicouagan. His task was to support the startup and development of SMEs in the region. In the SME priority team, it inherits the regional SME-economic development mandate, which is in addition to its municipal business warrant. 
The government of SMEs "SMEs are the spine of our economy. I come from a family of entrepreneurs, I grew up in an entrepreneurial environment and I have always been close to this universe. Starting a business is a bold act that requires a huge effort. That this effort be complicated, hampered, blocked by an excessive regulatory burden is an insult to common sense and healthy economic policy. Our intention is clear: the government of the Parti Québécois that I will cease to cease to consider SMEs as being at the service of bureaucracy; On the contrary, it will ensure that bureaucracy supports SMEs in their efforts to respect the rules, while creating jobs and wealth, "summed up the leader of the official opposition. 
To follow the activities of the PME Priority Tour, please visit the Facebook page of Alain Therrien MP or write to PriorityPME@pq.org. 
