Quebec, on 18 January 2018 -The official opposition spokesperson for seniors, Harold Lebel, and the spokesperson for social services, Dave Turcotte, denounce the negligence of the Liberal government in the record of sprinklers in the Private residences for seniors. Indeed, the sums announced should have been three years ago; The Parti Québécois has repeatedly demanded them. But the Liberal Party, for opportunism, preferred to wait for the election year to move forward. 
IN SHORT 
"In May, the Minister of Health, Gaétan Barrette, told us that the government granted enough money to allow the installation of sprinklers in private residences for seniors, even if we showed him that many of them Just did not have the means to assume this expense, or even that they might close. Today, surprise! The minister comes out another rabbit from his hat, "illustrated Dave Turcotte. 
It has become obvious: for the Liberal Party, govern, it's cutting or sub-finance until the next election year. At this moment, miraculously, the money reappears. "What this government ignores is that in the field, its decisions have a real impact on citizens. Why he waited until today to invest these sums, when we might have - even - do it three years ago? When it comes to an important issue, and after the tragedy we have experienced in Isle-Verte, it is sad to see the government act in this way, "continued the spokesperson. 
"As soon as the program announces, in February 2015, my colleague Carole Poirier and I had asked the government to enhance funding and act faster. The 5-year period granted to owners to provide their sprinkle residences was very too long, leading us to December 2020. For three years, the government has ignored the messages that are launched. He did nothing, even though he knew that the complexity of the program would slow down the sprinklers. Considering the incompetence of this government, it will be very difficult to achieve the goals, even by December 2020, "Harold Lebel concluded. 
