Longueuil- The Minister Delegate to Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Ms. Véronique Hivon, today announced the creation of a working group on the organization of socio-professional services for people aged 21 and over Invasive development disorder (TED), such as autism, intellectual disability or physical disability. The minister has also announced a recurring investment of $ 10 million, particularly targeting young adults, who is in addition to the $ 35 million injected for the overall improvement of services offered. It was accompanied for the occasion of the Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport and Minister responsible for the Montérégie Region, Mrs Marie Malavoy. 
"Since my arrival, the issue of organizing socio-professional activities offered to people with TEDs or a deficiency of 21 years and more has been brought to my attention in a constant way and I quickly concluded that it was necessary Provide priority attention, "said Hivon. 
During the meetings carried out by the Minister with various associations representing persons with TEDs or disabilities and their families, the accessibility, quality, organization and coordination of services have emerged as important issues, which deserve a thorough reflection. 
"To respond to these concerns, it is necessary to sit the different partners around the same table. This is why, I set up a working group that will bring together as many actors in the health and social services network and other ministries concerned by the subject, that representatives of the Office of Persons with Disabilities of Quebec and well Safe, people from the associative community, who will translate the very concrete pitfalls lived on the ground. We will be able to take stock of the current situation and problems and especially to find ways of improvement both adapted, original and effective in ensuring services that really meet the needs of the people concerned, "she added. 
In addition, Minister Hivon announced the addition of a recurring budget envelope of $ 10 million, on an annual basis, in order to improve the supply of socio-professional activities and residential services adapted to the 21 years. and more, another major challenge for young adults with disabilities. This investment is added to the $ 35 million injected for TED services, intellectual and physical disabilities, are aiming for more general objectives, such as improved assessment and diagnostic services and specialized services offered. by rehabilitation centers, or the improvement of support for the family. 
"The new amounts announced today will provide people with significant day activities related to their interests and adapted to their specific situation. The sums can be used to set up initiatives putting forward innovative approaches or the bonus and consolidation of existing projects, conducive to maintaining acquis and which can subsequently serve as models. They will also put in place alternatives to institutional institution accommodation, promoting new residential formulas with support for young adults in search of autonomy, "said Mrs. Hivon. 
The presence of Minister Hivon in Montérégie was not fortuitous, that posed that it was well aware of the particularly difficult situation experienced by the region, because of the significant financing gap that characterizes it for the Physical, intellectual and Ted deficiency programs, just as is the case for the regions of the Laurentians, the Outaouais, Lanaudière and Laval. This situation has of course an effect on the services offered to people aged 21 and over: "Also, for the sake of fairness, I found that following the $ 35 million investments that benefit the whole Regions, the populations of these five regions were needed in a targeted manner with the additional investment announced today, which they will receive directly, "explained Minister Hivon. 
"As Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, I welcome my colleague's important investment, as well as the establishment by the latter of a working group on activities socioprofessional offered every 21 years and over. Today, our government is making gestures for these young people who need to continue learning throughout their lives, can go to the end of their abilities, in environments adapted to their needs. In addition, as minister responsible for the Montérégie, I look forward to the investment to support the region, where the needs are shy, especially since the prevalence rate in TED is among the highest, "has For its part, Mrs. Mary Malavoy. 
"Today's announcement is a concrete gesture for improving services, both in the short term with the addition of $ 10 million, and in the medium term with the creation of a working group. I am convinced that the network of health and social services, the community community and all their partners will work together to help these people and their families even more efficiently, "concluded Minister Hivon. 
