The Minister Delegate to Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Ms. Véronique Hivon, today announced that the region will benefit annually on an additional $ 1,300,600 to improve services to young adults aged 21 and over Having an invasive development disorder (TED), such as autism, intellectual disability or physical disability. This recurring additional funding stems from a new overall $ 10 million envelope that the minister has confirmed on April 8. It was accompanied for the opportunity of the Minister of Health and Social Services, Mr. Réjean Hébert, and the Minister of Public Safety and Minister responsible for the Outaouais Region, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron. 
"It's mainly a matter of improving the offer of socio-professional activities and residential services adapted to the 21 and over, major issues for young adults with TEDs or disabilities," said Hivon. This budget enhancement is added to that of $ 2,322,492 already announced for the Outaouais, which aims for the more general objectives related to the improvement of the evaluation and early intervention services, specialized services offered by the centers. rehabilitation and support for the family. The region will benefit more than $ 3.6 million in 2013-2014 to meet the needs of these people. 
"The new sums announced today will provide people with TEDs or a deficiency of significant day activities related to their interests and adapted to their specific situation. They can be used to set up initiatives based on innovative approaches or enhancement and consolidation of existing projects, conducive to maintaining acquis and who can subsequently serve as models. They will also put in place new residential formulas with support for young adults with a disability who are looking for autonomy, "said Mrs. Hivon. 
The Minister of Public Safety and Minister responsible for the Ottawa Region welcomed the consideration of the particularly difficult challenges and situation of the region, due to the significant financing gap that characterizes it. for these programs. "I am pleased to see that the minister has understood the stakes that characterize our region. She poses a strong gesture today for people who have to deal with each day with the challenge of the difference, which will benefit directly from this new down deposit, "said Mr. Bergeron. 
Ms. Hivon also recalled the establishment of a working group to focus on the organization of socio-professional activities offered to people aged 21 or older with TEDs or disabilities. 
"During the meetings I have conducted with the various associations active in this field, the accessibility, quality, organization and coordination of services have emerged as important issues, which deserve in-depth reflection. To address these concerns, it is necessary to sit the different partners around the same table. That is why I wanted to set up a working group bringing together actors in the health and social services network, as well as representatives of the other ministries concerned by the subject, from the Office of Persons with Disabilities of Quebec and , Of course, people from the associative community, the latter can translate the very concrete pitfalls lived on the ground. We will be able to take stock of the current situation and problems and especially to find ways of improvement both adapted, original and effective in ensuring services that really meet the needs of the people concerned, "she added. 
"Today's announcements are made concrete actions for improving services, both in the short term with the addition of more than 3.6 million in the Outaouais region, and in the medium term with the creation of a working group. I am convinced that the network of health and social services, the community community and all their partners will work together to help these people and their families even more efficiently, "has concluded Minister Véronique Hivon. 
