Quebec- The member for Saint-Jean and the official opposition spokesman for employment, vocational training, literacy and youth, Dave Turcotte, and the hon. Member for Rimouski and spokesperson to poverty, solidarity and social economy, Harold Lebel denounces the lack of vision of the government and the Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, François Blais, with respect to the aid measures to work, at the fight against poverty and social assistance. 
"The Liberal Party has promised the creation of 250,000 jobs during its mandate. How can this promise be credible, while Minister Blais confirmed yesterday his choice to cut $ 17 million in job aid measures? The only measure of support for the job it proposes, they are cuts! In all regions, organizations support many people to integrate them into the labor market; The minister minimizes their efforts by cutting more in their budgets, "said Dave Turcotte. 
Fight against poverty: the minister Blais always vague  In addition, the study of budget appropriations has confirmed that Minister François Blais remains vague on his intentions as to the balance sheet and the renewal of the law to fight against poverty and social exclusion. 
"More than 10 years after the adoption of this Act by a government of the Parti Québécois, partners and experts should be brought together in order to trace a balance sheet and to project themselves into the future. The minister did not engage in this direction, despite the need for this work. He preferred the mandate on the shoulders of the Commission chaired by Lucienne Robillard, without asking him to take into consideration the impacts of his future recommendations on poverty in Quebec, "said Harold Lebel. 
With regard to the addition of social assistance inspectors, as announced by the Minister of Finance at the last budget, Minister Blais confirmed that they will be able to consider the denunciation and attempt to corroborate The information collected from the neighborhood of social assistance providers. By emphasizing this measure, we add to the many prejudices concerning the beneficiaries instead of really supporting them in an approach that would lead them out of precariousness. 
"The more the study of budgetary appropriations advances, the more we note that the government abandons the most vulnerable people. Its choices will lower the help required to integrate employment, fight against poverty and support for social assistance providers. Liberal austerity obviously represents the increase in precariousness and the difficulties of our most fragile fellow citizens, "have concluded members. 
