Québec- The spokesman of the Parti Party for the development of the regions, for the Treasury Board, Gaétan Lelièvre, as well as the spokesperson for exports, entrepreneurship, social economy and SMEs, Martin Ouellet, participated in the study of the appropriations of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Occupation of the Territory (MAMOT), the development of the regions. 
"The government has once again demonstrated this morning that it has no vision for the development of our regions. During the study of the appropriations, we found that this responsibility no longer belongs to any Minister of this Government, which no one has the specific mandate to defend the regions to the Council of Ministers. The Coiteous Minister may make a list of the regions he visited, he did not succeed in demonstrating once again that there is no resource, direction or program specific to the regions within the mamot. So, how can this ministry claim to defend regional development? Moreover, remember that the term "region" was removed from the name of the department: Mamrot became the mamot. In short, the dismantling of the development tools that the Liberal government has been operating for two years to be like a strategy to divide the environments to better reign to Quebec, "said Gaétan Lelièvre. 
"During the study of the credits, I asked three different ministers to answer some simple questions: what amount of money is reserved, in the 2016-2017 budget, to local economic development? What resources, and how many people are dedicated to the economic development of Quebec? When the Quebec Party was in power, it was more than $ 72 million that were devoted to projects aimed at boosting our regions' economy through local development centers. Now, the government has transferred this responsibility to the MRC, with a fraction of the budget. Worse still, it is not even able to tell us how much remains for regional economic development. It is very disturbing for the future of our regions, "concluded Martin Ouellet. 
