Québec- This morning, during the study of the budget appropriations of the Ministry of Transport, the Metropolitan Transportation Agency confirmed that a lightweight rail (SLR) system on the new Champlain bridge would transport three times more passengers than The current bus system (SRB), and twice as much an improved SRB (SRB +). These figures come from a study of the AECOM firm on the choice of collective mode of transport on the new Champlain bridge, study that the Minister of Transport, Robert Poëti, refuses to make public since his arrival in power. 
"On the one hand, the minister refuses to reveal the AECOM study on the SLR that answers all his questions and, on the other, he orders new studies. The SLR is a neuralgic infrastructure for the South Shore and Montreal. If the Liberal Party Government is as transparent as it claims, why does the minister refuse to make a study paid by Québec taxpayers? Asked the member for Vachon and official opposition spokesperson for transport, transportation and maritime strategy, Martine Ouellet. 
Recall that in April 2013, supported by all the stakeholders of the South Shore and Montreal, the Minister of Transport of the Parti Québécois Government, Sylvain Gaudreault, confirmed the choice of Quebec to move forward with a SLR on the new Champlain bridge and created a project office to coordinate its realization. 
Although the minister prides themselves to follow in a very strict way the directive on the management of major public infrastructure projects set up by the government of the Parti Québécois, he still confirmed not to have followed him systematically. For several projects enrolled in the "under study" section of the PQI 2014-2024, no drafting sheet had been approved by the Council of Ministers, as indicated by point 9 of the Page 8 of the Directive. 
"This directive, adopted by the Government of the Parti Québécois, has the main objective of preventing FIASCOS such as that of the MUHC reproduce. Minister Poëti confirmed this morning that several projects enrolled in the PQI did not follow the process. How will it ensure that their management will be rigorous? , Continued Martine Ouellet. 
The directive aims to ensure rigorous management of major public infrastructure projects. It clearly establishes the steps of approving the projects and ensures adequate monitoring of major projects by the Treasury Board and the Council of Ministers. 
