Quebec- The member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesperson for the Parti Québécois in housing, Carole Poirier, lamented the decision of the Liberal government to slash housing assistance for Quebeckers and the most vulnerable Quebecers. "The figures we have been able to arrange through the study of appropriations very clearly show that the habitation component has undergone a Cup of $ 406 million from its global budget since the election of the Liberals. It's the major! She said. 
It is the help of improving the habitat that is mainly the costs of this unfortunate decision. Since the election of the Government of Philippe Couillard, the credits allocated to these programs increased from $ 76 million in 2013-2014 to less than $ 4 million for 2016-2017, a decrease of nearly 95%. "Renoregion, Improvement of Accommodations, Renovation Québec, Suitable Accommodations for Seniors Autonomous: All these essential programs for regions, seniors and the poorest are simply abolished. Only the home adaptation program, mainly intended for people with disabilities, is maintained, but it is dramatically decreased, to the point that if it may be able to finance more than the projects already incurred. How can the government justify such a disengagement, while it is the most vulnerable people of our society that will suffer? ", Questioned the member. 
"In terms of social housing, the painting is unfortunately no more connection. In recent years, the government has increased the financial burden of project leaders, as a result the accumulation of delivery delays. Now he uses these delays to justify his cuts, which is still a pool! Not only is the construction of new housing units, so to speak, but in addition, the amount of the rent supplement program, which normally help to immediately help the poorest families, have not been distributed. By only 6ing 68 aid out of the 1000 planned last year, the government simply saved on the back of the citizens. And what does the minister do with the social urgency? It responds with bureaucratic mechanics, "conclude Carole Poirier. 
