Quebec, December 6, 2016 -The dated 6 December 1989 remains engraved in the memory of all Quebeckers, including that of the Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean François Lisée, and the spokesman of the Parti Quebec. , Mireille Jean, who emphasize that we must never forget the tragedy of Polytechnique if we want to move forward as a society. 
"More than 25 years after this tragic event, the memory of these 14 talented young women, futures engineers, is still present. Painful, too. For if the career choice of these young women marked a step further on the path of equality, it was also the reason why someone wanted to annihilate all their dreams, "first reacted Jean François Lisée. 
"It is to pay tribute to the victims we have to continue to fight against discrimination and violence that affect women. Quebec has made a lot of progress, it even serves as a model around the world, but the achievements are fragile; We must take care to maintain them, be attentive to what threatens them. As legislators, we take responsibility for making gestures strongly reaffirming our willingness to make equality between women and men a reality for all women, "added Mireille John. 
In this regard, the member mentions that the fate of aboriginal women is of particular concern. "Despite the progress we can be proud of, the Aboriginal example illustrates how much we still have a lot of way to go. The recent events at Laval University, while many students have been attacked in the residences, show it very well. It is a challenge for all of our society, for all communities. The advancement of women and the evolution of Quebec are intimately linked; When a steppiever is made towards equality, it is the whole Quebec society that progresses, "she continued. 
The Leader of the Official Opposition recalled, in closing, two recent proposals of the Parti Québécois aimed at reducing violence against women. "We claimed the establishment of a consumer awareness campaign to explain the concept of consent, as well as a sexual education course in all schools, from the primary school. These actions, very simple enough to realize, would have a lot of positive effects, "he concluded. 
