Saint-Hubert- Friday, 15 January, Martine Ouellet, Member of Parliament for Vachon and spokesman for the Quebec's transport, Amir Khadir, MP, and about thirty representatives from the taxi industry held a point Joint press to denounce UberX and the inaction of Minister Poëti. 
Abandoned families 
Martine Ouellet emphasized the impact of liberal negligence on taxi owners and their families. "In Montreal only, we are talking about more than 10,000 taxi drivers who have an average of $ 50 a day for about 18 months. The value of their taxi license has decreased by about 20% since the arrival of UberX, but the drivers must continue to pay their mortgage on the purchase value! The inaction of the Couillard government has serious consequences on taxi drivers and their families. Let him stop procrastinating and acts! "She claimed. 
Uber: an illegal multinational 
"The Liberals tolerate illegality, they tolerate the unacceptable. I have never seen that, a mobilization for the government to apply the laws, it's overrelated. Taxi ownership drivers only ask for a thing to the Minister Poeti: that he applies the law immediately. We do not see that often, illegal companies, who do not pay any tax, any tax and who act in off-law; Why is Uberx benefiting from this favor of the Minister Poëti and Prime Minister Couillard? The government causes damage to taxi drivers and their families by deciding not to act. It's unacceptable, "Martine Ouellet continued. 
A decisive meeting 
"This is the first time that stakeholders from the entire taxi industry have gathered around the same table since the arrival of UberX in Quebec. Moreover, there was a clear consensus on the urgency of acting as well as the lack of willingness of the Couillard government and the Minister Poeti to enforce the law. Taxi drivers are desperate and the government must not wait anymore. Some actions have been launched, especially by Juripop; Proceedings are underway for a class action against UberX concerning the scandal of the monster tariffs of the year. Taxi drivers also filed denunciations against illegal drivers before the Quebec Transport Commission. Finally, a petition to defend the taxi industry is online on the website of the National Assembly. In any case, it makes no sense that taxi drivers and their families, blown up and taxpayers make the inaction of the Liberal government in the illegal taxi file, "concluded Martine Ouellet. 
