Quebec- The member for Saint-Jérôme and sentence of the official opposition in terms of economy, entrepreneurship, SMEs and exports, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the member for Saint-Jean and spokesperson of employment, vocational training, literacy and youth, Dave Turcotte, as well as the member for Rousseau and spokesperson in finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, find that he was created less than Quebec jobs in Canada during the month of March, and since the arrival of the Liberals, full-time employment stagnates. 
"After a year of Liberal government, it did not create full-time jobs. The North Plan has melted by half and does not provide any jobs in the short term, and the maritime strategy will remain a paper project for more several years. In addition, the last budget did not contain any policies to stimulate the economy, only austerity measures that affect him. We have been asking for a repetition, for a year, a real policy of economic development, but in vain; All we can measure today, it is the consequences of austerity, and they are felt every day, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
"As it created 28,700 jobs in Canada, only 5300 were in Quebec. In the short term, we find a stagnation of employment, in addition to seeing the number of families with a decrease in their income. In the regions, in particular, where several tools of development and consultation have been reduced, the effects of liberal austerity are hard to feel, "said Dave Turcotte. 
"All the measures of the last budget contributes to only 0.1% of economic growth, but the compression measures will reduce, for its part, this growth of 1%; It's 10 times more! Moreover, the last budget reported another decline in Quebec's economic performance in 2014, confirming that growth will be limited to 1.3%, or half of Canada. What will finally make this government moving? Its stubbornness not to present real economic development policy suggests that it has absolutely no vision in this area for Quebec, "concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
