Quebec- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Seniors, Dr. Réjean Hébert, today highlights the success of the 2013-2014 project call for the Program for the Municipality of the Seniors (MADA) ) It announces that the 54 new projects accepted will share a total amount of $ 1,422,547. 
"This call for projects once again shows the seriousness of our commitment to support communities with the social inclusion of seniors. Municipalities and MRCs du Québec responded in large numbers to the call, which demonstrates the broad interest in MADA projects and, confirms our world leader position in innovation to deal with aging of the population, "said Minister Hébert. 
Municipalities and MRCs who subscribe to the MADA program undertakes to promote the participation of seniors in the community by adapting services and infrastructure to their needs and by allowing them to take an active share of society, with the support of any population. With the 54 new admitted projects, which group 128 municipalities and MRC, Quebec now has 704 participating municipalities and MRCs. It should be noted that they are 159 to date to have completed their approach and to be recognized as a friendly municipalities of seniors. 
"The addition of these new projects greatly brings us closer to our goal of achieving the number of 860 municipalities in 2017 and MRC engaged in the MADA approach. It should be noted that this approach goes hand in hand with our home support and self-help projects and that it aims to include seniors in the future of our society, which is one of our priorities, "said Minister Hébert. 
The Minister has also benefited from the opportunity to highlight the success of the 2nd International Conference of Friendly Cities (VADA), organized by the Ministry of Health and Social Services (Secretariat for Elders) and sponsored by the World Health Organization, which took place in Quebec City from 9 to 11 September 2013. "The avenues of reflection brought by this pooling of experiences carried out in nearly 50 countries will enrich our way of doing in Quebec," A-T -He concluded. 
