Quebec, October 24, 2014 - Following the announcement of the creation of the Nordic Institute of Quebec, the member for Marie-Victorin and the official opposition on energy, natural resources and Nordic development, Bernard Drainville, and the member for Gaspé and spokesperson for the development of the regions, Gaétan Lelièvre, question the real will of the Liberal government to include the regions in version 2.0 of the North Plan. 
"Once again, Prime Minister Philippe Couillard demonstrates the little interest he has for the regions of Quebec. After Bill 10 of the Minister Barrette, aimed at restructuring the health network by moving jobs and decision-making powers to the major centers, the government announces that it creates the Nordic Institute of Quebec, without Include or even consult the University of Quebec in Abitibi-Témiscamingue and the University of Quebec in Chicoutimi. These educational and research institutions, however, possess considerable expertise in Nordic territory and mining sector, "said Bernard Drainville. 
"The proposed abolition of elected regional conferences, cuts in the financing of local development centers, the abolition of the Youth-Employment Traditional Template and the 20% decrease in tax credits for resources. that some examples that demonstrate that no minister get up in this government to defend the regions. The absence of consultation with universities in the region for the creation of the Nordic Institute of Quebec is in the same logic, "added Gaétan Lelièvre. 
If the Liberal government wants to launch a new North Plan, it has a duty to consult Nordic communities, including Aboriginal nations, to obtain membership. The North Plan must indeed be defined in consultation with these communities, to meet the challenges they face. 
"The Liberal government will, this time, take into account the aspirations of all Quebeckers. Several organizations and municipalities would like to get involved in planning or governance of the North Plan; Unfortunately, they have not been invited yet. Yet these would have many ways of solution to propose. The government must correct FIR and listening to communities, municipalities and organizations directly affected by Nordic development. It is a matter of respect, "concluded the hon. Member for Marie-Victorin. 
