Quebec, December 8, 2016 -The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean? François Lisée, the Parliamentary Leader, Pascal Bérubé, as well as the Deputy Leader and Spokesman of the Parti Québécois in terms of energy and natural resources, Sylvain Rochon, can not believe that the government has decided to impose the gag to pass the bill containing the controversial chapter on hydrocarbons, which does not pass the bar of social acceptability. 
"It would have been so simple for the government to accept our offer to split the bill. We could have finished the session by adopting, perhaps unanimously, the portion on the energy transition. But no. Liberals are treated, make hydrocarbons a priority, while so many other topics of importance have to wait. What presses so much? By forcing the adoption of a bill that allows expropriation, the government works for oil, purely and simply, "says Jean? François Lisée. 
"It's odious. The government, imposing the gag, demonstrates that it is completely indifferent and insensitive to what Quebeckers tell him, even though the results of Monday sent him a clear message that it must be more 'listen. At the Québécois party, we are listening. We oppose this bill and we make it a question of principle. Even though we are moving towards a vote that will let a bitter taste, we will continue to make constructive proposals that reflect the thought of citizens and that take into account their concerns; That's what they expect, "said Pascal Bérubé. 
Sylvain Rochon speaks of a slap to democracy and Quebeckers. "Already, the government conceals the scope of Chapter 4 of the bill in regulations that can not be consulted. They concern fracturing, a very criticized practice, at the base of the shale gas crisis. Then, as if it were not enough, now that it forces us to adopt, pedal basically, this bill. This practice bears a name: a denial of democracy. And it's far from glorious. The minister tells us that patience has its limits. To the patience of who refers? To that of oil and gas? That he thinks about Quebeckers looking forward to seeing him prohibiting fracturing and expropriation, "he insisted. 
