Quebec, on 27 March 2018- The official opposition for the finance opposition, Nicolas Marceau, denounces the electoral and desperate budget filed by the Liberal government: "Quebeckers are now experiencing the liberal recipe: three years of compressions, A year of candies then elections. Faced with this harmful cycle, they have two options: the CAQ, which promises to do worse, or the Parti Québécois, who is committed to breaking it, "he said. 
IN SHORT 
An electoralist budget 
"This budget is electoralist not only because of the candies that are found there, but also because the Liberals did not hesitate to plunge Quebec in a situation of deficits, then of austerity! They promise us the resumption of the liberal cycle, but with weakened services from the start. Never can such a budget be tabled next year. It is an electoralist budget, and the Auditor General will confirm that he is not sustainable in the long term. It is a desperate gesture of the Liberals to maintain power. We understand better why Philippe Couillard went to Piger in the Generation Fund: it is to hide the deficits in which he chose to plunge Quebec. Only the Parti Québécois is committed to breaking this devastating cycle, "the spokesman insisted. 
Back to austerity 
"The population is not fooled; She knows that a re-election of the Liberals, next October, would mean another cycle of austerity and rising tax burden, followed by some drops and gifts for the pre-election period. As for the CAQ, it must answer us: what would it do things otherwise? The liberal recipe - cut down to lower taxes - will have to be even more salty if it is served by the CAQ! The Liberals held a financial stalemate for the coming years and the CAQ, promising irresponsible and unrealistic tax cuts, hides voters on the darkest days for health and education. For four years, we have known all the evil, all the suffering, and all the impoverishment that have been caused. The Parti Québécois undertakes to reinvest responsibly in public services, "continued the member for Rousseau. 
Several unresolved problems 
"In health and education, $ 6.4 million and $ 3.4 billion is missing as the Liberals had promised in 2014. Contrary to what the Prime Minister told us, the budget confirms that for 2019-2020, Nearly a quarter of all new health money will be used to increase the salary of doctors. The Parti Québécois offers to freeze the salary of doctors and reinvest the sums directly in the services for patients. With regard to electronic commerce, the biggest problem, that of the non-taxation of tangible goods, will not be settled. It is 60% of the tax losses that will remain. In addition, business investments are still lower than before the arrival of the liberals in power, and the good year 2017 did not allow a recovery. As a result, economic growth will decline in the coming years. Finally, with respect to regional air transport, rather than breaking the Air Canada monopoly, the government announces that it will subsidize the cost of too expensive notes; In other words, he will subsidize the company, albeit indirectly, "concluded Nicolas Marceau. 
