Quebec- In response to the tabling of the Government of Quebec's budget, the spokesman for the Quebecois Financial and Income Party, Nicolas Marceau, indicated that the budget balance is the great liberal diversion to hide economic stagnation and the Always present, while families, students and patients lose and get nothing more. 
Deterioration of public finances and the economy 
"The Minister of Finance's newsletter is measured by the state of the economy, by creating jobs, and the state of public finances, by the debt / GDP ratio. Overall, the state of public finances deteriorates. While the weight of the debt in our economy was to be 54% as at March 31, 2016, the budget tells us that it is actually 55%. A direct consequence of the liberal government's budget cuts, which have undermined economic growth. Since June 2014, it has been truly the "Forecast Limbo": they always come down lower. The liberal effect is to provide 2% increase in GDP for 2015 and finally, in half: 1.1%. For 2016-2017, the Liberal effect will retrench one billion independent revenue to what was planned in the budget last year. Two years of austerity, it gave a debt / GDP ratio that is constantly increasing, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
"In terms of wealth, Quebec fell compared to Ontario in 2014 and 2015, while there has been a catch-up since 2000. Many economic projects are canceled, Quebec loses ground. The regions have lost their development tools, Quebec has lost jobs, head offices, and Quebeckers have lost confidence in the government, "continued the spokesperson. 
The promise of the 250,000 jobs missing, the private investment at 0% 
"The promise, become a target, then a myth, to create 250,000 jobs is now missing. There has been no job since the beginning of the year and, for the whole of 2016, these are less than 30,000 jobs that are planned, "added the member. 
"Business investment is down 4.7% in 2015, and is 0% in 2016. The government does not provide any increase in business investment and nothing to change the game. This is not invented: 245 pages of measures generating 0% investment of companies. The Liberals offer some economic measures, but they do not believe themselves. I insist: In 2016, 0% investment and the creation of less than 30,000 jobs. The whole work does not hold the road, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
"The few proposed economic measures account only half of what the Economic Plan of the Parti Québécois provided for. As usual, the Liberal government does things halfway and retraining. For the manufacturing sector, economic policy has been shoveled in the Hydro-Québec Court. Not only is the majority of the sums planned in 2019 and in 2020, but, moreover, two-thirds of the sums dedicated to helping the manufacturing environment come from Hydro-Québec, for decreases in electricity tariffs, "A-T- He also specified. 
Education: clearly insufficient 
"Quebeckers should not be fooled. Of the 164 million new measures invested in academic success, 80 had already been announced. The first amount of 80 million was already insignificant; The new is just as much. This is 0.5% of the education budget! The 3% increase, scheduled for this year, is below the average of the 10 years prior to the Couillard Government. Yet the needs to support school perseverance and students in difficulty, in particular, are still present. In the last two years, the Liberal government has cut hundreds of millions of dollars into our schools, CEGEPs and our universities. If the historical average of expenses had only been maintained in the last two years, we would have, for 2016-2017, one billion more in the network. The minimal efforts made by the government are clearly insufficient, "says Nicolas Marceau. 
Health is the great loser of the budget 
"Healthy, we are talking about 2% increase in consolidated spending, never-seen. It's the smallest health investment for 15 years. Compressions in the health sector will continue, the network and patients are the greatest losers of this budget. The Minister of Health launches structural reforms, without improving patient care and seniors. The President of the Treasury Board itself says itself: spending growth is mainly attributable to the impact of salary adjustments. What remains for patients? The expected level of expenditure shows that austerity continues and will continue in the coming years, "said Rousseau's member. 
Nothing more for families 
"Once again, the Liberal government admits its mistake, but only half and only for a portion of families. The "debt CPE", the family tax, will always be applied. The Government of Quebec succeeds in balancing its budget on the back of the citizens, while families do not succeed in balancing theirs. The decline in the tax burden for this year is 130 million, that is, $ 60 per family. To summarize, simply say that for two years, the liberal effect costs $ 1500 annually to each Quebec family, without calculating the accessory costs of the Minister of Health and recent increases in electricity rates. To be even clearer, families will absolutely have nothing more this year in their pockets. This is a very incomplete refund: $ 1500 minus $ 60 gives $ 1440 a tax burden higher after the 2016-2017 budget, "concluded the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois. 
