Quebec- "The Liberal government has done enough damage. He cut off, hook up to students, health care for our patients and elders, the development of our regions, the exports of our businesses. That's enough. It is time to give oxygen to families, support our SMEs and our regions, and repair the liberal mess in health and education networks, "said the leader of the official opposition, Jean-François Listed, presenting the pre-budget expectations of the Parti Québécois, with the spokesman for the Parti Québécois in the field of finance, Nicolas Marceau, the spokesperson for education, Alexandre Cloutier, and the spokesperson for family , Claude Cousineau. 
On average, $ 1125 for each family of Quebec 
"Since his arrival, Philippe Couillard has increased rates over $ 1100 per household. If the Parti Québécois prepared the budget next week, we would help Quebec families. Money is available by freezing the remuneration of physicians from this year and ending their incorporation. It would clear $ 625 million from doctors, who experienced a vertiginous rise in their income for the families of Quebec, victims of the Liberals, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
With these $ 625 million, the Parti Québécois offers three measures: 
"The shock caused by the rise in the child care rate has affected many families in the middle class. We must repair this liberal error. Restore the price is also a way to showcase our public child care, which work every day to educate our toddlers in a safe environment, "said Claude Cousineau. 
"Our students have undergone the effects of liberal sections in education; We must reinvest in a sustainable way, beyond the liberal promises and accounting artifices. It is necessary to get out of this coffering, while the needs explode in the network, that the number of students in difficulty increases and that several schools fall into ruin ", has on its side specified Alexandre Cloutier. 
Repair liberal damage 
The spokesman for the Parti Québécois in the field of finance, Nicolas Marceau, indicated that the budget surplus, realized on the back of Quebeckers, should be reinvested in full in services to citizens, mainly in education, healthy, in the protection of youth and in social housing. "And, let's be clear, it will only overcome some of all the missing amounts in health and education networks. The quality of life of seniors, student services, better access to care, home and mental health, there should be priorities, "he said. 
It recalls that the budget surpluses were carried out at the expense of essential mission of the state, by cuts in the financing of health, education, aid to seniors and other public services. Last year (2015-2016), the funding of missions was virtually zero (0.4%), while maintaining the services basket required 3% inflation. The cut was $ 1.7 billion. For the current year (2016-2017), the funding of missions is up only 1.7%, while we had been promised a reinvestment of 4%. This year, the compression is $ 1.5 billion. The actual effect of liberal austerity is $ 3.2 billion for the last two years. 
Invest for our SMEs and our regions 
"Last year, Quebec's exports to the United States fell by 4%. The Plan de Philippe Couillard does not work! You have to send a strong message to businesses and support them in opening up new markets. For companies with fewer than 250 employees or less than $ 50 million in revenue, each additional $ 1 million in export will be tax free, "added Nicolas Marceau. 
"We have an incredible wealth right now in Quebec: a high proportion of young Quebeckers wants to start a business. And, in addition, a majority wishes to do it in its region of origin. We must support the installation of companies in all regions of Quebec. One of the keys to success is a high speed internet network and cellular telephony. We propose to the Government of Quebec to take 10% of the amount allocated this year to the Generations Fund, or $ 250 million, and to invest this amount in the deployment of such a network, to cover all regions as soon as possible. Québec ", also clarified the official Leader of the Official Opposition. 
"After the years of austerity, the cuts and now austerity 2.0, we ask the Liberal government to help Quebec families, finally. The Parti Québécois offers concrete, targeted measures to support our students, elders, patients, SMEs and areas. Because it's time, "concluded Jean-François Lisée. 
