Longueuil- The Minister of Education, Recreation and Sport, Minister responsible for the Montérérégie Region, Minister responsible for Culture and Communications for Files concerning the City of Longueuil and Member of Parliament, Marie Malavoy, accompanied by Responsible for the democratic institutions and citizen and deputy participation of Marie-Victorin, Bernard Drainville, and the Minister of Natural Resources and MP for Vachon, Martine Ouellet, is pleased to announce that a $ 20 million agreement agreement is given to the city's theater, for the construction of the cultural complex it will share with the Motus Theater, south and the Longueuil Symphony Orchestra. 
"So long, this cultural complex bringing together four cultural organizations will give Longueuil a decisive advantage to continue to stimulate development in its territory. The theater of the city, a broadcaster already very well established, will only deploy his mission and serve the population and contribute to a quality social and cultural life. The contribution of the Government of Quebec is part of a desire to radiate the performing arts for everyone, "said Minister Marie Malavoy. 
"This is another demonstration that when you all work in the same direction, with the same goals and for the same cause, we can succeed in great things. The Longueuil's people will now have a reaches room worthy of their city and we owe it to the extraordinary collaboration of all partners: the city of Longueuil, the middle of culture and our government. We believed it and today, we give ourselves our theater! He said Bernard Drainville, deputy of Marie-Victorin. 
"This cultural complex will respond to real needs of our community and the four organizations it will house. These needs have done a broad consensus among the political, economic and cultural stakeholders of Longueuil in recent years. This complex will allow citizens of Longueuil and the surroundings to benefit from a diverse cultural offer, music, theater and show for the greatest pleasure of all, "added Minister Martine Ouellet. 
The cost of the project is estimated at $ 53 million, excluding the value of the land that is transferred by the city of Longueuil. The city also reserved the same amount as the Government of Quebec, or $ 20 million, for the construction of the cultural complex. Another part of the funding will be assumed by the city theater that will collect major funds. 
The financial assistance of the Ministry of Culture and Communications will come from the Quebec Infrastructure Plan 2013-2023 made public in April and which will eventually result in investments of $ 2 billion for the cultural component. It will have a major economic impact throughout Québec, with nearly 60,000 jobs created or maintained, on average, per year. This plan also marks a turn in the way of investing and managing public infrastructure. This new way of doing things will make it possible to evaluate the need, according to the priorities of Quebecers, to measure the associated costs and to make informed choices. 
