Québec- One week after making the expectations of Quebec for the Speech from the Throne, the Quebec government notes that the federal government does not rectify the shooting on the files that are consecrated against him. 
As part of the speech of the throne pronounced yesterday, the federal government, far from responding to the expectations of Quebec, persists in its willingness to impose on Quebec decisions that affect their economy. "The federal government was asked to correct the shot, it is clear that with this speech, it misses the target for Quebec," says Minister Alexandre Cloutier. 
Training labor, securities and workers' funds are records that testify to Quebec's economic specificity and are largely consensus. In the Speech from the Throne, the Conservative government continued to ignore Quebeckers' appeal to stop tackling what works well in Quebec. 
"The federal government is swimming in full contradiction. In his speech, he says he wants to respect the skills of Quebec, but he continues to encroach with foot joints in the formation of the workforce and in the field of securities. Our government will stand up to defend the economic interests of Quebecers and will turtle this government to respect our skills and our economy, "said Minister Cloutier. 
With respect to the tightening of the rules concerning the safety of the transport of hazardous materials, Québec expects the federal government to act quickly to respond concretely to the resolution adopted under the leadership of the Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, At the last conference of the prime ministers. In fact, Quebec had announced its specific expectations of the federal government at the last meeting of transport ministers in Winnipeg. 
"The federal government had much neglected its responsibility for the transportation of hazardous materials. In this speech, he gave no specific indication and did not give any schedule to propose new rules. It does not only belong to the transport companies to ensure the safety of their convoys. Quebeckers expect Ottawa assumes his responsibilities right now. It is the economic vitality and security of our communities that depend on it, it wishes to remind Minister Cloutier. 
The Marois government is also dissatisfied with the silence of the federal government regarding the issue of toll on the Champlain Bridge. "It is a nonsense of establishing a toll on the largest trading axis in Quebec. The Harper Government must respect Québec's opinion, from the 82 cities of the Montreal Metropolitan Community and the Bureau of Partners and must quickly indicate that it abandons the idea of more taxing the people of the Greater Montreal region, "says Minister Cloutier. 
While hundreds of citizens and groups of workers and employers from across Quebec mentioned, at the hearings of the National Examination Commission, negative effects of the federal government's employment insurance reform, the Speech from the Throne did not mention any desire for the latter to retreat on the reform he unilaterally implemented last January. "By turning his back on the problems he has created himself, the federal government is struggling to work against the Quebec economy," says Minister Cloutier. 
The Government of Quebec denounces the Directorate that the Conservative government wants to roaming aid policies with the "housing first" approach and rather asks it to renew the approach to roaming partnerships (SPLI ) as it was, by respecting the Quebec guidelines. "There is a strong consensus among community groups and Quebec roadside stakeholders that the current program works well and gives excellent results. In this area, the unique recipe does not exist and the federal government's approach, only focused on housing, does not meet Quebec's needs, "said Minister Cloutier. 
The government also wishes to remind the federally the disturbing problems of Aboriginal people and North-du-Québec's Inuit. "We want the assurance that the information provided on housing assistance in northern Canada will be equitable for Quebec and that our Nordic communities will receive their fair share," says Alexandre Cloutier who is also Minister responsible for North. of Quebec. 
As part of the announced opening of the Coast Guard Vessel Construction Contracts, the Quebec government will remain vigilant to ensure that the Davie site will get its fair share of federal contracts. "Quebec has been totally ignored when granting $ 33 billion in contracts for the construction of the latest military vessels. It is out of the question that this happens again for the construction of civil vessels, "said Minister Cloutier. 
"In announcing that it will reconnect with the budget surpluses after 2015 while maintaining its intention to reduce the health transfers of nearly 8.6 billion over the next ten years, the Harper government will accentuate the fiscal imbalance. Once again, Ottawa will cut its transfers to make surpluses on the back of Quebecers, "the Minister Alexandre Cloutier is indignant. 
"What this throne speech demonstrates is that the federal government makes decisions that weaken the economic structure of Quebec. If Quebeckers no longer want to be in response to the economic decisions of the federal government, they will have to realize that it is only by the sovereignty of Quebec that they can be masters of their decisions, "concluded the Minister Delegate for Governance. Sovereignist, Alexandre Cloutier. 
