Montréal - The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, has today proceeded to the delivery of the Quebec Grand Prizes of Quality to two organizations who have particularly illustrated by the quality of their management and their overall performance. So, boa-franc s.e.n.c. and FORIA received the highest honors awarded by the Quebec government to companies and organizations that successfully apply the best business practices. 
"Today, we pay tribute to the organizations that represent the forces of the Quebec economy very well. These companies stand out, innovate and are required by the quality of their products and services as well as their management, here and abroad. The laureates are models of excellence for all organizations wishing to prosper, "said the Prime Minister. 
The remission ceremony took place in front of 1000 business leaders and economic stakeholders gathered at the Montreal Congress Palace, on the occasion of the 2012 Quality Event. The Prime Minister was accompanied by the Chairman of the Board of the Quebec Movement Quality, Roch L. Dubé, and the president of the selection board of the QUE Quebec Grand Prizes and Director of HEC Montréal, Michel Patry. 
In addition to the two winning organizations of a grand prize, five other companies or organizations were honored. Thus, Xstrata Copper - Refinerie CCR has obtained a great mention, while mentions have been awarded to SBI - manufacturer of international stoves inc., To Industrial Alliance, Auto and Housing Insurance, in Valacta, Center of Expertise in Dairy Production, and at the laboratory of judicial sciences and legal medicine. 
"The competition that is exercised, both in local and foreign markets, represents a major challenge for our businesses, also noted Pauline Marois. The establishment of more efficient management and production processes and the appropriation of innovation represent powerful instruments for increasing the competitiveness and profitability of our organizations. » 
Boa-franc s.e.n.c. is established in Saint-Georges de Beauce where it employs 260 people. Over the years, she has become a leader in the manufacture and marketing of supermarket planchers. It is distinguished from its competitors by the attention it deals with the satisfaction of its employees and its clients, by its innovative force, its unique know-how and a high-performance sales network. The senior management of Boa-Franc S.E.N.C. demonstrated leadership in all spheres of the organization. It has a recognition program that has mobilized employees. Day after day, Kaizen activities are conducted in the various services to constantly improve the performance and results of the company. 
Fordia is headquartered in Dollard-des-Ormeaux, Montreal, and has some 300 employees in Quebec and abroad. It offers a full range of diamond tools, equipment and accessories, including drilling companies and mining. It distributes its products in 34 countries. FORIA has experienced sustainable growth despite a slow motion economy in the United States and Europe. Thanks to a visionary leadership, the company has adapted in a highly competitive market. For ten years, it has been a rigorous and stringent strategic planning exercise throughout the organization. Thanks to its employees and its customers, and the culture of quality and innovation that it has developed, FORDIA has all the characteristics of a world-class business. 
Xstrata Copper - CCR Refinery is located in Montreal-East where it employs 550 people who are activated by the responsible and cost-effective development of mineral resources. This division of Xstrata Copper Canada refines copper by electrolysis, final phase of its transformation before its marketing. Thanks to its leadership and an innovative approach, CCR has been able to differentiate from competitors by focusing on new working methods that employees have joined. The company has revised its business model to focus on more specialized and cost-effective production. The risk management model at CCR is at the cutting edge of the industry. In addition, the Six Sigma approach helps to increase the performance of the company. 
Remember that four organizations were mentioned at the 2012 Edition of the Quality Québec Grand Prizes. This is SBI - manufacturer of international stoves inc., Industrial Alliance, Auto and Housing Insurance, Valacta, Dairy Production Expert Center, and the Laboratory of Judicial Sciences and Legal Medicine. 
The fact sheets and photographs of the winners of the 2012 Quality Québec Grand Prizes are available at www.qualite.qc.ca/grands-prix/les-laureats. 
The Grand Prizes Quebec of Quality (GPQQ) are the highest distinctions given by the Quebec government to the most efficient businesses and organizations. Established in 1998, GPQQ compare, by their rigor, at internationally renowned prices such as the Deming Prize (Japan), the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award (United States) or the European Quality Award. GPQQs are jointly administered by the Ministry of Finance and the Economy and the Quebec Quality Movement. 
The Quebec Quality Movement is a non-profit organization whose primary role is to help organizations explore, share and implement best management practices so that they become the most successful in the world in their sectors of respective activity. 
