Bonaventure- The Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks (Fauna and Parks Component) and MP for Bonaventure, Mr. Sylvain Roy, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to the Regions and Minister responsible for the Region of the Gaspésie-de-la-la-Madeleine, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre, announces, as part of the Regional Initiatives Fund, additional financial assistance of $ 150,000 at Gaspésie's Bioparc to support the progress of the development of the second phase of their project. 
Recall that the Bioparc was created in 1998 on the site of the former Bonaventure Zoo, is an educational and ecological animal park whose mission is to present and protect the Gaspé fauna and flora. In 2009, the realization of a first phase of development, which saw the construction of rental cottages and new animal habitats, allowed to enhance the regional tourist offer. The project aims to bear the completion of a second phase of work to improve the cost-effectiveness of the organization and to increase the duration of visits and stays, which would therefore contribute to stimulating the local economy and regional. More concretely, this work would make it possible to strengthen the animal pole, expand and consolidate existing service infrastructures and to highlight the Bonaraventure Barachois. 
"Today's help demonstrates the Government of Quebec's willingness to support the economic, tourist and social development of Gaspésie by consolidation and job creation as well as by the optimization of infrastructure. It is essential to support institutions like Bioparc that do not only promote the exploitation of our resources, but also their knowledge and respect, "said MP Sylvain Roy. 
The Regional Initiatives Fund is part of the Government Intervention Strategy for the Development of the Gaspé-Islands-de-la-Madeleine Region and constitutes a major lever to promote, in particular, the realization of Projects from development priorities in the region. An annual $ 6 million annual envelope is scheduled for this fund, for a period of five years. The program is in effect until March 31, 2018. 
