SALABERRY-DE-VALLEYFIELD- The member for Beauharnois, Mr. Guy Leclair, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, announces a financial assistance of $ 40,000 to The 12-17 antechamber, youth hosting of the About to carry out renovation and buying furniture for its new home house. This amount comes from the Cyprusural Development Fund (FCD). 
To ensure its mission, the organization wants to offer temporary accommodation to young people aged 12 to 17. The "hostel" style, this property will offer, in addition to a safe place to spend the night, a psychosocial intervention adapted to the reality of young people on the street or at high risk of being. Last October, the organization acquired a house. However, work is needed to make the building safe and adequate for young people and buy furnishings. The total cost of work and acquisitions is $ 80,000. 
The 12-17 antechamber, the youth accommodation of the About, was established in 2012. It offers young people at the same time community support for social integration, which can be declined in terms of accommodation, guidance, information. , accompaniment, social or professional learning, authorization with regard to their social, emotional, family, economic, political and cultural environment. 
"It is with great pride that the Quebec government supports this project. It will help strengthen solidarity in our region by offering young people all the support they need to take an active part within our community. The support to the most vulnerable of us is an issue that particularly affects us, because it is directly part of the commitment we have made to make solidarity one of the pillars who guide our action, "mentioned the Member Leclair. 
It should be noted that the FCD aims to support initiatives that contribute in particular to the economic, social, cultural, tourist, environmental and technological development and that could not be achieved without its contribution. 
