Quebec- Members of the Health and Social Services Commission of the Quebec National Assembly today begin public hearings as part of an initiative on the living conditions of adults hosted in the center of Long-term accommodation and care. These hearings will allow parliamentarians to hear about forty organizations, health and social services agencies, accommodation centers, associations and federations as well as professional orders affected by the situation of persons accommodated in CHSLD. 
The members of the Commission adopted unanimously, on May 14, 2013, this mandate of initiative. They want their work to promote the sharing of innovative solutions to improve the services and care provided to people hosted in CHSLD. Members will make recommendations to that effect. 
"We intend to use the reflection that begins to support the Ministry of Health and Social Services, organizations, agencies, institutions, CHSLD staff and all persons interested in their efforts to enhance the conditions of Life of adults living in CHSLD, "said the President of the Commission on Health and Social Services, Mr. Lawrence S. Bergman. 
"The living conditions of the people hosted in CHSLD are a vast subject. The work of the Commission will therefore target some of the challenges in this environment. These include the accessibility of CHSLDs, their financing, their physical organization, the particular audiences they accommodate and caregivers. The Commission will also focus on the quality of the given care and services, the organization of work as well as on the training of staff ", added the Vice-President of the Commission, Ms. Suzanne Proulx. 
In parallel with public auditions, all citizens can participate in the work today through an online consultation. Their answers will make it possible to feed the reflection of parliamentarians on the subject. In addition, in order to better study the living conditions of the residents, the members of the Commission will visit CHSLD in March in some regions of Quebec. 
Remember that the Health and Social Services Commission is one of the eleven standing parliamentary committees of the National Assembly of Quebec. It has health competence as well as social and social services. The Commission may, by virtue of its power of initiative, study any public matter of public interest in its field. The names of its members are attached. 
Note that the online questionnaire, the audition schedule and the consultation document are available on the website of the National Assembly at: www.assnat.qc.ca/chsld 
