Montreal- On April 15th, the Parti Québécois proudly launched a first campaign for promoting sovereignty outside a referendum process, on its new SitePq.org. The result is more than conclusive. The video capsules series that launched the campaign and features Pauline Marois, Leader of the Parti Québécois, found echo at many independent sympathizers, with a total of nearly 70,000 viewings. 
The comments of the activists are also excellent: an inspiring campaign bringing clear and limpid arguments, accompanied by videos of a natural Marois Pauline, which should watch all Quebeckers. 
The campaign focuses mainly around easily shared cards that not only make the promotion of sovereignty but also provide elements of discussion for Quebeckers. 
The campaign extends over six months and deals with various subjects as the savings of a sovereign Quebec, the international place of the international and the riches of Quebec. Already, after a single month of promotion, we can emphasize that sovereignty for all, the launch theme, has been an unexpected success, with nearly 8000 shares and 14,000 I love surfacebook. 
The Parti Québécois also wanted to give the floor to sovereignist activists. Because after all, sovereignty, it depends on us! It depends on Catherine, Marc-André, Ariane, William, Denise, Yves. Again, success did not wait. These small home capsules have cumulated more than 600 viewing each. 
The next theme that starts on Monday may arouse even more debates since there will be the savings of an independent Quebec. Figures in support, the Parti Québécois intends to demonstrate that by becoming a country, Quebec would not only be richer of its choices, but also its portfolio. 
Finally, to complete the whole, we call on the supporters of a Quebec country to assert itself, to appear and express their pride in being sovereignists with the tools, posters, t-shirts , avatars, cover images, twitter backgrounds, etc. 
We have developed it, but we will not be alone to do it. Quebec is full of creators and creators, and we will call on them. We will launch competitions with slogans, images, posters, etc. Because sovereignty, it depends on us. 
