Témiscouata-sur-Le-Lac- Minister Delegate to Tourism, Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region and MP Pascal Bérubé, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupancy of the Territory and Minister of Transport, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, announces $ 137,012 announcing the Association of People with Disabilities between Friends of Témiscouata for the acquisition and renovation of a building to improve the services offered to citizens. Thus, a help of $ 93,527 comes from the Collective Entrepreneurship (PIEC) infrastructure program, which is added a contribution of $ 43,485 from the Cyprus Development Fund (FCD). 
Founded in 1978, the Association of Persons with Disabilities between Friends of Témiscouata has the mission of accompaniment, training, information, promotion and defense of the rights of persons with disabilities as well as the development of leisure for them. This non-profit organization, which is also representative of the offices of the Québec Automobile Insurance Company (SAAQ), covers all 19 municipalities of the Témiscouata Regional County Municipality (MRC). At present, he is taking his activities in two leased locations, which are 11 km from each other. The project therefore aims at the acquisition and renovation of a building in order to consolidate under the same roof all the services offered. 
"It is with great pride that our government supports this flagship organization of the Témiscouata MRC that provides essential support for the poorest people of us while promoting their integration. In the long term, the realization of this project will contribute to the consolidation and development of the activities offered to the disabled people of Témiscouata, "said Minister Bérubé. 
Equipped with an investment envelope of $ 10 million, the PIC aims to support social economy companies in the implementation of projects of refurbishment, expansion, construction or acquisition of commercial infrastructure or industrial. The objectives of the CEIP are to promote the development of social economy companies, contribute to the socio-economic vitality of the territories and to promote the preservation and valorization of the quality of the environment. 
It should be noted that the FCD aims to support initiatives that contribute in particular to the economic, social, cultural, tourist, environmental and technological development and that could not be achieved without its contribution. 
