Saint-Félicien - Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Science and MP Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier, on behalf of the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Bank of Economic Development of Quebec, Ms. Élaine Zakaïb, announced, in the context Durez-You National Forest of Quebec, the allocation of loan guarantees totaling more than $ 2 million at the Petit-Paris Forest Cooperative to support it in the continuation of its diversification. 
This financial support will allow the purchase of equipment, including a mobile forest camp. The new equipment will provide additional room for maneuver to the cooperative, especially to operate auctioned lots. Originally, the Petit-Paris Forest Co-operative, founded in 1968, was dedicated exclusively to the forest cup. Over the years, it has gradually diversified its activities to add reforestation, the release of tree stands, field preparation, supply and the transformation and use of resources, such as forest biomass, for energy purposes. The cooperative provides employment to 350 workers, of which 170 are members. 
"I am proud to announce the financial support of more than $ 2 million at the Petit Paris Forest Cooperative, a forward-thinking company that has recently distinguished by getting a price at the Chamber of Commerce Gala and Industry Lac-Saint-Jean-Est, "said Alexandre Cloutier. "By diversifying from 1987, she was able to take advantage of new business opportunities. Thus, since 2012, it produces heating from biomass, which allows it to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, increase profitability and maximize local benefits. It is a dynamic company that has managed its resources responsibly and sustainably. » 
From left to right: Denis Trottier, Member of Parliament and Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (Forest Fund) Alain Paradis, Director General of the Petit-Paris Forest Cooperative, Martine Ouellet, Minister of Natural Resources and Alexandre Cloutier, Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignist Governance and Minister responsible for the North-du-Québec region. // (c) Jean Briand 
"If there is a sector where diversification is crucial, it is that of the forest industry," said Zakaïb Élain. "We need to welcome the determination of this cooperative of workers who has passed its diversification strategy with Brio. » 
"The investment announced today will allow the cooperative to modernize its equipment and increase its productivity, two elements preferred by recently made public industrial policy. This is the only way for manufacturing companies to increase their competitiveness and better position themselves in the face of new market realities. » 
"Thanks to the investment Québec participation, we will be able to complete our financial assembly and to make this project a reality," said Alain Paradis, Director General of the Petit-Paris Forest Co-operative. "These new equipment will also allow us to react quickly if opportunities arise and thus ensure the sustainability of the cooperative and work activities for our members. » 
Investissement Québec's mission is to promote investment growth in Quebec, thus contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The company puts companies with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity capital investment, in order to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, it is responsible for the administration of tax measures and prospecting investments abroad. 
