Quebec for 15 years, 259 Aboriginal children and adolescents died in violent or obscure circumstances in Quebec. In front of this worrying observation, the member for Beauharnois and spokesman for the Aboriginal business, Guy Leclair, and the member for Hochelaga? Maisonneuve and spokesperson for women's condition, Carole Poirier, ask the government Liberal to make all the light. 
"The suspicious death rate in Inuit children and First Nations is three to four times higher than that of Quebec youth in general. This reality is unacceptable. The Quebec government can not stay the arms crossed. He must act promptly, acquiesce at the request of the Assembly of First Nations of Quebec and Labrador, and trigger a public inquiry into the issue, "said Guy Leclair. 
The situation is particularly worrying with regard to Inuit. Indeed, although this nation represents less than 20% of the Aboriginal population of Quebec, more than 55% of violent and obscure deaths involving an Aboriginal youth have occurred in Inuit villages. 
"Federal disengagement in housing in Inuit communities is outrageous. Indeed, for six years, at the end of the 1990s, Ottawa has ceased to invest in social housing, which created a shortage that worsens from year to year. This situation pushes Inuit to live in inhuman conditions, and a multitude of social problems resulting from it. The death of these young Inuit is a sad demonstration, "continued Guy Leclair. 
Status of women in Aboriginal 
In addition, recall that the Quebec party has been asking for a year that the National Assembly has been studying ways to implement to reduce the sources of physical, sexual and psychological violence against Aboriginal women. These recommendations should contact both levels of government, the Assembly of First Nations of Quebec and Labrador, as well as any other instance directly or indirectly concerned. 
"We know the fate that is reserved for thousands of girls and women. They are in distress, right now. Do not do anything would be the equivalent of non-assistance to anyone in danger, "said Carole Poirier. 
