Dolbeau-Mistassini- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of Natural Resources, Martine Ouellet, and the parliamentary assistant for Forests, Denis Trottier, today announced the outfit, to Saint-Félicien, on November 21st and 22nd, Current from the Quebec Forest. 
"The main actors of the wood sector that are close to the forest, its industry and its workers will be invited to the Quebec Forest rendezvous. This meeting will lead to reflection on the timber sector as a driver of a new green economy and agree on a three-year forest action plan. In this regard, it can be said that this appointment is an integral part of the Future Economic Policy of the Government of Quebec, "announced the Prime Minister. 
The appointment will be opened by the Prime Minister, in the presence of the Minister of Natural Resources and Members of the Region, including the member for Roberval and Parliamentary Assistant of the Minister of Natural Resources to Forest Files, who is entrusted with the mandate. to prepare the event. 
"To chapter the preparation of the appointment, we are fortunate to count on a passionate supporter of the forest, a person engaged for years for the cause. I asked Denis Trottier to devote all her energy in the coming weeks to organize this meeting at the top. With the Minister of Natural Resources and his team, he will be responsible for the preparation of the Quebec Forest appointment. It will ensure that in collaboration with the actors of the forest community, we do not lose sight of the essentials: to give a new impetus to the forest sector, "added the Prime Minister. 
The Quebec Forest appointment will bring together representatives from the National Forest Management Associations, Forest Manufacturers, Regions and Municipal, the Research and Education Sector, Financial Institutions, Trade Unions Forest professionals and practitioners, associations representing private forest, First Nations and socio-economic groups. The different topics discussed will be: Forestry and the development of the Quebec forest, the optimal use of a valuable resource, the future of industry and job creation. 
"Forests are an important, if not essential economic engine, for several regions of Quebec. They offer very interesting prospects for economic development, for the benefit of all Quebeckers. This vision, shared by many of our partners, will be at the heart of the Quebec Forest rendezvous, "said the member for Roberval, Denis Trottier. 
"Wood is the ecological material par excellence. An important part of the discussions of the appointment will be devoted to forestry and development of the forest. We also want to make sure that the whole wood sector can rely on a skilled workforce to meet the challenges it faces. We want to ensure that the forest is an asset in all regions, which it allows us to create jobs and that it becomes a source of pride. We want to generate a broad consensus aimed at stimulating the competitiveness of the forest sector, to encourage the innovation and development of new value-added products, and to reduce our production of greenhouse gases, "concluded Minister Martine Ouellet. 
For any information regarding the Quebec Forest Appointment, visit www.rendezvousdelaforet.gouv.qc.ca. 
Consult the press releases issued during the National Forest Rendezvous 
Also appointment on the Quebec party blog to read the premier's ticket "a big step towards the future for the Quebec forest. » 
