Quebec, April 14, 2020 / CNW Telbec / - Following recent events that occurred, in particular, in a Chsld of Dorval, the member for Rimouski and spokesman for the Quebecois for Elders, Harold Lebel, reiterates a proposal Many times put forward by its political training and having been the subject of the filing of a bill: once the crisis is past, Quebec will have to appoint an elder protector. 
IN SHORT 
The multiplication of outbreak households, as well as too many deaths occurred in recent weeks in seniors, public and private residences, have something to think. "The Pandemic of Covid-19 has highlighted the consequences of state disengagement in care offered to seniors, and the limits of previous health policies. It's simple, the human being has lost its place. This must change, "said the deputy of Rimouski. 
On several occasions last year, particularly through a bill, the Parti Québécois claimed the creation of a function in the image of that of the Protecteur du citoyen, but specifically devoted to elders. "I said it and repeated: Take care of seniors must become a national priority. Every week we hear a new history of horror and, lately, the situation is exacerbated by the pandemic. But the shortage of staff, the lack of equipment or their obsolete, the deficient care, it does not date from yesterday, "said Harold Lebel. 
The member also stresses that an elder protector would ensure safety and respect for the rights of all Elders in Quebec. "About 85% of seniors live at home. They often benefit from close support, or home care. However, they too can end up in vulnerability. Not only should we ensure that they have access to all the services they may need, but also prevent abuse and all forms of abuse, "he explained. 
The Protector of Elders of Quebec, totally independent of the Ministry of Health, would be appointed to the Human Rights and Youth Rights Commission. It could be alerted by the seniors themselves, or by anyone suspecting bad treatment. "It has often been found, and more in recent weeks: seniors are entitled to better, much better. For the moment, we must obviously take care of the crisis. Then, in the interest of seniors and for their property, the state must create an independent body that will first ensure respect and promotion of their rights. But even moreover, it will ensure that seniors can live in dignity. I ask the government to ask this gesture that will honor us all, "concluded Harold Lebel. 
