Québec- "The Deposit of Public Accounts 2012-2013 confirms that our government has respected its targets of expenditure and has been successful in establishing rigorous control. This is good news for Quebec taxpayers, who expect us to give the example by ensuring exemplary management of public finances. It can be said that it is mission accomplished for the 2012-2013 fiscal year, "today announced the Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, on the occasion of the publication of the financial statements of the financial statements. Government for the 2012-2013 fiscal year. 
Indeed, the budget deficit for the year ended March 31, 2013 amounted to $ 1.6 billion, or $ 146 million less than the one announced at the publication of the preliminary monthly report last June. 
"At 0.4% of our gross domestic product (GDP), the Quebec deficit compares favorably to those of other jurisdictions. As an indication, Ontario recorded a deficit of $ 9.2 billion for the same year, or 1.4% of its GDP. The federal government presented a deficit of $ 18.9 billion, 1.0% of Canadian GDP, "the minister observed. 
The $ 1.6 billion deficit budget balance is $ 100 million higher than what had been planned for March 2013's economic and financial update as well as in the budget tabled on November 20, 2012. 
The government has achieved the best performance of the last 15 years in terms of program spending control. In fact, program expenditures were lower of $ 395 million compared to the level of expenditure provided for in the 2012-2013 budget filed in March 2012 and in terms of the economic and financial situation of Quebec in March 2013. Their growth was contained at 1.2% in 2012-2013, a significantly less increase than 2011-2012, which was 2.5%. 
"Upon arrival in power in the fall of 2012, we had to resolve a $ 1.6 billion budget impasse. Would not have been our action, the deficit would have reached $ 3.1 billion. This was restored by rigor in the management of public spending, while protecting services to the population. Rigorous expenditure control has also made it possible to compensate for the decrease in income related in particular to less vigorous than expected growth in household consumption and lower than expected inflation at the end of the government's financial year, " Indicated the minister. 
In addition, the public accounts show that gross debt as of March 31, 2013 is $ 1.9 billion in the forecast published last March in the point on the economic and financial situation of Quebec. This gap is explained by lower borrowing than expected for capital investments and the favorable variation of accounting posts such as accounts payable and receivable. 
As of March 31, the ratio of gross debt in GDP was 53.3%, while estimated at 54.2% in last March economic and financial update. 
Last June, the National Assembly adopted a law stating that no transfer carried out by a department can not be brought to the Government's accounts other than in accordance with the prior authorization of the Parliament of Quebec. 
This accuracy confirmed a practice in force for more than thirty years to the Quebec government. Indeed, according to this practice: 
The Government of Quebec funds a share of capital investments of municipalities, such as sewers, aqueduct and public transit, as well as capital assets of universities through the granting of annual subsidies under the repayment of capital and on borrowing that these municipalities and universities have contracted to fund these fixed assets. 
The Auditor General confirmed that the government's financial statements were in line with the law. 
Since 2011, the Ministry of Finance and the Economy argues that the revised Transfer Payment Standard allows the Government to maintain its current practice with respect to grants awarded annually to repay capital and interest on long-term financing. Term of fixed assets. Indeed, when the Public Sector Accounting Board - the Canadian Accounting Standardization Agency for the Public Sector - has adopted this revised Standard, it did not believe that it introduced substantive changes by Report to old standards. 
The position of the Ministry of Finance and the Economy of Quebec is confirmed by the independent opinions produced by four internationally renowned accounting firms consulted on this subject, KPMG, Ernst & Young, PricewaterhouseCoopers and Samson Bélair / Deloitte & Touch. 
For this purpose, the Ministry has tabled the Public Sector Accounting Council a legal opinion that the interpretation that the enabling authority to authorize the expenditure, within the meaning of the revised accounting standard, belongs to the Parliament of Quebec and Not only to the government. The standard on transfers continues to be reviewed by this organization. 
"The Government's consolidated financial statements, tabled today in the National Assembly, adequately reflect the financial situation. The current accounting practice used by the Government for its transfer expenses reflects the powers of the National Assembly and allows a sound management of our infrastructure spending. Following the publication of the revised transfers standard, for more than two years, the Ministry of Finance and the Economy argues that the Government complies with the Canadian Public Sector Accounting Standard for Transfers. The Public Sector Accounting Council should take into account the position defended by Quebec and supported by four major international accounting offices, "supported the Minister of Finance and the Economy. 
The Government of Quebec's consolidated financial statements are available on the Department of Finance and Economy website at www.finances.gouv.qc.ca. 
