Québec - formerly for more than two years, the Liberal government has just announced in Catimini that it postpones the deposit and the adoption of a hydrocarbon law within three to five years. An aberration according to the Parti Québécois. 
"The anarchic and archaic development of the gas sector in Quebec can no longer continue. It takes a minimum of supervision to reassure Quebecers. It is out of the question of waiting for the results of the strategic environmental assessment (EES) before enhancing the hydrocarbon framework. There is a way to limit the damage and cease the flight policy forward, "said the member for Vachon and spokesperson for the official opposition on shale mines and gas, Martine Ouellet. 
The hon. Member recalls that while waiting for the Hydrocarbons Act, promised by the Liberal government in the spring of 2009, it is the mines law that applies. However, Bill 14 currently under consideration provides no new management for the gas sector. 
The PQ wants amendments to Bill 14 amending the Mining Act 
Pending the adoption of a hydrocarbon law, now postponed to Greek calendars, the Parti Québécois intends to submit amendments during the detailed study of Bill 14. 
"We must forbid hydraulic fracturing for shale gas in the St. Lawrence Lowlands, the territory defined in the last budget of Minister Bachand, as long as we do not know the conclusions of the EAS on the matter. We must also provide a study by the BAPE before any drilling for gas and oil so that the debate can be done before the emergence of environmental impacts, "continued the member for Vachon. 
The Parti Québécois intends to file amendments to review the royalty regime so that at least 50% of the wealth created by hydrocarbons come back to Quebeckers and introduce an auction mechanism for the allocation of exploration permits. "It is incredible to note that the government is limited to upper royalties of 17% and that it will tolerate it costs as little as 10 under the hectare to exploit. We want the government to cease to give our resources. We want to be masters at home, "sued the member for Marie-Victorin and spokesperson for energy, Bernard Drainville. 
"These parameters being absent from Bill 14, we need to integrate them in order not to further expand our resources and respond to the legitimate concerns of the population," concluded Martine Ouellet and Bernard Drainville. 
