Quebec- The member for Saint-Jérôme and official opposition spokesperson for economy, entrepreneurship, SMEs and exports, Pierre Karl Péladeau, as well as the member for Rousseau and spokesman Finance and Income, Nicolas Marceau, deplore the absence of a benefits from the Prime Minister's European Mission and its presence at the World Economic Forum of Davos. 
"Obviously, the upstream preparation work has not been done by the Minister of the Economy, Jacques Daoust. An economic mission without any concrete results, it is ringing. The last similar mission had been led by Pauline Marois; Major investments of more than 450 million, creating more than 600 jobs, had then been brought back to Quebec. Among other things in Ferroatlàntica, White Star Capital in Ubisoft Quebec and Cinesite, "recalled Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
The economic situation is getting worse  "Day after day, month after month, the numbers confirm: the economic situation of Quebec is getting worse. Yet the Prime Minister continues to wait patiently for the liberal effect, which does not happen. For him, everything is fine; So, he does not do anything. Obviously, the incessant changes in business taxation affect investment decisions. Remember the parametric cuts of 20% to the tax credits and the results of the Godbout Commission that are always waiting; This uncertainty makes Quebec less attractive for businesses. Let's add to that the cuts of the President of the Treasury Board, Martin Coiteous, who harm economic growth. Decidedly, the Liberal-Caquist recipe does not work, "said Nicolas Marceau. 
The member also recalls that the ISQ announced last week that Quebec GDP decreased by 0.4% in October. We therefore speak of two declines in the last three months. Quebec exports were also learned from 11.5% in November, the last month measured; This fall is much more marked than in the rest of Canada. 
"While since the arrival of the Liberals, Quebec has the worst job assessment in Canada, Minister Jacques Daoust shares the waitition of his Prime Minister. Instead of writing news releases on Saturday to try to reassure people who lose their jobs, as he did to bomber at the Pocatière, he must act! Liberal-Caquist austerity and inaction do not help our SMEs and entrepreneurs; Their confidence is falling, which slows down investment and job creation. Liberal lethargie must stop. Concretely, what will the government do? If he has no idea, he resumes our economic priority policy ", concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
