** Trois-Rivières- The Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for Elders, Réjean Hébert, accompanied by the member for Champlain, Noëlta Champagne, is proud to announce that Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec is See new annual budgets of $ 7,011,800 to improve home care and services offered to seniors in both regions. In addition, an additional appropriation injection of $ 5,209,600 is granted to cover the increase in the development costs of this territory. The allocation of these sums thus improves equity between regions in terms of resource allocation. 
As part of the government's commitment to add $ 110 million to home care, Mauricie and Center-du-Québec are confirmed new annual budgets of $ 7,011,800 to improve home care and services offered to the elderly on their territory. 
"I'm proud of the effort we are doing this year to strengthen the home care supply, such as today, Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. Improving senior services in loss of autonomy is one of our government's key priorities, as will also confirm our approach to autonomy insurance, which will be unveiled shortly. Immediate improvement in home support will serve more seniors, even more wisely help those who are already receiving services and better support families, "said Minister Hébert. 
These new credits have three components: 
For the Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec, an envelope of $ 5,209,600 has been allocated to support the development costs of the region. "The addition of these credits will enable first line health services and better meet the needs of the population, at the local and regional level, in addition to improving interregional financing equity" , added Minister Réjean Hébert. 
"People with the loss of autonomy of the Mauricie and the Center-du-Québec, as well as the members of their entourage, will see in a marked way the offer of home care. The two regions also benefit from a significant budget injection to correct a certain historical underfunding, "said the member for Champlain, Noëlta Champagne. 
In fact, the injection of these sums announced today will help improve the fairness of health financing between regions, including those of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec. This method consists of distributing the available budget envelopes, taking better account of the regional characteristics and needs of the population, in particular from the perspective of demographic change. 
