Mont-Joli- On behalf of the Minister of the Family, Ms. Nicole Léger, Minister Delegate to Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region, Mr. Pascal Bérubé, accompanied by the member for Rimouski, Mr. Irvin Pelletier , today unveiled the projects selected following the recommendations of the Consultative Committee of the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region. These projects will create 395 new cover spaces at $ 7 in the region. They are part of the call for projects of 15,000 additional places along last February 7 by the Minister of the Family. 
"It is essential for me that new subsidized child care places really meet the needs of families in the region. Today's ad is a very good news for Bas-Saint-Laurent families. With the creation of these new places, several families will be able to benefit from accessible and high quality child care, "said Minister Pascal Bérubé. 
"The addition of 395 places in CPE [Early Childhood Centers] in Bas-Saint-Laurent will help create 70 new jobs in our region, while consolidating those of educators already in office. In addition to respecting its commitment to Quebec families, our government promotes job creation, "said the hon. Member for Rimouski, Mr. Irvin Pelletier. 
"Families are at the heart of the commitments of the government and the vision of solidarity that we place in the center of our actions. For families in Quebec, it means a child, a place! Today's announcement is the realization and it testifies to our determination to continue our efforts in this direction. In the coming weeks, other projects will be made public throughout Quebec to meet the needs of families in all regions, "said Minister Nicole Léger. 
The implementation of these projects will begin in 2014 and will continue gradually until 2016. Since November 2012, it has been 28,000 places that have been announced by the Government of Quebec. All selected projects have been recommended by advisory committees on the distribution of places. These advisory committees are responsible for analyzing eligible projects submitted by applicants and make recommendations to the Minister of Family on the projects to be retained. 
The creation of the 28,000 new placework is located in the government orientations on which the "solidarity" pillar rests, one of the four pillars of government action, with integrity, prosperity and identity. These guidelines, made public on October 30 by the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, will guide the government's action in the implementation of measures aimed at improving the well-being of the most vulnerable people and families. The government wants to give a new impetus to solidarity, an inseparable value of collective wealth. 
