Quebec- The Minister of the Family, Ms. Nicole Léger, with Ms. Agnès Maltese, Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale Regions and From the Chaudière-Appalaches, today gave the call for projects for the creation of 15,000 additional places with reduced contribution in the Quebec Educational Care Services Network. 
The realization of these places will begin in 2014 and will continue until 31 December 2016. In order to comply with the parents' preferences, these 15,000 places will be created in installation, that is to say 85% in centers of the small Childhood (CPE) and 15% in subsidized daycares. 
"By launching today this call for projects, I am particularly proud to offer a reduced place to all Quebec children whose family desires. In line with its commitment, our government will make available within 4 years, 250,000 places with reduced contribution to meet the needs of Quebec families, in all regions of Quebec, "said the light minister. 
"For families in the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches, these are 2,235 places that will be added to those already exist or are in the process of carrying out. This is a great news for parents. We must not forget that the creation of child care places is an important lever to facilitate participation in the labor market. As Minister responsible for the Status of Women, I am doubly sensitive to the announcement today, "said Maltais. 
In order to reach all Quebeckers and all Quebeckers, the Ministry of the Family has set up 22 advisory committees, representative of the different regions of Quebec, in accordance with the Child Educational Care Act. Thus, the projects selected will be the subject of recommendations of these committees. 
"The advisory committees are formed of experienced people who care about the development of child care and who are very familiar with their environment. These are important allies that allow us to make us offer quality spaces adapted to the needs of parents, "mentioned Ms. Léger. 
In December and last January, these committees were consulted on the needs and priorities for reduced contribution child care. At the end of these consultations, the main priorities for the allocation of the 15,000 new places have been established, either: the reduction of seating deficits at $ 7 and the increase in service offering for children from disadvantaged. 
Thus, 2,000 of the 15,000 places will be reserved for the disadvantaged circles, while 300 places will be intended for exceptional projects, including those related to the improvement of educational practices with early childhood, for example in the case of associations with the medium of research or teaching. A call for projects for the creation of 300 places for indigenous communities will also be launched shortly. 
"The advisory committees are formed of people who care about the development of child care and who are also very familiar with them. This is what I have seen, because they have had the task of advising me on the priorities to consider for the distribution of new places in their respective regions. The consultation of the environment and the work of the advisory committees are therefore essential to offer the parents of Quebec quality places adapted to their needs, "mentioned Ms. Léger. 
Projects will have to be tabled at the Ministry of the Family by June 14, 2013. People who wish to submit a project will be able to download the appropriate form and guide as well as relevant documents from the website of the Ministry of the Family, AWWW .mfa.gouv.qc.ca, from February 14th. An information telephone reserved for this project call, at number 1 888 264-7683, is accessible to people who wish to obtain information. 
