Quebec- In the company of the Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale and Chaudière-Appalaches, Ms. Agnès Maltese, the Minister of The family, Ms. Nicole Léger, today unveiled the projects selected as a result of the recommendations of the Advisory Committee of the Capitale-Nationale Region. These projects will create the creation of 1,364 places with reduced contribution to child care in the region, which will be added to existing or carrying out. This announcement is part of the call for projects for the creation of 15,000 additional places launched on February 7, 2013 by the Minister of Family. 
"Families are at the heart of the commitments of the government and the vision of solidarity that we place in the center of our actions. For the families of Quebec, this means a child, a place! The announcement of today is the realization and it testifies to our determination to continue our efforts in this direction. In the coming weeks, other projects will be made public throughout Quebec to meet the needs of families in all regions, "said Minister Nicole Léger. 
"The addition of 1,364 new places mainly in CPE in the region will contribute to creating 240 new jobs, while consolidating those of educators already in office. In addition to respecting his commitment to Quebec families, our government promotes job creation, "adds Léger Nicole Minister. 
"Today's announcement is a very good news for the families of the Capitale-Nationale. With the creation of these additional places, several families in the region will benefit from accessible and high-quality child care, "said Minister Agnès Maltese. 
The implementation of these projects will begin in 2014 and will continue gradually until 2016. Since November 2012, it has been 23,000 places that have been announced by the Government of Quebec. All selected projects have been recommended by advisory committees on the distribution of places. These advisory committees are responsible for analyzing eligible projects submitted by applicants and make recommendations to the Minister of Family on the projects to be retained. 
The creation of the 28,000 new places is part of the government guidelines on which the "solidarity" pillar is based, one of the four pillars of government action, with integrity, prosperity and identity. These guidelines, made public on October 30 by the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, will guide the government's action in the implementation of measures aimed at improving the well-being of the most vulnerable people and families. The government wants to give a new impetus to solidarity, an inseparable value of collective wealth. 
