Laval- In the company of the member for Sainte-Rose, Ms. Suzanne Proulx, and the member for Laval-des-Rapides, Leo Bureau-Blouin, the Minister of Family and Minister responsible for the Laval Region, Ms. Nicole Léger , today unveiled the projects selected following the recommendations of the Advisory Committee of the Laval Region. These projects will enable the creation of 601 places with reduced contribution to child care in the region, which will be added to existing or carrying out. This announcement is part of the call for projects for 15,000 additional places launched on February 7, 2013 by the Minister of the Family. 
"Families are at the heart of the commitments of the government and the vision of solidarity that we place in the center of our actions. For families in Quebec, it means a child, a place! Today's announcement is the realization and it testifies to our determination to continue our efforts in this direction. In the coming weeks, other projects will be made public throughout Quebec to meet the needs of families in all regions, "said Minister Nicole Léger. 
"I want to highlight the work of the Laval Advisory Committee, which has not spared its efforts in recent months to recommend the best projects. The creation of these new places in the Laval region will attract new families in search of quality child care and tailored to their needs, "said Suzanne Proulx. 
"Today's announcement is a very good news for Laval families. With the creation of these additional places, several families will be able to benefit from accessible and high-quality child care, "mentioned the Leo Bureau-Blouin deputy. 
The implementation of these projects will begin in 2014 and will continue gradually until 2016. Since November 2012, it has been 23,000 places that have been announced by the Government of Quebec. All selected projects have been recommended by advisory committees on the distribution of places. These advisory committees are responsible for analyzing eligible projects submitted by applicants and make recommendations to the Minister of Family on the projects to be retained. 
The creation of the 28,000 new places is part of the government guidelines on which the "solidarity" pillar is based, one of the four pillars of government action, with integrity, prosperity and identity. These guidelines, made public on October 30 by the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, will guide the government's action in the implementation of measures aimed at improving the well-being of the most vulnerable people and families. The government wants to give a new impetus to solidarity, an inseparable value of collective wealth. 
