Quebec- The Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, today announced that the highway completion project 19 has just taken an important step with the Filing of the environmental impact study at the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks (MDDEFP). 
"The filing of the environmental impact study reflects the importance given by the government to the completion project. This unmissable step is part of a rigorous and transparent analysis process, "said Minister Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The minister heard the expectations expressed by the community and confirms the government's commitment to completing Highway 19 in the form of a significantly enhanced project, a four-way highway (two ways in each direction) with implantation A path reserved for collective transport in each direction, rather than a cable reserved lane, and several new developments and works intended to make it a major transit infrastructure in a sustainable mobility approach. 
The Minister of Transport presents a series of bonuses that will provide substantial improvements to the project on public transit, including: 
"The project we submit to the MDDEFP will allow the establishment of a high-level bus service. On an axis where there are currently very few users of public transit, we plan to reach 2,200 peak periods on the horizon of 2031, with a departure every 3 minutes. Of these, we plan that nearly half would be former motorists who would change mode of transportation, "said Minister Gaudreault. 
"It's a nice day for the citizens of the Laurentians. Our government responds "present" for our region whose population has been growing faster in Quebec for 20 years. These demographic changes lead to growing pressure on the infrastructure in place. My colleagues from the Laurentians Region, Denise Beaudoin (Mirabel), Claude Cousineau (Bertrand), Daniel Goyer (Deux-Montagnes) and Roland Richer (Argenteuil) and I look forward to this stage that is taken today. It is meaningful and testifies to our firm will to complete this project, "said Sylvain Pagé, Member of Parliament for Labelle and Head of the Laurentian Region. 
"This is an excellent news for our region! By registering it in the budget of the Quebec Infrastructure Plan] (Québec Infrastructure Plan), our Government confirms its commitment to this important infrastructure for Terrebonne and defended by the coalition for the completion of Highway 19. In addition, with The announced amendments, the project enters a sustainable development perspective where public transit takes an important place. Once again, our government has advanced the file faster in eight months since the Liberals had done so for the last three years, "Mathieu Traversy added, deputy for Terrebonne. 
Following the analysis of the documents filed, the Ministry of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks usually requires clarification on certain aspects of the study. Once the project is provided by the project promoter, the MDDEFP will judgment the impact study in accordance with the directive it issued for the project (justification and variants, impacts, mitigation measures during the work. , etc.) and then issue a notice of admissibility. After these stages, the MDDEFP minister can then mandate the office of public hearings in the environment to make the impact study public. It is at this moment that a public hearing can be requested. 
