Saint-Jérôme - Minister Delegate to Social Services and the Protection of Youth, Ms. Véronique Hivon, today announced a new stage in the project of renovation of the Youth Center of Laurentides, that of the development of the presentation file strategic. This is a first step towards the realization of the project, which will be fully funded by the Ministry of Health and Social Services, by Virtue Québec Infrastructure (PQI). 
"With the project of renovation of the Youth Center of Laurentides, young people in the living area of difficulties and their families will benefit from new modern facilities. These will allow young people to evolve in places of life and activities tailored to their needs and reality today, "said Minister Hivon. 
According to the privileged scenario, the project will result in the construction of a new installation of 122 places in the sector of Saint-Jérôme, bringing together in a single campus the units of Saint-Jérôme, Sainte-Sophie and Sainte-Agathe. -Mounts. The new campus will have 10 units of 110 seats and a 12-seater overflow unit, and 4 units of life totaling 44 places will be maintained at the Huberdeau campus, located north of the Laurentides region. 
"The consolidation of several units in Saint-Jérôme will provide services to young people in difficulty in a more conducive environment to meet their clinical needs as well as access to various and adapted sociorercrequent services and activities. Links with vocational training and the job market will also be favored. We also want to continue the work that is done in the north of the region with the maintenance of forty-four places at the Huberdeau campus, which will ensure access to services to all young people in the region and their families, They live in the north or south, "said Minister Hivon. 
The member for Labelle and Head of the Laurentians Region, Mr. Sylvain Pagé, welcomes this announcement: "This is a very expected project, in a critical field of activity for the well-being of young people in difficulty of our region and for which we have listened to our local and regional partners. With the maintenance of four units of life at the Huberdeau campus, the reintegration of young people will certainly be favored, in their natural living environment and with the best possible conditions. " 
The minister also confirmed the availability of an envelope to finance this stage, which could result in an investment of up to $ 2.7 million from the Ministry of Health and Social Services. The project, the costs of which are estimated preliminarily at approximately $ 60 million, thus takes a first step towards reorganizing the fourteen units of life of the Laurentian Youth Center. 
