Sherbrooke- Seniors and Sherbrooke families now have access to 56 new homes made through the AccessLogis Québec program of the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ). The diligence, cooperative of solidarity in dwelling, has been inaugurated today by the Minister of Health and Social Services, Minister responsible for Elders, Minister responsible for the Estrie Region and deputy of Saint-François, Mr. Réjean Hébert , in the presence of many partner partners. 
This housing cooperative has two buildings, one of 40 homes for seniors and the other of 16 homes for families. More than $ 6.2 million have been invested in the realization of this project, of which some $ 3.1 million were granted by the Government of Quebec, through the SHQ. 
"Thanks to this project, elders and families evolve in the same environment, quality and adapted to everyone's needs. This proximity promotes exchanges, mutual aid and sharing of knowledge between the different generations. This intergenerational solidarity contributes to the enrichment of our society and that is why our government is very proud to be associated with this beautiful local initiative, "said Minister Réjean Hébert, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, regions and The occupation of the territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault. 
In addition to the SHQ grant, the City of Sherbrooke invested nearly $ 895,000 for the realization of this project. Also, a grant of more than $ 124,000 has been granted by the Office of Energy Efficiency and Innovation of the Department of Natural Resources so that the project meets Novoclimat program standards. Finally, the SHQ guarantees the mortgage contracted by the organization diligence, cooperative of solidarity in housing, which makes it possible to supplement the financing of the project. 
"Thanks to diligence, our community can now keep its young families and seniors, or even attract new ones, which will contribute in the near future, to curb the exodus of our citizens. This is our entire community, "said Mr. Denis Bouliane, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Diligence, Cooperative of Solidarity in Housing. 
Note that additional financial assistance of nearly $ 482,000, spread over five years and assumed to 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the City, will allow 28 tenants of this complex to benefit from the rent supplement. Rent. Thus, these low-income households will pay a rent similar to that of a low rent dwelling, or 25% of their income. 
Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000. households each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Habitat Espace, the WEB magazine of the SHQ, which deals with the spin-offs of the interventions of it on the whole of Quebec society 
