Val-d'Or- On behalf of the Minister of the Family, Mrs. Nicole Léger, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Minister responsible for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue Region and MP Abitibi-West, Mr. François Gendron, accompanied by the Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs and MP Abitibet, Mrs. Elizabeth Larouche, as well as the member for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue and President of the Caucus of MPs. Abitibi-Témiscamingue, Mr. Gilles Chapadeau, today unveiled the projects selected as a result of the recommendations of the Abitibi-Témiscamingue Region Advisory Committee. These projects will allow the creation of 259 additional subsidized custody seats in the region. They are part of the project call for the creation of 15,000 additional places launched on February 7, 2013 by the Minister of Family. 
"Today's announcement is a very good news for the families of Abitibi-Témiscamingue. With the creation of these additional places, several families will be able to benefit from accessible and high quality child care services. The addition of 259 places mainly in CPE in the region will contribute to creating 45 new jobs, while consolidating those of educators already in office. In addition to respecting his commitment to Quebec families, our government promotes job creation, "said Minister François Gendron. 
"Families are at the heart of the commitments of the government and the vision of solidarity that we place in the center of our actions. For families in Quebec, it means a child, a place! Today's announcement is the realization and it testifies to our determination to continue our efforts in this direction. In recent weeks, several projects have been made public throughout Quebec to meet the needs of families in all regions, "said Minister Nicole Light. 
The implementation of these projects will begin in 2014 and will continue gradually until 2016. Since November 2012, it has been 28,000 places that have been announced by the Government of Quebec. All selected projects have been recommended by advisory committees on the distribution of places. These advisory committees are responsible for analyzing eligible projects submitted by applicants and make recommendations to the Minister of Family on the projects to be retained. 
The creation of the newly placed in the governmental guidelines on which the "solidarity" pillar is based, one of the four pillars of government action, with integrity, prosperity and identity. These guidelines, made public on October 30 by the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, will guide the government's action in the implementation of measures aimed at improving the well-being of the most vulnerable people and families. The government wants to give a new impetus to solidarity, an inseparable value of collective wealth. 
Source: Ministry of the Family, January 9, 2014. 
