Montreal- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, with the Minister Delegate to Tourism, Pascal Bérubé, kicks off the tourist attractions support program. This new measure allows tourist businesses to rely on flexible and advantageous financial assistance, according to reimbursement arrangements adapted to the realities of tourism operators, at the four corners of Quebec. 
Under this program, an envelope of $ 85 million over five years is made available for existing, maturity or growing tourist businesses, and financial support will take the form of a loan or loan guarantee. . Financial interventions will be able to reach $ 150,000 to $ 2 million for projects that will meet the priorities of the 2012-2020 Tourism Industry Development Plan. 
"Tourism is a key sector of the economic development of Quebec and its regions. According to the World Tourism Organization, this sector is growing and the number of international travelers should double by 2030. Quebec must resolutely register in this trend, and I want to give our entrepreneurs the means to invest in The development of their business to enrich our tourist offer. I am delighted to announce today the launch of this financial tool that is the development support program for the tourist attractions, "said the Prime Minister. 
"By this program, we want to mark a significant turning point in the landscape of the investment of tourist businesses in Quebec. This measure is a previously inaccessible tool that will allow several companies to find some of the funding needed for their growth. I am very proud to support the Prime Minister today for the announcement of the achievement of this measure. It will contribute to stimulating investment and innovation, which is essential to the growth of our tourism industry, "said Minister Bérubé. 
Investissement Québec, Tourism Division 
The administration of this program has been entrusted by Tourisme Québec to Investissement Québec. Thus, a new division dedicated to tourism (Investissement Québec, Division Tourism) has been created to adapt the financial tools to the realities of the industry and, thus, to meet the specific needs of tourism companies. 
Tourist business managers are invited to deposit now with investment Québec projects as part of the development support program for tourist attractions. "Today, we provide tourist businesses an envelope of $ 17 million per year for five years that will take the form of a loan or loan guarantee that should help minimally generate 166 m investments. $ within five years in the industry, "added Minister Bérubé. 
Benoît Deshaies, Director of the Tourism Division of Investissement Québec, with Pauline Marois, Prime Minister of Quebec, and Pascal Bérubé, Minister Delegate to Tourism. 
This new program aims for projects that will allow the renewal of the tourist offer. More specifically, sustained projects will need to meet the priorities of the 2012-2020 tourism industry development plan and contribute to: 
Remember that the development support program of tourist attractions stems from the 2012-2020 tourism industry development plan. Title A route to growth, this plan aims to tourism a powerful, innovative and sustainable industry that has a leverage effect on the economic development of Quebec by offering an original and essential destination to international, Canadian and Quebec clienteles. 
For the complete conditions relating to this program and to obtain the project presentation forms, see one or other of the following pages: 
Hey. Tourism E. Hook v. Second. Wipe / Program Mes-Services / Love / I am afraid to hit him .html 
Hey .INVEST quebec.com/ put in /index.aspx? Published = 3190 
