Véronique Hivon and Pierre Karl Péladeau - respectively MP from Joliette and responsible for the convergence of sovereignist forces within the Parti Québécois; and MP from Saint-Jérôme, leader of the Parti Québécois and Official Opposition Manager 
Austerity, social inequity, economic amateurism, dismantling the Quebec model, lack of vision and insensitivity of the Prime Minister for our cultural reality: for two years, Quebec is engaged in a garage route. We are witnessing a quiet, slow and insidious deconstruction.  More than ever, we believe that the time has come to unite, leaders and organizations of the regions, civil society groups, political formations and, in the first place, citizens, heirs of our pride and our collective success. , who dream of better for Quebec. The time has come to mobilize and work together to put an end to this endless winter in which the policies of the Liberal government imprisoned and, above all, to build together a real project of society, to build this country. We want to see happen. 
To get there, we need to innovate, get out of our areas of comfort. 
Strength in diversity 
Over the past year, that's what our political training has attempted to start, in particular, by recognizing that the Parti Québécois does not have the monopoly of sovereignty. It is an important turn that we borrowed and a strong signal that we wanted to launch to the sovereignists who militate within the other parties. Ended the call to "lost sheep" is all our approach we have redesigned and reinvented, more than ever convinced that this diversity within the independence movement does not constitute a weakness, but a real force, a spark capable of Give a breath renewed to our great project. 
This diversity is the base on which we need to build. Because it is by sharing our strengths, drawing up in the best ideas of each that we can enrich our proposals and set, together, the contours of this country project that we want to present to Quebeckers and Quebeckers. 
Rebuild bridges 
Quietly, a new dynamic settles. Rebuild bridges, tie dialogue is an ambitious task, which requires time and patience. We need to talk to us and, above all, listen to us to relearn ourselves to trust us and leave on solid foundations. The dialogue is the basis of recognition and respect for our differences. Because, yes, divergences, there are - and it is normal that it is so! - And there will always be. Convergence is not intended to erase these differences, no more than the Union entails the merger, as our Catalan friends have understood. 
Rather, it's about putting our disputes aside and finally bet on what unites us. Let us bring together, in respect of the differences of each, and work together on the essentials, to shape the face of a Quebec that we know adapted to fully assume its difference and its ambition. 
Terrain of understanding 
Convergence points, there are. 
• The values that are dear to us: social justice, equal opportunities, intergenerational equity, sustainable development, equality between men and women, integrity. 
• Our political programs also overlap, in many ways. Last February, our political training opened the door to a revision of the voting system, so that the diversity of opinions is better reflected in our democratic institutions. 
• On the process: our desire to make independence is clear. On the "how" we intend to respect the democratic process that has always characterized our political formation and our desire to bring together sovereignist forces. 
• Many ignore that the current Parti Québécois platform provides for the creation of a constituent assembly - Article 1.3 - which may be invited to sit all sectors and regions of Quebec society as well as First Nations and Inuit of Quebec, In order to write the constitution of an independent Quebec. 
• We believe that this, fundamental text could incorporate an amended version of the Charter of Rights and Freedoms in such a way that, in its interpretation and application, it is taken into account of the historical heritage, the importance of the importance of First Nations and Inuit, the role of the regions and, of course, the flagship values of the Quebec nation: the protection and promotion of the French language, equality between women and men and the secularism of public institutions. 
Finally, we believe, too, that the country's project finds its full value only if it allows progressive and innovative responses to the challenges that are ours. 
The revision of the PQ program, which will materialize at the June 2017 Congress, may, and hopefully, be influenced by our colleagues from the other parties and by the actors of civil society. It will be an exceptional opportunity to redefine our political vision so that it is in the diapason of the priorities of Quebecers and Quebeckers. 
"The beginning is half of all" 
We know that the road will be long, sometimes even sinuous. It will happen to stumble. But as Pythagoras said so well, "The beginning is half of everything". So, we can consider that we have already made a good way by agreeing to sit together around the Table des Yes Quebec. 
Some already like to imagine all kinds of scenarios or talk about electoral alliances. We think that before talking about alliances, you have to talk to each other short! The will is there and the discussion, well initiated. We have multiplied the multi-party panels to meet the population. This opening approach raises great interest. We feel it wherever we go. It's a big step forward. 
And we believe that the next advance we want to do together, or work on a common roadmap, is exciting. We especially believe that it's worth trying. Indeed, what are we losing to try? The risk, it lies in the inaction, in suggesting that the same formulas will produce different results. So, let's try! Let's continue to move forward, one step at a time, on this new road that we are to dislocate. Who knows, we could find everything at the end of a new country? 
