Grande-Rivière - On behalf of the Minister of the Family, Ms. Nicole Léger, the Minister Delegate to the Regions, Minister responsible for the Gaspésie-Îles-de-la Madeleine Region and MP member Parliament, Mr. Gaétan Lelièvre Accompanied by the hon. Member for Bonaventure, Mr. Sylvain Roy, today unveiled the projects selected following the recommendations of the Advisory Committee of the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine Region. These projects will create the establishment of 174 additional subsidized custody seats in the region. They enroll in the call for projects of 15,000 additional places along the 7th of February 2013 by the Minister of the Family. 
"It is essential for me that places awarded really meet the needs of families in the region. Today's announcement is a very good news for the families of the Gaspé-Îles-de-la-Madeleine. With the creation of these additional places, several families will be able to benefit from accessible and high quality child care, "said Minister Gaétan Lelièvre. 
"Families are at the heart of the commitments of the government and the vision of solidarity that we place in the center of our actions. For families in Quebec, it means a child, a place! Today's announcement is the realization and it testifies to our determination to continue our efforts in this direction. In the coming weeks, other projects will be made public throughout Quebec to meet the needs of families in all regions, "said Minister Nicole Léger. 
The implementation of these projects will begin in 2014 and will continue gradually until 2016. Since November 2012, it has been 23,000 places that have been announced by the Government of Quebec. All selected projects have been recommended by advisory committees on the distribution of places. These advisory committees are responsible for analyzing eligible projects submitted by applicants and make recommendations to the Minister of Family on the projects to be retained. 
The creation of the 28,000 new places is part of the government guidelines on which the "solidarity" pillar is based, one of the four pillars of government action, with integrity, prosperity and identity. These guidelines, issued next October 30th by the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, will guide the government's action in implementing measures to improve the well-being of the most vulnerable individuals and families. The government wants to give a new impetus to solidarity, an inseparable value of collective wealth. 
