Sherbrooke- In the company of the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister responsible for the Estrie Region, Mr. Réjean Hébert, and the member for Sherbrooke, Mr. Serge Cardin, the Minister of the Family, Ms. Nicole Léger, today unveiled the projects selected following the recommendations of the Advisory Committee of the Estrie Region. These projects will enable the creation of 628 places with reduced contribution to child care in the region, which will be added to existing or carrying out. This announcement is part of the call for projects for 15,000 additional places launched on February 7, 2013 by the Minister of the Family. 
"Families are at the heart of the commitments of the government and the vision of solidarity that we place in the center of our actions. For families in Quebec, it means a child, a place! Today's announcement is the realization and it testifies to our determination to continue our efforts in this direction. In the coming weeks, other projects will be made public throughout Quebec to meet the needs of families in all regions, "said Minister Nicole Léger. 
"Today's announcement is a very good news for the families of Estrie. With the creation of these additional places, several families in the region will be able to benefit from accessible and high-quality child care, "said Minister Réjean Hébert. 
The implementation of these projects will begin in 2014 and will continue gradually until 2016.Depuis November 2012, it is 28,000 places that were announced by the Government of Quebec. All selected projects have been recommended by advisory committees on the distribution of places. These advisory committees are responsible for analyzing eligible projects submitted by applicants and make recommendations to the Minister of Family on the projects to be retained. 
The creation of the 28,000 new places is part of the government guidelines on which the "solidarity" pillar is based, one of the four pillars of government action, with integrity, prosperity and identity. These guidelines, made public October30 by the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, will guide the government's action in the implementation of measures aimed at improving the well-being of the most vulnerable individuals and families. The government wants to give a new impetus to solidarity, an inseparable value of collective wealth. 
