I tabled this weekly immigration bill in Quebec. Its adoption by the National Assembly would provide Quebec with a modern and effective immigration system with a faster immigration process, a better selection of immigrant people and better support in terms of Francization and integration, employed especially. 
The current law dates from 1968, that is, before the adoption of the Charter of the French language and before the establishment of a range of services to support the integration of immigrant persons. 
Despite all the actions carried out in francization, in integration and in regionalization, these notions are absent from the current law. It is time to propose a new law. 
Currently, our immigrant selection system relies on the principle of "first come, first served". Each file received being analyzed, the requests continue to accumulate, resulting in long processing times. When I arrived at the Ministry in 2012, nearly 100? 000? Folders were waiting for treatment. Today, there are about 80? 000. It's still far too much! 
If Quebec is a victim of its success, one can also say that the previous government has let things go. Excellent candidates can wait for years before they opened their file. In addition, Quebec continues to evolve during this time. Result? We make our choices according to the needs expressed previously, which is not ideal. 
We need to find a new selection mechanism that allows us to choose the best candidates more quickly and efficiently. 
A new law on immigration will allow us to set up a selection based on a "statement of interest", as is done in Australia and New Zealand. 
This system aims only on skilled workers and does not concern candidates for family and humanitarian immigration. It has two separate steps. 
At first, the person submits his application online. This statement of interest allows the department to identify candidates more quickly the profile. In a second step, targeted candidates, that is, people who meet the specific needs of Quebec, are invited as a priority to apply for immigration. 
Establishing the statement of interest will allow us to speed up the selection process and avoid accumulating inventories. Our resources and efforts will be much better invested. 
Parties must be as constructive as partners 
Last fall, I consulted the main employers', union and community associations as well as several immigration specialists. All have been very receptive to the idea of a new law and the establishment of the declaration of interest. 
I invite the different political formations to be constructive too: their collaboration will make it possible to implement the new process as soon as possible, under this legislature or next, if the time was missing. 
Diane de Courcy, Member of Parliament for Immigration and Cultural Communities and Minister responsible for the Charter of the French Language 
Open letter published on the newspaper website of Quebec on February 18, 2014 
