Quebec- with the chief government whip and head of the Côte-Nord region, Mr Marjolain Dufour, from the member for Ungava, Mr. Luc Ferland, and the member for Duplessis, Ms. Lorraine Richard, the Minister of the family, Mrs. Nicole Léger, today unveiled the first projects selected as a result of the recommendations of the Nordic Development Project Analysis Committee and the Côte-Nord and Northern Advisory Committees. of Quebec. These projects will create 363 new custody places at $ 7 in these areas. These projects are part of the call for projects of 15,000 additional places launched on February7 by the Minister of Family. 
"Families are at the heart of the commitments of the government and the vision of solidarity that we place in the center of our actions. For Quebec families, this means child, a place! Today's announcement is the realization and it testifies to our determination to continue our efforts in this direction. In the coming weeks, other projects will be made public throughout Quebec to meet the needs of families in all regions, "said Minister Nicole Léger. 
The implementation of these projects will begin in 2014 and will continue gradually until 2016. Since November 2012, it has been 23,000 places that have been announced by the Government of Quebec. All selected projects have been recommended by advisory committees on the distribution of places. These advisory committees have the responsibility to analyze the projects submitted by the plaintiffs and to make the recommendations to the Minister of Family on the projects to be retained. 
In the Côte-Nord region, they are 180 new places at $ 7 that will be added to existing or concrete places. For the Nord-du-Québec region, it is 13 new places that will soon be created. 
"It is essential for me that the new subsidized child care places really meet the needs of families. Today's announcement is a very good news for families in the North-du-Québec region. With the creation of these new places, several families will be able to benefit from accessible and high-quality child care, "said Minister Alexandre Cloutier, Minister responsible for Nord-du-Québec. 
During the February 2013 project call, 200 spaces were announced to facilitate the arrival of young workers in the region with northern development, or the territories north of the 49th parallel. Three regions were targeted: North-du-Québec, the North Shore and part of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean. All submitted projects come from the Côte-Nord region. 
Following the recommendations of the Nordic Development Project Analysis Committee, 170 additional places at $ 7 will be created. 
"I want to emphasize the work of the relevant advisory committees that have not spared their efforts in recent months to recommend the best projects. The creation of these new places in the Côte-Nord region will attract new workers in search of quality child care and tailored to their needs, "said Marjolan Dufour. 
The creation of the 28,000 new places is part of the government guidelines on which the "solidarity" pillar is based, one of the four pillars of government action, with integrity, prosperity and identity. These guidelines, made public on October 30 by the Prime Minister, Ms. Pauline Marois, will guide the government's action in the implementation of measures to improve the well-being of the most vulnerable people and families. The government wants to give a new impetus to solidarity, an inseparable value of collective wealth. 
