Saint-Fulgence - Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, announced the attribution through Investissement Québec a loan of $ 141,500 in Lacoop Solidarity of Cape Jaseux for the modernization of the facilities of the Park Adventures Cap Jaseux. The project, the costs totaling nearly $ 350,000, aims to increase and modernize the tourist offer of the adventure park. A component of Quebec's Economic Policy Priority Emploi takes precisely on the rise of Quebec tourism, a sector creator of wealth and jobs. 
"Tourism is a dynamic and profitable business sector in the economic development of several regions of Quebec, and most certainly from the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region," said Zakaïb. "That's why our government is proud to support projects like the Cap Jaseux Solidarity Coop, which allow the diversification of our tourist offer. They are part of the will expressed in the economic policy to support tourism by investing in our specific attractions. » 
In activity since 1977, and located on the banks of the Fjord in Saint-Fulgence, the Park Adventures Cap Jaseux is active in the field of outdoor, camping, adventure and ecotourism. With an area of 473 acres, this park offers a variety of accommodation and a variety of activities, ranging from the trees, regular or extreme fjord, by railway or sea kayak, hiking, through the hike. Through the Fishing and swimming. 
"Cap Jaseux Adventure Park is a leading destination for adventure tourism enthusiasts, thanks to its wide range of activities, the beauty of its landscapes and its accommodation infrastructures, including the famous houses in the Trees, "said Pascal Bérubé, Minister Delegate to Tourism. "The project will allow him to diversify his offer and improve the comfort of his accommodation units. » 
The member for Dubuc, Mr. Jean-Marie Claveau, was pleased that the project aims, among other things, to better position the park, both from the local population and tourists from outside the region. "Since the Cap Jaseux Solidarity Coop has been set up in 2001, the offer has been constantly improved," he recalled. "The cooperative is a good asset for the region, since it attracts nearly 20,000 visitors every year and creating jobs for our youth. » 
The Acting Director General of the Cooperative, Ms. Rebecca Tremblay, urged the Role of Investissement Québec in the growth of the organization. "It's a valuable partner since our beginnings and we are very grateful to be able to count on him to realize our revitalization project," she said. "Thanks to this funding, we will be able to offer an expanded range of activities to our customers and to increase our rates of traffic for the coming years. » 
Investissement Québec's mission is to promote investment growth in Quebec, thus contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. The company puts companies with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity capital investment, in order to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, it is responsible for the administration of tax measures and prospecting investments abroad. 
