Trois-Rivières- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Regions of Mauricie and Center-du-Québec, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, announced, on behalf of the Minister Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, investments of $ 90,455,000 for the 2013-2015 period in the territory of Mauricie. 
"These investments for the next two years on the road network demonstrate the government's willingness to ensure rigorous prioritization for public infrastructure projects. The work provided for in Mauricie will allow the realization of crucial projects, including the second phase of the redevelopment of the intersection of Route 348 and the route Gérin, to Sainte-Ursule, as well as the refurbishment of a bridge spanning the Shawinigan River, On Highway 55, "said Minister Blanchet. 
Of the 85 projects in 2013-2015 in the Mauricie region include: 
Road investments for the entire Quebec for the 2013-2015 period are estimated at $ 5.6 billion, including a contribution from the partners of $ 435 million. In total, there are more than 2,000 projects that will start or continue, which will help create or maintain more than 42,600 jobs. The unveiling of the programming of the work covers a two-year horizon, which constitutes a first. This new way of improving better planning to determine road infrastructure priorities. 
The 2013-2015 road work programming demonstrates the government's desire to better manage infrastructure and pay the right cost for public investment. "The objectives of this approach are clear: to ensure better transparency in the choices and project planning, respect the capacity to pay from all Quebeckers, and resume the control of the costs of road works," added the Minister Gaudreault. 
To develop this programming, the Department of Transport conducted a thorough revaluation of projects by prioritizing road safety and the maintenance of the road network. The Minister recalled his concern for the effect that all the projects announced, in accordance with deadlines and budgets be completed. "It is finished when road projects were added and announced without being budgeted. From now on, the Leitmotiv in the government is the following: it is said what we do and we do what we say, "concluded Mr. Gaudreault. 
All the details relating to this announcement, including the list of major projects, are accessible in the newsroom of the Quebec Ministry of Transportation website at: http: //www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca/ Portal / Page / Portal / Home / Salle_presse / Conference_presse_2013 # investments. 
