Quebec- The Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale Region and the Chaudière-Appalaches Region, Mrs. Agnès Maltais, Announcement On behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, investments of $ 227,126,000 for the 2013-2015 period for the Capitale-Nationale region. 
"These investments for the next two years on the road network demonstrate the government's willingness to ensure rigorous prioritization for public infrastructure projects. The organization of displacements in a pole of attraction as the Capitale-Nationale Region represents a challenge. Thus, I am pleased that these projects aim not only to improve the mobility of people and property but also road safety and the maintenance of our assets, "said Minister Maltese. 
Of the 51 projects in 2013-2015 in Quebec City, mention: 
Road investments for the entire Quebec for the 2013-2015 period are estimated at $ 5.6 billion, including a contribution from the partners of $ 435 million. In total, there are more than 2,000 projects that will start or continue, which will help create or maintain more than 42,600 jobs. The unveiling of the programming of the work covers a two-year horizon, which constitutes a first. This new way of improving better planning to determine road infrastructure priorities. 
The 2013-2015 road work programming demonstrates the government's desire to better manage infrastructure and pay the right cost for public investment. The objectives of this approach are clear: to ensure better transparency in the choices and in project planning, respect the ability to pay all Quebeckers, and resume control of the costs of road work. 
To develop this programming, the Ministry of Transport conducted a thorough revaluation of projects by prioritizing road safety and the maintenance of the road network, while having the concern that all the projects announced, in accordance with deadlines and budgets. 
All the details relating to this announcement, including the list of major projects, are accessible in the newsroom of the Quebec Ministry of Transportation website at: http: //www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca/ Portal / Page / Portal / Home / Salle_presse / Conference_presse_2013 # investments. 
