Chibougamau - Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereignist Governance and Minister responsible for the North-du-Quebec Region, Alexandre Cloutier, as well as the Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Natural Resources (Northern Affairs Component) and MP, Mr. Luc Ferland, announce, on behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, investments of more than $ 150 million for the 2013-2015 period in Northern Quebec. 
"These investments for the next two years on the road network demonstrate the government's willingness to ensure rigorous prioritization for public infrastructure projects. These choices were directed by its desire to maintain the safety of road users. The redevelopment of the intersection of the access road to the Eastmain community and the road to James Bay and the repair of Route 113, as Chapais approach, are eloquent examples, " Specifies Minister Cloutier. 
Of the 31 projects in 2013-2015 in the Nord-du-Québec region, mention: 
"Several of these projects are aimed at maintaining infrastructure. As a member of Ungava, I am satisfied that the government will accomplish the necessary gestures on the roads, culverts and bridges of Nord-du-Québec to ensure the safety of users, "says Ungava, Mr. Luc Ferland. 
In addition, over the next year, the Department of Transport will finalize the road extension project 167 over a distance of 143 kilometers north of Chibougamau. 
Road investments for the entire Quebec for the 2013-2015 period are estimated at $ 5.6 billion, including a contribution from the partners of $ 435 million. In total, there are more than 2,000 projects that will start or continue, which will help create or maintain more than 42,600 jobs. The unveiling of the programming of the work covers a two-year horizon, which constitutes a first. This new way of improving better planning to determine road infrastructure priorities. 
The 2013-2015 road work programming demonstrates the government's desire to better manage infrastructure and pay the right cost for public investment. "The objectives of this approach are clear: to ensure better transparency in the choices and in project planning, respect the capacity to pay from all Quebeckers, and resume the control of the costs of road works," adds Minister Gaudreault. . 
To develop this programming, the Department of Transport conducted a thorough revaluation of projects by prioritizing road safety and the maintenance of the road network. The Minister recalled his concern for the effect that all the projects announced, in accordance with deadlines and budgets be completed. "It is finished when road projects were added and announced without being budgeted. From now on, the Leitmotif to the government is the following: we say what we do and we do what we say, "concludes Gaudreault. 
All the details relating to this announcement, including the list of major projects, are accessible in the newsroom of the Quebec Ministry of Transportation website at: http: //www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca / Portal / Page / Portal / Home / Salle_Presse. 
