Rouyn-Noranda- The Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Minister responsible for the Abitibi-Témiscamingue Region and MP Abitibi-West, Mr. François Gendron, accompanied by The Minister Delegate to Aboriginal Affairs and MPs of Abitibi-East, Mrs. Elizabeth Larouche, and the Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Labor and MP for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue, Mr. Gilles Chapadeau, announce, on behalf of the Minister. Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault, investments of $ 221,267,000 for the 2013-2015 period in the territory of Abitibi-Témiscamingue. 
"These investments for the next two years on the road network demonstrate the government's willingness to ensure rigorous prioritization for public infrastructure projects. The region of the Abitibi-Témiscamingue draws its pinpinge since it maintains very important investments on its road network, partly thanks to the investments that will be carried out on the strategic road axis that constitutes road 117 ". , said the Deputy Prime Minister François Gendron. 
Of the 82 projects in 2013-2015 in the region of Abitibi-Témiscamingue, mention: 
"Of the 25 major projects that are announced today, 6 will be carried out on the main road axis in the region, route 117. These investments respond to an application expressed by the community," said the member for Abitib- West Ms. Elizabeth Larouche. 
"The project of the Rouyn-Noranda bypass is a major project of great importance to the population of Abitibi-Témiscamingue and especially for the people of Rouyn-Noranda. I am proud to participate in the announcement of this major investment that has been desired for several years, "said the member for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue, Mr. Gilles Chapadeau. 
Road investments for the entire Quebec for the 2013-2015 period are estimated at $ 5.6 billion, including a contribution from the partners of $ 435 million. In total, there are more than 2,000 projects that will start or continue, which will help create or maintain more than 42,600 jobs. The unveiling of the programming of the work covers a two-year horizon, which constitutes a first. This new way of improving better planning to determine road infrastructure priorities. 
The 2013-2015 road work programming demonstrates the government's desire to better manage infrastructure and pay the right cost for public investment. "The objectives of this approach are clear: to ensure better transparency in the choices and project planning, respect the capacity to pay from all Quebeckers, and resume the control of the costs of road works," added the Minister Gaudreault. 
To develop this programming, the Department of Transport conducted a thorough revaluation of projects by prioritizing road safety and the maintenance of the road network. The Minister recalled his concern for the effect that all the projects announced, in accordance with deadlines and budgets be completed. "It is finished when road projects were added and announced without being budgeted. From now on, the Leitmotiv in the government is the following: it is said what we do and we do what we say, "concluded Mr. Gaudreault. 
All the details relating to this announcement, including the list of major projects, are accessible in the newsroom of the Quebec Ministry of Transportation website at: http: //www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca/ Portal / Page / Portal / Home / Salle_presse / Conference_presse_2013 # investments. 
