Saints-Angels- The Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister responsible for the Status of Women and Minister responsible for the Capitale-Nationale Region and the Chaudière-Appalaches Region, Ms. Agnès Maltais , on behalf of the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr Sylvain Gaudreault, investments of $ 654,509,000 for the 2013-2015 period in the territory of the Chaudière. Appalaches. 
"These investments for the next two years on the road network demonstrate the government's willingness to ensure rigorous prioritization for public infrastructure projects. For the Chaudière-Appalaches region, this is reflected, in particular, by the continuation of extension and doubling of Highway 73. It is necessary to rejoice, "said Maltese Minister. 
Of the 237 projects in 2013-2015 in the Chaudière-Appalaches region include: 
Road investments for the entire Quebec for the 2013-2015 period are estimated at $ 5.6 billion, including a contribution from the partners of $ 435 million. In total, there are more than 2,000 projects that will start or continue, which will help create or maintain more than 42,600 jobs. The unveiling of the programming of the work covers a two-year horizon, which constitutes a first. This new way of improving better planning to determine road infrastructure priorities. 
The 2013-2015 road work programming demonstrates the government's desire to better manage infrastructure and pay the right cost for public investment. "The objectives of this approach are clear: to ensure better transparency in the choices and project planning, respect the capacity to pay from all Quebeckers, and resume the control of the costs of road works," added the Minister Gaudreault. 
To develop this programming, the Department of Transport conducted a thorough revaluation of projects by prioritizing road safety and the maintenance of the road network. The Minister recalled his concern for the effect that all the projects announced, in accordance with deadlines and budgets be completed. "It is finished when road projects were added and announced without being budgeted. From now on, the Leitmotiv in the government is the following: it is said what we do and we do what we say, "concluded Mr. Gaudreault. 
All the details relating to this announcement, including the list of major projects, are accessible in the newsroom of the Quebec Ministry of Transportation website at: http: //www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca/ Portal / Page / Portal / Home / Salle_presse / Conference_presse_2013 # investments. 
