Montreal - The member for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Martin Lemay, said very proud to participate, today, at the commemoration of the centenary of the arrival in Montreal of Louis Hémi, author of the famous novel Maria Chapdelaine . A commemorative plaque in its honor was installed on the walls of the Saint-Jacques house, located at 1629 from Saint-Hubert Street. 
In the presence of the Consul General of France, Mr. Bruno Clerc, who is the honor of Honor, and Mr. Jean-Charles Deziel, President of the Montreal Historical Society, Martin Lemay said that the passage of Louis Hémon in Quebec land has forever marked the history of Quebec. "We now emphasize the hundredth anniversary of the arrival of Louis Hémon in Montreal. After passing through us, nothing was ever the same. For those who still doubt the power and importance of literature in our lives, here is a story that will prove them the opposite, "said Martin Lemay. 
"It is thanks to the pen of a writer that we appeared in the world and not by the strength of the bayonet. I do not judge, to each people his destiny. It is thanks to a novel ... Maria Chapdelaine is much more than a great novel. It is a birth certificate. Therefore, several looks turned to this people of survivors: these people who are of a race that does not know how to die ..., "he continued. 
For its part, the member for Roberval, Denis Trottier, who could not be present, contributed to this event by facilitating the delivery of the granite plate on which was engraved the recognition message for Louis Hémon. He also sent a word where he indicates the main reasons that led him to support this commemoration. "There are several reasons that look forward to joining you for this ceremony. Among other things, the fact that I have held the Mayor of Peribonka and because it's my great-grandfather who was the founder and the first mayor. It is also because it is on his north boat that Louis Hécon made his first crossing of Lac-Saint-Jean, "illustrated Denis Trottier. 
As much trotier that Mr. Lemay wanted to emphasize the tireless work of Mr. Gilbert Lévesque, the instigator and the organizer of this tribute to the author of one of the greatest novels of Quebec society. For both members, this activity must be perceived as a duty of memory vis-à-vis one of the greatest friends of Quebec abroad, the writer Louis Hémon, and the perseverance of Mr. Lévesque to mark this Event will forever have a place devoted to the memory of the author of Maria Chapdelaine. It should be noted that Mr. Lévesque has also worked on the creation of the Louis-Hémon Museum in Peribonka inaugurated in 1986. 
