Quebec- The Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais announces the adoption of a regulation on the preventive management of asbestos in establishments where 'We find workers. This regulation will be published in the Gazette Official of Quebec in two weeks and will come into effect in early June. From now on, employers will have to comply with new safety standards to ensure the health and physical health of workers who may be exposed to asbestos dust. 
"Asbestos is dangerous for health and we can no longer tolerate workers at risk when they are exposed. In 2002, the government of the Parti Québécois started the work by creating a CSST committee for the development of a draft regulation. When we return, having noticed the lack of results, we finished the work. As Minister of Labor, the adoption of this regulation was a priority. I can say today: Mission accomplished, "said Minister Agnès Malteis. 
Once in force, the Regulation will finally allow safe management of materials containing asbestos in institutions. Employers will benefit from a period of up to two years from the entry into force of the Regulations to comply with some of the requirements. In particular, they will have to proceed with the visual inspection of each of the buildings they occupy in order to locate and check the status of flocking and calorifges (insulating materials). They will have to repeat the inspection every two years and record the information collected in a register. Checks will also have to be carried out on the occasion of work on interior coatings likely to contain asbestos (plaster, plaster, acoustic tiles, etc.). 
This register will ensure the safety of workers, including those that are more likely to be exposed to asbestos fibers, such as workers in the maintenance and maintenance of buildings. Adequate prevention measures will be able to be taken so that the execution of the work is safe. 
Remember that fibers and asbestos dust can come off from certain materials or products in poor condition or when they are the subject of work, thus causing a danger to workers. 
"This new regulation represents a significant step forward. It specifies the responsibilities of employers and the means they need to take to protect health and ensure the safety and physical integrity of their most valuable resource: their workers. They are all Quebeckers and all Quebeckers who are winners, "concluded the Minister of Labor. 
To learn more about the new regulation, visit the CSST website: www.csst.qc.ca/amiant. 
