New York- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean-François Lisée, draws up a positive assessment of the first mission in the US Economic and Financial Capital. 
"I am very happy to have been able to take part in such rewarding exchanges with our New York partners. The Axis Québec - New York State has all the assets to continue to be one of the most prosperous and innovative places in the Americas and the world. Together, we will continue our efforts to build profitable economic relations to ensure a flourishing future for future generations, "the premier said. 
The Quebec government has strengthened its relations with the United States a priority of its international action. In order to promote and defend the interests of Quebec, considerable efforts have been made to strengthen political, institutional and economic links with the United States, both from the States, the Federal Administration and the Congress. that regional forums. 
"The United States knows that they can count on a neighbor and friend who will closely be the development of trade, which will be welcoming for foreign investment and who will be an ally to ensure the creation of jobs and prosperity of the two Sides of the border, "said the minister listed. 
During his last day of mission, the premier held meetings with private investors and environmental groups. She also took part in exchanges with experts on the post-elected political and economic context in the United States. In addition, as part of its mission, the Prime Minister spoke with large US press agencies including the Wall Street Journal, Associated Press and Bloomberg. 
Remember that yesterday, the Prime Minister delivered a speech in front of a parterre of business people at the invitation of the PrestigiousForeign Policy Association. She also took advantage of her way to inaugurate the first Expansion Québec offices, a network of incubators allowing exporting companies to be supported when setting up business places abroad, a step often Indispensable for their growth and also promotes the success of their internationalization project. 
