Quebec- The Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, Announces the Publication in Lagazette Official of Quebec, Important Amendments to the Guarantee Plan of New Residential Buildings . This project meets the three principles it had indicated, ensuring the sustainability of the plan through better capitalization, having uniform and equitable treatment for all beneficiaries and eliminate any real or apparent conflict of interest between the administrator of the Warranty plan and entrepreneurs. 
"The purchase of a house represents the investment of a lifetime. For our government, it was necessary to review several modalities of the plan to ensure that people can be well protected. The proposed amendments in this draft regulation will enhance the current regulation with the essential goal of better protecting consumers, "said Minister Maltese. 
The draft regulation provides for many improvements in which, among the most important, the composition of the Board of Directors (CA) of a non-profit organization (OSBL) which could be accredited by the Régie du Building du Québec (RBQ) for Act as a warranty plan administrator. Indeed, the Board of such OSBL will be composed of thirteen people, three of which will be identified to construction contractor associations and three to consumer associations. 
Also, the initial intake that a director should pay has been significantly increased from $ 1.5 million to $ 8.5 million to ensure the sustainability of the warranty plan. There is also a strengthening of monitoring requirements for an administrator and the imposition of sanctions in the event of non-compliance with the laws and supervision policies. 
The Regulation respecting the guarantee plan for new residential buildings has been adopted under the Building Act in 1998 and put into effect on 1 January 1999. It has already been amended in 2001 and in 2006. 
In 2010, the RBQ evaluated the warranty plan for new residential buildings, including consultations, but also through the analysis of problematic situations observed in current practice. 
In addition, the presence of pyrrhotite in several hundred houses built in the Trois-Rivières region in the 2000s caused claims of importance such that the most important administrator of the Guarantee Plan saw its solvency compromised. This situation has also highlighted the need to review certain parameters of the mandatory guarantee plan to ensure sustainability. 
The draft regulation is published in Lagazette Official of Quebec by December 4th. Organizations will have 45 days to submit their comments. The entry into force of the Regulation is scheduled for the fall of 2014. 
