Montreal- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, and his counterpart from New Brunswick, David Alward, had a fruitful work meeting today in Montreal. 
This meeting was an opportunity for the prime ministers to deal with several topics of common interest, including the consequences of changes to the Federal Employment Insurance Plan on Quebec Workers and New Brunswick, of The state of the free trade negotiations between Canada and the European Union, the organization of early childhood centers as well as energy. 
In this regard, Prime Minister Alward informed Ms. Marois from his last trip to Western Canada and wanted to discuss the provincial government's support for the construction of a pipeline connecting Alberta to New Brunswick. 
Quebec is not closed to this project. However, the Prime Minister indicated that more in-depth analyzes needed to ensure that all conditions are met for the interests of Quebecers like those of New Brunswickers. 
"Today, the Prime Minister of New Brunswick introduced me a project to build an oil pipeline. However, we need more information and analysis to ensure that all the technical, environmental and economic issues of this project meet the interests of Quebecers. We agreed to form a working group on this subject, "said the Prime Minister. 
It should be remembered that the construction of this pipeline, a project estimated at more than $ 5 billion, will have to obtain Québec's approval as well as that of the three Canadian provinces it must cross. 
"I would like to thank the Prime Minister Marois on this occasion to meet again once again to discuss important issues and economic opportunities aimed at advancing the projects of our neighboring provinces, such as the West East pipeline," said M . Alward. I was able to report my meeting with the Alberta Prime Minister Alison Redford, and Alberta business leaders, and we agreed to continue working together to learn more. » 
"I look forward to the information that will be collected by the Working Group to help us better understand the extent of this important opportunity to stimulate job creation and innovation in our natural resource sector," added Mr. Alward. 
