Quebec - "The Minister of Health and Social Services is under guardianship the CSSS Champlain under the pretext that there are problems of organization of care and services and supposed gaps in management. However, last February, the Québec Board of Approval has granted a certification guaranteeing the quality of care and services offered to the population as well as the exemplary financial management of the CSSS Champlain. This is the proof that the minister imposes this guardianship only to force a merger with Charles Lemoyne Hospital, "said the entry, the member for Taschereau and spokesman for the official opposition in health, Agnès Maltese. 
The member for Taschereau also calls for the Minister of Health and Social Services and the Montérégie Health and Social Services Agency shall make public without delay all documents proving the allegations of gaps in the organization and Management at the CSSS Champlain who led to the decision to impose a tutelage. 
Remember that since 2004, at least two occasions, the leaders of the CSSS Champlain, the regional agency and even from Charles Lemoyne Hospital rejected the merger. The last rejection of this idea dates from April 2009 where, after a meeting between the management of the Regional Agency, representatives of Charles Lemoyne Hospital and those of the CSSS Champlain, they concluded that the merger between the CSSS. Champlain and Charles Lemoyne Hospital was a not retained scenario. Yet the Minister of Health and Social Services presses the management of the CSSS Champlain to merge with Charles Lemoyne Hospital. 
"The idea of merger has already been studied more than once and rejected every occasion. Yet the minister persists. It is the minister who has to prove that the merger will have positive impacts for citizens. I ask the Minister to make public all the studies showing that this merger would be beneficial for the population. He has the burden of proof, "concluded Agnès Maltese. 
"It's an unjustifiable decision from the Minister. It is the abuse of power that to dirty the reputation of the board of directors and the managers of the Champlain CSSS, honest, dedicated people, involved who have put in place good financial management and a good climate of work . The minister should come out of his ivory tour and listen to the stakeholders of the base that have concrete solutions to improve health care. Merge a specialized and ultra-specialized academic hospital with front-line care is counterproductive and eventually deteriorate the quality of front-line care, "Martine Ouellet concluded, member for Vachon. 
