Lachute- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet, today participated in the first shovel of the ground of the new glass micronization plant at the sorting center of Tricentris, Lachute. On this occasion, he was accompanied by the hon. Member for Argenteuil, Mr. Roland Richer. The implementation of this project is made possible through financial contributions of $ 450,000 from RECYC-QUÉBEC and $ 400,000 from the Department of Finance and the Economy. 
"In my opinion, the construction of this glass micronization plant is a logical and happy sequence to all efforts in the management of residual materials in recent years. Especially since this new plant will be the only one in Quebec. When we think of large amounts of mixed glass that directly took the path of landfill sites and who will now be able to be valued, we have every reason to rejoice in the realization of this innovative project, "said Minister Blanchet.
At the end of the construction of the plant, which will be carried out in two distinct phases, nearly 6,000 metric tons of glass powder will be produced. This glass powder will be used in particular as cementaous addition for the manufacture of different types of concrete and mortars. This new way of providing significant environmental benefits, including the possibility of reducing GHG production. 
"The rise of sustainable development for the benefit of Quebeckers in all regions is part of the economic vision of our government," said the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élain Zakaïb. "To achieve this goal of sustainable prosperity, we need to focus on innovative environmental technologies, such as those put forward by Tricentris. It is with great pride that we support the company in carrying out its carrier project for the region's economy and for the future of Quebec. » 
For its part, the hon. Member for Argenteuil, Mr. Roland Richer, said, "Tricentris is an example of innovation and audacity, not only in the Argenteuil region, but in the grandeur of Quebec. Over the years, the corporation has become a leader in the management of recyclable materials in Quebec. And it's home that everything started, with people from home. The population of the riding of Argenteuil can therefore be proud of the achievements and success of Tricentris. » 
