Armor Dufour is perhaps the oldest party activists. From the early 1960s, while René Lévesque is still the Lesage government, the recipient of the 2016 Marcel-Léger Prize is already activated for the independence of Quebec. Founder member of the sovereignty-association movement in 1967, Armor Dufour becomes the first president of the Parti Québécois in the riding of Rivière-du-Loup. 
Interesting anecdote: His first child is born on October 11, 1968, the same day of the Party Foundation Congress, to which he can not attend. Since then, however, it is not a day when Armor Dufour has not been a volunteer effort to be able to light the inheritance he has never received: that of a country. 
"Ideas, it's always worn by women, by men. It does not have legs, ideas, it does not run alone. It takes someone who moves, at one point, it takes sparks. " 
According to him, politics is still the best way to change aspects of collective life that we want to evolve. But it's also the most demanding way. It is a service career that implies a real desire to want to help his fellow citizens. 
"When you are a member or prime minister, you are only the first servant of your area. If you do not like the ordinary world, you're better than staying at home. " 
Despite the referendum results and countless electoral reverses suffered during its very long career of militant, Armor Dufour remains full of hope. He is also inflated to block from the last National Council of the Parti Québécois, held in Trois-Rivières last February, where the third of the room was 35 years old. 
"That's meaningful. I have never seen that at the PQ for 40 years. It is a rejuvenation cure of the structures that is running right now. 
Various factors explain this renewed interest of young people for the party: the deconstruction of the state that is ongoing and the awareness that must be involved in order to preserve our achievements, but also the clarity of the Message from Pierre Karl Péladeau relating to the independence of Quebec. 
"The notion of little nation that can draw his game of the game in the great yard, it's important. We can sit at the UN, UNESCO, anywhere. That too, it can be inspiring. " 
Armor Dufour continues to give his time for the cause because, as he says so well, retirement does not exist for activists, just as the idea of independence does not age. 
"And if, to say my last word about the independence realized, I have to wait to be centenary, well I will do it!" 
Basy hat, Mr. Dufour, and thank you again for this life dedicated to the country of Quebec. 
Do you want to make a difference like Amor? Implicate on the ground! -> http://mon.pq.org 
