Quebec- The Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Mrs Agnès Maltais, Announces the Publication of the WorkConstruction of Wooden Housing 5 or 6 Stories - Guidelines and Guide explanatory. Fruit of the collaboration between the Quebec Building Régie (RBQ) and the FPInnovation Research Institute, this publication is part of the Recent Boisadopté Charter by the Quebec government. 
"With the adoption of the Bois Charter, our government is committed to setting up strategies to increase the use of wood in construction in Quebec. The publication of this guide is a concrete gesture that illustrates this firm desire to revalue this material with undeniable ecological qualities. The guidelines issued by the RBQ and the design guide written by FPINNOVATIONs will make it easier to consider this natural resource during the construction of dwellings of 5 or 6 floors, "said Minister Agnès Maltese. 
The current construction code limits the use of wood to 4-storey buildings and less than a certain area. Designers who want to erect larger wood buildings must apply for equivalent measurements to the RBQ. The demonstrations to be made as part of this process may be relatively long and complex to achieve, dissuading designers to use the wood in their projects. 
"It became necessary to simplify the work of designers and builders who want to build wood. Amendments to the Quebec Construction Code were needed. Our government has arrested the RBQ to develop guidelines for the construction of wood buildings over 4 floors. These guidelines come into effect today. They will remain so that changes to the Construction Code are made permanently, "added Maltese minister. 
"We need to build more wood, in the interest of all Quebeckers. This resource has shaped part of our history and continues to be at the heart of the economic development of our regions, "said Denis Trottier, Member of Parliament for Roberval and Deputy Parliamentary Forestry. 
"With the Bois Charter and this guide, we want the wood to be considered fairly, for the construction of dwellings of 5 or 6 floors, compared to other materials," concluded Minister Agnès Maltese. 
Thus, on certain conditions and without having to apply for measurements equivalent to the RBQ, the construction of wooden dwellings of 5 or 6 floors is now permitted. These conditions, set out in the form of guidelines and presented in the first section of the book published today, indicate the essential elements to be taken into account in erecting wooden residential buildings of 5 or 6 floors. 
"It was imperative that the construction of 5 or 6-stage wood dwellings meets the main objectives of the construction code. If the guidelines are respected, these constructions will have a quality equivalent to that sought by the standards in force ", declared the President and CEO of the RBQ, Mr. Stéphane Labrie. 
In order to help designers in developing their projects, the design guide, presented in section 2 of this new publication, describes the principles to consider when building 5 or 6-storey wood dwellings . These principles include the type of timber to use, fire resistance, structure calculations, anchor details, etc. 
"Designers and builders must be familiar with the characteristics and behavior of wood," said Labrie. 
The Design Guide, written by FPInnovations experts is available on the RBQ website at wwww.rbq.gouv.qc.ca / wood. 
