Montreal- A government of the Parti Québécois would put the city of Mascouche under guardianship if the paralysis of the municipal council had to continue. This is the commitment of Quebec candidates in the ridings of Verchères and Masson, Stéphane Bergeron and Diane Hamelin. 
"The Monday Municipal Council session once again exceeded the terminals. Constant tension and deep divisions make the board experience serious difficulties to operate. In order to enable citizens to receive the services they are entitled, a government of the Parti Québécois would adopt a decree in order to subject the city of Mascouche to the control of the Municipal Commission of Quebec and would like to make any light on the administration municipal and the functioning of the Council, "said Stéphane Bergeron. 
Last month, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Territory Occupation rendered public a process verification report followed by the City of Mascouche for contract allocation. This report concluded that: "The City of Mascouche presents gaps as to the compliance with the [...] legislation for contract allocation." The Parti Québécois considers that it is necessary to go beyond a simple verification and proceed to the next stage: the guardianship. 
"The citizens of Mascouche have enough of what happens to the Municipal Council. It is high time that a responsible government take things into hand and all light is done on the administration of mascouche. The Government of Jean Charest has shown laxity by wanting to protect the mayor, who has been a Liberal candidate in the 2003 elections, "deplored Stéphane Bergeron. 
Remember that the Parti Québécois filed a motion at the National Assembly on May 16th. This motion asked the government to intervene so that the Mayor of Mascouche retires from the municipal council right now, following the accusations of abuse of trust by a public official, of acts of corruption in the municipal affairs, of fraud. The government and conspiracy, deposited against him. Unfortunately, the Liberals and the Caquists voted against the motion. 
"A government of the Parti Québécois will act responsibly and with the aim of restoring the population in its institutions. If the paralysis of the municipal council had to continue, we will ask the necessary gestures during the course of the procedures involving the mayor of the city, "concluded Stéphane Bergeron. 
