Montreal- The Parti Québécois undertakes to cancel the loan of $ 58 million granted to the promoters of the Jeffrey mine of Asbestos by the Liberals of Jean Charest, a few days from the outbreak of the election campaign. "If the Québécois party is brought to power, the $ 58 million will be invested in the region's economic diversification," said Quebec's candidate in the riding of Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Daniel Breton. 
Concerned about the future of Asbestos workers and their families, the Parti Québécois is committed to investing $ 58 million in economic diversification and to ensure quality jobs in sectors of the future, innovative and promoting Sustainable prosperity. "By granting a $ 58 million loan to revive Jeffrey Mine in Asbestos, Charest government has once again demonstrated its lack of economic vision for Quebec and more particularly for this region," said Daniel Breton. 
In this respect, the position of the Coalition Future Québec totally lacks consistency. François Legault says he wants to definitively prohibit this product and, from the same breath, promises to keep the grant of 58 million at the Jeffrey Mine. The head of the CAQ goes against the common sense. The Parti Québécois first undertakes to cancel the grant and then, to make a decision on the future of the industry. François Legault does the opposite. 
If it is brought to power on September 4, the Parti Québécois will hold a parliamentary committee during which the experts and the individuals concerned are consulted, including the workers. Out of respect for industry workers, this parliamentary committee is needed to make a final round before making a final decision. 
"The Parti Québécois has a vision of economic development with the future. We want to develop new niches of excellence in promising sectors such as transport electrification. By targeting energy independence, we will be able to create quality wealth and jobs in Quebec. We want to bet on the industries of the future and not on those of the past, "has concluded Daniel Breton. 
