Montreal- The Quebec Prime Minister and Head of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, unveiled his plan to reduce road congestion in the metropolitan area. 
"In 20 years, the costs of road congestion have exploded: they now reach $ 1.8 billion a year. Road congestion is major, the road network is saturated. Thus, the flow of circulation must be improved while decreasing our greenhouse gas emissions. But above all, we have to find solutions to improve the quality of life of families. Indeed, the time we go through his car, we do not go with his children, to prepare good meals, to indulge in our leisure or physical activity, "said the Prime Minister. 
The government of the Parti Québécois posed a major gesture by unveiling national lasting sustainable mobility. 
"Our strategy thinks above all to the user. It will increase the collective transport supply by 30% by 2020, particularly by attributing additional $ 1 billion. This is how we will offer good reasons to motorists to change their habits, and we will diminish the number of vehicles on the roads. We want Quebeckers to move more easily, especially in public transit. By integrating transport planning to land use planning, we act not only to improve the lives of families, but also for prosperity, allowing goods to circulate more efficiently, "she added. 
In addition, the governance of transport companies must be reviewed in order to facilitate the movements of users. "It is not normal that there are about 700 different collective transit titles for citizens of the Greater Montreal Region. A government of the Parti Party will improve public transport planning and management in Quebec, particularly in the Montreal area. We will revise the roles, responsibilities and obligations of the various authorities responsible for the planning and organization of services as well as the operation of collective transport networks, "said Sylvain Gaudreault, Quebec's candidate in the riding of Jonquière Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory. 
In addition to the National Strategy for Sustainable Mobility, the Quebec Party Government will continue to deploy preferential measures announced last September, allowing to double the reserved lanes network for Montreal and the surrounding area. Thus, during the next term, the reserved lanes network will increase from 209 km to 417 km. 
"In the last 18 months, we have worked hard to improve the fluidity of transport and reduce road congestion. We have doubled the reserved lanes network and passes government funding from 75 to 100% of these projects, "continued Pauline Marois. 
In closing, the Premier recalled the next major collective transport projects, such as the extension of the Montreal Metro Blue Line and the studies for the extension of yellow and orange lines. The establishment of a lightweight rail system on the new Champlain bridge will also allow people from the South Shore to join the city center of Montreal faster. 
"To equip the Quebec society with a fluid, modern and effective transportation system, it is a firm commitment of the Parti Québécois. Philippe Couillard's proposal is anchored in the past, worthy of the historical culture of his party: asphalt and concrete. He does not see any further. Thanks to the actions of the Parti Québécois team, never a government will have been far away for collective transportation. By adding to this our transport electrification strategy, we will create Quebec a real vision of the 21st century transportation, "concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
We have a plan and the team to succeed. Today, it's time to give us the means to go further. 
