Québec - surrounded by candidates and candidates from the Capitale-Nationale region, the Quebec Prime Minister and Head of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, announced that a next government government will reduce debt. 
"During the next mandate, the Parti Québécois government will reverse the trend: Quebec's debt will finally begin to decline, as much in absolute numbers and proportion to GDP. Our goal is to pass the debt under the 50% of GDP in 2018-19, "said Pauline Marois. 
"We have shown that we are determined to reach our targets: the government of the Parti Québécois has limited the growth of expenses at its lowest level in 10 years. As a comparison, expenditures increased by 4.4% on average under the Liberal government. In the last budget, we announced that we will keep our good habits by limiting the growth of spending at 2% for the next 3 years, "said the Prime Minister. 
"The Liberal government is responsible for the increase of the third of the debt, more than $ 60 billion. Since the beginning of the campaign, Philippe Couillard has demonstrated that the Liberal Party maintains its bad habits: it has announced commitments that would add $ 15 billion on the debt and that it will finance its promises by picking up in the generation fund, " Added Pauline Marois. 
The Secor-KPMG firm has also demonstrated liberal negligence in infrastructure management. In several major works, cost overruns averaged 78%. 
"Not only were the projects badly crafted, but, by refusing to fight corruption and collusion, we paid too much for our infrastructure. Now, unlike the Liberals, each announced project is budgeted. In addition, we have already managed to save $ 240 million in one year to the Ministry of Transport by concrete actions to combat corruption and collusion. We take over control of public finances, "continued Pauline Marois. 
"We handed over the public finances and we control expenses. We have set up rigorous management. We have a business plan, and we have the best team to realize it, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
