Trois-Rivières- The Quebec Prime Minister and Head of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, accompanied by the candidate in Trois-Rivières, Alexis Deschênes, the candidate in Rousseau and Minister of Finance and the Economy, Nicolas Marceau, the candidate in Saint -Imerse, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the candidate in Montarville, Simon Prévost, announces that a government of the Parti Québécois will implement concrete measures to promote exports and create jobs. 
"Our goal is to bring 1000 new businesses to export within 5 years. In addition, we hope that Quebec exports exceed 55% of GDP. Currently, exports account for about 46% of GDP and contribute to five jobs. Encourage export is to support job creation. Since we arrived in government, our only economic priority is employment. The Québécois party offers the best plan to create quality jobs throughout the territory, "said Quebec's leader. 
"The Liberal government has left Quebec's trade balance deteriorate. From 2002 to today, Quebec has gone from a positive trade balance to a $ 24 billion deficit. These are more than $ 65 million a day going abroad rather than creating jobs with us. In addition, Quebec exports have not found their level before the 2008 crisis, "added Pauline Marois. 
The Parti Québécois has a credible and detailed plan for the development of foreign trade, unlike the Liberal Party of Philippe Couillard, which focuses on an unrealistic financial framework, which is elsewhere by several financial analysts. 
With the economic priority employment priority, the government of the Parti Québécois has initiated a concerted effort by the relevant ministries and stakeholders to give businesses access to export markets. These efforts take four forms: 
"It was time to devote resources and energy to this very important part of our economy. The actions of the Parti Québécois government will allow us to further support our companies and our entrepreneurs in their development, "said Pauline Marois. 
"At the Québécois Party, we offer an export policy that meets the needs of companies that want to export or want to break off new markets. We offer a credible financial framework. We already have results, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
We have a plan and the team to make Quebec more prosperous. Today, it's time to give us the means to go further. 
