Montreal- "A government of the Parti Québécois will expand as much as possible the international influence of Quebec. It is the commitment made today by the official Leader of the Official Opposition of Charlevoix, Pauline Marois, whereas it had the intentions of the Parti Quebecois in terms of international relations before the guests of the International Relations Council from Montreal. 
The foreign policy of a Quebec government government will be articulated around three main axes: openness to international trade, culture as the international showcase of Quebec and the Francophonie as a privileged area as well as international cooperation. 
Quebec is and has always been a trading company and would be among the 10 countries with the most open economy on the world. The Parti Québécois has always been in favor of free trade. We intend to remain and even increase our opening by diversifying our markets, while working to develop our business relations with the United States, our first economic partner. Our goal is to reduce, then transform our commercial surplus deficit. To do this, we propose that Quebec take the turn of energy independence. 
"With energy independence, Quebec will be a very attractive place for international investors and it will be able to export its expertise around the world. We are continuing a triple goal. We want to reduce our oil imports and suddenly reduce our huge commercial deficit. We will work to increase our exports in the clean technology sector, especially in terms of transport, until the balance of equilibrium or better, from a commercial surplus. We also want to make Quebec a North American leader in the fight against climate change, "said Pauline Marois, ensuring that energy independence will be the largest economic site since that of James Bay. 
Culture and Francophonie are a major axis of development of the foreign policy of the Parti Québécois. This is the best showcase for Quebec in the world. 
"Our creators and our artists strongly contribute to our brand image. Culture is a real economic engine both here and internationally, whether it's like tourist attraction or as an export sector, "said Pauline Marois, adding that the French language, a pedestal of Quebec. , imposes a vigilance on our territory, but also to be very active on the international scene. 
The Parti Québécois will also strengthen our ability abroad. We are thinking of a model that can only be done with the financial means of a sovereign country. This model is that of Quebec space. In these places will be assembled Quebec staff abroad and spaces will be made available to our entrepreneurs and artists. 
"You have to make sure to make us know, to build relationships, to allow Quebeckers to radiate our know-how in the countries where we maintain privileged relations. It will be an opportunity for Quebec to dare and innovate as we know so well, "she explained. 
Here we have a great tradition, many expertise and many international cooperation agencies. Quebec has always been very active in help and international cooperation and we intend to stay. Amendments in the allocation of funding by the Cooperation and Economic Development Agency (CIDA) in July 2010, however, hit Quebec organizations hardly. 
"If the Parti Québécois is brought to power, we propose to repatriate the Federal Government the Quebec share of the CIDA budget. We will work with the Quebec International Cooperation Community to lay the foundation for a future Quebec development aid, "assured Pauline Marois, adding that it is not only to implement our solidarity, but also to build cultural, technical and business ties. 
"We want Quebec to become an entire actor of the international community. We want Quebec to speak of its own voice in the world. Quebec's ability to act freely in the world has always been lacking. It's even more true in our time, while international issues are becoming increasingly important in our lives. In this context, international relations are a question of first order for our political formation, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
