Sherbrooke- Québec Prime Minister and Head of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, gave today the kickoff of the Quebec's Youth Campaign. Surrounded by many young candidates from several regions of Quebec, she recalled the merits of the public engagement of each and each of them. 
"These candidates embody the present and the future of our nation. They decided to commit to Quebec and it is to the Parti Québécois that they came, naturally. They show one of the greatest forms of commitment: wanting to serve their fellow citizens and represent them in the National Assembly, "said Pauline Marois. 
During an evening led by the candidate in the riding of Laval-des-Rapides, Leo Bureau-Blouin, and by the candidate in the riding of Groulx, Martine Desjardins, young activists from several regions gathered in Sherbrooke for meet and support the political succession of the Parti Québécois. 
"By launching a youthful newpolitics by creating Levain on post-secondary campuses, the Parti Québécois has proved that it was committed to promoting the involvement of young people in public life. To advance Quebec, we need women and men who make the choice of politics. This is the choice I made by engaging in Pauline Marois team, "said Martine Desjardins. 
After a consultation tour led by the candidate in the riding of Laval-des-Rapides, Leo Bureau-Blouin, the candidate in the constituency of Terrebonne, Mathieu Traversy, and the candidate in the riding of Saint-Jean, Dave Turcotte, the Government of the Parti Québécois has tabled a white paper on youth, carrying ideas and concrete actions so that it can meet the challenges it will be facing. 
"We listened to young people from all regions of Quebec. The proposals of the White Paper are innovative; The youth policy we want to put in place will support young people in the construction of a company in their image. We are committed to helping them realize their dreams, support their dynamism and creativity, "said Leo Bureau-Blouin. 
Thanks to the government of the Parti Québécois, students will now be able to exercise their right to vote directly on Quebec campuses. Polling stations will be open on university, college and professional campuses of more than 300 students on March 28, as well as April 1, 2 and 3 April. 
"When we arrived in the government, we abolished the scandalous rise in tuition fees decreed by the Liberals and supported by the Caquists. But where we have done a lot of the cause of youth, in a structural way, it is by proceeding with the establishment of polling stations in school institutions. To weigh with all their weight, young people must vote! I invite them to learn about, to take part in the debates and to make their voices heard, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
