Quebec, on December 6, 2016 -A when the Liberal government deposits its project on local governance, the spokesperson for the Parti Québécois on municipal affairs, Martin Ouellet, as well as the spokesperson for Development of regions and decentralization, Sylvain Gaudreault, denounce its disastrous record for the regions of Quebec. 
"At the beginning of the mandate, the first thing this government made for Quebec municipalities is to cut $ 300 million annually. This same government comes before us today by telling us that it invests $ 100 million for regional economic development. This amount is barely one-third of the imposed cuts; It's an insult for regions that are fighting to boost their environment, "said Martin Ouellet. 
"The liberal record for the regions of Quebec is simply disastrous. The government first deprived Quebec from a network of local development centers that gathered more than 3,000 volunteers working on the economic advancement of our regions. Then, the specific agreements relating to regional elected representatives represented hundreds of millions of dollars in spillovers that were managed by and for our regions. Finally, timber, long distance transportation, local forests and banseral erosion are just a few examples of issues that patients on department's tablets in Quebec, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"We will carefully analyze the local governance bill filed by the Coiteous Minister. But while this government, on the one hand, "says municipalities, with the other, withdraws them. I wonder, where was the Coiteous Minister during the drafting of bills 106 on hydrocarbons, and 102 on the Environmental Authorization Plan; Both of these bills are slaps for municipal autonomy. The minister is badly placed to give us the lesson in this matter, "added Martin Ouellet. 
"It is not surprising that this government has such a bad assessment for the regions of Quebec: how can you seize the regional reality when your regional economic development and your ministers responsible for the Laurentians and the North Coast come from from Montreal, and that your minister responsible for Gaspésie and Islands? De-la-Madeleine is a member of Parliament for a riding of Quebec? With such appointments, who gets up, at the Council of Ministers, to bring the voice of the regions? Who really understands their reality? "Concluded Sylvain Gaudreault. 
