Montréal - surrounded by the Quebec party candidates team in the Lanaudière region, the Quebec Prime Minister and Head of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, announced that a government of the Quebecois party undertook to show leadership. that our water is managed responsibly, and this, in the interest of all Quebeckers. 
At the Instare Durend-You National on the Quebec Forest, which has been successful, the government of the Parti Québécois is committed to holding a large national rendezvous on the water. During this event, which will bring together all the actors of the community, we will determine the priority actions to ask for the future. 
In 2002, the Government of the Parti Québécois was the first to provide Quebec from a national water policy. The Liberals put this policy on the tablets. The liberal balance of water management is catastrophic: coffering in the schist gas file, destruction of thousands of hectares of wetlands, erosion of banks. Liberal leaving has prevented the implementation of coherent and concerted water management. 
"It's over, leaving it. As we have done successfully for the forest, we are committed to preserving this irreplaceable wealth that constitutes our water, "said Pauline Marois. 
A government government will also act in the short term, in continuity of the actions already laid down, by passing a law that will effectively protect wetlands, after consultation. The Parti Québécois also takes the commitment to protect drinking water sources. It also intends to submit the bill again introducing a moratorium on shale gas. 
"The Parti Québécois is the only party capable of putting an end to the practice of the shale gas industry. Expected by the population, this bill has been blocked irresponsibly by the Liberals and the CAQ, "said Pauline Marois. 
Since September 2012, the Parti Québécois has made courageous decisions for the defense of the environment. He released Quebec from nuclear and asbestos, while supporting the regions in their transition to a sustainable economy. He also ended the electrical minicentral program. In addition, mandates have been entrusted to BAPE on shale gas and uranium, in order to consult the population. A Parti Québécois government will continue to ensure that all natural resources are exploited according to the highest environmental standards. 
"The protection and development of our lakes and streams represent important issues for our future. In the forest and mine sectors, we started at work and we managed. Water is our collective natural heritage. It is a source of pride and wealth that we have the duty to preserve for future generations, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
Watch press clause. 
