I was very happy to be in Saint-Felicien this morning, in the beautiful region of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, to launch the work of the National Rendez-vous de la Forest Québécoise. 
The forest is of particular importance for Quebec. It covers half of our territory. The timber exploits jobs to more than 60,000 Quebeckers in almost all our regions, and the forestry sector is at the center of the economy of more than 140 municipalities. This industry is literally part of our identity. 
However, in recent years, the forest sector has experienced a hollow, resulting in the loss of 30,000 jobs. This is one third of all the jobs in the industry, who seeks to find his way to bounce back. 
Convocating the national rendez-vous de la Forest Quebec, our government has demonstrated its willingness to support this sector. I have the conviction that this meeting will mark a turning point. 
To make sure, my government has not arrived empty. Already, we acted. 
Last month, we presented the Employment Priority Economic Policy, which includes several components, including the industrial policy, in which $ 100 million were reserved to initiate this new departure that we want for the wood sector. 
In a difficult fiscal context, it's a choice we have done. A choice made possible through tight control of government spending growth. 
We have planned concrete ways to transform the forest industry and developing forward channels - including the creation of a residual biomass program to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from forestry activities, as well as related industrial projects. At green chemistry - which will allow Quebec to innovate in sustainable niches. 
All the problems of the forest sector will not find complete and final solutions in two days. We do not know all the challenges that the future reserves. Nevertheless, we all launch today a very strong message: we announce a new start for Quebec Forestry. 
Together, we will make sure that the Quebec Forest continues to enrich us, that it continues to use the pride! 
Consult the press releases issued during the National Forest Rendezvous 
