Fermont-twelve affordable housing for families will soon see the day in Fermont. The kickoff of the construction work of the third phase of Habitat Fermont today was given by Mrs. Lorraine Richard, Member of Parliament for Duplessis, in the presence of the Mayor of Fermont, Ms. Lise Pelletier, and partners of the community. The construction of this new building will carry to 24 the number of housing for the entire Habitat Fermont project. 
Realized through the AccessLogis Québec program of the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), this project will result in an investment of nearly $ 3.6 million from the Government of Quebec and its partners. 
"In the context of housing shortage that is currently prevailing at Fermont, it is difficult for families to find housing, and it's even more difficult to stay at an affordable cost. These 12 new residential units will enrich the rental market of this mining city where a large number of dwellings belong to private companies. It is therefore an excellent news for our community, "said MP Lorraine Richard, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The SHQ has granted a grant of nearly $ 1.9 million for the realization of this residential complex, in addition to guaranteeing the mortgage contracted by the organization. The total contribution of the environment is more than $ 1.2 million, including nearly $ 596,000 are invested by the City of Fermont. Regional authorities as well as many private companies have also contributed generously to the realization of this third phase of Habitat Closed. 
"Thank you to our partners, the SHQ, the city of Fermont, at the CANIAPISCAU MRC, at the Caniapiscau Local Development Center, Cliffs Natural Resources, the Consumer Cooperative of Fermont and other donors. Thanks to your support, we all contribute to meeting the housing needs of our families, "said Mrs. Jacynthe Deschênes, Manager of the Fermont Habitat. 
Note that additional financial assistance of more than $ 103,000 spread over five years and assumed to 90% by the SHQ and 10% by the City of Fermont will allow 6 tenants to benefit from the rent supplement program. Thus, these low-income households will pay a rent similar to that of a low rent dwelling, or 25% of their income. 
