Montreal- The Victoria-Barclay project is officially launched. The Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Mr. André Villeneuve, today proceeded to the shovel of land highlighting the beginning of the construction work of this project, in the presence of the mayor of The arrondissement of Côte-des-Neiges-Notre-Dame-de-Grâce, Mr. Lionel Perez, and many partner partners. 
This project, carried out through the AccessLogis Québec program of the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), provides for the construction of a 9 storey building comprising 67 affordable homes for families. Community premises will also be arranged on the ground floor and the basement of the building. Nearly $ 12 million are invested in this project by the Government of Quebec and the City of Montreal. Note also that the Arrondissement of Côte-des-Neiges-Notre-Dame-de-Gravel are an additional $ 2.6 million to enable the Community component of this project. 
"This project is an excellent new since it will allow 67 families at low or modest income to accommodate, while paying a decent rent. The construction of this residential complex is a good example of initiative that will help curb the exodus of families to the suburbs and our government is very proud to be associated with it. Congratulations to all the artisans of this beautiful project, "said André Villeneuve, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation of the Territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The Government of Quebec, through the SHQ, has made more than $ 5 million to allow the construction of this building, in addition to guaranteeing the mortgage loan contracted by the Montreal Municipal Housing Office. The City of Montreal has, for its part, invested more than $ 1.2 million in this project. Finally, let us mention Gaz Métro awarded a grant of just over $ 26,000. 
"The realization of this mixed, residential and community project is the result of the application of the social and affordable housing inclusion strategy in major projects. The benefits for the Community of the Arrondissement of Côte-des-Neiges-Notre-Dame-de-Grâce and the development of the triangle sector are tangible and concrete with the construction of this original complex that meets local needs ", has The Vice-Chairman of the Executive Committee of the City of Montreal and responsible for housing and housing, Mr. Benoît Dorais. 
"This project is of great importance to the neighborhood that has known a second wind since the revitalization of Victoria Street. In addition to improving access to housing, the center will improve the offer of recreation and social development services by welcoming two community organizations, "added the mayor of the borough, Lionel Perez. 
It should be noted that 34 tenants of this dwelling set will be able to benefit from the rent supplement program, which will allow them to pay only 25% of their income to lodge. This additional assistance of more than $ 585,000, spread over five years, is 90% assumed by the SHQ and 10% by the City of Montreal. 
Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000. households each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. You will also be able to consult Habitat, the WEB magazine of the SHQ, which deals with the spin-offs of the interventions of it on the whole of Quebec society. 
