Lévis- The site of the Cooperative of Housing Space Saint-Louis is officially launched! Passage to Lévis, the Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the regions of the Capitale-Nationale and the Chaudière-Appalaches, Ms. Agnès Maltais, today proceeded to the shovel. Earth emphasizing the beginning of the construction work of 47 affordable housing for families and single people. 
More than $ 9.4 million is invested by the Government of Quebec and its partners in the construction of this cooperative which will emerge through the AccessLogis Québec program of the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ). 
"This housing cooperative project is part of the development plan of a site that also includes condominiums and commercial spaces. This diversity of vocation will undoubtedly promote the dynamism of Old Lévis, a single sector, not only because of its heritage and historical value, but also because of its strategic location. But above all, the Housing Cooperative Space Saint-Louis will help fill an important need for affordable housing in Lévis, "said Minister Agnes Maltais, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and Occupation the territory, Minister of Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The Government of Quebec, through the SHQ, has granted nearly $ 3.6 million for the construction of this building, in addition to guaranteeing the mortgage contracted by the consolidated solidarity cooperative the new spaces. The city of Lévis has, for its part, invested more than $ 1.4 million in this project. Also mention that the Office of Energy Efficiency and Innovation of the Department of Natural Resources has granted a grant of some $ 130,000 to ensure that the building meets the Novoclimat program standards. 
"It's a great day for members of our cooperative. We look forward to seeing this innovative housing project take shape. The cooperative model on which it is based will allow its members to participate in the decisions that concern them and to take an active part in the development of their living environment and their neighborhood, "said Nathalie Plante, Chair of the Board of Directors of the solidarity cooperative in dwelling the new spaces. 
It should be noted that 24 tenants from this dwelling set will be able to benefit from the rent supplement program, which will allow them to pay only 25% of their income to accommodate. This additional assistance of more than $ 413,000, spread over five years, is 90% assumed by the SHQ and 10% by the city. 
Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000. households each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. 
For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. You will also be able to consult Habitat, the WEB magazine of the SHQ, which deals with the spin-offs of the interventions of it on the whole of Quebec society. 
