Saguenay- Minister responsible for Government Administration, President of the Treasury Board and Minister responsible for the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean Region, Mr. Stéphane Bédard, and the Minister of Transport and Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and of the occupation of the territory and MP of Jonquière, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault announced an investment of $ 16 million for the construction of a building that will bring together on the same site, downtown Arvida, some 140 Revenue Quebec employees serving the region. For the occasion, MM. Bédard and Gaudreault were accompanied by the Mayor of Saguenay, Mr. Jean Tremblay. 
"This major investment will not only enable Revenu Québec to meet its current and future needs, but it will also be an important regional hub for the offer of public services. Also, I am particularly proud to emphasize that the use of timber and the adoption of successful environmental measures will be preferred for the new construction that will aim for obtaining a LEED certification, "said Minister Bédard. 
Project Manager, Quebec Infrastructure Corporation (SQI) will erect the building on Boulevard Mellon. It will have four floors and provide a total area of 4,800 square meters, an area of about 65% larger than that of the current premises, which are located on the Rue Deschênes and the Harvey Boulevard. The new building will be built on a plot of 1,277 square meters composed of two plots that will be acquired by the SQI; One of the city of Saguenay and the other of the Secretariat of the National Trade Unions of Arvida. An agreement with the city will allow the use of spaces on municipal parking adjacent to the building. 
"In addition to presenting the most financially beneficial solution, the arrival of an increased number of Revenu Québec employees in the city center of ARVIDA will greatly contribute to the revitalization of the sector, which is particularly important to heart. I would like to thank all the stakeholders who collaborated in the realization of this project, "added Minister Gaudreault. 
The launch of the tendering for professional services is scheduled for the winter of 2014 while the start of the work is considered in the spring of 2015 for a shipping in the spring of 2016. 
