The leader of the Parti Québécois, Jean-François Lisée, as well as candidates Carole Poirier (Hochelaga-Maisonneuve), Diane Lamarre (Taillon), Catherine Fournier (Marie-Victorin) and Daniel Breton (Saint-Hyacinthe), presented the third component. Great unlocking, the ambitious mobility plan of the Parti Québécois. Since the beginning of the election campaign, the Parti Québécois multiplies commitments to combat road congestion and give more time to families; Today, he announced that a liberated government will reduce the costs of public transit by 60% for trips outside peak hours, for all citizens. 
IN SHORT 
"The Parti Québécois presents a global vision of mobility, both in urban centers and region. The shutters 1 and 2 of the large unlocking, to them alone, will remove hundreds of thousands of road cars every day. We are pursuing today in this direction, with a new bold proposal, and promises to be effective: the government I will lead will provide public transport companies from reducing the 60% collective tariffs for all trips made. Outstanding peak hours, "announced Jean-François Lisée. 
"What we propose is a complete change in our transport habits, chained Daniel Breton. The Metro-Bourt-Dodo cycle is infernal for many. Our road infrastructure and public transport struggle to host hundreds of thousands of Quebeckers who, every day, make the round trip between their work and home. We have to do something. Then we want to encourage citizens to otherwise plan their transport, prefer off peak periods, when possible. From there the 60% discount we propose today for train, subway and bus services. » 
The Parti Québécois believes that this measure will promote a modal transfer of car to collective and active transport, and will allow 800,000 users to save up to $ 190 a year. "In addition, in the long term, some 126,000 cars will be removed from our roads, thanks to this single measure. In all, the three components of the Grand Unlock should subtract 533,000 traffic vehicles in Quebec, every day of the week, "continued Carole Poirier. 
For its part, Catherine Fournier reiterated that the Parti Québécois is the only one to offer a concrete and credible plan to counter the climate crisis. "Great unblocking, these are simple solutions, known technologies, on existing courses. We have a global vision, and the measures we propose can be applied immediately. Unlock our transport is the best way to improve our short-term carbon footprint. The Parti Québécois has heard the citizens who are demanding a progressive and green government, a government that does not lack ambition for the environment, "she said. 
"And this government, it will be ours, continued Diane Lamarre. If you can both pay cheaper to move more efficiently, fight the climate crisis and spend more quality time with family or friends, what else ask? » 
