Montreal- The Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister responsible for the Montreal Region, Jean-François Lisé, inaugurates the new local community service center (CLSC) of Benny Farm, an installation of the health center and social services (CSSS) Cavendish. He made this announcement on behalf of the Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Minister Réjean Hébert. 
"The inauguration of CLSC Benny Farm is an excellent news for Montrealers and for health professionals who work there. The creation of this new center makes it possible to provide key front-line services, to increase accessibility and, by the very fact, to better meet the current needs of the community, "said Minister Hébert . 
Benny Farm's CLSC Service Offer includes medical and nursing services, including levies and vaccines, and many other services for families, schools and daycare. Resources are also available for people with mental health problems and those with chronic diseases, including diabetes. In addition, we can benefit from community organizational and home support services. 
"In addition to providing local care and services in Montrealers, this project is both economical and environmentally friendly. It is therefore a good example of judicious choice in public infrastructure. Indeed, energy consumption will be lower, given the design of this building that meets advanced environmental standards. Note, for example, the establishment of a heat recovery system that will significantly increase the energy efficiency of the building as well as equipment that will reduce the use of drinking water from nearly one-third , "Said the minister listed. 
With an area of 6,310 square meters, the new building was built at a cost of $ 19,948,000, most of which was assumed by the CSSS Cavendish by the non-renewal of rental agreements for the old spaces occupied by the establishment. The Ministry of Health and Social Services has made a contribution of $ 787,000. The management of the work has been entrusted to the Quebec estate company and the building, which respects many principles of sustainable development, targets LEED money certification. 
