Montréal - Minister of Health and Social Services and Minister Responsible for Elders, Dr. Réjean Hébert, and the Minister of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology, Mr. Pierre Duchesne, inaugurate today Hui The University of Montreal University of Montreal Research Center (Crchum). Directed by the Access group Research Montreal This modernization project was completed on time and respected the financial framework, for a total cost of $ 469, $ 5 million (updated value). This amount includes the design and construction of the project as well as the financing costs and the costs associated with the maintenance and maintenance of assets for the next 30 years. 
"The scientific expertise of the CHUM in the field of medical research, previously dispersed in six places, is now gathered for the greater good of our health network, which will now benefit from an international caliber research center. It is one of the 10 largest biomedical research centers in the country, "said Minister Hébert. 
The Ministers Pierre Duchesne and Réjean Hébert, accompanied by the member for Sainte-Marie-Saint-Jacques, Daniel Breton, inaugurate the Center for Research at the University of Montreal (Crchum) hospital. // (c) Ariane Lareau 
The crchum consists of two entirely new buildings, the Viger wing and the Saint-Antoine wing, which total an area of 68,800 square meters. Much of the center's premises will be dedicated to basic and clinical research. There are some 150 research teams, bringing together a total of 1,600 people, including 350 researchers. These teams will work on several scientific priorities, including cancer, global health and neuroscience. The Crchum will continue to teach each other thanks to the many course rooms, clinical training, self-training and competency assessment. Practical learning will be reinforced by the use of many simulation laboratories containing virtual simulators and computerized models. Other premises are devoted to the administration. 
"This state-of-the-art research center will allow us to stay at the forefront in several sectors of research, including biomedical engineering, cell imaging and genetic diseases. In addition, we can rejoice that many students and trainees in the field of health will be able to rub shoulders with great researchers, and thus be the responsibility of the latest discoveries, for the greatest benefit of the population, "said the Minister Pierre Duchesne. 
