Québec, 22 September 2020 - Noting the lack of resources in schools in this extremely sensitive period, the member for Joliette and spokesperson for the Parti Education and Family Party, Véronique Hivon, requests the Government to mobilize Emergency Quebeckers who can come to a hand in our schools. She proposes, to do this, the establishment of a platform "I contribute" for the environment of education. 
IN SHORT 
Since the start of the school year, there are only three weeks ago, the testimonies of teachers, professionals and end-of-breath support employees accumulate. "The scarcity of staff seems to have become widespread. Some people fulfill all kinds of tasks that have nothing to do with their specialty, in addition to their regular mandate with students. It's overflowing! From our point of view, it is unacceptable that an orthopedagogue, for example, make traffic or disinfection instead of giving the services for which it is trained, nor a teacher should see the recovery periods Aiming to help reduced students for other tasks that take more and more space, "said the Game Deputy Member. 
The situation is all the more outlier than the support and catch-up needs, among others, are larger than ever. "After months of non-school attendance, many children need more attention, supervision and special support. But we live the opposite: the teachers, overloaded, have less time to grant them because they manage a lot of tasks related to COVID. However, we must at all price prevent students, especially those in difficulty, pay the price and become the next victims of the pandemic; We have a duty to avoid creating a "Generation Covid", "she continued. 
Véronique Hivon wishes strong and vigorous actions. It considers that a website on the platform model "I contribute", for the health network, would be quite indicated and profitable to recruit support employees and fill the gaps identified in Quebec schools. "The minister must innovate, be proactive, find solutions. Its priority, its obsession, must remain the success of students. It must feel the urgency and quickly launch a cry of the heart. Retirees, students and full of others able to pay different support tasks are certainly ready to give a hand, and we do not have the means to deprive ourselves of their contribution, "insisted Véronique Hivon. 
Since the beginning of the pandemic, the Parti Québécois has made several constructive and innovative suggestions to the Minister of Education. Whether by proposing a Hybrid Class return when necessary or asking that teams devoted to mental health accompany students, the Quebec party places, again and again, the success of the students at the heart of his concerns. 
