Paris, France - The Minister of Finance and the Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, announced the establishment in Montreal of the French Society Linagora, specialized in the development of free software. 
"Free software is gradually imposed as a reliable and economical option for public bodies and Quebec companies. The government is convinced of its benefits, and that is why we recently announced the creation of the Free Software Expertise Center, which is mandated to support public bodies that want to make the transition. We therefore welcome the arrival of Linagora, which will find a fertile ground for its North American expansion in Quebec, "said Minister Marceau. 
Linagora is one of the largest free software developers in Europe. In recent years, the company has invested significant amounts in R-D to develop collaborative messaging solutions, digital safe and identity management. The solutions created by the company are used by several public bodies in France, including the ministries of the economy and finances, from the interior, culture and defense, as well as by the national gendarmerie and many communities local. Its collaborative email solution OBM teams up to 50% of the positions of French ministries. 
In the long term, this project should generate investments in the order of $ 10 million and the creation of 55 new jobs over a period of three years. The coming of Linagora is the direct result of investment Québec's approaches for almost five years. 
"The Quebec policy of support for innovation and businesses, the proximity of the US market and the quality of Quebec investment support throughout this project have been determining factors in our decision. In addition, the valued interest of the Quebec government for free software offers very promising prospects for a company like ours, "concluded Alexandre Zapolsky, founder and President and CEO of Linagora. 
Investissement Québec's mission is to promote investment growth in Quebec, thus contributing to economic development and job creation, in all regions. This company puts companies with a full range of financial solutions, including loans, loan guarantees and equity investment, in order to support them at all stages of their development. In addition, it is responsible for the administration of tax measures and prospecting investments abroad. 
