Montreal-Lebarreau du Québeca The pleasure of awarding the merit Christine-Tourigny 2013 to Me Véronique Hivon, who currently holds the position of Minister Delegate to Social Services and the Protection of Youth of the Government of Quebec. Each year, the merit Christine-Tourigny is awarded to a lawyer who stands out because of his social commitment and his contribution to the advancement of women in the profession. 
The merit Christine-Tourigny will be officially submitted to Me Hivon on Thursday, May 30, 2013 at 4:30 pm, at the official opening of the Barreau du Barre du Québec, at the Montreal Congress Palace. 
Commitment, perseverance, sensitivity and sense of diplomacy are among the dominant traits of Véronique Hivon, a woman of action who knows to endorse the point of view of a committed and modern woman in Quebec society. Holder of a Bachelor of Civil Law and Common Law at McGill University, Mr. Hivon was admitted to the Bar in 1996. She subsequently completed a Master's degree in Analysis and Social Planning at the London School of Economics, Then second and third cycles studies at the National School of Public Administration of Quebec. 
Oriented towards citizen involvement and public service, the professional roadmap of Me Hivon is remarkable. Before wearing its current position on social services and the protection of youth in the Pussy Government, Ms. Hivon has evolved in several positions from the Quebec public administration and has also been illustrated in its role as legislator. As a parliamentarian at the Quebec National Assembly, Véronique Hivon has made benefits noticed both as a member of the official opposition and as a representative of the political party. His questions and comments still denote his excellent preparation of files and his understanding of sharp issues. Concerned about the improvement of public policies, Mr. Hivon knows also showing weighting in his exchanges with his members of Parliament, the guests of the parliamentary committees and the people of the public. 
HIVON has contributed to the evolution of major files, particularly that of the special commission die in dignity, of which it was the instigator and where it stood out, as a vice-president, by its leadership and its fingering. Its desire to treat with rigor and unparalleled this issue of the most delicate has been noticed and highlighted by several on this issue. 
In addition, Me Hivon has involved three years in the Women, Politics and Democracy Group, whose mission is to promote greater participation of women in political life. She served this association as a volunteer and also incarnated the mission by plunging itself into the political arena. In this sense, it supports the advancement of women by being an active involvement model in society. 
