Montreal -Prend to the event held in the annual conference of the Quebec oil and gas association, the Parti Québécois reiterated its position in favor of a moratorium on shale gas. 
"Citizens are currently treated as laboratory rats because the government allows development to groove shale gas in Quebec. There is too much uncertainty. France understood it, what is Jean Charest expects to understand it? Asked the member for the Official Opposition Assumption and Spokesman for the Environment, Sustainable Development and Parks, Scott McKay, who was accompanied for this manifestation of the member for Vachon and spokesperson of the official opposition to mining and shale gas, Martine Ouellet. 
POUR LINGUYEDITATION THE libérale VERY APPRIVISATION to an overseu, water, forestrops, L'EUX ADVORSLELELEMENT EUX-MALES Directions. Cela Fit Plus d'an D'ailleurs Quebéois, in quillace of the beginning of citiegee de Citéens, du Depostement de Cette Philie Thieve. Leaning A D'Appointment A D'Aleurs déposes a read projET to the National Assemblée en CE Sens. Spring or Seine restores and aux iniqualudes re repember to the population and aux 
"The imbalance in the composition of the committee and the lack of consultation in the process of strategic environmental assessment undermine the credibility of the year. We have intervened on multiple times, but in vain: Minister Pierre Arcand is in his complacence with the industry, continued the member for the Assumption. We reiterate our demand for a credible and transparent process. The committee formed by Minister Arcand, on which gas siege, can not be judged and part at a time. You have to start working again and return to the BAPE recommendations, "he added. 
For the Parti Québécois, there is no doubt that the future of Quebec goes through its energy independence. "We need to focus on energy efficiency, hydropower, wind, biomethanization of organic waste and the passive solar, energies that will be those of Quebec of the 21st century. We must imagine a Quebec with a truly sustainable development, a Quebec that will invest in its green energy potential, in all regions, creating jobs and a wealth that will benefit all Quebeckers and Quebeckers, "concluded Scott McKay. 
