Quebec - "I wish to salute the decision announced today by the Minister Dutil to go to the courts to save the Quebec portion of the Firearms Register. Faced with the imminent adoption of Bill C-19 by the House of Commons of Canada, the elected officials of the National Assembly must speak with one voice and bear the position of the majority of Quebecers. In the interest of the nation and as long as the Government will respect and defend the Quebec consensus, we will support it, "said the member for Marie-Victorin and the official opposition spokesman on Canadian intergovernmental affairs, Bernard Drainville. 
"The federal government is preparing not only to abolish the firearms registry, but also to destroy the data already there is unacceptable! This illustrates the dysfunction of the Canadian federal system, since the federal stubbornness could force Quebeckers to pay a second time for something they have already paid and that is functional! Quebec could not remain arrested in front of this new rebuff of Canada, it was high time that the Liberal government noticed, "added Bernard Drainville. 
"Even if we hope that Quebec prevails in the courts, it would be irresponsible not to consider a setback and consequently that the Quebec registry data is destroyed. This morning, the Minister of Public Safety, Robert Dutil, said his own officials estimated the cost of a new register at $ 35 million. If it turns out, the Parti Québécois believes that we would have no choice but to turn to this option, "said Stéphane Bergeron, MP for Verchères and official opposition spokesperson for public safety opposition . 
"No question of hopeful of lucidity in Ottawa. If the federal government does not want to properly address firearms control, Quebec will take responsibility. The legal recourse has become necessary, but, in the meantime, must ensure the preservation of the data of the registry. Let's not forget our motion on November 2, adopted unanimously, which was asking that the National Assembly requires the firearms controller that it takes all necessary measures to preserve the entirety of Quebec data listed in the Firearms Register ", concluded Stéphane Bergeron. 
