Magog- The dream has now become reality for tenants of homes Michel Lapierre, Magog. This specialized residence, built through the AccessLogis Québec program of the Quebec Housing Corporation (SHQ), has recently welcomed 8 young adults living with intellectual or physical disability. The member for Sherbrooke, Mr. Serge Cardin, once inaugurated facilities that required an investment of more than $ 1.1 million from the Quebec government and its partners. 
"What inspiring project! Thanks to these supervised homes, a new start is offered to these people. In addition to providing affordable housing in a safe environment, dwellings Michel Lapierre promote the autonomy of tenants and their sense of responsibility. It is extremely touching to see the pride in the eyes of these young people and in those of their parents, "said the member Serge Cardin, on behalf of the Minister of Municipal Affairs, Regions and the Occupation of the Territory, Minister of the Minister. Transport and Minister responsible for the SHQ, Mr. Sylvain Gaudreault. 
In addition to the SHQ, which has made financial assistance of more than $ 545,000 and guarantees the Han-Housing mortgage loan, the businessman Michel Lapierre has completed the down payment for the realization of the project. Note also the financial participation of the DESJARDINS Caisse du Lac-Memphremagog, which paid $ 24,000 to allow the construction of the residence, as well as that of the City of Magog, which granted a tax discount worth closely $ 26,000. The project also received a $ 15,000 grant from the Ministry of Natural Resources Energy of Efficiency and Energy Innovation so that the building responds to the Novoclimat standard. 
During the ceremony, the tenant Angela Palmer delivered a moving testimony: "I am more autonomous since I have my own apartment. I do tasks I did not do before washing, cooking and grocery store. I am proud to take care of my own things and have more confidence in me since I fought my fear of staying alone all night. " 
In addition, all the tenants of the residence benefit from the rent supplement, a financial assistance for low-income people who, without this support, should pay more than 25% of their income to accommodate. 
This additional assistance represents an investment of nearly $ 138,000 over five years, 90% assumed by the SHQ and 10% by the city. 
Recall that the SHQ's mission is to promote citizens' access to adequate housing conditions. Housing is a structuring response to a multitude of challenges and needs of Quebec society. Whether participating in preserving the health of families and seniors, fighting against poverty, social exclusion and homelessness or by revitalizing neighborhoods and regions, the SHQ contributes to improving the quality of life of 230,000. households each year. It also promotes job creation and the development of the economy of all regions of Quebec. For more information on the programs and services offered by the SHQ, visit www.habititation.gouv.qc.ca. You can also consult Habitat Espace, the WEB magazine of the SHQ, which deals with the spin-offs of the interventions of it on the whole of Quebec society. 
