Rouyn-Noranda- The Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, today announced investments of $ 268,600 in Abitibi-Témiscamingue, as part of the organic processing program by biomethanization and composting (PTMOBC). This help will be paid to the Multitech Environment firm for the layout of a composting installation. On this occasion, Ms. Marois was accompanied by the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Yves-François Blanchet, and the member for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue, Gilles Chapadeau. 
The project of the Multitech Environnement is to set up a composting platform in an unfathoming part of its technical landfill, in Rouyn-Noranda. The center will offer a maximum processing capacity of 6000 tonnes. The total cost of the project is $ 1.3 million. 
"The Government of Quebec is determined to quickly and significantly reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. That's why we recently decided to extend the PTMobC. Thanks to the project of the multitech environment, it will prevent more than 9000 tons of carbon dioxide rejected in the atmosphere each year. It is a substantial contribution to the fight against climate change, "said the Prime Minister. 
"The recycling of organic residual materials represents a high economic potential in a true perspective of sustainable development, which contributes to making Quebec a model," said the Minister Blanchet. 
The PTMOBC provides financial support in the municipal and private sector for the installation of infrastructure to treat organic matter using these two processes. The objectives of this program is to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions as well as the amount of organic matter intended for disposal. 
"Informed management of residual materials is a key element of the fight against climate change, but this struggle must take root in each institution, commerce and enterprise. In a few weeks, the latter will have additional means in Rouyn-Noranda to participate actively in the fight. I am confident that they will be many to take advantage of the new means of action offered by Multitech Environnement, "said the member for Rouyn-Noranda-Témiscamingue, Gilles Chapadeau. 
