The Government of Pauline Marois aims to make Quebec one of the most prosperous places in the world, taking priority over private investment. This prosperity must benefit all Quebeckers. It was in this context which government presented on Monday a new mining tax system for Quebec, regime that will come into effect on January 1, 2014. 
The regime is based on five fundamental principles that are those set out by the Quebecois party in the election campaign. 
1. All mining companies must pay royalties 
In 2011, half of the mining companies paid no royalty. It will no longer be possible with the new regime. Now all active mining companies in Quebec will have to pay a minimum mining tax. 
All mining operations will now be required to pay a minimum mining tax of 4% applied to the value of the extracted ore. To take into account the reality of the smaller farms and to facilitate the start of projects, the levy rate will be progressive: 1% for the first $ 80 million of extracted ores; Then over the surplus, the rate will be established at 4% of the value of extracted ores. 
It's a major change! Not surprising that the minings say "disappointed" and say that they would have preferred to keep the old regime ... 
2. All mining companies will have to pay a minimum tax that will increase with their profits 
Under the old mining tax system, some mining farms can earn very important profits through a sudden increase in the ore price, without Quebec benefiting from this outbreak of prices. Thanks to the new regime announced Monday, the taxes of mining companies will be greater when the mining will generate more important profits: it is a progressive tax. Thus, Quebeckers will benefit from high mining profits, as it should. 
Each year, mining companies will be required to pay the highest amount of the two amounts, that of the minimum mining tax or that of the profit tax. Over the next 12 years, it is estimated that the total additional revenues levied for Quebeckers will be between $ 770 million and $ 1.8 billion. By 2020, the government expects an increase in revenue that is expected to reach $ 73 and $ 200 million. 
For the first year, they are $ 50 million more that will enter the coffers of the state. If the new mining regime had been applied from 2000 to 2011, it would have increased the government-received mining tax of $ 559 million, or 55% more than the amount perceived during this period. 
3. More jobs in transformation 
The government has adopted several measures to encourage businesses to transform ore in Quebec to create a maximum of pay jobs for Quebecers. 
When the mining operator will conduct processing activities in Quebec, the applicable rate on eligible assets in Quebec will be enhanced by 7 percentage points from 13% to 20%. In addition, the maximum of the treatment allowance will increase from 55% to 75% of the annual profit of the mine. This encouragement will be added to other measures to encourage the transformation planned by the Government, ie: ten-year tax holidays for major investment projects (C2I) provided for in the last budget; and a possible taking of the government in the projects that involve the transformation,  From the Hydrocarbon Capital Mining Fund, which has an envelope of $ 750 million. 
With these measures, Quebec will be one of the most interesting places to invest in the transformation of mining resources while ensuring that Quebecois benefit from these investments in a sustainable way. 
4. More responsible exploitation of mining resources 
The government wants Quebec to exploit its mining potential in respect of the environment. 
The government ensures that there will be no more abandoned mining sites. The financial guarantee given by mining companies will cover 100% of the invoice of the restoration of the mines they exploit. 
In addition, a mining lease can not be issued without the company with environmental authorizations. 
5. A more transparent regime 
Before this reform, it was very difficult for Quebeckers to know what benefits Quebec pulled on mining on its territory. Future Mining Act will include transparency provisions that will comply with all Quebec laws governing access to information. Quebeckers will know the mining tax paid by each operator, and information on the extracted tonnage will be public. 
Quebeckers will make the most of Quebec's mining riches, while private investors will continue to find their account, with clear, stable and predictable rules. 
After several analyzes, debates and consultations, the government found the point of equilibrium, with a new equitable mining tax system for all. 
The new Quebec mining tax system is the most demanding in Canada. All these actions will aim to enrich the entire population and to offer future generations of excellent prosperity conditions. 
Like all public policies, every new program and every new decision is a step towards more wealth and more prosperity for all Quebeckers and all Quebeckers thanks to solidarity and integrity. This is how we do politics to the Parti Québécois. 
Watch for clash of pressing Minister Martine Ouellet. 
Consult the Communications of Press by the Department of Natural Resources at the time of filing the Mining Bill. 
