Quebec- The member for Jonquière and official opposition to sustainable development and environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, and the member for Verchères and spokespersons for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Stéphane Bergeron, find new the failure of "collaborative federalism", this time in the field of environment; They therefore urge the Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment and Fighting Climate Change, David Heurtel, to condemn the unilateralism of Ottawa. 
The member for Jonquière deplores that Minister HROLETEL has not been consulted by Ottawa to establish the Canadian target for reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. "The unilateral attitude of Ottawa has seal the debate on the so-called federally provincial collaboration that the Prime Minister wanted to bring to power. Quebec must be a leader and stop waiting for Canada to wake up, "he supported. 
The Parti Québécois also notes that Canada, when it comes to combating climate change, is still in the trailer. Indeed, among all G7 countries that will participate in the 2015 Paris Conference, the Canadian GHG Reduction Target will be the lowest. "There is an immense fracture between the Canadian vision and the Quebec Vision in the fight against climate change. It has never been so clear, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
The Parti Québécois recalls that an independent Quebec remains the only way to affirm our choices. "As in all other areas, in environmental matters, Quebeckers must be masters of their decisions. If we consider this deep fracture, it can not be said seriously that two governments can cope with consistency in the field of the environment. The Government of Quebec must take note of this new affront in Ottawa and that it acts accordingly, "said Stéphane Bergeron. 
Finally, MPs call the Quebec government to call Bill 390 from the Québécois party to affirm Quebec's environmental sovereignty. "The Government of Quebec must immediately make a strong gesture in order to send a message to Ottawa," have the deputies. 
