Quebec- The member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and sentence of the official opposition on the matter of women, Carole Poirier, said today to the National Assembly a petition claiming the return of sexual education courses to sexuality In our schools. This petition was initiated by the Cyber-Aid Center and signed by 5762 people. 
"With an officially tabled petition at the National Assembly, it is one more step towards a knowledge development in sexual education," said Cathy Tétreault, Executive Director of the Cyber-Assistance Center, an organization In particular, aims to inform and raise awareness of the healthy and secure use of the Internet. 
"It is urgent to offer young people a model of sexuality based on principles of egalitarian reports. Young people must receive awareness and acquisition of relevant information in sexual education. These new knowledge should develop the critical spirit of our young people and bring them to non-sexist and non-heterosexist egalitarian ratios. Citizens of Quebec are ready; We went there, "continued Carole Poirier. 
Launched at the end of the second forum on the hypersexualization of young people last February in Quebec City, the petition has translated the feelings shared by the many participants. 
Environments, partners of an egalitarian society 
"It is imperative to develop a critical spirit in the face of proposals for sexual behaviors and sexist messages conveyed in the different media, including the Internet. With cyberbullying, young people are victims, well despite themselves. We need to mobilize environments, adults like young people. It is urgent to act, "added Cathy Tétreault. 
The initiators of the petition argue that in order to adequately develop the knowledge of sexuality education in the schools of Quebec, it is important to consult the representatives of the education community jointly (the teachers, professional, nursing or support, Directorates and parents) as well as specialists in sexuality education (sexologists, expert groups - such as Calacs - representatives of the women's movement, among others). These people would be best placed to reflect on a rooting strategy that really leads to the development of knowledge in youth sex education. 
Of situations of concern 
"We are all very concerned about the growing phenomenon of the hypersexualization of young people, especially girls, as well as early sexuality. Our public and social space is sexualizing. It is equally disturbing to see how many our young people are exposed, even overexposed, to sexist models, reducing and footholdes related to pornography codes. Traditional and social media are important socializing agents for young people. That is why it is urgent to provide them with other models, to offer them a counter-speech and an understanding free of any relation of domination, "continued Cathy Tétreault. It also emphasizes that the Cyber-Assistance Center will participate in the forum on the fight against intimidation, which will be held on October 2nd, since the issues of cyberbullying, hypersexualization and gesture and heterosexist relationships are closely linked and must be warned using a global strategy. 
Already, Minister Yves Bolduc expressed himself in favor of setting up sexual education courses in Quebec schools, read in the media on September 3rd. "We are now waiting for the additional gesture that will make us actually speaking to acts and that we will feel that clicks into a political will to settle a public health problem. It is for the good of our young people and the future of our society that we formulate this request, "concluded Cathy Tétreault. 
About the Cyber-Help Center 
The Cyber-Aid Center is a non-profit organization that has been created by parents, police officers and schools. In particular, it presents workshops for the prevention of cyberDependance and cyberbullying in more than 40 primary and secondary schools of the Greater Quebec City. 
