Quebec- In the light of the last demographic assessment published by the Quebec Institute of Statistics (ISQ), the member for Chicoutimi and Leader of the Official Opposition, Stéphane Bédard, notes that the demographic weight of Quebec in Canada. to decrease. In order for decisions to be made in the interests of Quebeckers and only by them, he reaffirms that Quebec must become a country. 
Indeed, it can be seen that the weight of Quebec has passed successively from 27.9% in 1971 to 26.4% in 1981, and then to 25.2% in 1991, to 23.8% in 2001, at 23.3 % in 2011, to finally be 23.1% in 2014. The ISQ provides that in 2038, our weight should be between 21% and 22%. 
"More than ever, it makes it necessary and advantageous the sovereignty of Quebec. To be a sovereign, it would mean that all decisions affecting Quebec would be taken by Quebeckers and only by them. Currently, half of the decisions that concern us are taken in the House of Commons, where Quebeckers are in the minority, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
Remember that Prime Minister Stephen Harper runs a majority Conservative government, despite the fact that he only elected 5 members in Quebec. "We have regularly found that the Government of Stephen Harper makes its choices without taking into account - even sometimes against - the interests of the Quebec nation. The files of the TransCanada pipeline and the toll on the Champlain Bridge, to name only those, are concrete examples of necessity, for Quebec, to be the only one to make the decisions about what is happening on its Territory, "added Stéphane Bédard. 
"The demographic trend is heavy, and it is to be expected that our minority nation position within Canada will go by getting worse and our influence on federal decisions will continue to be increasingly negligible. In addition, it is unfortunately expected that in the near future, other decisions opposed to our interests will be taken by the federal government. Sovereignty would allow us to make choices in our image, different from those from the rest of Canada. This is the best way to escape our minority status in Canada, "concluded the leader of the official opposition. 
