The Daily Considerate on 29 January An article with the title is shuddering: "Couillard warns Quebec against the desire to distinguish itself". How? 'Or' What?! It must be a bad dream! When reading the article, disbelief has quickly given rise to amazement. 
For a man who dares for the liberal heritage, brandishing such screens demonstrates his ignorance of history, his weakness in decision-making and his inability to defend Quebec. 
The multiple reversals of Philippe Couillard, nicknamed "Philipple Flop" because of their nature as crazy as their frequency are practically become commonplace.incarable to take a position on the Charter of Values, he excludes Fatima Houda-Pepper his team. Unable to understandRela government position on the crucifix, it still changes an idea. It was the same Choseavec Arthur Porter: the friend became a vague knowledge.and yet ... 
Already, in March 2013, the Liberal leader, not yet elected deputy, mentioned the possibility not to submit to the population by referendum his project of ratification of LaConstitutioncanadienne! 
Did he forget that the historical statements of his predecessors? Robert Bourassa, broken by the failure of Lake Meechoù English English refused to admit Quebec in the constitutional giron, a sentence now famous - and oh how true! "What to say, whatever We do, Quebec is today and forever, a separate, free society capable of assuming its destiny and development. " 
What was true in 1990 (and well before!) Is always when I like the official visit in Paris in 2007, says that "the question today is no longer to know if we have the means [of do sovereignty]. Yes, we have them. Nobody says it in question. Jean Charest added that "the real question is as follows:" What is in our interest in us? What's best for Quebec? "" 
Let us take the paragraphs mentioned above and present the other side of the medal. 
Quebec, as a separate society, can - and must - choose the diversity model that corresponds to it in order to communicate clearly to its neighbors in North America which he is who he aspires to be. As long as these steps are performed peacefully, openly and democratically, the economic partners have nothing to fear. 
We are Quebec and proud to be. We are a French-speaking nation, both rooted on a beautiful and open territory on the world, valiant, creative, ingenious, solidarity, rich. All societies in the world diversify, as culturally and economically, and wish to wish the Quebec state of all possible means to enable it to communicate its identity to separately separately from the concert of nations. 
Investors place their beads in Quebec due to Denos economic policies, of our skilled workforce, the operation of the Maroisen Government look at the expense of expenses, the quality of life makes the envy of the whole world. This is part of the multiple factors that are evaluated. 
Moreover, during an economic recreation in London and Davos, the Prime Minister of Quebec, Pauline Marois, noted which foreign investors do not worry at all of the Charter of Values. 
If the real question still arises, it is not in Philippe Couillard or the Liberal Party to answer it, but to Quebeckers themselves. If two visions compete like Philippe Couillard tries to believe it, it is easy to distinguish them: a Canadian, legalistic and provincial approach, and a Quebec ambition, proud, independent. 
