Quebec- The Parti Québécois deplores the weakness of the climate change action plan unveiled this morning by the Ministers Pierre Arcand and Pierre Moreau and whose prime minister joined the announcement at the last minute. "Many words for few significant results. This plan is more of a public relations plan, a kind of green mask so that Jean Charest can strut at the summit of land in Rio at the end of the month, "said the member for the Assumption and Official opposition spokesperson for the environment, sustainable development and parks, Scott McKay. 
The member recalls that there is a barely month ago, the Commissioner for Sustainable Development was unequivocal on the management of climate change by the Minister of the Environment: Lack of Transparency, Inappropriate Governance Structure, Uncertainty As for the achievement of government goals, low monitoring of targets and objectives set and anecdotal accountability. "These severe conclusions already apply to the new action plan since, as well as the previous plan, the 2013-2020 plan is based on measures whose effectiveness and efficiency have never been demonstrated. "Said the member for the Assumption. 
Actions in the transport sector suffer from a deplorable amateurism. "The liberal regime plans that in 2020 is 25% of the vehicles purchased in Quebec that will be electric cars. However, the measures it sets up will, at best, to achieve only 1% of the Québec automobile fleet. It's clearly insufficient, "said Scott McKay. 
For the Québécois Party, the late implementation of measures in the transport sector removes credibility to the Liberal action plan. "When the transport sector will be integrated into the Carbon Exchange in 2015, we will already be very close to the 2020 deadline. The time to put in place the measures and to perform the inevitable adjustments along the way, we will be Already at the dawn of 2020. While 43% of Quebec's greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are in the transportation sector, this major weakness of the Liberal plan ensures that the achievement of the government objective proves highly unlikely, "added the spokesman. 
Scott McKay should remember that the Commissioner for Sustainable Development has demonstrated, in his Lapidaire, last month report, the fact that the Liberal government ignores fluctuations in economic activity in its action plan. "Worse still, the Liberal regime launches head down in mining development and shale gas development, without providing for compensation measures for GHGs that these sectors will generate," says the member for the Assumption. "The only gas pipeline in the Liberal regime budget to feed Northern Natural Gas will make extensive leaks. Now nothing in the plan of action unveiled today is planned to compensate for these emissions. It lacks seriously, "he said. 
"The Liberals will give free GHG emission credits to the new mines that will grow in the north, but today's plan does not even mention it! This is the demonstration that it is only the wind, a hot air balloon that two liberal ministers launch today. If the Liberal regime firmly believes in its plan, it will undo a real public consultation, "concluded Scott McKay. 
