Sympathizers, sympathizers, activists and activists of the Parti Québécois, 
I am Diane Lamarre, Member of Parliament for Taillon and sentence of the official opposition in terms of health, accessibility to care and home support. I speak to you today to tell you about the fight that I lead for equal health opportunities and the sustainability of our public system thanks to the solid Plan of the Parti Québécois. The goal is to ensure that finally, the citizen is at the center of healthy choices. 
From there the importance of having a functional health system, efficient and accessible to all. To establish a social contract that guarantees that professionals are serving patients, not the other way around. Access to health care is our common good to all! 
That's why I committed, during my professional life and as a member of Parliament, to ensure that our health system is more accessible and efficient. Indeed, training pharmacist, I was president of the Order of Quebec pharmacists and, during my mandate, I helped expand the gestures that pharmacists can do for Quebec citizens. It is the same exercise that we are preparing for all 220,000 health professionals, who could be given more autonomy, for two reasons: in Quebec, our trainings are among the best In the world, and this decompartmentalization has clearly managed to improve access. 
As a member of Parliament, as a pharmacist, as a professor at the Faculty of Pharmacy and as a columnist, I heard you, I received your disappointments as to the wait generated by our health system, to the marked deterioration of access since 15 years. I also heard your solutions, since you had to face the obstacles that arose in front of you or your loved ones. I know my records and health concerns of Quebecers, but also the injustices caused by the lack of access. 
During my professional life, I visited many patients at home, I collaborated with CLSCs, CHSLDs, intermediate resources (RIs), doctors' teams, nurses, dietitians, psychologists , etc. I worked on prevention programs and healthy lifestyle, and I could see the functioning of other health systems, through my conferences and thirty humanitarian missions in Bosnia, Africa or Haiti. 
I go out with a deep conviction: the patient must be at the center of our decisions and our healthy choices. Since the care before birth to palliative care, their organization must be well designed and closely monitored. It must pay particular attention to vulnerable people and offer competence and efficiency with an objective of local access. Because the deadlines also have a human cost. 
For 15 years, you have seen, like me, that there is no significant progress in reducing health waiting time. After more than 15 years of Liberal government, there is still a constant deterioration of access. Draconian cups were even proceeded in the vital services for our elders and in the staff taking care of it. For example, in 2016, half a million hours of home support were cut off to our elders. While every year, in Quebec, 100,000 people reach the age of 65, 10,000 less seniors have access to home care. Inconceivable and yet true! 
This government has focused on increasing the remuneration of physicians, without ensuring better access for citizens, without ensuring appropriate services to the entire population and throughout the territory of Quebec. 
Already more than half of Quebec's current expenses are devoted to health. Each dollar spent must therefore be the most adequately possible. 
Recently, the Liberals even signed a secret agreement with the general practitioners who anticipates an increase in their remuneration of $ 1.6 billion over 8 years, without any guarantee of improving access, especially for people. The most vulnerable inscribed at the access desk. The liberal discharges remain unwanted, and failure is rewarded, with the maintenance of the Minister of Health, Gaétan barrette. 
The balance sheet of the Quebec Liberal Party in health is therefore without appeal. It is generally negative. Moreover, a recent survey showed that 80% of people considered that the Liberal government had made poor health choices. I share your consternation in the face of the lack of will and solutions from the Liberal government to defend our health system. The minister barrette put all his energy from taking money to the poorest to restore him to doctors. 
Yet, solutions exist! 
Our public health system, which is a source of pride and attachment for us, Quebec, is crumbling, to be destroyed with unwanted promises, centralization and draconian cups of the Liberals. Should we continue? Should we look? 
No. We must act in 2018. The Liberal government must be replaced by political training that offers real health solutions. A serious and responsible party that is on the ground, close to people and listening to their concerns. It's us, it's the Quebecois Party. On the one hand, thanks to our health proposals, adopted at the recent Congress and, on the other hand, thanks to a health tour through Quebec that began a month ago and will continue until the elections . The Parti Québécois, it is a party that is committed to the citizen, who understands that health is a continuum that goes from prevention and healthy lifestyles to home support, passing through help to relatives caregivers and support for the mission of community organizations. 
I sincerely believe that we have the best health plan for all Quebeckers and all Quebeckers. I say it because, army of your testimonials, from our meetings, of my knowledge of health systems both in Quebec as elsewhere in the world, I managed to expand the contributions of pharmacists and I am now ready to do the same for all the developmental health. In just over a year, it's a million new acts that 9,000 pharmacists were able to do for 750,000 Quebec citizens. Imagine what 220,000 professionals could do! 
Here are some of our main proposals: 
1) Foster professional health appliance 
Making CLSCs a place of service provision by specialized nurse practitioners, who will exercise autonomously in order to complete the front-line service offering for minor emergencies and the monitoring of chronic diseases. 
Extend to the whole Quebec the clinic model of nurses and other local professionals, depending on the model of the Sabsa cooperative. 
Give more autonomy to 200,000 health professionals other than physicians, such as physiotherapists, psychologists, pharmacists, social workers, occupational therapists, dental hygienists. 
2) Return patients to the heart of our budget choices 
Freeze, from 2018, the remuneration of doctors. 
Reinvest this money to ensure better access to care for patients. 
Putting the patient at the center of each new dollar dedicated to health. 
End the incorporation of doctors. 
3) Improve access to the first line 
Guarantee proximity access to a specialized nurse or a doctor until 9 pm, 7 nights a week. 
End the ping-pong of the specialists between the private and the public. 
4) Invest heavily and urgently in home support 
There is urgency to act! 
Four flagship measures are proposed, including the number of professionals (such as respiratory therapists) that visit home patients and develop social housing or community support for patients with degenerative disease (such as multiple sclerosis), people to Taken with a mental health problem and seniors in loss of autonomy. 
It's simple, it takes good professional, in the right place, at the right time and at the right cost! 
This is how we will finally get a greater accessibility. 
These are solid proposals, full of meaning and can quickly come into effect. 
I am asking you to renew your confidence in us in the coming election, to implement these solutions and interrupt the sequence of liberal governments that led to this excess between increases paid to doctors and repetitive cuts affecting the most vulnerable. Just like you, I know that our party is based on the active support of its activists and activists. We need your support to give life to this strong and bold health plan, to avoid a dangerous slip towards a private, eternally unfair system for many. 
If you think like me, if you believe it takes new solutions for our health system, if our proposals speak to you, make a donation right now that we can, together, offer better accessibility to all, in dignity, And that, from 2018. 
Diane Lamarre 
Member of Parliament for Taillon, official opposition spokesperson for health, accessibility to care and home support 
