Quebec, on September 13, 2017- The head of the official opposition, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the spokesman for health, accessibility to home care and support, Diane Lamarre, and the spokesman In terms of social services and youth protection, Dave Turcotte, have presented a strong plan for home care and support. 
"It's time to end the rationing and meet the real needs of Quebecers. The findings are clear: the barrette reform and its promises have not improved anything for home support. All busy to merge the structures, increase the envelopes of doctors, to guarantee their unnecessary premiums, the Minister Barrette has raged home support. And it is the protector of the citizen who confirmed it to us: the government has applied a method of "give a little to everyone, while giving enough to any", "said the head of the official opposition. 
"Our goals are just as clear: allow seniors, or living with physical disability, mental or degenerative illness, stay at home, while reducing the burden of caregivers, and involve health professionals, social economy companies and community organizations. Our solutions are strong, "he added. 
IN SHORT 
Ensuring a respectful and safe environment: Supervised and secure housing as needed, and Pair Program 
"For seniors, people living with disabilities or degenerative disease and those with a mental health problem can stay at home, it is not enough to give them money. It is first necessary that their dwelling is safe and adapted to their condition and, then, that resource persons of the social or medical environment offer proximity support. To do this, we need to innovate, present concrete measures, increase home-based human and professional resources, use new technologies, including digital technologies, and support existing initiatives, such as Automated Call Program, "has illustrated Diane Lamarre. 
This service, present in some regions, must be extended. It contributes to the safety of the elderly and the peace of mind of their loved ones. It comes in two versions: first, the security call, which generates an alert if the subscriber does not answer after three attempts. An audit is then conducted by a respondent who has been identified by the Subscriber or the Police Services. There is also the "aide-memoir" call, which reminds subscribers to take their medication, to check their blood glucose level, and many other things. 
"In addition, our plan is to support the deployment of supervised housing, especially for people with degenerative or mental illnesses, or struggling with physical disabilities. These dwellings consist of renormal groupings to whom a social worker or nurse is assigned who, often resides within these groupings. Technological solutions now allow to make the environment of these people more securely, while facilitating the work of health professionals. Several community initiatives that meet other such needs should be encouraged, facilitated and supported by the government; This is what we will do, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
Put the necessary means: at least $ 100 million a year 
"We want to avoid unnecessary use of emergencies and hospitals. The waiting time to receive home care can go up to 6 or 12 months; this is unacceptable. In election campaign, in 2014, the PLQ was committed to investing $ 750 million over 5 years in home care. But he broke his promise from his first year in power. He has invested a big $ 0 for the first two years, $ 60 million the third, and $ 69 million this year. It is insufficient. It should also be remembered that he cut half a million hours of home support in 2016. As a result, the support was offered to 10,000 less, while each year, 100,000 people reach 65 years, "has specified Diane Lamarre. 
"It's time to offer the necessary means, it's time to offer solid to elders and people living with a disability. They must be able to live decently at home; It is a desire that they have repeatedly expressed, and our role is to make every effort to respect it. We will invest at least $ 100 million additional per year for 5 years. This will significantly increase the services offered by family auxiliaries and other health professionals, "she added. 
Relieve close caregivers: 8 hours of respite a week 
"The caregivers do extraordinary work every day. Unfortunately, for several years, nothing has really been put in place to relieve them and support them. According to a statistical analysis Canada, between January and May 2016, only 95,500 Quebecers abandoned their employment due to "personal and family obligations". Among them, 73,500 women. It's enormous. The ex-liberal Minister Marguerite Blais demanded the establishment of a policy for caregivers. In his departure, she was very critical of her own party, finding her slowness to put in place a policy in this direction, despite repeated calls. It's time to do it, and concretely. Our plan will include offering 8 hours of respite a week to those who need it most. It is time to better support community organizations that help close caregivers, "has insisted Dave Turcotte on his side. 
"Our plan is also to make every effort to offer a human solution that promotes the full social participation of people living with a disability. Currently, 3500 of these people under 65 live in a CHSLD in Quebec. We must offer these people concrete solutions, such as the bonus of the job-service check, in order to enable them to truly make a choice as to their living environment. With the next Parti Québécois government, CHSLD will no longer be the only option for these people who are worth having a government attentive. For the Parti Québécois, receive home care, it is a matter of respect and dignity, "add the spokesman. 
"We must act now to adequately support seniors who want to grow old at home. And people who support them everyday must also be helped. Given the many issues related to the aging of the population, we continue, with many groups, to demand general states on the living conditions of seniors. The petition claiming them already has more than 14,000 signatures, and it continues, "said the official opposition spokesperson for seniors, Harold Lebel. 
Technical sheet 
Second part of the Québécois Party Health Plan, presented by the Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, the member for Taillon and spokesperson for health, accessibility to home care and support, Diane Lamarre , and the spokesperson for social services and youth protection, Dave Turcotte. 
Axis I: Ensuring a safe environment 
Axis II: put the necessary means 
Axis III: relieve caregivers 
