Montreal- On the occasion of the launch of the workshops of artists for the realization of the Gaspé project, which will bring together artists on more than 180,000 pits in the heart of the Mile-End district of Montreal, the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, and the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade and Minister Responsible for the Montreal Region, Jean-François Lisé, have announced an agreement in principle for the realization of a major dissemination pole. will group six artistic dissemination organizations. This announcement took place in the presence of the Head of Culture, Heritage and Design at the Executive Committee of the City of Montreal, Élaine Ayotte, as well as the Mayor of the Borough of the Plateau-Mont-Royal, Luc Ferrandez. 
"At the 2012 - Montreal Métropole Cultural Meeting, in November, the Prime Minister was able to announce that the Government would financially support the agreement between Square Footbuilding and the Owner, Allied Properties. Today, I announce that the project is enhanced since we have entered into an agreement in principle that will allow the development of a major dissemination pole on the ground floor of the building, "said the Minister of the Culture and communications. 
The principle agreement of nearly $ 1.8 million will allow six visual arts agencies (the Clark Art and Diffusion Center, the circular workshop, diagonal- Center for Quebec Arts and Fiber, Dazibao- Center Animation and Photo Exposure, Occurrence- Contemporary Art and Testing Area and Optica) to make the realization of a development project from a broadcast pole on the ground floor of the building. 
"Recall that the Mile-End is the place in Quebec where the highest concentration of cultural actors. We have made a commitment to go tangible actions, in order to adequately meet the demands of artists, craftsmen and cultural organizations with a lack of space. The agreement of principle announced today will allow six visual arts agencies to benefit from a place accessible to the public and conducive to creation, "said Maka Kotto. 
"By their creative talent, our artists contribute to the recognition and influence of our metropolis on the world stage, hence the importance of giving them favorable conditions for creation. Artists have their place in the city. They create synergy, maintain employment and diversity, and participate in the urban renewal of neighborhoods, "said Minister Jean-François Lisée. 
Gaspé 5445-5455 is the first project to benefit from financial support as part of a partnership agreement between the Ministry of Culture and Communications and the City of Montreal for the safeguarding of artists' workshops in Montreal . The Gaspé project is piloted by the square foot consolidation, a non-profit organization with artists, artisans, workers and cultural organizations. By this project, the organization participates in the consolidation of a flagship district, a laboratory district in the heart of the mile-end, where creation is in the spotlight. The Carré Foot Running works together with the Montreal Creative Workshops, whose mission is to consolidate, develop and support Montreal creative locations. 
Gaspé's artists' workshops benefit from funding for various programs and agreements: the partnership agreement between the Ministry of Culture and Communications (MCC) and the City of Montreal (2.65 m $), the "Imagine-Real Estate Montreal 2025" agreement between the City of Montreal and the Secretariat at the Metropolitan Area ($ 3.125 million) and the Initiative and Radiant Fund of the Metropolitar of the Secretariat in the Metropolitan Area ( $ 2 million). At these amounts are added this principle agreement ($ 1.8 million) granted by the MCC for the dissemination pole on the ground floor of the building. 
