"A renewed PQ, a green nation" 
Speech by the Leader of the Parti Québécois at the Extraordinary National Council of Drummondville on June 11, 2017 
The read version is authentic. 
Every year, in the United States, US presidents make the state of the state speech. And I always thought that a Quebec prime minister should also make a speech on the state of the nation. 
But I told myself that, to make us hand, we could start with a speech about the status of the Quebecois party, just over a year of a crucial general election for Quebec. 
Let's start with what makes the strength of the rooting of a political party. His members. And compare with those of the other parties. 
There are people entering and coming out, it's normal. But, while the other parties complain about the massive desertion of their members, the Parti Québécois, for a year, 12,500 new people joined us. They are welcome. 
But there is more than the number. There is representativeness. We have launched, for six months, with Paul St-Pierre Plamondon and the whole party, a great addition movement of our experiences with our members under 40 years old. 
First, the number of our members under 40 has increased by a third in six months. 
Then, the renewal of our local and regional executives in recent months has allowed a new intergenerational balance, where the under-40s occupy at least one third of the seats, one third of the Presidencies, 40% of the regional presidencies and more than 40% of the delegates to the next Congress. 
We have succeeded together with the regeneration of the Parti Québécois! 
We will illustrate it immediately. I ask all delegates of experience, therefore more than 40 years old, to get up. 
Now, all delegates under 40! 
You see, you are almost equal, together, elbow elbow, loans for victories. 
There's more. We launched, six months ago, with Carole Poirier and the whole party, a great opening movement to the Quebecpers of diversity that share our values, our proposals and our independence objective. 
I am pleased to introduce the members of the Provisional Committee on Diversity. They come from all regions of Quebec and I will tell you which country they represent. I look at my notes. They represent their country, Quebec! 
I continue to report on the status of the party. 
We invented with René Lévesque, popular funding. Here, for the current year, the results compiled by the Chief Electoral Officer, as a percentage of donations. 
We are the party of popular funding. But I call you a call today. We have a lot of initiatives to finance by the election, and you are invited to be even more generous, even more active in funding to exceed our goals. 
Finally, is the Parti Québécois plugged in? We have compiled the Facebook and Twitter footprint and chiefs to report to us. 
We are, on social networks, by far the most modern party, the most connected, the most active. We are a massive persuasion force and I invite you to participate, all of you, this great digital conversation that we have with Quebeckers of all ages and all regions. 
In short, I am happy to conclude: the status of the Quebecois party is exceptional. Thanks to you. Exceptional. 
"Quebeckers are exiles in their country, Canada. Because Canada turns their backs. Because their nation is not recognized. Philippe Couillard, the most federalist of our prime ministers, finally had to go to this evidence. There is a substantive problem. Persistent, throbbing, irritating. 
And when the Prime Minister of the Quebec nation expresses in the sweetest, most patient and the most diplomatic way possible the wish that one day, perhaps, without wanting to crumple anyone, we could discuss the possibility of Admit, in the Canadian Basic Law, the existence of the nation, what is happening? 
Trudeau. Trudeau is happening. The man of the opening, of tolerance, Dessunny Ways, threw himself with all his weight to humilize Philippe Couillard, treated his claim for self-interest semantics. 
One would be tempted to say that the contempt for Quebec among Trudeau is hereditary. It would not do justice to what he represents. Justin Trudeau has perfectly embodied the spirit of Canada with the legitimate aspirations of Quebec. It is in the diapason of Canadian opinion. Quebec does not count. Quebec is not worthy of respect. 
So Justin Trudeau plated Philippe Couillard on the ground. For any replica, Philippe Couillard pretended he was napping. Never has the Prime Minister of Quebec raised the tone. He never said Justin Trudeau was lacking respect for Quebeckers. Never. 
The Prime Minister of Quebec has suffered the worst humiliation since Pierre Trudeau treated Robert Bourassa of "Hot Dog eater". 
I hope Quebeckers have been very attentive to what happened in recent days. With the Couillard government, Quebec has no force of force. On investment in Bombardier, he lost. On federal health transfers, he lost. On the Bank of Infrastructure, he lost. 
With Philippe Couillard and the Federalists, Quebec is neither beloved nor respected nor fear. Why? Among others because Philippe Couillard does not believe in the strength of Quebec. He said it this week. He sees Quebeckers as incompetent and incompetent who would sink into poverty if they dropped the Canadian crutch. Never had we heard a Quebec federalist who is also ashamed of Quebec and his intrinsic strength. 
I'm glad to have defended Quebeckers in the National Assembly, this week, recalling in Philippe Couillard that an independent Quebec would be the sixth economic power of the Americas, one of the world's most diverse and open economies, would have resources renewable in abundance, an educated, creative, crazy talent. Canada is a driver. An independent Quebec, it would be a permanent fireworks! 
But at what price?, Application Mr. Couillard. For months, I have been proposing to debate comparative merits of federalism and independence for one hour on television. But he refuses. He is afraid. Is it also afraid of me than Justin Trudeau? The bets are open. 
So, I'll give him a taste with three digits. 
Three billion. This is the share that Québec taxpayers will pay for state-of-the-art military hunting planes, which we really do not need. Three billion. Independent, Quebec could, with this sum, renovate all the dilapidated schools in Quebec. 
Four billions. This is what we are missing every year in federal productive investment in Quebec. This is the absence of our fair share, the Canadian investment deficit depicting us by 35,000 jobs a year. With this sum, an independent Quebec could double its budget in culture, agriculture and laws. 
Finally, 30 billion. It is the colossal sum that Quebeckers will disburse in 25 years to finance superlements in Halifax and Vancouver to rebuild and maintain the Canadian Navy. Our grandparents said Quebec was the milk cow of Canada, since its foundation, for 150 years. With the 30 billion that we will take us, we will become the dairy, the cheese factory, and the supermarket of Canada. Thirty billion extracted from our economy to enrich the economy of English English - it is the greatest diversion of funds in our history. 
So, I say to Quebeckers: we can not count on Philippe Couillard to stand up to Justin Trudeau, he has just proved it. We can not rely on François Legault, which has been completely silent during this episode. 
Quebec needs a government that is not afraid to defend its interests. Quebec needs to find its balance of power. As he had with the governments of the Parti Québécois. Quebec needs today more than ever, a government of the Parti Québécois. 
Justin Trudeau, Philippe Couillard and François Legault have something in common. These are the three amigos of the Energy Pipeline. 
Justin Trudeau said it: He wants the most possible pipelines for Canadian oil. He recently made the promotion of extreme oil in front of the kings of oil in Texas. He was ovated to break everything. Justin Trudeau is very popular with polluters. He does not even hide anymore. Social acceptability, finally, for energy is, it is not indispensable. And the Quebec agreement? He does not even ask the question. 
Philippe Couillard said it: it is normal for oil to flow from west east. François Legault said: How much does it pay? If the Albertans give him a check, he applates the most polluting oil passage in the world through 860 of our rivers. 
The CAQ is therefore ready to auction the River of the Outaouais, the river of the Thousand Islands, the Saint-Maurice River, the River Sainte-Anne, the Jacques Cartier River and, of course, the St. Lawrence River. 
The PLQ and the CAQ, which we will call, to short, the PL-CAQ, are willing to help make the global warming irreversible. Yes. James Hansen, the great expert from NASA made the calculations. If the oil sands oil from Alberta is completely extracted, it will be "Game Over" for the climate. Checkmate. There will be too much greenhouse gases in the atmosphere to avoid disaster. 
In the interview, Justin Trudeau stated that a fundamental responsibility of a Prime Minister of Canada is to enable our resources to get to the market. I say that a fundamental responsibility of a Prime Minister of Quebec is to make every effort to prevent the irreversible warming of the planet. 
We had too much erosion of the banks, too many floods, too much thaw of the permafrost to deny our responsibility. 
I want us to tell our children and grandchildren that in the big fight against global warming, the Parti Québécois was on the front lines, Quebec was on the front lines. 
We are also the guardians, for us and for the next generations, one of the largest freshwater reserves in the world. What is the probability that there is a major spill of the pipeline if it was built? 
The Council of Canadians has taken stock of accidents in TransCanada pipelines in the last six years, including in its brand new pipelines. The Council of Canadians expects that, if the trend is maintained, over 40 years of energy life is, there will be six major spills. Six. 
How big? In Michigan, in 2010, an oil pipeline spilled 3 million liters. Partial cleaning costs cost $ 1 billion. But it was a small pipeline. Not one of the biggest in the world, like the one we promise. A rupture of energy is could pour up to 30 million liters, ten times more than Michigan. We do not even dare to think about the extent of the damage. 
An independent Quebec, of course, master of his destiny, could say no, simply, to a Canadian pipeline on his territory. And this is the theme of the first sheet of the series "50 answers plus one on independence". A series that starts today. 
A government from the Québécois Party elected in October 2018 will not be demuni. We will ask voters the clear electoral mandate to take all political, legislative, regulatory, normative measures to prevent the construction of a single kilometer from this pipeline. I give today to our spokesperson in the environment, Sylvain Gaudreault, and to our committee of the party on sustainable development the mandate to make an exhaustive inventory of all the measures which will be at our disposal to ensure that with the Partician Party in power, energy is never seeing the day. 
Let me tell you what will see the day, under a government of the Parti Québécois. 
Green energy. The green economy. Green innovation. A new wave of green entrepreneurship throughout the territory. A green nation. 
We will be elected in October 2018. A few months later, we will present our first budget and it will be the green turn budget. Imaginative, structuring, transformer, launching ambitious and concrete national initiatives, and aroused projects in every corner and recast of Quebec. 
We are at the crossroads of an economic necessity and a climatic necessity. Economic necessity, first: with the fall in energy costs among our neighbors, including the rapid fall of renewable energy costs, it is becoming more and more obvious that we will have to consume locally a growing share of Our own hydropower. Climate Need: To be a model nation in the fight against warming, we will have to quickly reduce our oil consumption. 
This crossroads is also that of a great opportunity to seize: that of a new sustainable economic growth and a better quality of life. 
Since our oil is imported around the world, every barrel of oil saved is an investment in our local economy. It is as if Quebec had built a silver pipeline that pours out of our borders every year, $ 18 billion. Pure loss for our economy. You have to deploy a gigantic effort to keep these billions from us, so that they serve our well-being. 
What to do with this money? I hear the leaders of the PL-CAQ dream of new dams. They are mistaken by century. 
Tomorrow, for the cost of a new Romaine dam, one could invest in green renovation, release as much energy (negaries) and support for decades more than 60,000 jobs. Next James Bay, she is not in the Great North, she is in every house, every building, at the corner of each street. 
Imagine the workers, in Mauricie, who transform lithium to power the production of melting batteries to install them in electric vehicles made and assembled in the Laurentides with aluminum from the North Shore and Saguenay-Lac-Saint- Jeans. 
Imagine the solar panels produced in the metropolis, with innovations of Optics companies in Quebec, used both in Estrie and Outaouais. Imagine the forest areas of Quebec, producing a biomass replacing the hydrocarbons, and the wood treated for more and more large use of wood in our buildings. Imagine the agricultural succession invested in local agriculture, with short circuits and valued products in our local grocery stores. Imagine wind turbines, made in Gaspésie and in the Bas-Saint-Laurent, serve as engines to communities, cooperatives, first nations who will want to invest in partners. Imagine the biomethanization of our waste becoming productive in all regions of Quebec. 
And imagine the pleasure that we will have, from our return to power, when it is to repeal the medieval law adopted by the Liberals, the law which gives the oils the right to expropriate everywhere in Quebec, the law 106. We go the Return to the Middle Ages! And we will ask the crate of deposit to show the example and put an end to its investments in the oil companies. 
We will take power in a crucial moment of change. The under 40 did not grow up with the religion of the automobile. They are from the generation of self-sharing, carpooling, active transportation and collective transport. And it falls well, because new transport is at our doors. Our historical role is to accelerate the transition to all modes of sustainable mobility, in the metropolis, in the capital and in the regions. 
Yes, we will realize a test bench for the electric monorail project. We will propose for Montreal a global plan to increase collective transport that will have a real effect to reduce congestion and greenhouse gases. We will not forget east of Montreal. We will not forget Longueuil. 
With local actors in each region, we will deploy appropriate measures to facilitate, from Abitibi to Gaspésie, the transition to sustainable mobility. And our national capital, finally, will have a robust transit system. 
This is an environmental issue, yes. It's an economic stake, yes. But it is also a public health and social justice issue. Quebeckers and the most vulnerable Quebecers are the first victims of the increase in pollution, high heat episodes and poorly isolated housing by wandering owners. 
The important effort of social housing, renovation that we will undertake will improve their quality of life to them, their health to them. And the owners of what is called "energetic slums" will be recalled to order. It is estimated that there are 20,000 housing units in mediocre sealing. The owners of these housing, and unhealthy housing, will be deprived of the right to impose a rent increase until they rectify the situation. Simply. 
In all these actions, the impetus of the government of the Parti Québécois will be essential. Prime Minister, I will keep responsibility for sustainable development and I will lead an interdepartmental committee on the green turn. The Green Fund will be devoted to the most carrier measures to reduce GHGs and will be attached to this committee. 
But I talked about pulse. For the creative force of the new Green Quebec lies in the will and creativity of dozens and hundreds of thousands of Quebeckers engaged in this transformation. 
In social economy companies, in SMEs, neighborhoods, in technological transfer centers of our CEGEPs, in our universities and research centers. More and more, in our neighborhood councils and municipal councils. 
Before, there were less than 10% of Quebeckers who wanted to engage in a company, whether social, private or cooperative. Today, 30% of the adoption Quebecers and - stand well - 42% of children under 35 would like to be their own boss. And they want to do it where they live. 
In the borough Saint-Michel de Montréal or Saint-Michel-des-Saints in the Laurentides, Saint-Michel near Quebec City, in the Saint-Michel district in Thetford Mines or Lake Michel in Lanaudière, even Lake Mike In Hauteau-Mauricie. Obviously, it takes them high speed throughout the territory before the end of our first term. 
But see the extraordinary resource we have throughout Quebec. The biggest entrepreneurial wave in our history. With an ecological conscience never seen. We are the party of the entrepreneurial succession, we are the party of the green succession, we are the party of the green nation. 
And, as Barack Obama said, "We are the ones we were expecting. » 
I would add: we are light at the end of the liberal years tunnel. 
The Quebec, Independentist, Progressive, Pragmatic, Entrepreneurial Party, big cities and regions. 
The Quebec, Regenerated Party, is ready to fly the Green Turn from Quebec, to make Quebec a green nation, to be at the rendezvous of all nations that lead the great fight of the 21stiège, for us, for today, For tomorrow and for all the aftermath of Quebec and the world. 
Download the PDF version 
