Quebec- The member for Marie-Victorin and Parliamentary Leader of the Official Opposition, Bernard Drainville, proposes to all the members of the National Assembly to make a first gesture towards a less partisan and more respectful parliament by putting an end to the applause during the period of questions and oral responses. He also suggested from starting the work at the scheduled time of order. 
"Cynicism towards the political class is palpable in the Quebec population. All parties contributed and are responsible for it. The Parti Québécois invites elected officials to take a first step with us to combat this cynicism and restore confidence to citizens. That's what the people are wantful and the time has come to listen to it, "the parliamentary leader said. 
People want more civilized exchanges between political courses at the National Assembly. "Everyone understands that the blue living room is not a tea room, and that debates can sometimes be sturdy. However, the hyper-partisanship manifested by our applause during the question period does not return to anyone. On the contrary, this encourages parliamentarians to seek the murder sentence that will impress their colleagues, to the detriment of a healthy, constructive and democratic debate, "admitted Bernard Drainville. 
In addition, the Parti Québécois believes that parliamentary work starts on time. "Our work starts regularly with 15 or 20 minutes late. It has to change, by respect for the institution, "continued the member. 
The leader of the official opposition welcomes the opening manifested by his counterpart of the government on these two proposals. "I will have the opportunity to discuss it today, as well as with the leader of the CAQ, the representatives of Quebec Solidarity and the member for Arthabaska. A proposed motion without notice will be submitted to them today. I invite them to discuss it with their caucus and come back before the recovery of the work, next Tuesday at 2 pm. A unique measure will not be enough to stop cynicism, but you have to start somewhere, "concluded Bernard Drainville. 
