Here is the speech by Jean-François listed as a new leader of the Parti Québécois. 
Speech delivered on the occasion of the unveiling evening of the Results of the Cefferie race in Lévis. 
To view this speech, click here! 
The pronounced version is authentic. 
Victory 
Tonight is our victory at all. It is the victory of the Parti Québécois. From the party of Alexandre, Martine, Paul, from our friend Veronique who listen to us and warmly salute ...  We, the candidates, you have seen us drastic a little, much but especially: passionately. But it is because we are passionate about Quebec, enthusiasts of social progress, enthusiasts of independence. 
And all Quebeckers were able to see that the debates, it is to the Quebecois party that it happens. Ideas, it is to the Parti Québécois that are formulated. Leadership races, it is to the Parti Québécois that we know how to make it relevant, intense, connected, like Quebec today, like Quebec we love ... 
And as Quebec we love, after a good match where we gave the maximum, all the players will have a drink together to celebrate everything they have in common. And you know, Alexander, Martine, Paul, Véronique and I, what we have in common is you, the members of the Parti Québécois. It's the taste of Quebec. 
The taste of an honest government, which has a real sense of ethics; The taste of a government that has enough heart and compassion for not making budget surpluses on the back of children, patients, elders and disabled; The taste of a government that will restore tools to the regions, instead of confiscating them; The taste of a government that will not give up 860 from our rivers to an absurd oil transportation project in the world;
The taste of a government that will be close to small and medium-sized businesses and their fight for less hassle and paperwork, more freedom to undertake and invent; The taste of a government that protects our language, a government that teaches our history; The taste of a government that will sign the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and, the taste of a government which, when informed that Aboriginal women have been victims of violence, will not wait until months before Trigger an independent investigation, but will do it immediately. 
The taste of a government for which equal opportunities for each child of Quebec, the equality of men and women, walking towards more secularism, social progress and democracy, the success of integration for each Québécois d'adoption, are not words in the air, but firm, concrete, tangible commitments. 
The Parti Québécois, our party, the biggest party in Quebec, is invigorated from this campaign. With new energy. Candidates more seasoned. Better roded organizations.  Renewed teams. One could not ask for better rehearsal to prepare the next victory: that of the elections of October 2018. Imagine a moment the energy of the organizations of Paul, Alexander, Martine and my campaign, combined towards a common goal. The days of the Couillard government are counted. 
Messages 
Alexander. Dear Alexander. I was told that to prepare for the debates, you had an ungrateful task, you and your team. Read all that I have written for 20 years. You see me deeply sorry. But I have a suggestion to make you. The book of our coming victories. Do you want, we will write it together? 
You offered us to set up, from the coming weeks, eight projects to define concretely, within a year, what will be made by Quebec sovereign. I have a suggestion to make you. Do you want, we will put them together these projects? 
My task today, our task is to make the best possible synthesis of the proposals you have made, Alexander, for tax justice, for the regions, and those of the other candidates for everyone to recognize in our joint project. And yes, Alexander, for education, who is passionate about you, I was serious about you the other day. 
Martine, my dear Martine. Your energy, your determination, your passion cease to amaze ourselves. You are not, Martine, what is called a "tranquil force". But you are a force, even more today than six months or a year ago. You know the fights we have led together for what you call so well "intelligent economic development".  You know how much we share the vision of a Quebec that takes the lead in electrical transport, second and third processing of our natural resources. How much we want to release Quebec from hydrocarbons. 
I tend your hand, Martine, so that we do it together. For your Québec's energy and electrification proposals form the basis of our common program of the whole party. 
In this campaign, you and I did not propose for the presence of Quebec in Canada the same expiry date. Not exactly the same calendar. But exactly the same destination. And exactly the same starting point to prepare the trip: tonight. 
You proposed to publish, Martine, from next year, a brochure on the 50 + 1 responses for independence. You want, we will put us together. And we will succeed together the independence of Quebec. 
The revelation of the year to the Parti Québécois. No it is wrong. The revelation of the year in Quebec politics is Paul Saint-Pierre Plamondon. The proof, we all learned to pronounce its full name. A feat ! 
Paul, you were orphan. We have adopted you. It was not a foregone conclusion. You made your place in the party. Signature by signature. Meeting by meeting. Debate debate. Idea by idea. Above all, I saw you charming activists by your willingness to open the party to those who are not in this room. To those who never thought even wanting to be there. Paul, your place is with us. Your task: Train all of Quebec's political orphans to do like you and transform the Quebec party from within. 
We together with Véronique, and with all MPs, all the activists, all the organizers and volunteers of the Parti Québécois, a great mission to our measure. First, we immediately gather in the post race. 
With Jacques Parizeau, I had been nicknamed "the opening advisor". Today, like Jacques Parizeau, I want to be the leader of the gathering. Among the 1000 things that taught me the one we respectfully called "Monsieur", there is this one: "For sovereignty," he said, "the house is ready for all the sacrifices". He has shown an exemplary abnegation to build around him, in 1995, the largest political coalition in our history. I'm going to be faithful, in his own way to his model ... 
I also saw Pauline Marois, sit around his table of the Council of Ministers, people who, in moments of misguidance, had not believed in her, had not been tender with her. She passed the sponge and added their talents. I will be faithful, in his own way to his model. 
And I give an opinion to all those who did not share, for my election, the enthusiasm of 50.6% of the members. 
I need, the Parti Québécois needs, Quebec needs each of you. From each of you. Without exception. All of them, because our gathering is only the first circle of a wider gathering. That of all those who want change. And they are many. 
I will first address Liberal voters. The quarter of you confessed to the surveyors. You are dissatisfied with the Couillard government. There is no shame to be ashamed of a shameful government. Liberal governments, there were exceptional, like that of Jean Lesage. There were some means. But bad as the one who governs right now, we have never lived, of our lifetime. The PLQ, your party, is a great part of Quebec's history. But not right now. Not with Sam Hamad, Gaétan barrette, Lise Thériault and the others. Not with an austerity policy that hurts our economy and our poor. 
Not with a prime minister who needs 24 hours to decide whether or not it's ethical to hire someone who has just stealed documents. No. If you want the Quebec Liberal Party to become a great party, there is only one remedy: a long stay in the opposition. A change of custody. A long ethical detoxification cure. 
In the 2018 election, we will make you easy task, to you Liberal voters dissatisfied. We will introduce a wonderful team, innovative ideas, future integral ministers. A good hum-hum. Independence, yes, as a sovereignist movement, we will try to convince you that it is the greatest progress for Quebec and that we should, then, in 2022 make a decision in this direction. But as a government, for four years, from 2018 to 2022, we will work together, for the common good, for the nation, for Quebec. We reach your hand. 
It is also tended to caquistic voters. First, to announce a very bad news. Some of you still think that the CAQ is a coalition. You will tell me, it's still in the name, coalition. At first, yes, there were sovereignists and united federalists to speak only of economy.  But sovereignists, there are no more. François Legault said in full national assembly the other day: "There are now two political parties who want Quebec to remain in Canada." 
Yes, the CAQ became completely federalist. François Legault went from the dark side of the force. So there are now two federalist parties on the right in Quebec: the PLQ and the CAQ. Two straight federalist parties that are ready to say yes to the pipeline that would endanger 860 from our rivers. Two straight federalist parties who refuse to francize businesses from 25 to 50 employees, which are the privileged place of the Anglicization of New Quebeckers. Two federalist parties that despise the early childhood centers, which are one of the most beautiful achievements for the child of the whole continent. 
François Legault has something in common with Philippe Couillard and Gaétan Barrette. To them three, they are the leaders of the greatest disaster of the public finances of the century. The one who led to what gives $ 5.4 billion a year over 20,000 people, doctors. Yes, it was François Legault, when he was the Minister of Health, who put on the arm of public finances in the crooker, that mm Couillard and barrette then twisted until the last Creene. 
Obviously, François Legault is not happy. In fact it is rarely happy. But the other right-wing federalist flew. Not just his secret documents. No. Not just his former featured candidate, Gaétan does not just block the former President of his party, Dominique Anglade, who is now liberal minister. But also its program that resulted in three words: compressions, compressions, compressions. 
It might have thought that after two and a half toxic austerity, François Legault would have had enough compressions. Would have understood that Quebeckers had enough. But no. Listen carefully. Around yesterday, the assembly, the CAQ thought to do a whole operation with a motion that proposed a widespread tax decline next year. Super good idea, until we calculate, in 22 seconds, that it meant additional cuts of three billion dollars a year on the back of Quebecers and Quebeckers. The CAQ plan is three billion more cuts in education, healthy, for our elders. Our 40,000 elders of the CHSLDs will eat powdered potatoes for how many years to satisfy the thirst for CAQ's compressions? 
No, the CAQ is not ready to govern Quebec. It is a party that changes priority every six months. It is a rough, impulsive party like his leader, who makes unrealistic proposals in all kinds of domain. A straight federalist party that does not have a compass. No wonder so many caquists leave the ship as soon as they offer them a better job. 
I represent the beautiful riding of Rosemont, but it is thetford mines and the region of Chaudières-Appalaches that have seen me grow. Me, the entrepreneur son who passed from Sunday morning to put circulars under the windshield wipers of all the parking lots of Beauce North and Beauce Sud. And I mean a clear thing: Lévis, Beauce, the region of Thetford does not belong to the Liberals and the Caquists. 
The region of the National Capital, does not belong to the Liberals and the Caquists. I intend to be present, listening, in the capital. There is no mystery Québec. There are citizens who have priorities, values, hopes, that better represent, better relay. I'm committed to it. 
I want to talk about our friends from Quebec Solidaire now. We do not agree on everything. Otherwise, we would be in the same party. But we agreed on one thing last year during the federal election. Despite all divergences, it was necessary for the common good that Stephen Harper is no longer Prime Minister of Canada. And we were right.  I believe now, despite all our differences, that it is necessary for the common good that Philippe Couillard is no longer the Prime Minister of Quebec. So I sincerely turn to our friends from Quebec Solidaire. Let's find together the way to add up our strengths, during the 2018 election. We can bring together the project to bring as soon as possible the minimum wage at $ 15. We can bring together the project to release Quebec tax havens. 
We can bring together the project to transform our voting system for the next election to be the last one to be poorly representing the popular will. We can look together the electoral map and see how more of the progressive and sovereignist deputies can be elected and to retire a maximum of right federalists.  It's only a matter of political will. We, to the Parti Québécois, do we have this political will? Do we have it? Yes we have it. And, friends of Quebec Solidaire, we want to find her also at home. So that together we give victories to the common good. 
The eternal youth of the Parti Québécois 
June 2, 1897 The New York Journal released a brief correction of a famous reader: Mark Twain. The newspaper had previously announced Mr. Twain's death. He therefore wanted to rectify the facts. "The news of my death," he wrote, is exaggerated. » 
Rarely the death of a party or an idea will have been so desired, planned, predicted than that of the Parti Québécois and the independence movement. A few months before the historic election of René Lévesque in 1976, Pierre Trudeau had announced, I quote "the separatism is dead". 
After the 1980 referendum, death notices were so numerous that the surveyors stopped asking the question of the intention of sovereignist vote for several years.  When, before the referendum of 1995, a federalist spokesman announced that the sovereignists had to "crush", that he really believed that the result would be catastrophic for yes. This is what the very serious internal analyzes of the Federal Prime Minister said. 
A few years later, the Canadian edition of the Time magazine had chosen, to symbolize in our movement, a tombstone. And in the aftermath of the 2014 election, the coverage of Maclean's decreed "the epic collapse of Quebec separatism". 
Yet we are still alive. Still standing. We are still and always the most important political party in Quebec. With more members than all other parties gathered. 
And today, my friends, today, the leader of the Plq Philippe Couillard has added his name to the long list of false federalist prophets. Sovereignty, he said "no longer has a future in Quebec". He thinks it's dead. Mr. Prime Minister, there is Mark Twain on the other line. He has something to tell you. 
And the election of today, the extraordinary campaign that we have just carried out, the rich debate of ideas that we have held, the registered participation rate, all the world is a great truth, a truth that disturbs: The Parti Québécois is there to last. The independence project is irreducible. 
I deeply like this party and I can not say enough thank you, at this evening of victory, to my extraordinary team, my relatives collaborators. Thanks to my spouse, my family, my children who had funny holidays this summer. My sister and mother who supported me and turned to extraordinary members of membership cards. And my father, Jean-Claude, that I feel present with us tonight. Thanks to the hundreds of volunteers and thousands who clicked on "I embarked with read", the 1000 who were with me at the previous race and who took over hope this year. I greet you all or all or you are at the four corners of Quebec ... and further. 
Our party, therefore, is indestructible, irreducible, like Quebec. But let's ask the question differently. Is our party old? We do not have 50 years. The Liberal Party will blow its 150 candles. And as for the CAQ, Well, it's like the baby Benjamin Button. He is born old. 
Like all the big parties, the Parti Québécois has reached maturity and experiences brown periods and hollow periods. Established parties, like him, who had lost foot have regenerate and find contact with a new electorate. Think of the "Mitterrand Generation" of the French Socialist Party, to the success of Barack Obama then Bernie Sanders for the Democratic Party or, closer to us, at the orange wave then the renewal of a Liberal party of Canada that we thought Moribond in the aftermath of the sponsorship scandal.  "Where are the young people who were with René Lévesque to the creation of the party," we hear sometimes? 
Well, they are still there, in the rooms where we met them, from Gaspé in Val d'Or. They agreed, but are still valiant, active, engaged. There is at home a resilience that forces admiration. There is nothing wrong with what our training attracts the tables of baby boomers and young retirees, on the contrary. Their experience, their strength are valuable, like their loyalty to their youth dreams. 
The question we must ask is: "Where are the others? " Last Sunday, I was happy to present thirty Montreal supports: they were of all ages, from all walks of life, all the origins. United in the same campaign. A beautiful moment of gathering. A trailer of the Parti Québécois I want to build with them and with you. 
The youth. "To interest the youth, you have to be interesting" said a few days ago a man who has just resume his card from our party: Jean-Martin aussant. I'm happy, Jean-Martin, that you find us again interesting! 
But how to interest all the youth? By becoming their party, then their government, plugged into their sensitivity. Our effort must be important, constant, multiform. First by offering the youth wing of the Parti Québécois the status, the means, the importance it takes so that it becomes a major pole of attraction of all Quebec youth. Young people have to expand their place, brew the cage, breathe a new wind into the independence, social, environmental dialogue of Quebec. In a nutshell: they must disturb, including the new leader. 
Our Québécois party will resolutely become resolutely to make Quebec a copy of the planet in the fight against climate change. Prime Minister, I will also immediately implement my proposal to create a Quebec international solidarity agency, a real bridge of young Quebecers abroad. 
A government of the Parti Québécois environmentalist and actively trendy on the world, fighting against income inequalities and tax havens, these are ways to become the valid interlocutor of youth and thus be able to engage in dialogue on other plans, of which The indispensable independence. 
I also propose to postpone the festive side of the independence project by launching every summer the "sovereign tour" at the meeting of Quebec youth. Young singers, humorists, independence creators will be able to vibrate and renew the Quebec independence culture, for our greatest good. 
At our party's founding conference, there was a debate on the name we were going to adopt. René Lévesque, in his great humility, was not full of the name "Parti Québécois". He was chosen, against his will, by the majority of delegates. He told them this: "It's a very nice name we have chosen. It will be necessary to wear it, this name, with the dignity (...) and the species of indisputable responsibility of all that we decided to take, since we chose it. » 
The Parti Québécois must be the party of all Quebecers and all Quebeckers. It was his message. The party of all debates also because, unlike the legend that some want to create today, René Lévesque was the first to criticize immigration policies and their thresholds. He was the first to defend high and strong the Quebec identity he called Quebec's "vital difference" and our responsibility to defend it and transmit it. He was, in his time, accused of all words. Xenophobia, racism, Nazism, there was no limit. This did not prevent him from moving forward for the good of Quebec. We will be faithful ...  He led his fighting, for diversity. For the rights of Anglophones, for their institutions.  It is necessary to resume, too, this torch. 
In last year's leadership campaign, I launched the idea of creating the "Bold Anglos for Independance" (Bold Anglophones for Independence.) Now, they exist, under the banner of Anglos for Quebec Independence and they are already fifty. I am delighted and we have to welcome them with open arms. And I'm even going, as Pierre Karl Péladeau had done during his victory speech, tell them a few words in English to them and all the Anglo-Québécois. 
We have a very catchy song, in French, by Loco Locass. It’s called: Libérez nous des libéraux. Free us from the liberals. Well, that’s our plan, for all of us, next election. The liberal party has trapped anglo quebecers for decades into voting for them by two means. First, by banking on the fear of separation. Better an inept, unethical, bumbling liberal government than the separatist PQ was their basic message. You know what I mean. Fully 40% of all non-francophones in Quebec are dissatisfied with this current liberal government. 
It gives liberalism a bad name. Well, what if we got out of this trap for a change. What if we agreed to have a full term of just clean, honest, green, dynamic government. Yes, as a sovereigntist party, we will keep working towards our goal. But as a government, we will rebuild what this awful liberal team is spoiling but that we all hold so dear: this corner of North America that is unique in so many ways, and that thrives on that uniqueness, creativity, joie de vivre.
I said the liberals had two means to keep you in their electoral trap. The second one is to make you believe that we, at the Parti Quebecois, are, let’s say, dreadful people. They have a vested interest in making you believe that. They have help from, among others, the Toronto Globe and Mail, who described us, and I’m not making this up, as “vampires” and “zombies”. 
Well, You know Better Than That. And, as a leader, I Will Make Sure That We Have An Open and Fruitful dialogue on Who WE ARE AND WHAT WE CAN BUILD TOGETHER, WHEN WE DO THE CURRENT LIBERAL TEAM THE GREAT SERVICE OF PUTTING THEM OUT OF THEIR MISERY AND Letting Them Regenerate In Long Overdue Period in Opposition.  In my campaign this year, members of the Hispano, Jewish, Haitian, Kabyle, Lebanese communities, and several others, young and old sold members of members in their communities and supported me. 
This is another trailer of the Parti Québécois that I wish soon. The Committee representing, in the bodies of the PQ, the adoption Quebeckers must be recreated urgently. Responsible teams to wear our project in communities must be set up to undertake serious, constant, long-term work. Representatives of diversity must be active in each of the executives of the constituencies where they are present. Party assemblies must quickly reflect more precisely the mixed reality that is that of Quebec today and tomorrow. 
Let's take a moment to make our empathy known, our distress and solidarity towards the Haitian people and the Haitian Quebec community again struck by destiny.  You are our brothers and our sisters. You our sisters, you our Haitian brothers, know that in your distress, we are wholeheartedly with you. Tomorrow, the sun will illuminate your brave faces again and we will be at your side to get out of the head up the head. 
In Quebec as elsewhere, affiliation to a large party is less attractive than before. It is militated for causes, punctually, then we move on. 
We must open the Parti Québécois to this will of militancy with variable geometry. Open our non-member consultations. Allow proposals to be submitted, questions asked, organized actions, without everyone to exhibit his card.  The information must circulate more freely within the party. Local initiatives must be encouraged, rather than controlled. And it is high time that the party has a full-time liaison officer in Quebec City to feed our action in the National Capital and Chaudières-Appalaches. 
It takes a wind of freshness in our party and in our political life. Since its creation, the Parti Québécois has always been able to innovate. Has always been able to dare. In depth reform political funding (twice: in 1977, then in 2013). By introducing the universal suffrage of the members for the choice of his leader. He must innovate again. Demonstrate that it is today, as much as it is created almost 50 years ago, by far the best vehicle to bring Quebec to the future. 
Above all, our convictions are intact. Our project to us is as modern as the first day. The foreign experience - Scotland, Catalonia, Brexit - gives us right on the shape and on the bottom. Our challenge is not to redefine our goal or project, but to regenerate our organization to put it in the diapason of today's citizens. 
Our Quebec federalist friends, abandoned their dream: that of renewed Canada, which would concretely recognize the existence of the Quebec nation and that would accept its autonomy. They are orphans. They dropped his arms. As part of the 150th anniversary of Canada next year, they do not even dare to mention the distant opportunity that the Canadian fundamental law, the constitution adopted without us and against us 34 years ago, can be repaired. Can do justice to the existence of our nation. So there is a death, a true, in the Quebec family. The death of Jean Lesage's dream, Claude Ryan and many other elected officials who believed that Canada, one day, would officially recognize the Quebec difference. Would welcome it in "honor and enthusiasm". The Liberals do not even dare to discuss the subject, both their capitulation is total. They know that Canada they wanted is an imaginary country. They do not believe in their own dreams anymore. The announcement of the death of their dream is by no means, in this case, exaggerated. 
But we, the independence, our dream is more alive than ever. We know that we have no permission to ask anyone than ourselves. We know that Quebec will be present in the world. We know that the future belongs to us. We know that weakened before us tonight, the path of victories. 
