Blainville- The Quebec Prime Minister and Head of the Parti Québécois, Pauline Marois, presented his commitments for the well-being of Quebec families. On this occasion, she was surrounded by the Québécois candidate in the riding of Point -aux- Trembles and Minister of the Family, Nicole Léger, the candidate in Blainville, Gyslaine Desrosiers, and the candidate in Groulx, Martine Desjardins. 
"I am very proud to have helped introduce innovative policies as a minister and I am even more proud to have been able to develop them as a premier. However, we want to go even further. We want to open a new construction site, that of work- family reconciliation. Give parents a little boost so they can spend more time with their children, to make life easier. I am announcing the next outfit of a great forum on work-family reconciliation studies, "said the premier. 
This meeting will be an opportunity to think about solutions to improve the quality of life of Quebec families. Partners invited to this summit will include the family community, the municipal world, unions, employers' organizations, child care, university institutions, health facilities and social services, indigenous communities and the sector. transport. 
"Quebec families want time. I take the commitment: we will mobilize all the actors, in order to sit around the same table and find solutions to help our families, "said Pauline Marois. 
First, our health commitments demonstrate our concern to families. We want to continue the deployment of family medicine groups to improve access to a family doctor, instituting an entrance wicket to an appointment system for front-line services and specialized care in Public institutions, in order to significantly reduce waiting time for an appointment with health professionals, as well as develop a reliable and complete reference portal, the health portal, which will present a Information verified and updated regularly. 
In addition, in order to facilitate the lives of parents, LALOI on modified disease insurance in order to enable them to obtain an additional health insurance card for their child, so that each parent can have one with him in all time. This administrative change will meet the needs of parents, including those of single-parent families. We are also working to improve access to screening and early autism services and deficiencies, and to improve the offer of day activities in order to promote the maintenance of gains for people aged 21 and more with a disability or a spectrum disorder of autism. 
In addition, over the last 18 months, the share of the Parti Québécois government has embodied our commitment to facilitate the lives of families. We have announced28,000 tickets in custody, so that in 2016, 250,000 small-scale places will be available for Quebec children. 
In addition to meeting their needs, the Parti Québécois wants to facilitate the lives of parents. A one-stop shop access center will be available from June 2014. This is a major project for the child care network. Currently, parents must bang on several doors to have a place for their child. In the long term, they will only have one step to enroll their child with all childcare services that offer small contribution places in Quebec. This registration will be free. 
As part of Surpier Solidarity, the Parti Québécois also raised the funding of community organizations of $ 5 million a year, in addition to improving integration into child care for children with disabilities, with a $ 6 million envelope. over 3 years. 
"In this campaign, the only party that takes firm commitments and has a plan to improve the lives of families, it is the Parti Québécois. This is true for family issues, but the same goes for our health and transport commitments. We are determined to facilitate the lives of parents and build a more welcoming Quebec for our children, "concluded Pauline Marois. 
The Parti Québécois is the party of families. Since the creation of the early childhood centers, in 1997, it is led by the desire to offer better start to our children, to better support their parents and allow women to return to the labor market. 
We have a plan and the team to succeed. Today, it's time to give us the means to go further. 
Watch press clamping.Reaze on Pauline Marois Blog LeBillet. 
