Quebec, on April 7, 2017- The member for Gaspé and spokesman for the Partijécois responsible for the Gaspésie-de-la-Madeleine region, Gaétan Lelièvre, and the hon. Member for Bonaventure, Sylvain Roy, arrested the Minister Responsible for the region, Sébastien Proulx, regarding the abandonment, by the Liberal government, of the Gaspé-Islands region? of? Madeleine. 
IN SHORT 
The issue of transportation Transport has occupied a major place during the interpellation. Whether road, rail or air, in Gaspésie, the transportation sector goes through a period of crisis. 
"The citizens of Gaspésie feel forgotten by the government, especially with regard to transport. The MRCs in the region have returned from the rail service a priority. We did not see any announcements in the budget on this subject. All socio-economic actors in the region denied the Minister of Finance, which stated that the train was not essential for the economic development of Gaspésie. Does the regional minister agree with his colleague? Asked about this, Sébastien Proulx returned the ball to the Minister of Transport, saying that the development of the file did not fall within him. Does he have a weight, the Council of Ministers, to walk this file? The Ministry of Transport has been the owner of the section for 2 years; What does he expect to take his responsibilities? Does the government want to train an election promise for 2018, instead of including it in its achievements 2014-2018? Harm up for the development of the region, it is unacceptable, "said Sylvain Roy. 
"Air transport is also in crisis. An all-inclusive week in Cuba costs less than a Gaspé-Québec round trip. In addition, one of two aircraft for medical evacuation can not arise in four of the five airports in the region. An Islands-de-la-Madeleine patient even had to wait five days before being evacuated! This is unacceptable. Budgets for road investments have been at the lowest since 2014, while Route 132, including the North Shore, arrives at the end of its useful life. Without major investments, the citizens of Haute-Gaspésie and the estran will revive the evasion caused by the erosion of the banks, which is accepted. None of these priorities were announced, has the timetable. However, time is no longer in studies; The region needs results, "continued Gaétan Lelièvre. 
In addition, MEPs do not believe that the Liberals adequately recognize the insularity of the territory, contrary to what they claim. "We tolerate a cancellation rate of flights to the Madeleine Islands of 20%. The Islands CISS is about to close the CLSC of the East weekends, from 10 to 45 minutes the time of intervention. Is it really that, recognize and combat the challenges of insularity? They are wondering. 
Regional consensus In the interpellation course, Minister Proulx has raised many of the regional consensus to explain the lack of achievements in the region. "It's unacceptable and extremely disappointing, as an answer. First, a consensus has existed for several months for the return of the train from Matapédia to Gaspé. Second, after his government abolished regional consultation bodies, the minister is very badly placed to reproach elected officials not to get along! What is missing, for the realization of major files in Gaspésie, it is not consensus, it is action, vision and government will, to support local leaders, "added the member for Gaspé. 
No vision, no willingness of the Government for the development of the regional members, the regional minister has not been able to convey concretely or the vision or the will of his government for the development of the region. Both, as well as the fifteen elected representatives of the Gaspésie who attended the interpellation, came out extremely disappointed. "We have not got clear commitment from the minister responsible for representing the Gaspé-Islands region? De? Madeleine to the Council of Ministers," they concluded. 
