Quebec, the 1mars 2018 -The official opposition for the environment and the fight against climate change, Sylvain Gaudreault, the public safety spokesperson, Stéphane Bergeron, and the spokesman Municipal affairs, Martin Ouellet, deplore the short-term vision shown by the Liberal government and the sprinkling of measures that it carries out through the Flood Civil Security Action Plan, which is revealed today HUI. 
IN SHORT 
"We had proposed solutions last May. We then hired the Government to set up a scientific and technical commission to reflect on the lessons to draw floods from 2017, to find ways to inform residents of the flood zones of Quebec much more effectively and ensure a consultation with the organizations of watershed. Now nothing has been done, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"This plan does not constitute a government strategy to reduce the risk of flooding. It is rather from the sprinkling of measurements, silos, and without real vision of the future. At best, it is an action plan that aims at coordination between civil security and the municipal world. The Liberals had a year to activate, while they knew that extreme climatic events, including outstanding spring floods, would reproduce in the future and would be added to the effects of climate change. Today they present us a plan to react to events, while work must be upstream. When we were in the government, we understood it and launched the Quebec civil security policy, which exactly enjoined the public authorities to put in prevention and preparation modes, rather than in reaction mode. Why is we back on the start box? What has this government done for four years? Stéphane Bergeron continued. 
"There are two major shortcomings in this plan. The first is governance: there is no measure relating to integrated management by watershed, and there is no vision to convey floods in a concerted way. A real integrated water management would have placed watershed organizations at the heart of the action plan. The second gap is the spatial planning and urban planning: taking into account the risk of flooding, with respect to these two aspects, is completely deficient. The government remained arms crossed for too long, "says Martin Ouellet. 
Finally, members also deplore that the government has completely forgotten the victims of spring last spring in his plan announced this morning. "People affected by the 2017 spring floods demanded psychological aid; Either the minister did not hear them or he did not listen to them. Anyway, he failed to the task, "they concluded. 
