Quebec- The member for Vachon and sentence of the official opposition in terms of transport, electrification of transport and maritime strategy, Martine Ouellet, issues serious reservations as to the place that the deposit box and placement in Funding and the operation of public transport services in Quebec. 
"Nothing is free or magical! The SLR and the West Train will cost citizens and users more expensive. By entrusting the funding and operation at the fund, which does not have any expertise in procurement processes or with respect to the transit infrastructure transaction, the project costs will be added to the cost of the yield Required of the Caisse, "said Martine Ouellet. 
Remember that in April 2013, the Minister of Transport at the time, Sylvain Gaudreault, created a project office at the Metropolitan Transportation Agency to coordinate the realization of a lightweight rail (SLR) system on the new Champlain Bridge . The project was submitted to the Directive on the Management of Major Public Infrastructure Projects, set up in February 2014 by the Government of the Parti Québécois. 
"While all carrying actors in the metropolitan area agree that there are too many stakeholders in the case and better coordination is necessary, the Liberal government decides to add an actor who is not has no expertise in the management or operation of a collective transportation service. This new so-called "innovative" formula will promote performance above all and will open the private door to the management of our public services. Ultimately, it will be the users and all Quebeckers who will pay the note and will assume all risks, "added Martine Ouellet. 
The contribution of the federal government 
At the announcement, in April 2013, the establishment of a SLR on the new Champlain Bridge, the Government of the Parti Québécois had served its intention to make it in large part by the federal government, through the program. Infrastructure Canada. "The Liberal government is once again at-flat-ventry with the federal government. He chooses the easy solution: Pig in the bottom of Quebeckers' wool and make them assume all the risks, "concluded the spokesperson. 
Watch press clause. 
