Rimouski- On behalf of the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, Minister Delegate to Tourism and Minister responsible for the Bas-Saint-Laurent Region, Pascal Bérubé, Announces Funding Assistance of $ 42,000 For the development of cultural heritage in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region. 
"This financial support is a happy news because it will allow the implementation of the projects offered by the Friends of the Métis Gardens and by the Rivière-Blue Heritage Corporation. These organizations will enrich our regional cultural heritage and make a substantial contribution to our collective heritage, "said Minister Bérubé. 
Total financial assistance of nearly $ 630,000 was announced by the Minister of Culture and Communications, Maka Kotto, for the completion of 24 cultural heritage projects in several regions of Quebec. In the wake of the first project call launched in December 2012, a second call was launched in September 2013 in order to once again allow local, regional and national organizations and municipalities and MRCs to contribute tangiblely to the Implementation of the Cultural Heritage Act. 
"This new financial contribution is a lever for concrete and diverse actions that will put forward this collective wealth that is our cultural heritage. It is important that our identity landmarks are better known and preserved, and I am pleased to see that this support will enable organizations to participate, "Minister Kotto said. 
The Ministry of Culture and Communications received, at the closing of the project call, a total of 56 applications for financial assistance. Among these, he retained 24 projects that best meet the objectives of the program and allowing organizations to conduct studies, as well as the dissemination, inventory and development activities of cultural heritage. 
"Our wealth is rooting, allows us to better understand the path we have traveled and the direction we take. Support our heritage and allowing it to be better known to all, better understood by everyone is part of our government's willingness to value Quebec. I would like to thank all those who, day after day, are working to highlight the history of Quebec and its heritage, "continued Maka Kotto. 
Additional information about the Cultural Heritage Act is available on the Ministry of Culture and Communications website at the address www.mcc.gouv.qc.ca. 
New cultural heritage dissemination tools are added to the Cultural Heritage Directory of Quebec (RPCQ), allowing to discover all its richness and diversity, making it accessible to all. Part of the RPCQ content is now on the Open Data Portal of the Government of Quebec, atwww.donnes.gouv.qc.ca, as well as on the Social Pinterest network, in the form of virtual exhibitions, AWWW. Pinterest.com/rpcq. 
Online training is also offered, at the address www.formation-patrimoine.mcc.gouv.qc.ca. Composed of video capsules and learning activities, it presents the basic notions of the Cultural Heritage Act and explains the roles and responsibilities of each to promote the knowledge, protection, development and transmission of the Cultural Heritage. 
