Quebec, the 14th of May 2020 - the member for Joliette and spokesman of the Parti Quebec in Education, Véronique Hivon, calls on the Government to adopt three measures to act for the psychological health of high school students and Foster optimal support to support their perseverance and success. 
The Parti Québécois offers three measures to support and support high school students: 
To help high school students, the Québécois party believes that mental health intervention squad should be put in place. "The Government has indicated that it had made the decision to reopen primary schools largely to ensure the mental health of children, but it seems to have forgotten that the 340,000 high school students live as many challenges from this point of View - Perhaps even more, since they are at a pivotal period of their development, and are particularly put to the proof by isolation and lack of socialization. These intervention squads would make it necessary to act proactively, for example at the request of members of school teams or relatives noting signs of vulnerability and distress in adolescents. This essential measure must deploy quickly, for the well-being of students who, unfortunately, are in some respects left ", raised Véronique Hivon. 
The member for Joliette also wants to be unlocked urgently a dedicated budget to increase, in numbers and intensity, the follow-up of professionals with students in difficulty. "What we see in many places, it is a reduction in the follow-ups, while there should be a lot more, given the difficulties and vulnerability that worsen at several students right now. If we do not want insurmountable delays to arise and that a "Covid Generation" of dropouts to date, you have to deploy more resources now! She insisted. 
In addition, after two months of remote confinement and teaching, the government must guarantee once and for all accessibility to technology devices. "The Minister of Education has announced a partnership with Apple and TELUS to offer 15,000 new tablets to families. Unfortunately, not only is this number is well insufficient in the face of the height of needs but, moreover, in the best of the worlds, the devices will probably not be available for several weeks. The minister can do beautiful ads but, if they do not materialize in time, he only creates false hopes. I ask him to guarantee that each student who needs a technological tool can get it in due course. And, if there are still faults this spring, there will be no more excuse for recovery in the fall, because the next few weeks are precisely to plan and organize, "added the spokesperson Education. 
Finally, while CEGEPs and universities put the double bites to offer maximum distance lessons next fall, Véronique Hivon reiterates his request to the Minister of Education: "He must allow primary and secondary schools to have The flexibility to physically host students half-time, to maximize both stability and socialization, including both for children and adolescents. This proposal receives more and more support, including that of school principals, "she recalled. 
