Montreal- The Québécois Party candidate in the riding of Chicoutimi and President of the Treasury Board, Stéphane Bédard, the candidate in Chambly and Minister of Justice, Bertrand St-Arnaud, and the candidate in Drummond-Bois-Francs, Daniel Lebel, Affirm that the Parti Québécois is the only credible party to combat corruption and restore the confidence of the population to its institutions. 
"We do today what the Liberals can not do. We present a balance sheet of our government in terms of integrity. Never Philippe Couillard has spoken of integrity in this election campaign. He made no commitment. Moreover, the Liberal Party has admitted no harm for its ethical drifts. In particular, its systematic refusal to hold a commission of inquiry, the scandal of the Liberal Daycare, the proud scandal, the lowering of the ethical rules to accommodate certain ministers, the list is long, "said Stéphane Bédard. 
For its part, the former President of the Order of Engineers of Quebec, Daniel Lebel, chose the Parti Québécois to continue the work in terms of integrity. "Quebeckers must ask the question: do they want the struggle to corruption and collusion ceases, or that it continues? The measures put in place since 18 months have made it possible to save $ 240 million in road work. I introduce myself with the Parti Québécois team because it's the best team. She makes integrity a real priority, "added Mr. Lebel. 
The first legislation filed by the Parti Québécois government was the Public Contract Integrity Act. He also put in place of new funding regime for Quebec political parties adopted Law 10, making it possible to meet a municipal elected municipal accused of criminal. 
"Since 18 months, the Parti Québécois has shown its determination to combat corruption. For its part, the Liberal Party voted 11 times against the holding of a commission of inquiry. The next government will receive the report of the Charbonneau Commission. Quebeckers should ask: Which party is best placed to implement the recommendations of this commission? Bertrand St-Arnaud continued. 
We have a plan and the team to succeed. Today, it's time to give us the means to go further. 
Watch press clause. 
