Lachine - Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. élaine Zakaïb, and the member for Marquette, François Ouimet, met yesterday the local survival committee, composed of twenty people. , to take stock of the Old Dutch factory file (formerly Humpty Dumpy), located in Lachine. We will remember that at the end of the day on Monday, May 6, the company had announced the closure of the plant, resulting in the loss of 216 jobs. 
The Deputy Minister has drawn up a state of the situation in a frank and honest way. It opposed an end to non-receipt to the leaders of the US company, who request from the Quebec government a grant of $ 20 to $ 25 million to make the operational Lachine plant and comply with today's standards. HUI. 
"The contribution of Quebeckers can not be solicited at such a level for an American company that must first demonstrate its real interest in remaining here and investing," said Delegate Zakaïb. "What matters to us and must mobilize us, it is the maintenance of jobs, and we will do everything in our power in this regard. » 
For its part, the member for Marquette, Mr. François Ouimet, while arguing with the Minister delegated to the fact that the investment requested is exorbitant for public funds, held remind people that certain employees lived human dramas that needed to consider. 
"As a member of Parliament for Marquette, I have at heart the fate of the hundreds of people, some of whom are near the retirement age and others fear for their future. We will make every effort to support the economic development of our riding and the retention of jobs, "said François Ouimet. 
All the actors concerned are ready to work together to try to find a short solution. A first meeting took place on May 15 and a second, today. A third meeting will bring together a restricted committee in which the Minister Delegate and the Member of Parliament for Marquette will have a representative. It will be held at the Lasalle-Lachine CDEC, under the coordination of the Director General Mr. Henri Chevalier. 
The factory, built in 1964 by Humpty Dumpty, has been operated without interruption since the potential for chip manufacturing. Old Dutch acquired Humpty Dumpy in 2006. 
The Minister Zakaïb and the member François Ouimet meets with the Local Survival Committee (source: CNW Group / Office of the Minister Delegated to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank) 
