Quebec- The Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, announces financial assistance in the form of equity participation of $ 5 million in Indian Farmers Fertilize Cooperative (IFFCO) Canada Ltd. for the realization of a pre-feasibility study relating to the possible implementation of a urea production plant in Bécancour. This project is estimated at $ 1.3 billion. 
"This investment is a breath of fresh air for the Bécancour region. The plant will create 300 permanent jobs and it is estimated that 1,500 people will be hired during construction. I can only rejoice at the efforts that are put in place by our government to ensure the economic vitality of the region following the decommissioning of Gentilly-2. The arrival of IFFCO, coupled with other investment projects and an economic diversification fund of $ 200 million, will ensure that the economy of the Bécancour region will come out of the nuclear era " , promoted the Minister Zakaïb. 
The Federated Coop expressed its intention to agree on a distribution agreement for its fertilizer market and become a financial partner of the project. Currently, urea imports in Quebec amount to approximately $ 400 million. Local urea production will come to clean up the commercial assessment of Quebec. 
Bécancour has been illustrated against his competitors because of its comparative advantages, in this case the availability of natural gas through Gaz Métro, railways and port facilities that will allow the export of fertilizers. . The project will use natural gas, delivered by Gaz Métro and from a North American distribution network. 
The IFFCO company is a worldwide player in the fertilizer industry. "She has the expertise and know-how needed for this type of project and we are convinced of his success. This is a major news that will affect the city of Bécancour and the Center-du-Québec region, but also for all Quebec, "said the chief government whip and responsible for the regions of the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet. 
