Quebec- The Minister of Natural Resources, Mrs. Martine Ouellet, and the Minister of Labor, Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Agnès Maltais, today submitted the Government Vision to promote The increased use of wood in construction in Quebec: the wood charter. 
"Our government today demonstrates, by the Bois Charter, the willing will to put in place more efficient ways to promote the use of a locally transformed material. In addition to consolidating and even creating jobs for our communities and in the regions, increased use of wood material is a tangible contribution to the reduction of greenhouse gases, "said Minister Martine Ouellet. 
"The Charter will allow the construction of wooden buildings of five and six floors: they are currently limited to four. The new construction techniques allow this enhancement. We worked in collaboration with the Building Régie so that it develops a Quebec measure until permanent standards be included in the regulations. It is a concrete answer to an industry-made demand and an important outlet for their products, "added Minister Agnès Maltese. 
"I'm glad my government presents the wood charter. We promote the use of a noble, ecological and renewable resource. I invite Quebeckers to join the principles of the Bois Charter and to use Quebec wood in their construction, "said Denis Trottier, Member of Parliament for Roberval and Parliamentary Assistant to Forests. 
The Government of Quebec is committed to demonstrating its exemplary as to the application of the Bois Charter as the larger client in Quebec. Thus, for all the projects funded in whole or in part by public funds, the responsible project manager will have to systematically demonstrate that a wooden solution has been evaluated and that a calculation of greenhouse gas emissions ( ), Comparing the use of timber with different construction solutions, was performed at the preliminary draft stage. Let us mention that the renovation projects, consisting of an area addition to a building, will also be submitted to the Charter. The Government will put in place an industrial cluster to bring together the actors of the wood construction industry and, thus, to ensure a coherent approach to promote the use of wood and the development of value-added wood products. 
The increased use of wood in construction in Quebec is a tangible contribution to the fight against greenhouse gases. Indeed, it comes from a local resource whose renewal is ensured. In addition, wood has the property of storing and imprisoning carbon atoms contained in carbon dioxide (CO2), one of the greenhouse gases at the origin of climate change. We know that on average a cubic meter of wood makes it possible to imprison a ton of CO2. Its use, as a substitute for other more common construction solutions, is all the more ecological as wood requires much less energy for its extraction and transformation than other building materials. 
The government has set up a training plan so that professionals concerned by building buildings, such as engineers or architects, acquire the most recent knowledge of the use of wood as a structuring element as it is already done. In Germany, Austria and France. Educational institutions and centers of expertise will be strongly solicited to provide complete training, in addition to promoting the use of this material. 
By adopting the Bois Charter, the government creates favorable conditions for research and innovation, both in terms of products and processes. This development of advanced know-how will generate economic activities for several municipalities and to increase the recognition of the importance of trades related to the forest sector. In particular, it aims to develop high added value wood products, to innovate in the use of wood in construction processes and design green buildings with high energy efficiency. 
For more information on the Cahote du Bois, visit the Ministry of Natural Resources website at http: //www.mrn.gouv.qc.ca/Forets/ companies/ companies-Transformation-Charte. JSPET The Explating Brochure Wood: Raw Material Responsive Development PDF (1.2 MB) 
