Quebec - The member for Roberval and official opposition on forests, Denis Trottier, denounces with the democratic action of Quebec (ADQ) who has just turned back to the Quebec forest, his workers and to the regions of Quebec. 
On the initiative of the Parti Québécois, the National Assembly was preparing to adopt a motion to ensure that the Amphitheater project in Quebec is a significant place for the use of Quebec wood. The Liberal Party of Quebec and Quebec Solidarity were favorable; But against all odds, the ADQ has objected to it. 
The motion presented was moderate yet: 
"That the National Assembly calls on the Government of Quebec to ensure a significant place for the use of wood in the design of the new amphitheater in Quebec to make it an ecological and technological showcase and to value, in complementarity with other materials. , the use of wood in future government buildings, in accordance with budget forecasts. 
"This adequate refusal is a revelation for the regions of Quebec and forestry workers: the ADQ has just turned the back to the Quebec forest. This almost unanimous motion was simply aimed at ensuring that in Quebec, we work to develop pride in this noble and ecological resource and contributes to the economic development of Quebec. It's shameful that the ADQ is opposed to that, "distributed Denis Trottier. 
An economic and ecological combination 
The use of wood in construction, in addition to contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gases, enables appreciable savings for heating since wood is more insulating than concrete and steel. 
The member for Roberval believes that it is normal for such a building, funded largely by Québec taxpayers, can contribute to the economic development of the regions by the use of their forest resources. "As taxpayers, we will spend $ 200 million. Why would not there be a return on additional investment? This would send a clear message that the wood in Quebec, we are proud, "he added, reminding that other countries around the world have made an act on the increased use of wood. 
"The members of the ADQ will now explain to forest workers why today they have just turned their backs," concluded Denis Trottier. 
