Quebec- As a result of their visit to Val-d'Or, the member for Saint-Jérôme and Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the spokesman for the Parti Québécois in Aboriginal Affairs, Guy Leclair, and the spokesperson for the status of women and dwelling, Carole Poirier, arrested the Liberal government so that projects for a long time on ice can finally unlock, with the aim of providing solutions to the problems that Live indigenous communities. 
"In Val-d'Or, we met with women and men who want to be listened to by the government. People who ask justice to be done and that the same rules apply to all. We found that several projects are on the ice. They have been under development for years and go to administrative cumbersome or liberal austerity. Yet these are concrete projects that could bring some short-term solutions. Liberal Prime Minister Philippe Couillard can act, and he must do it now, "said the leader of the official opposition. 
"We also found that the year 2015 was hard for itinerants in Val-d'Or, especially for Aboriginal clientele. The cottage at Willy, a respite center that welcomed Aboriginal people in need, had to close its doors. Winter will be cold in Val-d'Or if the government does nothing. The Minister of Aboriginal Affairs must put pressure on his colleagues so that the cottage reopens its doors and that the Aboriginal Itinerants of Val-d'Or have access to a minimum of dignity, "continued Guy Leclair. 
"We have met with several community organizations working for the safety of the most vulnerable women in the region. The Piale, for example, has a project of construction of 21 social housing in the building of the Val-d'Or mansion. But the minister responsible for dwelling told us, during the study of the appropriations, that he did not have time to take care of it because there was only 24 hours in a day. Will Pierre Moreau soon find time to unlock the project whose population of Val-d'Or needs so much? , "Said Carole Poirier. 
"Since 2008, Aboriginal people in Quebec claim that a plan of action to combat racism and discrimination against them is put forward. It was necessary to wait until 2013 so that the Government of the Parti Québécois of Premier Pauline Marois decides to move forward by organizing consultation days to prepare this action plan. Since the arrival of the Liberals, everything is close to. Does the government will expect another crisis to realize the need for a specific plan to combat racism against Aboriginal people? ", Concluded Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
