Quebec- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, and the member for Rousseau and spokesman of the Parti Québécois in terms of finance and income, Nicolas Marceau, arrested the Liberal government of Philippe Couillard about the scandal of Panama Papers and what he intends to do to counter tax evasion. Nicolas Marceau has also unanimously adopted a motion on this subject. 
"Today, the Prime Minister has a second opportunity to show employees and small businesses that he does not apply two weights, two measures. We questioned the government on the KPMG scandal, without getting an answer. The Prime Minister had nothing to say about the amnesty offered to these wealthy people who got to hide money on the island of Man. Large fish that use tax fixtures have been seized by the net nets, but the Prime Minister claimed that agreements binding Quebec to the federal government forced us to put them back to the water. Is that, his vision of equity and tax justice? Asked Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
Motion unanime 
"Large-scale tax avoidance in a tax haven like Barbados deprives the Quebec state of considerable sums, in violation of the principle of fiscal equity. Barbados is a tax haven for Canadian businesses due to a decision of the Government of Canada. It was the Canadian government that created the problem, so it is the Canadian government that can correct it. The motion adopted this morning asks the federal government to make the necessary changes for these practices to cease. The Government of Quebec and its Minister of Finance now have the obligation to obtain from Ottawa that these amendments be made, "continued Nicolas Marceau. 
The motion adopted unanimously this morning reads as follows: 
"That the National Assembly condemns practices related to tax havens, which deprive the Quebec state of considerable and violent sums of the principle of tax fairness; 
That the National Assembly recalls that all taxpayers must pay their fair share of tax; 
That the National Assembly asks the federal government to collaborate with the Government of Quebec to put an end to the tax avoidance that is practiced through the many empty shells in Barbados put in place by Canadian companies, particularly in amending subsection 95 (1) of the Income Tax Laloi and the Income Tax Regulation 5907, so as to specify that any company that is entitled to a special tax advantage granted by Barbados is not Exempt from tax by the effect of a tax treaty, in accordance with Laloi of 1980 on the Canada-Barbados in terms of income tax. » 
Recall that the Panama Paper scandal has uncovered other cases of tax abuse that would involve more than a hundred companies in Quebec alone. Firms from home have used the services of Mossack Fonseca cabinet to hide money in Panama, the British Virgin Islands, Seychelles and the Bahamas. 
"The Prime Minister likes to quote the federal government as an example. It must therefore know that it has just announced additional means to specifically tackle the creators of tax stratagems and high-risk multinationals. Finally, so the federal government gives itself the means to tackle big fish rather than the smaller ones. Can the Prime Minister tell us if the Quebec government will do the same thing? Philippe Couillard must also explain to Quebeckers what he will do to ensure that the fraudsters, whose names are publicly spread out in the media, do not get impunity, "concluded the leader of the Parti Québécois. 
