Quebec- The Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks, Mr. Yves-François Blanchet today unveiled the results of the first auction of gas emission units Serre of the Carbon Québec market. 
"This is a first bid for Quebec. The operation went very well and no technical problem was noted or on the ministry side or on the bidder side. The auction generated incomes of more than $ 29 million, which is in line with our expectations. The market works, and it works well, "said Minister Blanchet. 
Of the 2.97 million 2013 greenhouse gas emission units, 1.0 million units were sold. In addition, 1.7 million transmission units of 2016 have found takers. All of these units have elapsed at $ 10.75 / tonne, parity with the floor price set by the government. 
The Cap and Exchange System is an economic tool that provides business flexibility with respect to their obligations, particularly with respect to their emission units purchase strategy. The first compliance period will end on December 31, 2014 and businesses will still have the opportunity to participate in four other auctions. 
Only one bid selling was held in Quebec in 2013. As early as 2014, the Quebec government will hold four auctions per year. The number of units that will be on sale in subsequent auctions will be four times less important than it has been for it. It was therefore predictable at this time that the government does not listen to all available emission units. 
"We are very satisfied with the results of this first auction and confident that the remaining units will be elapsed in future sales. In addition, the Quebec government will link its carbon market to that of California as of January 1, 2014, which will certainly boost market transactions and offer new business opportunities for Quebec and Californian companies, " Indicated the minister. 
Let us mention that the carbon market is the centerpiece of the Quebec strategy to combat climate change and is expected to generate incomes of more than $ 3 billion by 2020. These revenues will be entirely devoted to measures to reduce emissions. Greenhouse gases and better prepare Quebec society to adapt to the impacts of climate change. 
The results of the 3 December auction are available on the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks website at: www.mddefp.gouv.qc.ca/changes /carbon. 
Note that the next sale will take place on Tuesday, March 4, 2014. The notice will be published on the website on Friday, January 3, 2014. The registration period will begin on the same day. 
