Quebec- The member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and spokesman for the Quebec's international relations, Carole Poirier, and the member for Verchères and spokespersons in Quebec-Canada relations, Stéphane Bergeron, deplored the decision of Ottawa give the green light to the sale of armored ones in Saudi Arabia and recalled the barbaric treatment inflicted by this country at the Badawi Raif blogger. This morning in the room, Ms. Poirier filed a motion in this direction, immediately rejected by the Liberals of Philippe Couillard. 
"Stéphane Dion's decision, made public today, to sell light armors to Saudi Arabia, is a real insult addressed to all those who struggle in this country for freedom, especially freedom of expression, and Who undergo imprisonment, torture, and sometimes even death in perfectly inhuman conditions, "said the member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve. 
It should be remembered that in February 2015, the National Assembly had unanimously adopted a motion asking for the governments of Quebec and Canada to do everything in their power to ensure that Raif Badawi could finally join his spouse and his children in Quebec. "Since his election, the Prime Minister of Canada seems much less interested in the release of Raif Badawi, while, for him and his family, the urgency is not less important, quite the contrary. A few days ago, Justin Trudeau even said that we did not have to go too fast in this file. Too fast, while driving in prison for four years? The priority of the new Canadian Liberal government is obviously not to annoy the Saudi authorities - and to have the time to deliver the armored ones in the Kingdom - rather than respecting its commitments and to defend the most basic human rights, " Its added share Stéphane Bergeron. 
"By refusing this morning to give consent to the motion, the Liberal government is again evidence of inconsistency and improvisation. After granting a Quebec selection certificate to Mr. Badawi and committed to pleading his cause from Ottawa, Philippe Couillard prefers once again to bow to the Canadian big brother. It's incoherent and irresponsible. This government is simply not up to the courage shown in Raif Badawi and his family, "concluded Carole Poirier. 
