Quebec- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Pierre Karl Péladeau, the spokesman for the Québécois party in the area of energy, energy and natural resources, Alain Therien, as well as the spokesperson in terms of finance and Income, Nicolas Marceau, ask Philippe Couillard to explain to Quebeckers why Investissement Québec, under his Government, liquidated the block of action she possessed and who had allowed the Government of Quebec to block the first attempt to acquire RONA by Lowe's, in 2012. 
"As the government had an important block of actions allowing it to intervene to protect Rona, we learn this morning that the Liberals sold these actions, sending the message to the custody that it could do the same. The Prime Minister must explain why his government dropped RONA's employees and suppliers, "said Pierre Karl Péladeau. 
The Leader of the Official Opposition believes that the Liberal government must show transparency and indicate where, when, to whom and at what price the shares of RONA have been sold. "If, today the government is confined to the spectator's role, it is because he preferred to achieve a short-term gain to improve Québec's investment financial results rather than prioritizing the economic development of Quebec, As well as the jobs and businesses related to Rona, "he added. 
Job promises 
"Every time a Quebec flagship has been bought, Quebeckers have promised that the head office and jobs would stay here. However, we realize that after 5, 6 or 7 years, these promises do not hold anymore. Quebec can not afford to lose RONA's headquarters, with the financial department, the legal department and all the specialized jobs that this represents, "continued Nicolas Marceau. 
"In 2013, Philippe Couillard agreed with the sale of RONA to foreign interests. This demonstrates that he knows nothing about the economy and that he does not understand the importance of head offices for Quebec. The government of the Parti Québécois had filed a report produced by independent experts respected from the business world, including Claude Séguin and Monique Jerome-Forget, on the protection of headquarters. This report has been tablette by the Liberals. Philippe Couillard must, however, implement the recommendations made by the Working Group, without delay, "Marceau insisted. 
Dominique Anglade fails to his first test 
Alain Therrien believes that the new minister of the economy laminately failed his first test. "Ms. Anglade welcomes the transaction. Lowe's spokesperson could not say better, "he tested. There will be impacts for RONA's 15,000 employees in Quebec and the hundreds of company suppliers. Currently, half of RONA's purchases are made in Quebec, while Lowe's suppliers are Americans. In Quebec, RONA, it's an economic impact of $ 2 billion a year. How does the government intend to defend our suppliers when decisions will be taken in North Carolina? ", Concluded the member for Sanguinet. 
