Quebec- The member for Sanguinet and spokesperson for the Québécois party in the field of economy, Alain Therien, as well as the hon. Member for Taschereau and Spokesperson for Ethics and Integrity, Agnès Maltese, deplore the parliamentary committee On the sale of Rona, yesterday, once again confirmed the total lack of meaning of the state, accountability and ministerial responsibility of the Prime Minister, as well as his disinterest for the Quebec economy. In addition, they insisted that the former Minister Jacques Daoust and the Prime Minister's Office, Jean-Louis Dufresne, appear in their turn in parliamentary committee. 
"Yesterday, we had proof that Jacques Daoust lied. He even changed his version of the facts in the media this morning. Not only was he informed of the sale but, in addition, he washed his hands! However, there is an even more serious problem, and it concerns the Prime Minister. What did Philippe Couillard knew? When did he learn the sale? What did he ask for information? Why have several days passed before Minister Dominique Anglade finally finding what happened to Rona's actions, while many people knew the answer? Asked Alain Therrien. 
"Worse still: we now know that on June 3, the Prime Minister's Office had been informed about the sale of shares by Jacques Daoust's Chief of Cabinet, Pierre Ouellet. However, for weeks and months, the Prime Minister has repeated on all forums that he had no reason not to believe his minister. Why did the entourage of Philippe Couillard allowed him to say anything to parliamentarians and the people? Regardless of the answer to this question, however, all possibilities are worrying about the management of the Quebec state and its economy, "added the spokesman. 
Jacques Daoust and Jean-Louis Dufresne must testify  In the eyes of the member for Taschereau, so that the light is finally made on this case, it is essential that the members of the Liberal Party of Quebec agree to convene Jacques Daoust and Jean-Louis Dufresne in committee. "Does respect for institutions still mean something for Liberal Party members? Is a parliamentarian with the right to lie in the House, to lie to the population, and, after having resigned, simply saying: I change my version of the facts? Faced with such a situation, such a denial of responsibility, how does not understand the cynicism of the population? We must know the whole story; Jacques Daoust and Jean-Louis Dufresne must be heard in parliamentary committee, "concluded Agnès Maltese. 
