Quebec- Minister of Employment and Social Solidarity, Minister of Labor and Minister responsible for the Status of Women, Ms. Agnès Maltais, reported on the Government of Quebec's position in September, in Montreal, Radical Islamist preachers. The principles of equality between men and women are consensus in Quebec, as evidenced by the unanimous motion adopted at the National Assembly in October 2011. 
The minister would make the attached letter, forwarded to the Federal Minister of Women, Dr. Kelly Leich. 
Quebec, August 21, 2013 
Hon. Dr Kelly Leich  Minister of Status of Women  23, street Paris  ALLISTON (Ontario) L9R 1J3 
Madam Minister, 
We were informed of the coming in Montreal, next September, radical preachers from Europe. These individuals, one of which identifies himself as a "graduate of Sharia", will speak in conferences organized by the "collective 1ndependence" which bring together young Muslims Montreal. An article published this morning in the pressy refers to. These preachers convey values that go totally against the principles of equality between men and women defended in Quebec. 
On October 18, 2011, in a similar case, the National Assembly of Quebec had unanimously adopted a motion that required the federal government "which it refuses the entry into Canada to two individuals considering their homophobic remarks and their commonalizing speeches Violence against women ". 
On this occasion, the National Assembly asserted that these retrograde positions do not have their place in a democratic society and go against the fundamental values of Quebec society, equality between men and women and respect. Respect the physical integrity of people. 
These new conferences organized by the "collective 1ndependence", by their retrograde nature, have no more place in our society than those of the fall of 2011. Also, in connection with the motion of the National Assembly and as Minister responsible for Quebec's Status of Women, I am asking you to take the necessary steps to avoid the propagation of unacceptable remarks for Quebec women. 
While waiting for a quick action on your part, please accept, Madam Minister, the expression of my best feelings. 
The minister, 
Agnès Maltese 
