Québec- The Minister of Public Safety, Stéphane Bergeron, today launched the entire Quebec Civil Security Policy 2014-2024, entitled A more resilient Quebec Society for Disasters on the occasion of the Civil Security Colloquium and fire. 
As a reference to guide the actions of all the actors concerned, the Quebec civil security policy aims to foster consolidation, optimization and enhancement of efforts and resources for civil security, to prevent deaths and deaths. Injuries and limiting increasingly heavy socio-economic costs associated with disasters. Prevention is thus necessary as the key element around which must be articulated the efforts of all, especially citizens and citizens. 
"Every year, our territory is affected by natural phenomena, or accidents, which threaten the lives of many Quebeckers and who affect the normal course of community activities where they occur. Without the implementation of concrete measures to prevent these events, we are facing ever more frequent, significant and costly emergency response. In this context, I am particularly proud of this very first Civil Security Policy, which establishes a common framework of action from which will be deployed, during the next decade, the measures that will increase our resilience to disasters, ", said Minister Bergeron. 
To ensure the implementation of this policy, a national plan of action will be drawn up in 2014, under the coordination of the Ministry of Public Safety, and will aim to achieve the objectives pursued, to promote the consultation between the Various actors, and to ensure the consistency and complementarity of the actions carried out. The filing of an interim implementation report is scheduled for mid-term, in 2019, and a final report will be produced following the expiry of 2024. 
"I want to thank those and those, including all our partners, who have contributed to the development of this Quebec civil security policy. It is all together that we will succeed in advancing civil security in the coming years, and thus preserve the safety and health of future generations as well as the social and economic prosperity of Quebec, "concluded Mr. Bergeron. 
To consult the Quebec Civil Security Policy 2014-2024, visitwww.securitepublique.gouv.qc.ca/politicsc. 
