Montreal, on January 8, 2017- The Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, as well as the Chief Word and Word of the Parti Québécois in the field of immigration and cultural communities, Carole Poirier, presented today Media Evelyne Abitbol, Special Advisor for Diversity, and launched a first plan of action by the Parti Québécois in terms of diversity. 
"Our goal is twofold. We want, on the one hand, to establish a constant dialogue with Quebec diversity to develop with its members of the policies that will ensure the success of Quebecbois of various origins. We want, on the other hand, significantly expand the place of diversity members in the Quebecois party, so that they are stakeholders from our debates and projects. Carole Poirier is responsible for these two files, and Evelyne is the ideal person to support us in this task, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
Born in North Africa, Morocco, Evelyne Abitbol has devoted a large part of his career to dialogue between cultures and civilizations, and has worked in international organizations working in the field of cooperation. She is known for her engagement in the cause of Raif Badawi, this blogger is a prisoner of opinion in Saudi Arabia. Honored, among others, by the Institute of Sépharade Culture of Canada for its tireless action in the dialogue between cultures, it also received the Arab women trophy. Long-standing independence, she worked at the Bloc Québécois under Lucien Bouchard and was also director of government and public affairs at Concordia University, in addition to represented Quebec and Morocco at the foundation of the three cultures (Christian, Christian, Muslim and Jewish) in Seville. Its mandate will also cover relations with the English-speaking community. 
"Now we put a series of actions masturbally. We are working on the mobilization of Quebec's members from diversity and we will make a contribution at constituency congresses. We also have as mandates the creation of a committee for diversity within the Party bodies, as well as, very soon, as part of the presensive caucus, the organization of a tour of the deputies with the communities. More generally, our goal is to intensify dialogue and focus specifically on the issues of the next election, "said Carole Poirier. 
Several Quebecks of various origins have joined the Parti Québécois over the past year around the leadership candidates. Mr. Lisée and Ms. Poirier invited other members of the diversity to do the same by writing to diverse@pq.org. 
"I accepted this important mandate because I have known Jean-François for nearly twenty years and I know the depth of his commitment to Quebeckers of all origins. I also see Carole at work in the communities and I see the quality of the relationship she knows. I believe that the time has come to engage a voluntary, structured, permanent and fruitful action of real connection between the Parti Québécois and the Quebeckers of adoption, "concluded Evelyne Abitbol. 
