Montreal- The Quebec Prime Minister Pauline Marois, and the Governor of Vermont, Peter Shumlin, proudly announce the conclusion of a partnership between Quebec and the Vermont for the establishment of the Québec-Vermont Electrical Recharge Corridor.. This route will allow electric vehicle owners to travel the tranquil spirit between Montreal and Burlington, since they can now rely on a complete charging infrastructure. 
"This is the first segment of an electric recharge network that we want to expand, in collaboration with the provinces and neighboring states, in the coming years," said Pauline Marois. 
"Using electricity rather than gasoline will mean clean transport in our region at a lower cost. I am pleased to associate with the Premier Pauline Marois to announce the considerable progress that has been made on the Québec-Vermont Electrical Refill Corridor, "said Governor Shumlin. 
The Québec-Vermont electric charging corridor is the fruit of the partnership between Quebec and Vermont. From the beginning of autumn, electric vehicle users who will take the Montreal-Burlington Corridor will be able to do so in peace. Throughout this north-south trip over 160 kilometers, 31 public charging stations will be accessible to the lead drivers. These terminals are integrated into the electrical circuit deployed by Hydro-Québec and the NetworkDrive Electric Vermont. 
In addition to the announcement of this first corridor, Quebec and Vermont have already mentioned the continuation of exchanges to expand the network and develop other roads, like the Magog-Sherbooked-St corridor. Johnsbury that will allow the lead drivers to travel on both sides of the border. 
The Québec-Vermont Electrical Refill Corridor Initiative follows the discussions started between Quebec and Vermont at the last Conference of the Governors of New England and the Eastern Eastern Ministers. Its realization is an eloquent example of cooperation between the two states that had agreed to create, with Hydro-Québec, Green Mountain Power Corporation and private sector representatives, a working group on the deployment of public charging infrastructures for VE. 
To date, nearly 1500 fully electric or hybrid rechargeable vehicles circulate on Quebec roads. Recent economic records show that Quebec has a large share of the Canadian sales market. In terms of public recharge, Quebec already has on a network comprising 300 terminals in service. The electrical circuit of Hydro-Québec is equipped with nearly 150 of these terminals and the networkver, initiative of a young Quebec business, addenergy technologies, is, for its part, with nearly 100 terminals. 
Quebec has many assets to become a leader in transport electrification. We produce a renewable source electrical energy, available and offered at competitive prices. In addition, the Hydro-Québec distribution network is reliable and robust. It is already able to provide the power supply of at least one million vehicles. 
The electrical circuit is the spearhead of the charging infrastructure that supports the arrival of the VE rechargeable in Quebec. It includes nearly 160 240-volt recharge terminals, in use in the AMT parking lots and RONA hardware stores, Metro and Rotisseries St-Hubert on Quebec. Since its inauguration in March 2012, 34 other private and institutional partners have joined the electrical circuit. Its expansion will continue to provide greater geographic coverage and serves more VE users in several regions of Quebec. 
"In Quebec, the electrification of transport is on the move! It's a solution that's both clean and paying. That's why our government wants to accelerate this transition. With the Québec-Vermont Electric Refill Corridor, we have a new milestone to ensure the autonomy of driving electric vehicle users on both sides of the border, "concluded Pauline Marois 
