Quebec, on September 15, 2016 - The citizen's protector teaches us that administrative rigidity prevents victims of criminal acts to quickly obtain compensation to which they should easily have access, the member for Jonquière and Leader of the Opposition Official, Sylvain Gaudreault, asks the Minister of Justice, Stephanie Valley, to correct the shot and improve the management and effectiveness of the victims of criminal acts (DIVAC). 
"In his report, the Protector of the Citizen raises several problems in the administration of the divac. The most serious, in our view, are the restrictive and rigid interpretation of the eligibility criteria, which deprives the victims of a fair indemnity, the long deadlines in the processing of applications for benefits, and the lack of information offered to victims throughout the process. We must do everything to improve the help of victims of criminal acts, these people who, every day, live with the consequences of the actions that have been posed against them. Collectively, it's our duty to support them. The Liberal government must quickly correct this unjust situation, "said Sylvain Gaudreault. 
"These revelations of the Protector of the Citizen add to another problem that we already know: $ 25 million sleep in the Fund of Assistance to Victims of Crime, and this is voluntary. Indeed, the government uses this money to balance its budget, while it should normally be intended to support organizations that help victims of criminal acts. It would not be the first time, moreover, that the criteria for access to a fund or a compensation program would be interpreted restrictively to prevent money from the coffers of the state, "added the leader official opposition. 
The government of the Parti Québécois, had acted concretely to help victims. "The adoption of Bill 22, among other things, gave them more time to apply for compensation and has allowed the reimbursement of cleaning fees for a crime scene. In addition, he substantially enhanced compensation for a victim's parents, who went from $ 2000 to $ 12,000. The Québécois Minister of Justice, Bertrand St Arnaud, also increased the limitation period for civil remedies for victims of sexual assault from 3 to 30 years. Finally, we announced our intention to reform the IVAC in depth; Unfortunately, so far, the Liberal government did not judge to follow up on this idea, "concluded Sylvain Gaudreault. 
