Québec- The member for Joliette and spokesman for the Parti Québécois in the field of culture and communications, Véronique Hivon, as well as the member for Vachon and spokesperson for transport, Martine Ouellet, denounce the intention of the government of shaving Remains dating from the end of the seventeenth century, for the benefit of the construction, under the Turcot exchanger, of a water collector. 
This decision is all the more absurd as the former village of the tanneries, discovered about a year ago, has been the subject of archaeological excavations that cost some $ 1.6 million to the government. "It has been said of this site that it was also interesting, from an archaeological point of view, than that of Pointe-à-Callière; So why, now, would we want to destroy it? I ask the Minister of Culture, Hélène David, to recover quickly so that this part of Quebec's historical heritage is preserved. Yesterday's announcement had more funeral appearances for this site than those of a real commitment to preserve it; What we said, basically that we just went to keep some artifacts, but the site was demolished and all the historical value he contains. This can not suffice, "said Véronique Hivon. 
"We must be aware of the importance of the remains discovered on the site. Because they allow us to learn more about our origins, they represent a collective wealth for Quebeckers from all generations. So we must save them and ensure that they are accessible to the greatest number. It is, at least, the reflex that our Minister of Culture should have ", continued Véronique Hivon. 
Martine Ouellet denounces the departure of the Ministry of Transport for its part. "Who decides, at the Ministry of Transport? At the time of discovery, the ministry had committed to wait for the end of the excavations before deciding what would happen to the site; However, it seems that engineers have already received permission to destroy these vestiges dating from three centuries. If that's the case, it's just a reason to act quickly, "she concluded. 
Tonight, members of the Parti Québécois will participate in a vigilant to raise awareness and decision-makers to the importance of preserving the site of the former tanneries village. The appointment is set at 7 pm, at the corner of Saint-Rémi and Cazelais streets in Montreal. 
