Quebec - "Given the failure of the action plan to prevent and treat violence at school, an empty shell action plan by several stakeholders, the Minister of Education, Line Beauchamp, must immediately put in Place new concrete measures for cease violence and any act of intimidation currently lived in our schools and who have devastating consequences for hundreds of young people, their families and teachers. " 
This is said to the National Assembly today, the member for Jonquière and the official opposition spokeswoman in the field of primary and secondary education, Sylvain Gaudreault, when he argued again again Minister Beauchamp to go into action mode and dotes Quebec from a real action plan to stop the phenomenon of violence at school. 
The Parti Québécois proposes that a personalized plan be developed for each report so that a victim of intimidation, but also his or his abusers, are quickly taken care of by the education community, that of the social services. and also police forces, if any. "Not only should we act quickly for the victims, but it must be done for the aggressors. Schools must have sufficient resources to trace a portrait of their environment and follow up with victims and abusers. It is not only by moving, even in time, a victim that the problem will volatilize, "continued Sylvain Gaudreault. 
Citing the example of France, the member for Jonquière invites Minister Beauchamp to agree with a partnership with social media leaders to better control what's happening on these networks. "The French Minister of Education has signed an agreement with Facebook to close access to this network when aggressors use this platform for intimidating students. This is a way forward for Quebec, "said Quebec's spokesperson. It specifies that the multiplication of social media now allows the attackers to continue their intimidation gestures outside class hours. 
"These measures will make it possible to send a clear signal to the effect that it is zero tolerance in respect of violence and intimidation in all their forms. The goal is to ensure that no young person passes through the mesh of the net. There is urgency to act, "concluded Sylvain Gaudreault. 
