Québec- Minister Delegate for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs, Canadian Francophonie and Sovereign Governance, Mr. Alexandre Cloutier met with his federal counterpart, Mr. Peter Penashue Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs, as well as Mr. Christian Paradis, Minister of the Minister. Industry during interviews held on December 11 in Ottawa. 
These meetings were an opportunity for Minister Cloutier to defend the positions of the Government of Quebec on several important files for Quebec. 
In particular, he recalled the Farmhouse of the Government of Quebec to exercise on its territory the full mastery of financing in the field of culture and to conclude an agreement with the federal government in this respect. 
With respect to the next Federal Infrastructure Program, Minister Cloutier indicated the need to enforce the skills of Quebec by carrying out "bulk" transfer from the federal funds provisioned for Quebec. 
Minister Cloutier also reminded the unanimous opposition of the Quebec National Assembly to the recently announced loan guarantee by the federal government in Newfoundland and Labrador for the realization of the Bas-Churchill hydroelectric project. He also stressed that Quebec has always been and is always ready to collaborate with Newfoundland and Labrador on this issue. 
Minister Cloutier also agreed with Mr. Paradis of the importance of quickly agreeing on "mirrors" laws aimed at implementing the Canada-Quebec Agreement on the Joint Hydrocarbon Management in the "Old Harry" reservoir " , located in the Gulf of St. Lawrence. 
"The meetings with Mr. Paradis and Mr. Penashue allowed me to have cordial exchanges during which I was able to expose the approach that our government intends to adopt in terms of intergovernmental relations. I have indicated to my counterparts that we are going to ensure full compliance with our skills and that a sovereignist government will make every effort to acquire more powers for Quebec, "said Minister Alexandre Cloutier. 
During their maintenance, the Cloutier and Penashue ministers agreed that meetings will take place on a regular basis over the next year. "We will now opt for a direct dialogue approach with the federal government," concluded Minister Cloutier. 
