Gatineau - The Minister of Public Safety and Minister responsible for the Outaouais Region, Mr. Stéphane Bergeron, was passing in Outaouais today. 
He took advantage of this day to meet different stakeholders from the region: Mrs. Paulette Lalande, in his capacity as prefect of the MRC of Papineau, Mr. Frédéric Poulin, President of the Alliance for the cause of higher education in Outaouais, sir. Jocelyn Blondin, President of the Portage School Board, Mr. Maxime Pednaud-Jobin, Head of Gatineau Action, and some representatives of the Round Table of Voluntary Popular Education Organizations of the Outaouais. 
These stakeholders were able to present their respective records to the Minister responsible for the Outaouais region and discuss it with him. The latter was very happy to have been able to have this first direct contact with them: "It was my first official visit to Outaouais as Minister responsible for the region and I greatly appreciated all the discussions. This allows me to deepen the bearer files for the region, "said Mr. Stéphane Bergeron. This visit in Outaouais also gave the opportunity to Mr. Bergeron to meet the Regional Director of Correctional Services, Mr. Denis Brian, as well as the Director of Services in an open environment, Mrs. Marie-Josée Riopelle and special constructors and agents of Probation at Gatineau Justice Palace. 
The minister took advantage of his presence in Outaouais to formalize the appointment of Ms. Lise Goulet as Political Advisor for the Outaouais: "Mrs. Goulet will make the link between the Outaouais and my cabinet. It has the necessary political experience, having occupied, a few years ago, these same functions with Ministers Sylvain Simard and Joseph Facal. In addition, she was the main advisor of the former member of the Bloc Québécois, Mr. Richard Nadeau, "commented on the minister. Mrs. Goulet will also be supported by one or her political attaché in her tasks. This person should be engaged incessantly. It will be installed in a regional office that will be open shortly. 
