Saint-Hubert- Back of a three-day trip to the land of shale gas, Pennsylvania, the member for Vachon and spokesperson for the official opposition on shale mines and gas, Martine Ouellet, accompanied De Serge Fortier, spokesperson for the interregional citizen group of the St. Lawrence Valley, Claude Roger, Mayor of the presentation, Yvon weighing, Mayor of the municipality of Saint-Marcel-de-Richelieu, and Réjean Blanchette, farmer, date A very disturbing record of the situation of farmers and citizens with the consequences of shale exploration and exploitation. 
Réjean Blanchette felt directly arrested by the difficulties that the farmers of Pennsylvania live. "The great poverty of the farmers has pushed farmers to want to improve their fate and the gas have taken advantage of them to make them sign agreements on the operation of the subsoil of their land without knowing what the consequences", A-T- he declares. 
At presentation, there is a shale gas well that has been fleeing for several months. Mayor Claude Roger follows this file with great interest. "My trip to Pennsylvania allowed me to see on the ground the impacts of shale gas exploitation. The findings are disturbing: drinking water well contaminated by methane, ventilation of the soil next to a church to avoid an accumulation of this same gas inside the church, citizens supplied with drinking water by tanks plastic near their house. The most difficult thing is to see that citizens with these problems are poor, without financial resources, and seem completely abandoned by their government authorities. » 
"This trip makes us realize that this form of development in a region like ours confirms not only the risks associated with it, but also the deep certainty that we expose ourselves to serious environmental, economic and social problems, both for us. -Mims for future generations, "continued the mayor of Saint-Marcel-de-Richelieu, Yvon weighing. 
The group of 55 people also met citizens who live every day the harmful impacts of shale gas exploitation, particularly the contamination of their water. "It is disturbing to note the impotence of the citizens who are victims of the industry, to see that the burden of proof belongs to affected and impoverished citizens without the support of their elected officials. They are left to themselves. It is absolutely necessary to avoid that happening again here in Quebec! Serge Fortier worried. 
All participants were able to see that the gas use the same speeches, the same arguments and the same techniques, whether in Pennsylvania or Quebec. Behind a facade showing the creation of wealth and jobs, they play downright at the apprentices wizards with the agricultural territory. "The impacts for farmers and citizens are terrible: contamination of drinking water by methane and chemicals from hydraulic fracturing of wells, air pollution and increase in smog, health problems, gestation and production in cattle herds in particular. A farmer has said to us, do not be as naive as me, inquire and if a gas offers a contract, see a lawyer! ", Concluded Martine Ouellet. 
The participants of this trip invite the entire population of Quebec to participate in the March of the Earth, Sunday, April 22 at 2 pm in Montreal, to make the citizen voice heard in favor of a recovery of control of our natural resources. . 
