Quebec- The member for Hochelaga-Maisonneuve and sentence of the official opposition in terms of international relations, Carole Poirier, as well as the hon. Member for Sanguinet and Spokesperson for Treasury Board, Alain Therien, regret that the visit In France of the Prime Minister and six of his ministers had no tangible economic results for Quebeckers, whether in terms of job creation or the announcement of foreign investment. 
"During the previous economic mission in Davos, who had not gave no results either, the government said it was not an ad case. This time, in France, he said it was not an economic mission. What else can the Liberals find next time? In truth, it is improvised missions, which have not benefited from any preparation for the economic sector, "said Carole Poirier. 
"In addition, we can think that if the Prime Minister has held that hence his ministers accompany it, it was to prevent slippage and unfortunate statements. However, this has been without effect; He had to scrap Marc Tanguay for his trivialization of violence against women and Jacques Daoust apologized for his remarks on entrepreneurs in the region. Let us add to that the resignation of the Chief Director of the Chum, who denounced the political interference of Minister Gaétan barrette. In short, even with so many ministers in Europe, the mistakes of the government continues, "she added. 
The member also deplores that the Prime Minister tarnished the image of Quebec and crumpled the French by justifying the royal size of the delegation that France paid part of the mission, a major diplomatic step, according to it. 
"Finally, a six-minister yard will have brought nothing to Quebeckers, except a sumptuary expense. It is indeed the only concrete result for the population: the costs of the mission. In this period of austerity, the Prime Minister should have preached by example and limit the size of his delegation, especially when we see that it does not bring anything any more, "concluded Alain Therien. 
