As part of the Event for Parity, organized by the Women, Politics and Democracy Group, the Leader of the Official Opposition, Jean-François Lisée, Vice-Cheffe and Family Spokesperson and Justice, Véronique Hivon, as well as the spokesperson for the status of women, Catherine Fournier, presented the commitments of the Parti Québécois to reach the parity at the National Assembly and in the spheres of political decisions. 
IN SHORT 
"Every time Quebec acts to improve the status of women, for more equality, it is all the Quebec society that progresses. We are committed to our next Council of Ministers, and we aim for parity, too, within the boards of directors of public organizations. With regard to the elected officials of the National Assembly, to finally reach parity, a law, as proposed by the GroupFemmes, Politics and Democracy? The Quebec's response is yes. It takes a law that will take effect for the election of 2022. I make the commitment before you today: elected on October 1, our government will table a bill on parity. What legislation will it be? Should she have exactly what you propose us, laying an obligation to parties? Should she need to introduce conditions that will encourage parties to achieve the goal and who would pay a price, politics or other, to those who will not succeed? The debate remains open in our party, as it is within society, "said the official opposition. 
Jean-François Lisé said that the result of the election of 2018 and that of the considerable effort made by the parties this year to reach the parity area will give additional elements to feed the reflection and guide the drafting of this Great Law. . The commitment to electoral parity could also combine with the additional democratic tool that the Parti Québécois has to offer for 2022, a mixed, regionalized proportional vote. These two reforms, on parity and voting mode, will advance on the path of a much more representative democracy. Quebec is ready to take these steps. 
"Quebec society has done significantly towards equality between women and men: believe in the law on pay equity, maternity leave for municipal councilors, the automatic perception of food pensions, Program Equality for all Quebeckers, early childhood centers, the election of the first woman Prime Minister ... However, we must make additional not. That's why we utter now in favor of setting up maternity and paternity leave for MPs and members. We ask the National Assembly to set up a committee for parliamentarians, all together, to study the terms ", added Véronique Hivon. 
"Today, we commit ourselves firmly for parity in the spheres of power and the National Assembly. I greet the work of the Women, Politics and Democracy Group; His proposal is bold, and we welcome him enthusiastically. The next government of the Parti Québécois is committed to making other determinants. We will do them, with all society, to reach a real parity, a true equality, "concluded Catherine Fournier. 
