Quebec - Minister of Finance and Economy, Mr. Nicolas Marceau, and the Minister Delegate to Industrial Policy and the Quebec Economic Development Bank, Ms. Élain Zakaïb, pleased today about the success of the first flight From the Bombardier Cleries aircraft. 
"This is a historic moment for the Quebec aerospace industry. The Cleries plane is the ultimate expression of Quebeckers' know-how. Thought and conceived by engineers from home, made largely by Quebec workers, this new family of aircraft will become one of the symbols of our aeronautical success. Green, more efficient and more reliable, Cleries aircraft will allow Bombardier to carve out a place of choice in a new market of the future and to better radiate Quebec expertise in a state-of-the-art field, "said Minister Marceau . 
Remember that the Quebec government has been a partner of the first hour in the development of the Cleries aircraft. As early as 2008, a $ 117 million loan was granted to Bombardier to help finance this project of more than $ 3 billion. In addition, the government has reserved an envelope of US $ 1 billion, managed by Investissement Québec, to finance the first buyers of CSeries aircraft and thus promote the sale of devices. 
"The production of the Cleries aircraft will have a significant impact on the Quebec aerospace industry. It will represent more than 3,500 jobs at Bombardier and interesting benefits for our SMEs. In addition, many of our companies will be called upon to provide services and components for new devices, especially in the case of engines that will be assembled by Pratt & Whitney Canada in Mirabel. This approach is part of the objectives of our industrial policy, which aims in particular to fill the entire value chain in our niches of excellence, "added Minister Zakaib. 
"The Bombardier team deserves our congratulations for his hard work. The Cleries plane is promised to a bright future. The Quebec government is proud to have contributed to the success of this major project, "concluded ministers. 
To receive in real time the press releases of the Ministry of Finance and Economy Saving component, register for appropriate RSS feed atwww.economie.gouv.qc.ca/rss. 
