Montréal - The Quebec party of Saint-Henri-Sainte-Anne proudly announced, earlier in the day, that Véronique Fournier will be candidate of the Parti Québécois in the riding during the next election campaign. This event took place in the presence of Mr. Maka Kotto, Minister of Culture and Communications and Deputy of Bourget, Mr. Benoit Dorais, Mayor of the South West Arrondissement, Ms. Louise Harel, former member of the National Assembly Quebec and several times minister under different governments of the Quebecois Party, Mrs Gaël deer, co-owner of Grumman 78 and Vice-President of the Association of Restorers of Rue du Québec and Mrs Claudette Dubé, President of the Golden Age Saint- Paul who all wanted to be present to support this candidate representing a young, urban voice, carrying the reality of the central districts of Montreal. 
Solicited by many citizens and borne by the Executive of Saint-Henri-Sainte-Anne, this candidature is a very consistent journey in the course of Véronique Fournier which is the facts of the local challenges and which is ready to take up them . Indeed, City Councilor in Saint-Henri-Petite-Burgundy-Pointe-Saint-Charles from 2009 to 2013, it is first and foremost a resident of the constituency concerned by his stakes and engaged in his community development. Madame Fournier has a strong attachment to the riding and does not hesitate to get involved in the concern files for example Turcot or recently railway safety. Also, until recently, it is the chairmanship of the Southwest Urban Planning Advisory Committee (CCU). 
"We are at the heart of a constituency in full change and I want to develop a carrier vision for it. You have to know how to meet the needs of all: both the people who have built it as newcomers and I will know how to use my experience and skills to achieve this. It is important for citizens to give one another voice and contribute to building a prosperous and solidarity Quebec. The stakes of Saint-Henri-Sainte-Anne are also those of Montreal, those of Quebec: infrastructures, housing, social solidarity, transport, cultural radiation. It is up to this responsibility that I hear respond with commitment and determination. I invite citizens this spring to give yourself a member who will be present for them, "said Véronique Fournier. 
During his mandate as elected to the City of Montreal, Ms. Véronique Fournier held the planning spokesperson for the official opposition, Vice-President of the Finance and Administration, Vice -President of the Commission on Economic and Urban Development and Housing. It has used to use different forums to defend culture, housing for all, Griffintown's requalification, to denounce several behaviors and realities harmful to the future of the city. 
Madame Fournier holds a Master's degree in Social Economics and a Bachelor of Social Work and Community Organization. In addition, it has taught democratic practices in community organizations at UQAM and continues graduate studies in public management at the National School of Public Administration (ENAP). 
