Victoriaville, October 16, 2016 - "welcome Véronique, in great shape, healthy, enthusiastic and engaged in our work, is the best news we could receive a few days from our return to the National Assembly." It is in these terms that the leader of the official and deputy opposition of Rosemont, Jean-François Lisée, greeted Véronique Hivon, MP from Joliette, who was absent since August 17 for health reasons. Sharing the records that it entrusts to it, Mr. Lisée also announced that he delegated significant mandates to Stéphane Bergeron and Martine Ouellet. 
The member for Joliette will return for the beginning of parliamentary work, next Tuesday. Véronique Hivon will be sentence of the official opposition in terms of justice, reform of democratic institutions and end-of-life care. In addition to these responsibilities, the leader of the Québécois party has appointed him responsible for mission for relations with civil society, citizen participation and convergence. It will also be lieutenant of the chief for political relations with the Parti Québécois, Mathieu Traversy being responsible for organizational issues. 
"In addition to the important responsibilities that Véronique will assume, it will have a key role to play in the fateful relations that we will undertake with all civil society, and in the sustained interest we will focus on citizen initiatives. It will also be my direct representative to ensure the success of the work of the convergence and in my relations with the bodies of the Parti Québécois, "said Jean-François Lisée. 
"You have to open the windows, reconnect with the population, become significant again for citizens, enhance their initiatives and ideas, and inspire them. The lower policy up, I believe it. It is with this in mind that I envisage this mandate, "said Véronique Hivon. 
Two independent initiatives "I wanted to concretize, in the first days of my election, my willingness to act really to expand the ranks of the Quebec Independentists, by launching initiatives that will reach a wide audience," also underlined Jean-François Lisée. 
Martine Ouellet, the member for Vachon, will be responsible for mission for operation 50 + 1 responses on independence. In a very user-friendly format, we will explain the border issues, citizenship, rail transport, maritime, pensions, to name only those. 
"Members and citizens have very down-to-earth questions about independence. It is more time to provide them with answers. Jean-François asked me to carry out the operation 50 + 1 responses on the independence, which I announced during the race. It is with great pleasure that I accepted. It is a job that will be in consultation with members, experts and groups who are interested in the processing of the province of Quebec into a country, "Martine Ouellet details. 
The second initiative is related to the 150th anniversary of the entry into force of the British North America Act (now the Constitution Act, 1867), which took place on July 1, 1867. Stéphane Bergeron, MP for Verchères. , becomes responsible for the 150th anniversary of Canada. In 2017, the Parti Québécois will also speak of history, but from a different angle! 
"Throughout 2017, ballow and ballow will be tempted to convince Quebeckers to convince Quebeckers that they are stakeholders of a great adventure, that of Canada. Many have believed, indeed, that this adventure was worth living. Without wishing to play the disturbances, I believe, however, that the record straight should be given up and demonstrate that the Federative Compact of 1867 has not been up to its promises, especially since Quebec Is not a signatory to the 1982 version of the Basic Law governing Canada, which absolutely no one seems to be moved through this country. We will emphasize the 150 years of Canada by referring to 150 facts and events that will take another light on what we would like to bring us to celebrate ", to declare Stéphane Bergeron. 
"Martine and Stéphane have both the skill, energy and educational qualities necessary to bring together around them and carry out these essential mandates," concluded the official opposition. 
