Quebec, on June 26, 2014 -The MP for Joliette and official opposition spokesperson for cultivation and communications, Véronique Hivon, requests the suspension of the cuts of tax credits for cultural production, the time that the Impact studies and consultations - that should have been made before the budget announcement - take place. These $ 85 million cuts will have a major destructuring effect and might cause, depending on the actors of the community, the loss of thousands of jobs. The hon. Member is questioned by the true opinion of the minister. 
"The minister recently invited the community to mobilize against these cups, going to encourage them to prepare? The clearest and most convincing presentations? for the Quebec Tax Review Panel. Does this Commission become an appeal court for ill-founded decisions of the Liberal budget? We still do not know, despite our many questions for this purpose, if the minister agrees or not with these cups. What we know is that the one who described itself as a berry of culture? Looks rather invite others to fight, "said Véronique Hivon. 
Will Minister David assist in a simple spectator with the decline of state museums? Following the cuts of $ 2.65 million in the operating budgets of the four state museums, Minister David has not offered any response The multiple questions and concerns shared today by museum leaders, which made an unprecedented exit marking their disarray as to the impacts on the functioning of their institutions. 
"While the recent report of the Working Group on the Future of the Quebec Museum Network concluded in the state of great precariousness in which national museums and the need to invest additional sums, now the government cuts off. 5% in their operating budgets! What is the vision of the Minister of Culture for the Future of Museums? What did she say to them to reassure them? It is the very ability of museums to fulfill their mission that is called into question! , Continued the spokesperson. 
In addition, Véronique Hivon notes the inconsistency in the action of the government. It has never consulted the environment before proceeding to cuts in cultural production and museums, while for the future of independent libraries and the book, it starts again with the entire consultations there is less one year by a parliamentary committee of the National Assembly. These consultations had led the government of the Parti Québécois to announce its intention to legislate to regulate the price of the book. "We would like to save time we would not do better! The time of the consultations is over. We must act now, Madam Minister, "concluded Véronique Hivon. 
