Kinshasa- The first day of mission of the Quebec Premier, Pauline Marois, in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) took place under the sign of international solidarity and support for women and children who are the most marginalized of the society. 
In the morning, the Prime Minister and the Minister of International Relations, Francophonie and Foreign Trade, Jean-François Listed, visited the offices of Oxfam-Québec, one of the few Quebec non-governmental international organizations to ensure a presence supported in the DRC. The Premier has announced a support of $ 250,000 spread over two years to two initiatives of the organization: one in support of women in North Kivu victims of sexual violence; The other aimed at giving better access to drinking water to the population of a suburb of Kinshasa. 
"Your work is essential. Perilous and capital too. I know that thanks to you, women and children will find hope and security. Quebeckers and Quebeckers are pleased to support your important mission, "said the premier. 
Pauline Marois then took part in a round table on the state of human rights and democracy in the DRC with representatives of Congolese civil society. Also participated in this meeting MM. Pierre Even and Kim Nguyen, respectively producer and director of the rebellious Quebec film, whose projection in Kinshasa is one of Quebec's contributions to the cultural portion of the XIV Summit of La Francophonie. 
This roundtable gave rise to the announcement of $ 75,000 from Quebec, this time to the Handicap International organization, which will reinforce the supply and quality of rehabilitation care for children with disabilities In the DRC, through the University Clinics of Kinshasa. In addition, the development and peace organization will benefit from financial support of $ 50,000 to improve the living conditions of 425 families displaced because of armed clashes in North Kivu. 
It is mainly through the Quebec International Development Program (PQDI) that the Government of Quebec supports international cooperation agencies working in partnership with the least favored communities of French-speaking Africa, from Latin America And the West Indies. 
In the afternoon, Ms. Marois and Mr. Lisée were received by the Secretary General of the International Organization of La Francophonie, Abdou Diouf, as well as by members of the opposition parties in the DRC. 
"By its presence and action, Quebec contributes to advancing issues of governance, democracy and sustainable development within the Francophonie. The lack of dialogue would be likely to obscure certain facts and would considerably undermine the objectives pursued by all Francophone and Francophile nations engaged with the Organization, "said the minister. 
