Montreal - "We have done together a remarkable job. Now we have a clear future vision to offer Quebec. A vision for today's Quebec, a vision for a 2020 Quebec! The vision of a free quebec to act with total freedom. This is what we propose to Quebequenses: Recover the control of our future! "said Pauline Marois, Chief of the Québec Party, in his closing speech of the XVI National Congress that was closed yesterday and in which 1,700 delegates participated and About 200 national and international guests. 
"Federalists no longer have anything to offer Quebec. We are going to write our rights as a people in a Québec Constitution. We will adopt a letter to affirm the lay character of the Quebec State. And if Canada wants to put kettles on the wheels with their relics Colonial and his judicial arbitrariness, the Quebequenses will judge! "said Pauline Marois. The plan for a sovereign Quebec becomes, at the end of the Congress, in Article No. 1 of the new Quebene Party Program. It is a plan that breaks with the waiting policy and that it marks what a sovereign government will be. 
Parasalir of the unhealthy climate who knows Quebec under the liberal government, the militants adopted numerous proposals to clean up the political customs in Quebec. "That is why we propose strict rules regarding the financing of political parties, the governance of the State of Quebec and municipal administrations. And, above all, we will throw light on all this. We are going to carry forward this commission of research that all Quebec Claim! I'm going to do it! "He continued the head of the Québec Party. The militants also adopted other proposals, in particular those relating to the limitation of the mandates of the Prime Minister and the mayors of a municipality of more than 5,000 inhabitants. 
The new program will be solidly oriented towards a net predominance of French, especially extending the provisions of the current French language letter to the CEGEPs. "We will defend our language and culture vigorously. Law 101 will be rewritten and strengthened. Language of work; language of education; language of the administration; French is, and it will be, the common language of all the Quebequenses!" He secured Firmly Pauline Marois in front of his militants. In addition, the teaching of our national history will be an important orientation of a sovereign government. 
The creation of wealth was also a center for the adopted proposals. "Quebec should resume control of his economy. Let's do it and we'll be back to Quebec on the way of creating wealth for all! We will repatriate all federal economic development programs that we finance with our taxes and we are going to Group them in a Bank for Economic Development of Quebec. And if Ottawa puts us obstacles, the Quebequenses who will judge! "Mrs. Marois cried out. We are also going to review the taxes that we impose on companies that exploit our natural resources. As for hydrocarbons, our conditions are clear: at least half of the benefits must return to the Quebecans and if, to achieve it, a public participation in these companies is necessary, we will not hesitate. We will not shut it up: Quebec's riches belong first and especially the Quebecans! "He added. 
Pauline Marois also remembered "the urgency of launching a great project that will define Quebec for several generations: energy independence. We are going to make Quebec an example as for the environment and an American leader in green energy. Let's go to reduce our dependence on oil that pollutes and impoverishes us. We will make the development of alternative energies a priority and electrification of transport will be a reality! We have a very ambitious project, worthy of the 21st century, and will be the young people who are going to Complete it. We are going to resume the control of our energy and our environment, we will build a green and blue Quebec! " 
Pauline Marois stated that it is necessary to resume control of social programs to put them at the service of the Quebecans. "We will have a slogan: Accessibility, our young people will have access to quality education, equal opportunities. The Québec Party calculated the amount of places needed in Quebec's day-care stores. The answer is very simple: for each child, a place! We will combat school dropout, we will reduce the number of students per class, encourage the success of the boys and support the initiatives of the communities so that their young people do not abandon the studies. We are going to make the school private Make your contribution working with the disabled children or with learning difficulties. In addition, it was time in Quebec to launch a great debate on how to fix the question of the sub-financing of our universities. We will not accept that only Quebec students do the effort. We are many in this room that we have taken advantage of our universities, I first: Our priority will be to protect access to the NU EVAS generations. " 
"In terms of health, our doctors will have the support of other professionals from family medicine groups and Quebequenses will no longer lose their time in the emergencies. We will give our nurses the necessary resources to put their competences into practice. . Our pharmacists will have the necessary autonomy to simplify the life of the Quebecans. We are going to give our elderly access to home care, "said Pauline Marois. 
"During the last decades, we have also lost control of our state, which is immobilized by the bureaucracy, we are going to unburocratize it, Quebecans should know that no other party is more ambitious than ours in this regard," said Quebequense party head. . 
"The Congress we have done this weekend is historic, we left united as never with a tailored vision for Quebequenses. Now, we will prepare to replace Jean Charest Liberal Government. From this Friday, our fellowship can see a dynamic party , full of life, in which Quebec and his interests are the essential. They can see that the match Québequense will know how to respond to his expectations and rebuild the trust bond between the Quebequenses and his government, "said Pauline Marois at the end of the Congress, in The one who obtained 93.08% of the trusted votes. An unprecedented result. 
- 30 - 
Source: Québec Party 
Information: Manuel Dionne, press added, 514 207-8303 
