Drumondville - St. Nicephore's technical landfill (let) will not be expanded according to the Commempts of the Office of Public Hearings on the Environment (BAPE) and despite the request of the company Waste Management. After consulting experts and a long reflection, the minister arranges, as he had announced, on the side of the results of the consultation carried out in the form of a referendum. The member for Johnson, Minister of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks and Minister responsible for the Center-du-Québec and Mauricie, Yves-François Blanchet, has made it the announcement today. Saint-Nicephore. He said, however, that a responsible decision should also make it possible to gradually get rid of the volume of waste previously buried annually in Saint-Nicephore. The government therefore partially and temporarily allows the increase in the burial capacity of the company, but without enlargement of the site. "After analyzing all the scenarios and the possibilities, I opted for the decision dictated by the will and the interest of the population. This choice avoids a waste crisis while respecting the legitimate aspirations of the citizens expressed on March 25, "said Minister Blanchet. 
The Waste Management company will be able to continue operating part of the current site for a maximum of seven years to meet the immediate and urgent needs of the municipal clientele. By this decision, the Minister Blanchet imposes much larger limits than those that had been recommended by the BAPE, by allowing the continuation of the exploitation only on a part of the current site having already been the subject of a governmental authorization. , and this, for a restricted period. 
Remember that in 2011, Waste Management filed an expansion project that plans to increase the landfill capacity of 14.2 million cubic meters for a period of approximately twenty years and an annual tonnage of 600 000 tonnes. After hearing public hearings, the BAPE recommended to the Minister to reduce the operating time at 10 years by maintaining the annual tonnage of 600,000 tonnes. As for the final authorization of the Minister Blanchet, it clearly cuts short for the Waste Management project. It limits the total capacity of 2.7 million cubic meters and imposes a regressive annual tonnage, which means that the tonnage will be set at 500,000 tonnes, a decrease of 100,000 tonnes for the first year, which will have to continue. Gradually to reach 430 000 tonnes at the end of the fifth year (see the comparative table in the appendix of this statement). In the event that Waste Management would not reach the amount of residual materials allowed over one of five planned years, the company is authorized to continue the burial of the quantities not used for two additional years. "This transition period of five to seven years will give the time required in Saint-Nicephore, in Drummondville and the other municipalities concerned to find an alternative to the landfill of their residual materials. The objective is clear and non-negotiable: put an end to the burial of residual materials by maximizing recycling, biomethanization and composting, alternatives to which hundreds of millions of dollars are devoted by the department that I direct, or in Applying any other environmental alternative solution, "he said. 
As authorized by the Government, the project in question is environmentally and technically acceptable to the extent that it will be carried out in accordance with the landfills and incineration of residual materials (REIMR). It will also have to respond to the mitigation measures provided for in the impact assessment, the commitments made by the project proponent and the conditions listed in the governmental authorization. Waste Management will have to apply concrete measures with respect to odors, the sound climate, the quality of water and air, the protection of wetlands and the presence of gulls on the site. 
Restricted authorization to Waste Management meets a collective need by eliminating about 9% of residual materials generated in Quebec. On the other hand, the Minister Blanchet is open to alternatives, invites citizens to "get involved in the solutions as in oppositions", and to realize that "the issue of waste has its roots in our kitchens and our houses ". 
Technical landfill of Saint-Nicephore: Table comparing WM Quebec Inc.'s initial application, the Recommendation of BAPE and the Government of Quebec's decision 
