In the interest of ensuring public security and improving the mechanisms of regulation of migration flows, as well as with a view to modernizing the current legislation in the field of migration on 30 January, 2015 the President of the PMR signed Decree No. 22 “On approving Regulations on specific features of migration registration and control in the PMR”
The provisions regulated the implementation of the Decree will be developed and approved by the appropriate normative legal acts of the Government of the PMR in February, 2015.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the PMR draws attention to the fact that in accordance with the Decree the procedure for entry, exit and movement on the territory of Pridnestrovie of the foreign citizens having diplomatic immunities and privileges did not change and is determined by the law and international treaties of the PMR.
Moreover, the new mechanism does not apply to military personnel involved in the peacekeeping operation on the Dniester and its mechanisms, members and staff of diplomatic and consular offices, students, including those doing practical training, citizens engaged in labor activities under international treaties and contracts with Pridnestrovian organizations, representatives of accredited media, etc.
The Regulations provide a simplified registration of certain categories of citizens. These categories can be identified in the course of consultations and negotiations with interested states and organizations. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the PMR intends to build a dialogue on this issue based on the principles of reciprocity and strengthening of international relations. Upon completion of this work, the Foreign Ministry of Pridnestrovie is authorized to address a corresponding request to the President of the PMR.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the PMR pays special attention of foreign citizens and stateless persons to the fact that at this stage persons arriving in Pridnestrovie on a short visit are not required an invitation for entry stipulated by the Regulations. At the same time, individuals and legal entities are provided with the opportunity to formalize in advance in Pridnestrovie’s authorities in charge invitations for citizens (stateless persons) who are planning to come to the PMR for a long period (for example, for health resort treatment, medical care, recreation and tourism).
The Foreign Ministry of Pridnestrovie highlights the fact that within the framework of the Regulations the procedure for entry, exit and movement of citizens of neighboring countries (Moldova and Ukraine) on the territory of Pridnestrovie will not change. This is consistent with the spirit and letter of the constructive and responsible implementation of previously reached agreements in the negotiations with the Republic of Moldova in the field of freedom of movement, including the Protocol Decision signed in Vienna on 27 February, 2014.
An important innovation in the framework of the Decree are the provisions aimed at protecting foundations of the constitutional system, public interest and safety of the Pridnestrovian Moldavian Republic through the mechanism of making decision on undesirability of stay of a person on the territory of Pridnestrovie. The grounds provided by the Regulations for admitting the undesirability of stay of a person in Pridnestrovie fully comply with generally accepted international norms and practices prevailing in the CIS countries and the European Union.
