Regarding the reports appeared in a number of Moldovan media about the allegedly certain restrictive measures on the part of Pridnestrovie against members of the European Union Delegation in Moldova, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the PMR informs the following.
A series of events was scheduled to be held with the participation of representatives of the European Union to Moldova in the second half of February this year in Pridnestrovie. Most of these activities are social and linked with completion of infrastructure projects implemented with the assistance of the European Union. Pridnestrovie appreciates such activities of our international partners.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the PMR provides within its competence necessary organizational assistance in carrying out these activities. One of those events was scheduled for February 17, 2015. The employee of a department of the MFA responsible for managing that work made ​​a technical error which was that the border bodies were sent a relevant notification provided with the wrong entry point planned to be crossed by the diplomats into the territory of Pridnestrovie. It resulted in a regrettable incident because of which the previously scheduled event with the participation of representatives of the EU did not take place.
In the afternoon, Deputy Chairperson of the Government of the PMR for International Cooperation, Minister for Foreign Affairs Nina Shtanski had a telephone conversation with Head of the EU Delegation in Moldova Pirkka Tapiola, during which she explained technical nature of the incident and offered formal apologies to the European diplomat. The two sides came to an understanding and reaffirmed the common desire to continue to cooperate and develop contacts in a constructive way.
Attempts by some Moldovan media to link the incident with actions caused alarm in Pridnestrovie and connected with the expulsion of prominent Russian public figures cooperating with the PMR from the Republic of Moldova, are regarded by us as another attempt to create a contrived negative background around the issues of freedom of movement with a clear shift of emphasis in favor of insinuation. The PMR's MFA recommends these media to seek comments in a timely manner in the appropriate structures.
The Pridnestrovian side regrets the inconvenience we caused the European representatives and consistently reaffirms its commitment to full compliance with the provisions of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 18 April 1961, accepted as framework norms of law in Pridnestrovie, and is interested in the development of international relations based on the principles of respect and good neighborliness.
