The Republic of Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh Republic, Pridnestrovien Moldavian Republic, and the Republic of South Ossetia,
realizing responsibility for peace and security of nations living in the Caucasus-Black Sea region,
reaffirming their commitment to generally recognized principles and norms of  international law and believing that applying modern international settlement models and mechanisms is significant for ensuring stability in our region;
concerned about enhanced efforts of Azerbaijan, Georgia, and the Republic of Moldova aimed at forceful resolution of the Georgia-Abkhazia, Georgia-South Ossetia, Azerbaijan-Nagorno Karabakh, and Moldova-Pridnestrovie conflicts,
have declared as follows:
We note with satisfaction that the international community seeks to prevent forceful resolution of conflicts. Coming up with new settlement models for Serbia and Montenegro, Cyprus, Kosovo, and other conflict areas, members of the international intercourse have shown willingness to take non-standard approaches aimed at achieving lasting peace and stability.
In this context, the Republic of Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh Republic, Pridnestrovien Moldavian Republic, and the Republic of South Ossetia, reiterating their interest in a final and lasting normalization of relations with Azerbaijan, Georgia, and the Republic of Moldova, underline that common principles respected and observed by all the parties concerned should serve as basis for peaceful settlement of relations.
We are convinced that these principles shall be as follows:
1. Resolution of conflicts solely by peaceful political means based on respect to positions of all sides to the conflicts and unconditional recognition of the right of nations to self-determination.
2. Inadmissibility of taking any pressure measures at negotiations including military, informational, economic, diplomatic etc.
3. Respect for will of peoples of Abkhazia, Nagorno-Karabakh, Pridnestrovie, and South Ossetia which determined their way of development through supreme forms of direct democracy, i.e. national referenda.
4. Establishing a system of post-conflict settlement guaranties including external, international legal, economic guaranties, as well as security and humane rights guaranties for the nations.
5. Strict and unconditional meeting commitments undertaken by sides to the conflicts.
We feel confident that respect for these principles by all subjects of the international community including Azerbaijan, Georgia, and Moldova, will establish necessary preconditions for a soonest possible just settlement of conflicts and will be our joint contribution to enhancing international stability and human rights protection.
For Republic of Abkhazia    For Republic of Nagorno-Karabakh
  S.M. Shamba       A.V. Melikyan
For Pridnestrovien Moldavian Republic  For Republic of South Ossetia
  V.A. Litskai       M.K. Jioev
Tiraspol, June 16, 2007
