​The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Pridnestrovian Moldavian Republic informs that border police and Information and Security Service of the Republic of Moldova again carried out an unfriendly action, aimed at information and diplomatic isolation of Pridnestrovie.
On September 3, 2015 the delegation of the Republic of Abkhazia headed by the Vice-President of the Republic of Abkhazia V.V. Gabniya and the Republic of South Ossetia headed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of South Ossetia K.I. Tskhovrebov, who had taken part in the celebrations to mark the 25th anniversary of the Pridnestrovian Moldavian Republic, were subjected to searches and interrogations at the Kishinev airport.
The Moldovan side implemented measures, which have created extremely uncomfortable conditions of movement for delegations and are undermining the atmosphere of good-neighborly, constructive and respectful interaction between Pridnestrovie and Moldova. In particular, members of the delegations of the Republic of Abkhazia and the Republic of South Ossetia were deported from the Republic of Moldova and received a 10 years ban on entry in this state neighboring with Pridnestrovie, documented in the relevant protocols. Interrogations of the Vice-President of the Republic of Abkhazia V.V. Gabniya and the Advisor to the President of the Republic of Abkhazia V.K. Zantariya lasted for more than two hours and were accompanied by attempts to put moral and psychological pressure and a variety of threats. As a result the delegation of the Republic of Abkhazia was not able to fly the scheduled flight and had to buy tickets to the next one.
The Foreign Ministry of Pridnestrovie emphasizes the fact that within the official correspondence and discussions during meetings of political representatives, as well as within personal communication between Nina Shtanski and Victor Osipov, including via Viber the Moldovan side provided assurances of readiness to ensure the smooth movement of all guests of the republic during the celebrations. These assurances of the Moldovan side were subsequently unilaterally withdrawn after the arrival of the guests of the republic, since, according to the Moldovan authorities and certain political clans of that state, the international delegations arriving in Pridnestrovie by their appearance “undermined the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Moldova”.
         The PMR’s MFA considers the Moldovan actions violating the principles of adequate cooperation, reducing atmosphere of trust to zero and declaring a pathological inability of existing Moldovan authorities to follow the obligations taken on, as a crude, overt, provocative and reckless act that demonstrates irresponsibility, irrationality and complex of the Moldovan position in the negotiations. The Pridnestrovian Foreign Ministry stresses the unconditional danger of steps taken by the Republic of Moldova for the prospects of cooperation between the parties in a variety of formats and encourages all concerned international partners of the republic to assess illegal and self-deprecating actions by Moldova to limit external contacts of Pridnestrovie.
         The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Pridnestrovie is certain that this kind of artificial difficulties, being an indicator of immature and conscienceless approaches of the Moldovan side, only consolidates the Pridnestrovians in their reluctance to have anything to do with the flawed Kishinev political elite and strengthen the sincere friendship, sympathy and moral support between the brotherly countries within the Community for Democracy and Human Rights.
