Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Pridnestrovien Moldavian Republic with bewilderment took information of certain Media on search, carried out by Investigative Committee of the Russian Federation in Official Representative Office of the Pridnestrovien Moldavian Republic in Russian capital.
In connection with this Ministry of Foreign Affairs reports, that Official Representative Office of the PMR in Russian Federation was created by executive act of the President of the Pridnestrovien Moldavian Republic as early as 2005.
Regional Public Organization “Centre of Cooperation “Pridnestrovie”, which was registered and which is functioning in compliance with legislation of the RF as Russian taxpayer and resident, became organizational and legal form of Representative Office in the RF. At present time legal and de facto address of present organization is – Moscow, Armyanskiy lane, 9.
Present organization carried out the number of events of a wide range, including conferences, roundtables, scientific and educational contests, evenings with officials from the Russian Federation, Abkhazia, South Ossetia, Nagorno-Karabakh and other states.
Eo ipso, Official Representative Office of the PMR or Regional Public Organization “Centre of Cooperation “Pridnestrovie”,  proved its possibilities and sufficient competence for carrying out objectives, defined by the leadership of the Pridnestrovien Moldavian Republic.
In connection with this, the suppositions of the Investigative Committee of the RF, that premises of Official Representative Office of the PMR “were used for covering somebody's financial activity”, arouse particular surprise. This respected structure is well aware of the fact that officials of the receiving state may enter premises “registered as a Representative Office” of a foreign country only with consent of authorities of a foreign state.
We remind you that in its desire to be transparent and meet requirements of the Russian legislation, the Pridnestrovien Moldavian Republic have chosen precisely such organizational and legal form for its Representative Office as a regional public organization functioning in compliance with Russia's legislation. That is exactly why the Russian officials were in a position to carry out investigatory actions in the premises of RPO “Center for Cooperation “Pridnestrovie””.
It is necessary to note that RPO “Center for Cooperation “Pridnestrovie”” is a really functioning structure actively participating in the social and political life of Russia and Pridnestrovie. Thus, since July 27, 2011, RPO “Center for Cooperation “Pridnestrovie”” has been a member of All-Russian People's Front speaking in support of ideas of modernization and creation of Euroasian Union put forward by RF Prime-Minister Vladimir Putin.
 We wouldn't like to think that actions of the Investigative Committee of RF are aimed against organization which actively and consistently supports the policy of Vladimir Putin, in the post-Soviet space including.
The Pridnestrovien Moldavian Republic traditionally attaches high priority to interaction with the Russian Federation at all levels. We hope that common sense and experience of constructive cooperation of the Russian governmental structures with the Official Representative Office of the PMR - RPO “Center for Cooperation “Pridnestrovie”” – will prevail over instantaneous political environment and won't allow driving a wedge into unalterably friendly relations between Pridnestrovie and Russia.  
