As it is known, on June 21, 2011, Moscow will host the next round of informal consultations of the participants of the Permanent Consultations on Political Issues in the Framework of the Pridnestrovien Settlement Negotiation Process, more known as a 5+2 format, where the “five” is the founders of the Permanent Consultations… (the conflicting sides, guarantors and co-mediators), and “plus two” – observers from the European Union and the USA.
 The decision to carry out this meeting was made on April 4, 2011, during a regular meeting of the 5+2 format participants. Agreements were reached also regarding the fact that during the coming period of time the sides and international partners would concentrate on the solution of particular problems in the most socially important spheres, including economic, transport, law enforcement, ecological and other spheres.
We have to state that no real steps were made on the part of the Moldovan side in order to fill agreements reached on April 4 with practical charge. On the contrary, Kishinev refused from a constructive solution of a railway problem, having blocked at political level agreements signed between representatives of the authorized structures. The Moldovan side refused to return to the previously agreed draft general procedural rules for expert (working) groups of the sides, thus preventing effective interdepartmental work.  In the political sphere demarches and provocations of various kinds on the part of official Kishinev have become a normal thing: it is enough to recall refusal of Moldova's authorities from participating in the meeting of countries-guarantors in Odessa and recent hysteria in regard to the reception in the Russian Embassy in Moldova, as well as incidents in the Security Zone.
Apparently, what authorities of the Republic of Moldova need is not a constructive meaningful work on relations normalisation with the Pridnestrovien Moldavian Republic, or reaching compromise and equal dialogue, but imitation of this work and foreign audience-oriented PR with the aim to acquire political dividends in the capitals of western countries.
In these circumstances, outcomes of the policy carried out by the Moldovan side will have direct influence on the course and results of the Moscow consultations, and therefore all interested participants in the dialogue should give up high expectations.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Pridnestrovien Moldavian Republic, reaffirming its readiness for an equal, mutually respectful dialogue with the Republic of Moldova in various formats, calls upon all participants of the meeting to show serious and responsible approach in issues relating to relations normalisation.
We note that continuous attempts of some participants of the process to replace meaningful charge of practical work with speculative declarations are counter-productive and won't foster resumption of a full-fledged political dialogue. We remind you that precisely these political obligations were taken by the signatories of the Moscow Statement from March 18, 2009.
For its part, Pridnestrovie will continue its cooperation with interested participants of relations normalisation process between the Republic of Moldova and the Pridnestrovien Moldavian Republic aimed at sides' return to a full-fledged and constructive work in all existing formats and based on unconditional priority of the Pridnestrovien people's will and interests. 
