Today, on November 25, 2015, approximately at 1 p.m. Russian scientist, Candidate of Historical Sciences, Head of the Balkan States Department of Russian Institute for Strategic Studies Nikita Viktorovich Bondarev, who arrived to Kishinev at 12:30 p.m. on board of S7 157, was deported from Kishinev airport to the Russian Federation.
According to the information received by the MFA of the PMR, the RISS official, who arrived with the purpose of participation in international Serbian-Pridnestrovian Conference at the Pridnestrovian State University named after T.G. Shevchenko planned on November 26, was subjected to ban on entering of the territory of the Republic of Moldova.
It is worth mentioning that given incident is not the first in a whole range of discrimination measures of the Republic of Moldova, connected with the restriction of political-diplomatic, information and academic contacts of Pridnestrovie. The same restrictive measures of the Moldovan side were earlier taken against a whole number of the other RISS officials, citizens of the Pridnestrovian Moldavian Republic, representatives of scientific circles and journalist society, whose purpose was visiting Pridnestrovie.
Pridnestrovian Foreign Ministry stresses that Pridnestrovie determines itself the parameters of its cooperation with international representatives in the scientific and academic, informational, political and other spheres, and does not accept Moldovan intervention in issues that must be resolved by the sovereign authority of Pridnestrovie. Another irrational attempt of the Republic of Moldova to isolate Pridnestrovie from the information, expert and academic exchanges is a clear indication of the RM’s uncertainty in the validity of its own policy approaches, desire to hide from external partners information about the real situation in Pridnestrovie, as well as evidence that the Moldovan side is aimed at the conflict paradigm in the dialogue. The pressure on the cultural, humanitarian, and educational spheres is an indicator of the obvious gaps in the political culture of representatives of the Moldovan side, the manifestation of their inability to accept the objective reality and to communicate with reason and mutual respect.
Applying inquisitorial practice of suppressing the possibility to conduct discussions on topical issues in the field of economic, security, human rights, the Republic of Moldova is trying in this way to ensure its own monopoly on informing the international community about the situation in the Moldovan-Pridnestrovian settlement and the negotiation process.
The PMR’s MFA proceeds from the fact that this kind of radical manifestations cannot stay long without international attention and appropriate response from mediators and observers in the 5+2 negotiation format.
The PMR's MFA also reported that the Pridnestrovian side reserves the right to use retaliatory measures against Moldovan citizens living in Pridnestrovie. The PMR's MFA calls on the leadership of neighbouring country to critically rethink such foolish actions and to abandon the harmful practice of blocking international scientific and expert contacts of Pridnestrovie, concentrating on solving permanent problems inside Moldova.
 
