On April 20, 2015 at the airport in Kishinev the Border Police of the Republic of Moldova detained Advisor to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the PMR Dmitry Palamarchuk in order to carry out the intensified personal inspection.
The officials of the Moldovan Border Police actually prevented the representative of the Pridnestrovian delegation from departing for Vienna to participate in special informal consultations with the delegations in the “5+2” format.
The Moldovan side deliberately created a situation in which the Pridnestrovian diplomat could not arrive in due time for the scheduled consultations because of missing the flight.
Attention is drawn to the fact that during the incident there were members of other delegations of the “Permanent Conference ...” in Kishinev airport, in particular the OSCE, to which no intensified inspection was applied. In addition, the Moldovan delegation headed by representative on political issues Viktor Osipov had the same flight to Vienna.
It should be emphasized that earlier the leaders of Pridnestrovie and Moldova reached agreement on a simplified procedure of movement of citizens of the PMR and RM during the Easter holidays and All Soul’s Day.
We regard these actions of the Moldovan side as a deliberate démarche aimed at disrupting the participation of the Pridnestrovian delegation in the informal consultations in Vienna.
This fact is the improper demonstration of levers of power and discriminatory actions by Moldova against members of the Pridnestrovian delegation in the negotiation format “5+2”, indicating about the Moldovan side’s approach which is distorted and incompatible with the principled foundations of the negotiation process.
Such actions violating the previously reached agreements, including the Protocol Decision “On some aspects of freedom of movement” are evidence of irresponsible attitude of the Moldovan side to adhering them.
The increase in the number of incidents in Kishinev airport is contrary to the Moldovan government’s declarations about “new” approaches to the process of settlement of relations with Pridnestrovie, and, in fact, is a manifestation of the same tendentious policy of Moldova to limit the rights and freedoms of the citizens of Pridnestrovie.
We urge the Moldovan side to abandon such destructive actions that undermine the already fragile confidence of the parties, and to direct their efforts to mobilize the necessary political resources to avoid in the future the situations leading to an increase in tensions in relations and the dialogue between the parties.
The Pridnestrovian side emphasizes that the entire responsibility for the possible consequences in the relations with Pridnestrovie falls exclusively on the Moldovan side.
