In connection with news reports in Moldovan media affirming the alleged threats on the part of Pridnestrovie to introduce a visa regime for Moldovan citizens, to restrict the transit of goods, to introduce duty of 100 percent on products of the RM and so on, the Press Service of the MFA of the PMR informs the following.
We confirm the veracity of the information about the fact of sending a letter addressed to the UN Resident Coordinator in Moldova D. Gercheva, and inform that the letters of identical content were also sent to the heads of most of the diplomatic representations and missions of international organizations accredited in Kishinev.
The practice of sending such letters is a kind of traditional way of informing the international community represented by ambassadors on the current situation, including relevant aspects of the dialogue between Pridnestrovie and Moldova and the Pridnestrovian side’s positions on various foreign policy issues.
We draw attention to the fact that the diplomatic correspondence in accordance with established international practices are not subject to publication. The targeted “leak” of the diplomatic correspondence and distortion of facts by a number of Moldovan media may indicate that the methods of information confrontation are still included in the toolkit of the authorities of the RM.
However, the interpretation of the contents of the letter undertaken by a number of Moldovan media indicates the intentional distortion of the position of the Pridnestrovian side. The aim, apparently, is whipping up hysteria around the dialogue between the parties, an attempt to shift the responsibility for the worsening of the situation in the negotiation process on Pridnestrovie.
It must be noted that the Pridnestrovian side has repeatedly declared possible introduction of a special economic situation, in fact being affected by the unilateral pressure and thus pushed towards protective and response measures, and has warned about cessation of all the contacts with the Republic of Moldova including during the meeting of the leaders of the parties, referring to the continuous unilateral actions of Moldova. All response measures of the Pridnestrovian side, which Pridnestrovie might proceed to develop, are listed in the mentioned document.
We emphasize that the Pridnestrovian side in its letter directly points out that the possibility to develop these measures is related exclusively to the unconstructive approaches of the Moldovan side and is a quite logical response to the deliberate actions aimed at blocking the stable work of the PMR’s enterprises and economy in conditions of the current regional economic instability. In particular, unilateral actions of some state authorities of Moldova are expressed in impeding Pridnestrovian export and import, among them a refusal to issue a phytosanitary certificate and a manufacturing license that entail a drop in the budget revenues and the expansion of poverty.
We also note that the Pridnestrovian side is in constant contact with the “5+2” participants, having consultations aimed at counteracting the unilateral actions of the Republic of Moldova.
It must be stressed that the hype provoked by the Moldovan media contradicts the intention of most members of the “Permanent Conference” to defuse tensions through constructive resolution of urgent problems of social and economic interaction. Such interpretations are obviously not conducive to the achievement of compromises at the negotiating table, provoking the formation of a negative public perception of the ongoing negotiation process.
We hope that all the participants of the negotiations will take steps to ease the tensions in the nearest time.
