On March 28, 2013 the Pridnestrovian side and other representatives of the participants to the negotiation process within the “5+2 format” received address from the Representative of the Republic of Moldova on Political Issues in the Pridnestrovian Settlement Yevgeny Karpov informing on measures which are intended to be taken by the Moldovan side in the nearest time on the National Border between Pridnestrovie and Moldova.
Pursuant to the letter received by Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the PMR, Kishinev intends to carry out activities aimed at controlling migration flows and the registration of foreign nationals coming to Moldova. This can be done in the framework of the dialogue between the European Union and the Republic  of Moldova on the liberalization of the visa regime.
In particular, the Republic of Moldova unilaterally decided to establish migration control of citizens in the six checkpoints: Gyrbovets (Novye Aneny), Khadzhimus (Kaushany), Dubossary, Kriulyany, Rezina, Seneteuka (Floreshty) without proper coordination at the bilateral or multilateral international level and within the framework of the Joint Control Commission.
The address of the Moldovan Political Representative says that the registration procedure through electronic scanning of documents will be carried out by officers of the Bureau for Migration and Asylum of the Republic  of Moldova. Implementation of these measures will start in May of this year as set out in the statement by Yevgeny Karpov.
However, according to information available to the Foreign Ministry of the PMR, the Republic  of Moldova takes currently active measures to build adequate border and customs terminals on the Moldovan-Pridnestrovian border. Several cases have been recorded when documents of Pridnestrovians who are Russian and Ukrainian nationals were verified and scanned while entering the territory of Moldova by representatives of relevant authorities of the Republic of Moldova with an oral explanation on establishment of passport control regime.
In view of the evolving situation Pridnestrovian Foreign Service expresses its profound concern about the fact that the actions taken by the Moldovan authorities have not been agreed with the competent representatives of Pridnestrovie within any of the numerous formats of dialogue between the parties. The issue concerning arrangement of the migration control points including the Security Zone was raised neither by any Moldovan representatives during meetings of the Joint Control Commission, during the meeting of the “Permanent Conference” in Lvov on February 19, nor at the meetings of political representatives of parties.
Pridnestrovian side has particular concern for possible coercive or unfair measures in relation to nationals of the Russian Federation, Ukraine and other countries residing in Pridnestrovie and crossing the national border between Moldova and Pridnestrovie. In this regard, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the PMR calls on the international participants to the negotiating process on the Pridnestrovian settlement to monitor the situation closely in order to promote the full realization of rights and legal interests of the above category of citizens.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the PMR is of the opinion that additional barriers to the movement of people erected by the Moldovan side come into conflict with the efforts by the parties and the international participants in the negotiating process, the efforts towards ensuring freedom of movement for citizens. In the past year and in early 2013, the parties focused their efforts on the coordination of various drafts of agreements including the Protocol Decision “On Some Primary Measures to Provide Freedom of Movement for Population of Pridnestrovie and the Republic of Moldova” aimed at realizing the legitimate rights to freedom of movement by Pridnestrovian and Moldovan nationals.
