EUROPEAN UNION NEWS DIGEST600 Sudanese marooned at Libyan airport(Radio Dabanga) – About 600 Sudanese nationals are still stuck at the Mitiga International Airport in Tripoli, Libya. They booked a flight to Khartoum two weeks ago. “We completed our travel procedures, bought tickets to Khartoum, and went to the airport two weeks ago. Yet, no aircraft departed, as the fighting between militias in Tripoli forced the closure of the airport,”one of the affected told Radio Dabanga from Mitiga airport. “We are facing a very difficult situation. We cannot leave the airport owing to the insecurity all around the place, and there are no flights anymore. “The airport is free of services. There are only two bathrooms at the airport. Most of us have exhausted the money in their pockets.”Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/node/77939South Sudan peace talks resume in Addis Ababa(BBC) – Peace talks between South Sudan’s government and rebels have resumed in the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa. The regional bloc overseeing the talks, Igad, has set a 10 August deadline to agree on a transitional government and implement a ceasefire. The last round of talks between President Salva Kiir and rebel leader Riek Machar stalled in June. Conflict erupted in December after Mr Kiir accused Mr Machar – his sacked deputy – of plotting a coup. Mr Machar denied the allegation, but then marshalled a rebel army to fight the government. More than 1.5 million people have since been displaced and the UN has warned that the country is on the verge of famine. “This session of negotiations must make progress, we must end the war,” said chief mediator Seyoum Mesfin at the resumption of talks in Addis Ababa.Read More: http://www.bbc.com/news/world-africa-28644316Italy Launches Investment Projects in Sudan(Sudan Vision) – Governor of Khartoum state, Dr. Abdul Rahman Al-Khidir, during a meeting with Sudan’s Ambassador to Italy, Amira Daoud Gornas, on Monday investigated Italy’s investment initiative agreeing to establish joint agricultural and industrial projects in Sudan.Read More:http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/details.html?rsnpid=238761African Development Bank allocates $168 million to Sudan(Sudan Tribune) – The resident representative of the African Development Bank (ADB) in Khartoum Abdul Kamara disclosed that resources allocated to Sudan in the 13th renewal of the fund, are estimated at $168 million for the years 2014-2016. Sudan’s minister of finance and national economy Badr al-Din Mahmoud said during a meeting with Kamara said that these resources will be utilized in projects to ward off the effects of drought, education in addition to other projects to be agreed upon between the two sides. Mahmoud stressed Sudan’s interest in developing the capacities of the private sector, pointing to the importance of the upcoming ADB’s mission in order to establish a workshop to raise awareness of the private sector to take advantage of the money allocated by the bank.Read More:http://www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?article51918Health Minister Bans Import of Biomedicine(Sudan Vision) – Bio-medicine, including erythropoietin, are banned from entering Sudan unless they meet the regulations issued by the National Council for Medicine and Toxicology in 2009, a source from the Health Ministry told Sudan Vision on Monday. Secretary General of the Consumer Protection Association (CPA), Dr. Yassir Mirghani told reporters the decision will contribute towards curbing the negligence of standards and will be followed-up following its implantation. Mirghani also called for an urgent investigation of the entry of unclassified biomedicine, in addition to bringing responsible personnel to trial.Read More:http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/details.html?rsnpid=238762
