Addis Ababa Negotiations Collapse
(Sudan Vision) Sudan and South Sudan’s round of talks in the Ethiopian capital of Addis Ababa broke down without reaching an agreement on Abyei, a buffer zone or a timeframe for implementing the deals concluded on 27 September, 2012. The AU High Level Implementation Panel (AUHIP) headed by Thabo Mbeki invited both parties to discuss implementing the agreement in the backdrop of the 4-5 January presidential summit’s outcome.The Sudanese delegation said it was clear that the South Sudanese delegation was not serious about reaching agreements on the three tracks and implementing what was agreed upon at the recent presidential summit. Four obstacles prevented an agreement on the matrix; these are Abyei, the border, disengagement and Mile 14, according to Sudanese Defence Minister Lt. Gen. Abdel Rahim Mohamed Hussein.
Read More:hhtp://www.sudanvisiondaily.com/
Sudan and South Sudan Fail to Reach a Deal on Oil and Border Security
(Associated Press, New York Times) South Sudan and Sudan have failed to reach an agreement on how to carry out security arrangements and resume oil exports, officials said Saturday after several days of talks. A major sticking point has been the demilitarization of a contested 14-mile strip of land bordering the Darfur region in Sudan and the Bahr el-Ghazal region in South Sudan. “Each government has its own understanding of the scope of the 14-mile area,” South Sudan’s negotiating team said in a statement, which goes on to call Sudan’s position “intractable.” According to the statement from the South Sudan negotiating team, Sudan has refused to export southern oil until the border security arrangements are fully put in effect. This includes the deployment of more than 800 Ethiopian soldiers along the border to monitor the agreement.
Read More:http://www.nytimes.com/
AU Chairman confirms Readiness of Albashir and Kiir to meet on AU Summit
(Sudanese TV) The Chairman of the current Summit of African Union (AU) and President of Benin Thomas Boni Yayi has confirmed that he received assurances on the readiness of President Omer Albashir and President of South Sudan Salva Kiir to hold a meeting during the coming AU Summit in Addis Ababa to come out with a decision for the interests of, not only, the two countries but for all the continent of Africa. Read More:http://www.sudanradio.info/
Central Darfur: Abbala, Beni Hussein clashes ongoing, death toll rises
(Radio Dabanga) Clashes between the Abbala coalition group Adjinedin and the Beni Hussein group Alabassin continues for the third consecutive day in Seleleh, Umm Dukhum locality, Central Darfur. The death toll following Wednesday’s clashes in Seleleh have risen from 12 to 25 sources told Radio Dabanga. In addition, the number of injured has reached 12 at the moment, witnesses asserted. Residents of Seleleh, located about 13 kilometers north of Umm Dukhum city, told Radio Dabanga the Adjinedin stormed their village on Friday, 18 January. They were driving 20 Land Cruisers “mounted with heavy weapons”. Also on Friday, Abbala tribesmen released two of the four hostages belonging to the Almima tribe –supporting the Beni Hussein- who they had captured on Wednesday. The Almima paid a ransom of 300 million Sudanese pounds for its members. Read More:http://www.radiodabanga.org/
