Aerial Bombardments East Jebel Marra Continue(All Africa, Radio Dabanga) Aerial bombardments in East Jebel Marra, North Darfur, on Wednesday October 31 have injured one person, Radio Dabanga was informed.  The aerial bombardment destroyed a number of homes and continued for two hours, the witnesses added. The targeted areas reportedly include Hashaba, Kouto, Dali, Toko Mari and Karafola in East Jebel Marra, North Darfur.Witnesses described the bombardment as “extremely intense”, and explained that a large number of residents fled the area in search of safety.  One of the witnesses told Radio Dabanga that the bombing injured Halima Moussa Adam, 17 years old, in Kouto, and added that the girl was taken to Tabet for treatment. The witness added that the bombing also led to the destruction of three homes in Hashaba, near Tabet.Further Reading:http://allafrica.com/stories/201211010069.htmlIran warships leave Sudan after four-day stay(Reuters) Two Iranian warships left Sudan on Wednesday after a visit that drew attention to the countries’ military ties less than a week after Khartoum accused Israel of bombing a Sudanese arms factory.  Two Iranian warships docked in Port Sudan several days after the blast, triggering speculation the events were related. Sudan denied this, saying the warships were on a “routine” visit.  The two ships a helicopter carrier and a destroyer departed on Wednesday after a four-day stay.  “Today was the last day and we came to bid them farewell,” said Sudanese navy officer Omer Al-Farouq, standing on the dock near one of the ships, which was mounted with machineguns and guarded by Iranian troops.  Sudan’s armed forces spokesman said the ships visited as part of the two countries’ efforts to strengthen “diplomatic, political and security” ties.Further Reading:www.reuters.com/article/2012/10/31/us-sudan-iran-warships-idUSudan police fire teargas to disperse farm region protest(Reuters) Sudanese police fired teargas to disperse hundreds of protesters in a farming region south of the capital on Wednesday, witnesses said.  The demonstrators, protesting about the effects of a large agricultural project, blocked roads and threw rocks at police near the town of Wad Medani.  The latest protests, on Tuesday and Wednesday, were sparked by an agricultural project villagers said had led to a huge number of insects and other negative environmental impacts one witness said.  Sudan’s state news agency described the protest as “limited” and said police had been able to contain it.Further Reading:http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/10/31/us-sudan-protest-idSudanese rebels report fresh bombardments in South Kordofan(Sudan Tribune) South Kordofan rebels reported that Sudanese warplanes bombed several villages in the NubaMountains area on Tuesday, during the whole day.  SPLM-N spokesman Arnu Ngutulu Lodi, said in a statement emailed to Sudan Tribune that four Mig and two Antonov bombarded the villages of Um Sardabah, Karkarrai, Tanguel and Al-Atmoor in the NubaMountains.  He pointed out that the aerial bombing, which started at 08.00am and continued till 03.00pm (local time), injured a child, killed nine heads of cattle and destroyed the crops of local residents.  Sudanese government and rebels failed to agree on the modalities allowing to implement a tripartite plan to reach the needy in the rebel held areas.Further Reading:http://www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?article44382
