Al-Bashir resumed genocide in Darfurdespite his national dialogue liesBy Mahmoud A. SuleimanThis article comes against the backdrop of thechilling press reports stating that the Sudanese armed Force (SAF) supported by the militias so-called rapid reaction forces (RRF)invaded the civilian villages in the South East of Nyala, South Darfur State. Heavy aerial bombardment by the Russian made fighter-bomberjets MiGs-29, Antonovairship and sukhoi backed the (SAF).This brutal attack took placeon Thursday and Friday 27 and 28, February 2014. Another wave of genocide resumed.Thus, Omer al-Bashir proves to the world and the Sudanese people his determination to continue ruling the country through wars and exterminating its citizens while uttering vacuous promises as lip service. The National Congress Party (NCP) regime resumed its scorched-earth policy and Genocide in southeast of Nyala despite his national dialogue lies.To continue ruling Sudan by Iron and fist , the NCP regime would camouflage the semi-naive International Community by Makeup powders of alleged political dialogue, claims of the voluntary return of Internally Displaces Persons (IDPs) and refugeesand signing of Partial peace agreements with the parties that  will not be implemented and never be  implemented on the ground. Turned out beyond any doubt that this system in the past scorched-earth policy, and re-commit genocide with premeditation in Darfur. Ironically, those crimes and genocide coincided with the visit of the first deputy of the head of the NCP regime Bakri Hassan Saleh who was at the time in the city of Nyala for an alleged inauguration of a Turkish charity hospital.In the aftermath of the heinous crimes, initial statistics indicated that the crimes left behind the following atrocities:More than 35 villages burnt in the regions of Hjeer Tono, UM-Gonja and 33 citizens were killed whose names are published and well-known and large numbers of wounded are being counted.  and (20) girls the chased and captured for enslaving and (9) children were abducted and Looting forcibly and the looting of 12,120 head of cattle, and 17.827 of  sheep along with the displacement of more than 6 thousand people to the IDP camps of Salam and Kalma .Furthermore, there are more than 10 thousand people now wandering around after those militias prevented their access to the IDP camps. This tragedy is a creation of the elements of the regime represented in the armed forces and the Intelligence and Security Service (NISS) and the state of South Darfur and the Ministry of Defense and the Presidency. The NCP militia forces have carried out these cowardly operations against unarmed civilians and safe villages with premeditation and surveillance, and with their full knowledge that these areas are free of the armed movement forces that the regime, which has vowed to crush and put an end to the rebellion in Sudan by 2014 as it alleged. To describe this military assault on unarmed civilians a premeditated crime against humanity is underestimation.The So-called “rapid support forces” are the remnants of the militias fleeing South Kordofan, and expelled from North Kordofan, which were crushingly defeated by  the gallant forces of the Sudanese Revolutionary Front  (SRF) trailed curses and anger of the defenseless people there.By the entry of the remnants of the defeated army and militias of the NCP regime into the Darfur region lawlessness has increased, especially in the city of El Fasher where they wreaked havoc the city looting people’s property from vehicles and goods and any person who refuses to comply with them finds his inevitable fate of death. The Management of North Darfur state is powerless to do anything about what is happening and even it is an accomplice with offenders in spite of the claim that a change in the crew of the state government has been recently made.It is a recycling the old wine in quasi- new bottles; is the perfume maker – Druggist- capable to reform what ruined forever by Eon?! Here, the popular proverb applies:” The Mountain went into childbirth and the result was a stillborn rat”!As an example of failure of the North Darfur administration in protecting civilians,  four militia border guards gunmen in a four-wheel Land cruiser cars all belonging to the Janjaweed militia allied with government forces, attacked on Saturday 1st of March 2014 evening, the citizen Abu Bakr Ismail Abu in front of his house. At the time, thevictim was enters his car to his home in the district of Hawara downtown El Fasher. The assailants askedAbu Bakr to hand them over what has of money. When he refused, one of the perpetrators of the crime opened fire and killed him. On Sunday the 2nd March 2014, the Citizens of the city of El Fasher, came out in massive demonstrations to protest against the killing of the martyr / Ismail Abu Bakr by border guards on Saturday evening. Furthermore, the protestors chanted slogans condemning the looting and killings carried out by the border guards, demanding the state government to put an end to the Security breakdown. The demonstrators demanded the resignation of the state of North Darfur Governorand the resignation of his government for its inability to control the militia forces that keeping the residents of El Fasher, in what looks like a night curfew imposed in the early hours of the night.While we are in the subject onthe 2nd March 2014 news reports indicated that the gallant Darfuri freedom fighters’ movements carried out a coordinated simultaneous attack and captured the two towns of Haskaneeta and Layette Jar-el-Nabi in Eastern Darfur region. They have successfully inflicted devastating defeats on the remnants of the allied militias known as “Rapid Support Forces” and (SAF)and captured booty in the form of armoured  vehicles, weapons, fuel, supplies and in addition to inflicting losses among the various ranks of defeated troops. Moreover, they took complete control of the two cities. They also successfully controlled the Army General Command in the Layette Jar-el-Nabi Governorate.The foregoing is the security situationin theDarfur region.That security chaos goes unchecked in Darfur by the UNAMID forces while Thabo Mbeki, head of the African Union High Level Implementation Panel on Sudan (AUHIP) seeks to make political projects for the (NCP) regime. He plans to meet with the leader of Sudan Liberation Movement/AW (SLM-AW), Abdel-Wahid Mohamed Nur, leader of Sudan Liberation Movement/MM (SLM-MM) Minni Arko Minnawi and leader of the Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) Gibril IbrahimMohammed; probably to discuss with them the spurious hoax so-called “national dialogue”. In doing so, Mr. Mbeki is seen as though he were campaigning /canvassing to market and support embattled Omer al-Bashir in his alleged “National Dialogue “project that loathed by the people of Sudan referred to it satirically as “Wathba”! The position of the head of (AUHIP) Mr. Mbeki begs the question as to why should have been an expensive ineffective UNAMID Peace Keeping Force at all in Darfur, if it fails to even protect its own personnel. Analysts thought blatant Bias towards perpetrators of genocide has warped the position adopted by the former President of South Africa Mr. Thabo Mbeki. Therefore, Justice went unheeded in the halls of the African Union (AU), contrary to the hopes and aspirations of the African Peoples.Mr. Thabo Mbeki’s efforts to rescue Omer al-Bashir from the International Criminal Court (ICC) indictments went further. Mbeki kept preaching by suggesting that the relatives of victims of genocide as well as the survivors harmed by the heinous crimes in Darfur to opt for granting amnesty to the perpetrators of those hate crimes by applying what is known in the apartheid South Africa, the Convention for a Democratic South Africa (CODESA). That is the Peace of the Victors and considered a major obstacle to transitional Justice that seeks retribution against the perpetrators committed the heinous crimes in Darfur. Retribution is a just punishment and considered morally right and fully deserved.At this crossroadsof political juncture of’ to be or not to be’, Sudan needs a rational, responsible, honest, competent and credible political leadership. The NCP establishment, without doubt, is not part of the above-mentioned qualities. Accordingly, there is no option for the components of the Sudanese people and the political opposition actors, both civil and military other than ousting the NCP regime and throw it into the history dustbin. For the International Community who bets  on the possibility of reforming the regime of the (NCP) to review its position and bias to the will of the People of Sudan instead of  betting on the losing horse of the War Criminal and Genocidal  perpetrator Omer al-Bashir.The (NCP) regime has found saleable shedding the blood of the innocent unarmed citizens of Darfur, because it holds ‘Card Blanche’ of the International Community bodies.Elimination of Rebellion in Sudan and putting an end to the legitimate demands of the rights of the marginalised people without paying their dues is a dream that would not come to the fugitive from the international justice, hate and war criminal GénocidaireOmer Hassan Ahmed al-Bashir and his clique. Sudan without al-Bashir is better off for the Sudanese people to enjoy security, freedom, democracy, justice and equality for all.As expected Omer al-Bashir’s speech about the planned dialogue project has led to the unification of the remnants of the Islamists Freemasonry Movement, despite their stringent differences referred to as internal differences. The proof for the foregoing statement is the unconditional joining in the so-called national dialogue by the Umma National Party (UNP) led by Sadiq al-Mahdi, The Popular Congress Party (PCO) led by the Islamists Godfather Hassan Abdalla al-Turabi and the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) led by Mohamed Osman al-Mirghani and the rest comes.Despite the extensive publicity for the falsely alleged political dialogue announced by the (NCP) regime lately, al-Bashir continued committing genocide with premeditation in Darfur. Once again,political observers reiterate the fact that there remains no solution to Sudan’s political Issues during and while the (NCP) regime in power. The only way-out of the chronic impasse, but an overwhelming popular revolution powered by the Sudanese Revolutionary Front (SRF) gallant troops to overthrow the grotesque hateful entity of the NCP; whether the international community Likes It or Not.Dr. Mahmoud A. Suleiman is the Deputy Chairman of the General Congress for Justice and Equality Movement (JEM). He can be reached at[email protected]
