حركة العدل و المساواة السودانية
Justice & Equality Movement Sudan (JEM)
Sudanjem.com
[email protected]
Good Bye,Our Beloved Hero, Kofi Annan
An Obituary for Kofi Annan
This week,the people ofDarfur join the world in mourning thedemiseof one ofthegreatest heroesof our modern times.Mr.Kofi Annanwasno ordinary man.  He was the first person ofblackAfrican origin to hold the position of UN Secretary General and whohad transformed the image oftheorganisationin the Third World and beyond.
Annan’s biography cannot be cataloguedin an obituary and mush more so whenitcomes to how the people of Darfur feel his loss.  Annan skilfully and humanely brought the plight ofthe people ofDarfur to the world.His crusade against the horrific crimes ofthe Khartoum Government against the beleaguered people of Darfur as well as other parts of marginalised Sudan led toUNSC Resolution1593and the subsequent indictmentofPresident Albashir and his fellow genocidaires.As the first indictment of a sitting president, the Resolutionconstitutes a historic leap in the fight against genocide and othergravecrimesagainst humankind.
Through hisimaginativeGlobalFunddesignated for the fight against infectious diseases, Mr Annandistinguished himself as a firstclass leaderwitha cherished legacy.  His Global Fund, mainlyfocussed onthe fight againstHIV/AIDS, TB andMalariasavedand continue to savemillionsof lives.
Annan’s achievements in global peace andhuman welfarewill remain an inspiration forwhat an ordinary citizen of humble origin can achieve.  Born in a little known town in Ghana,Annan rose to play important roles in global bodies that paved and still paving the road for better human existence. These bodiesand programsinclude,but not limited to,the Millennium Development Goals, the UN Development Impact, Kofi Annan Foundation, Global Elders, Mo Ibrahim Foundationand Human Rights and Responsibility to Protect.No wonder Annan was awarded a Noble Prize for his impeccable contribution.
JEM offers its condolences to Annan’s family and friends and vowsto continue his fight for justice, equality and human dignity.
Dr. Gibriel Ibahim
ChairpersonJEM
August 21, 2018
مواصلة القراءة
