Arab human rights organisation decries wave of arrests in Sudan
(Radio Dabanga) The Arabic Network for Human Rights Information (ANHRI) has decried the arrest by security forces of seven people from different areas in Sudan, including the human rights activist Mohamed Omar Ibrahim, four Arab Socialist Ba’ath Party leaders, and the displaced El Tayeb Abo Abdel Malik and one other unknown person.  The Arab human rights network says: “Sudan’s ongoing use of gag policies, which is based on crude and blatant violations that curb freedoms, places it at the forefront of therepressive countries in the Arab world. Such a matter will, inevitably, portend a human rights catastrophe”.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Somali Defence Minister discuss Cooperation with Sudan
(RBC) The Defense Minister of Somalia Federal Government General Mohamed Hassan Hamud is currently paying his first visit to Sudan where he is seeking military support from the Arab republic of Sudan, RBC Radio reports.  Minister Hamud has met with his Sudanese Counterpart and toured the largest factory of warplanes in Khartoum where he was welcomed by military officers and technicians serving in the factory.  The minister’s visit to Sudan was described as enhancing the bilateral relations between Sudan and Somalia, two brotherly Arab nations in East Africa.  Sudan is one of the African states those provide military support to Somalia as Sudan previously trained thousands of Somalia’s Armed Forces.
Read More: http://www.raxanreeb.com/
Sudanese lawmakers call for better relations with new CAR government
(Sudan Tribune) Sudanese legislators said the government needs to do more to improve relations with the new government in the Central African Republic (CAR) and amend its relations with Chad.  The national assembly on Tuesday deliberated on the security situation in the CAR where African troops and a UN-backed French contingent are struggling to protect Muslims targeted by Christian anti-balaka militias.  The head of foreign affairs committee at the national assembly, Mohamed Youssef Abdallah, in a report endorsed by the Sudanese parliament on Tuesday, urged to reconcile between the Muslim tribes and other Central African ethnic groups. He also called on the UN secretary general to cooperate with local religious leaders to achieve national reconciliation in the neighbouring country.  Some Sudanese lawmakers have also accused French troops deployed in the CAR of disarming Muslim militia, while failing to curb the heavily armed Christian militias.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
