IOM: Impossible to Meet April Deadline for Repatriating South Sudanese
A South Sudanese family waits inside a train in Khartoum to be transported to Wau in South Sudan (Reuters)
(VOA)  The International Organization for Migration says it is not able to meet an April deadline to repatriate South Sudanese refugees in the Sudanese capital, Khartoum.   The International Organization for Migration is working to repatriate South Sudanese from the Sudanese capital Khartoum before an April 8 deadline forthem to leave. But, IOM spokesman Jean-Philippe Chauzy tells VOA organizing the safe, dignified, voluntary return of hundreds of thousands of people by then is impossible.“It is a logistical nightmare,” he said. “It is totally impossible to organize such large returns in such a short period of time.  We are, therefore,advocating with other agencies for the 8th of April deadline to be extended to allow South Sudanese who want to leave to do so safely and in dignity. Or to open up some corridors between the North and the South, which would allow for spontaneous and organized returns within an extended deadline.”  The governments of Sudan and the newly independent Republic of South Sudan signed a Memorandum of Understanding on February 12. Under terms of the agreement, some one-half million Southern Sudanesestill in Khartoum have until April 8 to choose between going home or remaining as refugees in the north.  All ethnic southerners lost their jobs in the north before South Sudan gained its independence in July. So, it is expected that most will opt to leave. However, IOM notes those who wish to remain in Sudan need documents fromSouth Sudan to apply for residence in the north. And, it says this is a very difficult and lengthy procedure.  The IOM already has helped move more than 23,000 people to South Sudan, mainly by barge. But, Sudan stopped the use of barges last month, stranding thousands of southerners who have been living in Kosti, a town bythe Nile about 350 kilometers south of Khartoum.  IOM now is in the process of moving 1,400 refugees by train. This first group of South Sudanese returnees are traveling in a 60-carriage train.  It is expected to arrive in Aweil and Wau in the Republic of South Sudan on March 10.
Government Readies for Addis Ababa Oil Talks
(Sudan Vision) A new round of talks between Sudan and South Sudan is scheduled to kick off Tuesday in the Ethiopian Capital of Addis Ababa as part of ongoing efforts to resolve oil dispute, with the Sudanese Government reportedly considering optionsit intends to table before the talks.  Spokesperson of the Sudanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs Al-Obeid Murawah told reporters that the talks, mediators planned to continue for ten days, would focus on oil issue only, adding that the Sudanese delegation would comprise four members headed by Idriss Abdul Gadir, minister at the Presidency.  Al-Obeid expects the mediation to submit to the two parties a compromise combining the commercial and the transitional options. He said demonstration of a political will by the South and its delegation is a prerequisite for success of talks, affirming Sudan’s desire to find a solution to the issue.During the previous talks, the Government delegation submitted a proposal of $36 being transportation fees against each barrel but it was rejected by the South Sudan negotiators.
Police disperse student protest in Sudan
(Reuters) Sudanese police used batons to disperse more than 100 students protestingin the centre of Khartoum against the closure of their campuses following the independence of South Sudan, witnesses said.  Students who used to attend southern universities with campuses in Sudan gathered in front of the presidential palace.They called on Sudan and South Sudan to start talks to allow them to get diplomas from their old universities.  “The fate of students must come before oil,” one banner said.  The government has opened a new campus in Khartoum for northern students who went to southern universities but protesters said that was not goodenough.  “We cannot accept a diploma from a university that was founded only in 2011,” said one engineering student, asking not to be named. “We want to graduate from our old universities.”  Police used batons to disperse the protest and arrested several students, witnesses said.
Sudan police beat student protesters
(News 24)  Sudanese police on Sunday beat university students who gathered outside the presidential palace objecting to the loss of their campuses when South Sudan separated.  About 150 students held a silent march and got within metres of the palace gates where police forcibly dispersed them, an AFP reporter witnessed.Officers detained some of the students, but it was unclear how many.  The students had attended universities with campuses in both northern and southern Sudan.   But all the campuses moved south, along with their southern students, when South Sudangained independence last July following an overwhelming vote after 22 years of civil war.  The Khartoum government formed a new campus, Bahri University, for northerners who had attended the southern schools.   The students, however, have objected,particularly because those who will graduate soon say they want their diplomas under the name of the southern universities where they got most of their education.
Ethiopia, South Sudan sign eight memos to boost ties
(Sudan Tribune) The governments of Ethiopia and newly independent South Sudan signed eight memorandums of understanding to enhance their economic and diplomatic ties,Ethiopia’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs said.  The agreements were signed during the first Ethiopia-South Sudan Joint Ministerial Committee meeting held in Juba from 27 February to 2 March 2012.  The joint meeting was co-chaired by Ethiopian deputyprime minister and foreign minster Hailemariam Desalegn and his South Sudanese counterpart, Nhial Deng Nhial.  At the end of the five day joint meeting, the two sides signed a joint strategic partnership to promote development, peace, securityand stability in the region and the whole of Africa. Other areas covered included cooperation in the fields of transit, transport, export, communication, education and capacity building.  Addis Ababa and Juba are expected to implement theseagreements within the next six months.  Preferential Trade Agreement (PTA), environment, health, energy, science and technology were also other focus of talks.Following the meeting, the Ethiopia Foreign minister said the first Ethiopia-South Sudan ministerial meeting was fruitful.  Addressing the meeting, Desalegn recalled Ethiopia’s support to South Sudan during their struggle for independence and reaffirmed that his country would similarly extend every support to the ongoingefforts in building the new nation, which officially proclaimed independence on 9 July 2011.  The Ethiopian official assured that his country is keen to further strengthen cordial relations with South Sudan.  The two sides are still to find agreement on borders, citizenship, debt, oil and the contested region of Abyei.Ethiopia has sent peacekeepers to Abyei, which is claimed by both countries.Ethiopia is seen by many as a neutral arbitrator between Sudan and South Sudan.
30 People Killed in Fresh Attacks in South Sudan’s Jonglei State
(Sudan Tribune) At least 30 people are confirmed dead and more than 15 injured in fresh clashes between youth of Lou Nuer and Murle ethnic groups in Nyirol county since Friday, said the county commissioner.  Nyirol county commissioner, Kuach Duothconfirmed to Sudan Tribune that the attackers were cattle-rustling members of the Murle ethnic group.  “A huge number of Murle youth attacked on Nyuon cattle camp.They killed about 30 young men, wounded 15 and made away with 15,000 heads of cattle”, Duoth said.  He claimed the soldiers of Sudan People’s Liberation Army (SPLA) in Nyirol were informed about the assault but refused to intervene.  A state-wide disarmament programme began on Thursday.
