(AFP) At least 28 people have been killed in renewed fighting between two Sudanese ethnic groups, tribal sources said on Saturday. Battles between the Hamar and Maaliya tribes began Thursday in the border region of West Kordofan and East Darfur states, tribal leaders from each side told AFP. “Thirty-two people from both sides were killed,” a Hamar leader said, but a Maaliya source reported 28 deaths up to Friday night.In December, the UN said Hamar-Maaliya fighting killed 38 people in West Kordofan, just over the border from East Darfur. A dispute over grazing rights apparently sparked the clashes.
Read More: http://gulfnews.com/
Peacekeeper killed, three wounded in Sudan
(AAP) A Rwandan peacekeeper has been killed and three others wounded in a gun battle after trying to mediate a tribal dispute in Sudan’s Darfur region, the African Union-UN mission says.”As a result of the ensuing fighting, four Rwandan peacekeepers were injured and, unfortunately, one of them died from his wounds,” UNAMID said in a statement on Saturday. The incident occurred on Saturday morning in Kebkabiya, about 140km west of El Fasher, the North Darfur state capital. After altercations between non-Arab Fur people from one village and an Arab militia from another community, a UNAMID team attended a mediation session in an effort to ease tensions.Read More: http://www.sbs.com.au/
Karti criticizes Arab countries’ misperception of situation in Sudan
(Sudan Tribune) The Sudanese foreign minister Ali Karti expressed regret over what he described as misperception of his country by Arab states that led to a decline in investments flowing from that part of the world. In an interview with the pro-government Ashorooq TV, Karti said that Arab Gulf states have been receiving false information on Sudan which caused a chill in relations with them but noted that Khartoum has partially succeeded in correcting. Karti went on to say that there is a lack of focus on the need for giving attention to Sudan by some Arab countries recalling that Sudan has always emphasized that it is being subjected to a conspiracy in its southern parts which was confirmed later by the secession of South Sudan. He said that Arab nations should rid themselves of doubts and suspicions and adopt a more positive view to utilize Sudan’s resources through large partnerships. In a separate interview with al-Sudani newspaper published this week, Karti acknowledged tensions with Arab Gulf states of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) over relations with Iran and presumption that Sudan backs the International Organization of the Muslim Brotherhood. Karti also denied that Sudan is an issue of dispute between Qatar and its neighbors. Karti blasted the US for reneging on promises to remove Sudan from terrorism list and help it cancel its debts if it signs peace deals in Naivasha and Abuja related to conflicts in the south and Darfur.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
Al Bashir Receives Opposition List for Dialogue Mechanism(Sudan Vision) President Omar Al Bashir received from opposition parties, a list of names of their representatives in the national dialogue mechanism. Assistant of the President, Prof. Ibrahim Ghandour said that the president will determine the date of the dialogue in the coming days, emphasizing that it does not close the door to the rejecters. About 15 opposition political parties chose the Secretary -General of the Popular Congress Party, Hassan Al-Turabi, head of the National Umma Party, Al-Sadiq Al-Mahdi, head of the Reform Now Movement, Ghazi Salahuddin, Secretary -General of the Arab Socialist Party, Mustafa Mahmoud, and representatives of the organizations East Forum, Federal Truth and people’s working forces to represent the opposition in dialogue mechanism.
Read More: http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/
Hundreds rally for Sudan’s detained opposition leader
(World Bulletin) Hundreds of supporters of detained Sudanese opposition leader Al-Sadek al-Mahdi demonstrated outside his party’s Khartoum headquarters on Friday to demand his release. Protesters converged on the National Umma Party (NUP)’s headquarters in western Khartoum’s Omdurman district following Friday noon prayers to demand the release of al-Mahdi, who was arrested earlier this month. Skirmishes broke out between protesters and security forces after the latter used teargas to disperse a group of demonstrators shouting anti-government slogans on their way to the march.Read More: http://www.worldbulletin.net/
Weak turnout at Umma party protest against al-Mahdi’s detention
(Sudan Tribune) Sudan’s riot police used tear gas on Friday to disperse a peaceful demonstration organised by the National Umma Party (NUP) in the capital twin city of Omdurman to demand the release of its leader al-Sadiq Al-Mahdi. Regular troops were deployed at several mosques in Khartoum in anticipation of any protests following Friday prayers. Police forces surrounded the Imam Abdel Rahman Mosque in Wad Nubawi where more than 1,000 people from the Ansar sect – the religious wing of the NUP – gathered to protest al-Mahdi’s arrest. It also surrounded the NUP’s headquarters in Omdurman where more than 500 of the party members gathered to protest the detention of their leader. Meanwhile, Sudan’s information minister and government spokesperson, Ahmed Bilal Osman, announced on Friday that Al-Mahdi will be presented before a court, underscoring that the latter sought to circumvent the national dialogue.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
South Sudan says Khartoum to help repair damaged oilfields(Zawya, Reuters) Sudan has offered to supply materials, engineers and electricity to South Sudan to speed up the repair of oilfields damaged during a five month rebellion that has cut output by a third, South Sudan’s oil minister said on Saturday. Petroleum Minister Stephen Dhieu Dau told Reuters South Sudan’s output stood at 165,000 barrels per day (bpd), down from 245,000 bpd when the fighting broke out in December, but that production should increase within 45 days to three months. Dau said his counterpart in the Khartoum oil ministry has agreed to provide support to Sudd Petroleum Operating Company and Greater Pioneer Operating Company (GPOC), operators of the two oilfields in the northern Unity State bordering Sudan.
Read More: https://www.zawya.com/
