Bashir will not lead Sudan’s delegation to the AU summit, says presidency
(Sudan Tribune) The Sudanese presidency has announced that the First Vice President, Bakri Hassan Salih will lead Sudan’s delegation to the 23rd Ordinary Summit of the African Union (AU) in Malabo, Equatorial Guinea. Sudan’s president Omer Hassan Al-Bashir has been wanted by the International Criminal Court (ICC) since 2009 on charges of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity in Sudan’s war-torn Darfur region. Equatorial Guinea is not a signatory to the ICC’s founding Rome Statute.African countries usually come under pressure from the ICC and western countries when they receive Bashir despite AU’s decision which asserts that sitting heads of state should not be tried by the ICC. On Tuesday, the United States ambassador to the United Nations, Samantha Power, called upon the UN Security Council (UNSC) to prevent Bashir from travelling abroad and demanded his arrest.
Read More:http://www.sudantribune.com/Khartoum again denies UN envoy to visit apostate woman
(Star Africa) Sudan has again prevented the UN independent expert on the situation of human rights in Sudan, Mashood Baderin from visiting the Sudanese woman sentenced to death for ‘apostasy’.One of Mariam’s lawyer Muhanad Mustafa told APA that Mr. Baderin has requested the Sudanese authorities to allow him to visit the accused’s mother. The UN expert has the right to visit and inspect the prisons and to follow up Mariam’s situation inside the jail, the lawyer said. Mustafa has hewever expressed concern over Mariam’s health situation.Read More:http://en.starafrica.com/
UN Expert Inquires about Alleged Violations of Militias(Sudan Vision) The UN Independent Expert on the situation of human rights in Sudan, Mashood Baderin Baderin arrived in North Darfur state capital of El-Fasher on Thursday, kicking off his tour in the state as part of his efforts to get acquainted with the human rights situation in Sudan before submitting his report to the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) next September. He met with North Darfur deputy governor, Abu Al-Abbas Gedo who stressed to him the national role played by the RSF against rebel groups which attacked several localities in February and March of this year.
Read More:http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/
Sudanese currency flirting with record low against the US dollar
(Sudan Tribune) The Sudanese pound (SDG) appeared to be on the verge of hitting a new low milestone against the United States dollar (USD) which is likely to further aggravate the country’s economic woes. Currency dealers on the black market said that 1 USD is now trading for 9.6 SDG, up from 9.4 last week. Sudan’s Central Bank indicative exchange rate for the USD stood at approximately 5.7 SDG. Despite government pledges to inject more Forex into the market and crack down on the black market, the SDG continued to drop as banks and Forex bureaus have been unable to meet the demand. The central bank also does not allow foreign firms in Sudan to repatriate its profits abroad to prevent Forex bleeding.
Read More:http://www.sudantribune.com/Elections Act Increases Political Participation: NCP(Sudan Vision) The Elections Act approved by the Cabinet will guarantee a greater representation for various segments and ensure effective participation from political forces and women, the ruling National Congress Party (NCP) has said. NCP Deputy Chairman, Ibrahim Ghandour said the amendments constitute a credible addition to ongoing efforts made to enhance and improve the law, added that the move was accepted by the political forces.
Read More:http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/
Sudan’s NUP leader says national dialogue initiative a “false dawn”
(Sudan Tribune) The leader of the National Umma Party (NUP), al-Sadiq al-Mahdi, has described president Omer Hassan al-Bashir’s national dialogue initiative as a “false dawn” saying it failed the first test on freedom of expression. The last democratically elected Prime Minister said the fragility of the “dead” initiative was exposed when the regime did not tolerate genuine advice. Al-Mahdi said he will then propose a national mechanism for achieving the just and comprehensive peace and connects between the peace process and the national agreement.
Read More:http://www.sudantribune.com/Elections Bill Should Not Be Used to Undermine National Dialogue, PCP(Sudan Vision) The Popular Congress Party (PCP) has said that the elections bill for 2014 approved by the Cabinet last week does not undermine the national dialogue. PCP Political Secretary, Kamal Omer stated that no political party can claim the bill is wrong since it does not clash with any political parties’ agendas. “The ruling National Congress Party (NCP) introduced the amendments with good intentions and not at the expense of the national dialogue,” he said. Speaking during a radio programme on Friday, Omer said that the NCP has recently become more open to political forces and the elections law fulfills the political parties’ aspiration for an inclusive process.
Read More:http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/
SLM-Minnawi denies reports about new split in the group
(Sudan Tribune) The rebel Sudan Liberation Movement – Minni Minnawi (SLM-MM) denied reports by the Sudanese government about a split of two commanders who handed over their weapons to the government army. The official news agency SUNA reported last Wednesday 18 June reported that two rebel commanders and eight fighters from Minnawi’s group handed over two vehicles loaded with military equipment to the Sixth Infantry Division of the Sudan Armed Forces in El Fasher, capital of North Darfur state. The official spokesperson of the SLM-MM, Abdullah Mursal; denied this “false and fabricated news” and accused the Sudanese security service of being behind it.
Read More:http://www.sudantribune.com/Renewed tribal clashes cause chaos in Central Darfur(Radio Dabanga) Clashes between the Misseriya and Salamat tribes renewed on Thursday and Friday in Salayle and Mukjar areas in Central Darfur. The state’s governor has confirmed nine casualties. While a joint force and a committee of clerics are on their way to separate the fighting tribes, residents fear the situation could explode again at any moment. The fighting ignited when both tribes accused each other of stealing cows last Saturday. Central Darfur Governor, Jaafar Abdel Hakam Ishag, told Radio Dabanga that the fighting in Salayle, north of Um Dukhun town, on Thursday resulted in five casualties. Four were Salamat, the other was Misseriya. Four others were wounded and have been brought to Um Dukhun hospital for treatment.Read More:https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Mediators suspend Darfuri tribes’ reconciliation(Radio Dabanga) The mediation committee of the Ma’aliya and Rizeigat reconciliation conference announced the suspension of the conference, for an indefinite period, following the fruitless negotiations. The committee had reported to the governments of West Kordofan and East Darfur that the tribes failed to bridge the gap in viewpoints. The chairman of the committee, Ismail Yusuf, said in a press statement on Thursday that the committee “failed to bring the tribes’ views together despite making use of the of administrative and constitutional leadership of the two tribes”.
Read More:https://www.radiodabanga.org/
