Blind self-confidence is the reason for the lack of preparedness against disasters in Sudan
الثقةالعمياءبالنفسسببعدمالاستعدادضدالكوارثفىالسودان
Why things are only getting worse and the papers are filled with stories of gloom and doom in Sudan?
لماذاالأمورتزدادسوءاوالصحفمليئةبقصصالكآبةوالعذابفيالسودان؟
By Mahmoud A. Suleiman
The answer to the previous questions needs to know the reasons first, as the saying goes, “if the cause is known, the wonder will be removed”! Having said the foregoing let us leaf through the possible underlying causes. The few of them out of many are the following:
•The lack of credible infrastructure to suit all seasonal climates
•Lack of planning appropriately ahead of possibility of disasters happening
•Lack of putting into consideration the issues of Global Climate Change Declared by the United Nations
•Overconfidence, self-assurance and arroganceof the Sudanese people that reiterates boringly the syndrome of we are the best
•Lack of taking the lessons from the past event by the successive regimes
•Raising the Awareness of the Sudanese people about the dangers facing them will remain the duty of the Glorious December Revolution
Illusory superiority is a type of psychological defense mechanism. Moreover, the causes of excessive self-confidence in general do not go beyond being human nature subject to: psychological characteristics, and external influences, and psychologists describe it as a false projection of what we do on the environment. Bearing in mind that projection in itself a psychological defense mechanism
إنتوعيةأبناءالشعبالسودانيبالمخاطرالتييواجهونهاستظلواجبثورةديسمبرالمجيدة
By Mahmoud A. Suleiman
As most of the successive Sudanese governments, be it ruled by a military junta or by a civilian- led also tended to resort unfortunately to dependence on the principle that we are the best of the others  around us, and no one can harm us, and this type of false outmoded mentality is the reason for the abject failure that accompanied the plans and programmes of all the regimes that ruled Sudan since the dawn of the independence of Sudan from the Anglo-Egyptian Condominium colonialism at the dawn of January the First in the year 1956.
This article comes against the background of the recurring tragedies that continued to occur  to Sudan and to its people at the present time and in the past in the form of floods and torrents that caused the drowning, displacement and loss of lives of citizens, and all the tragedies coincide with diseases and epidemics especially at this time of the Corona virus pandemic; and still the worse in addition which is the discovery of a huge quantities of explosive materials, which were described as sufficient to destroy the entire capital, Khartoum, and even more damaging than the explosive materials that led to the disastrous Explosions of Beirut, the Capital of Lebanon recently, and we say about this, while sublimating and praying: “Thank Allah Almighty Whose Blessing have been sufficient for saving us from the complete annihilation and destruction of the citizens of Sudan in the Three Towns Capital Khartoum and its suburbs.
This article as well comes against the backdrop of the recurring and continuing crises besides floods comes the terrorism crimes that plannedandthe ongoing criminal attempts by the remnants of the ruling regime of the ousted National Congress Party (NCP) and its the ousted genocidal criminal Omer Hassan Ahmed Al-Bashir, to weaken the Sudanese currency against the US dollar, to impoverish the Sudanese treasury and starve the citizens; besides the possession of explosives by the members of the terrorist regime of the international Muslim Brotherhood Movement (MBM) the Khartoum branch and their criminal activity in an attempt to undermine the gains of the Glorious Sudanese 19th December2018 Popular Revolution. Among the aims of the article is raising the public awareness of the potential dangers that surround their revolutionary gains and the necessity for them to be vigilant to help the Transposal Government to pass through the time limit until the general elections.
Raising awareness among the public of the dangers emanating from the remnants of the criminal, outlawed, ousted NCP regime is a very difficult task, which makes the Sudanese people face risks from time to time, as happened recently with the huge amounts of ammunition and explosives that were found by the RSF. And thus, Sudan and its people will continue to be victims of premeditated vengeance. The dangerous event referred to has been carried out beyond a shred of doubt by the fugitive criminals wanted by the International Criminal Court (ICC) and they remained at large and were not extradited to The Hague to take the punishments they deserved in exchange for their brutal crimes in the Darfur region, the Nuba Mountains, southern Blue Nile, In Ingassana, and in all over Sudan during their arbitrary rule that lasted for three grim decades. It delayed Sudan from its potential progress and development towards the horizons of freedom, peace and justice; the eternal mottos of the popular glorious December 19, 2018 Revolution. An example of what this article means is the news that have been published on international media about what we are referring to in that Sudan has seized explosives that were ‘large enough’ to blow up Khartoum. The news media went on indicating that:” Sudan has arrested 41 people and seized a large amount of explosives big enough to blow up the capital Khartoum, authorities said on Wednesday”. Furthermore, the materials included ammonium nitrate, the same chemical that caused a deadly explosion in Lebanon on August 4.2020.
“Forty-one people were arrested in possession of explosives, enough to destroy (the capital) Khartoum,” said public prosecutor Tagelsir al-Hebr in a press conference, adding that his office had opened an investigation.
Intelligence gathered since August on “the movements of terrorist groups” led to the arrests, according to Jamal Jumaa, spokesman for the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces.
“We fear now that some Sudanese people will resort to carrying out sabotage and bombings,” he said.
Sudan is been led by a transitional government, which took power months after the April 2019 ouster of longtime president Omar al-Bashir.
The country has continued to suffer economically, which has been battered by decades of US sanctions and internal conflict under Bashir’s rule.
Since 1993, Khartoum has been on a Washington blacklist of state sponsors of terrorism, a designation that has kept away much-needed foreign investment and strangled Sudan’s economy.
Post-Bashir transitional authorities have been has pushing to end the country’s pariah status and boost its standing among the international community.
During the press conference, Jumaa the cousin of General Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo – aka- generally referred to as Hemetti, warned that the transfer of explosive materials to neighbouring countries could derail the process. Before even being removed from the US blacklist, “we fear that we will once again be classified as a state sponsor of terrorism,” he said.
https://www.africanews.com/2020/09/16/sudan-seizes-explosives-large-enough-to-blow-up-khartoum//
The vigilance of the components of the Sudanese people supports the capabilities of the transitional government, its dual leadership of civilians and military members.
Unfortunately, Sudan and its people has been languishing a disaster after another , among the worse of which has been the recent Record floods and torrential rainfall that inundated Sudanese capital Khartoum and all the other regions of the Sudan.
This dangerous incident of explosives must not pass as the other plots preceded it of the planned conspiracies that the remnants of the defunct ruling regime has been weaving against the gains of the glorious December 19th 2018 Sudanese revolution. And the question which is repeated, and at times seems naive, but in fact it is a question worth working hard to give the answer so that such dangerous conspiracies are not repeated. Some reports indicated that the Sudanese people feel angered by the unfounded race by some political entities despite the flood disaster, in that the military and civilians in Sudan are racing to form political alliances. The disaster of torrents and floods have swept large areas in Sudan though that has not prevented its political leaders from continuing to weave strings to map alliances here and there, hoping for immediate or long-term gains. Despite the flood disaster and the continuing torrential rainfalls, the military and civilians in Sudan politics are racing unabatedly to form more political alliances. The disaster of the torrents and floods sweeping large areas in Sudan has not prevented those supposedly political leaders from continuing to weave strings to map alliances here and there, hoping for immediate or long-term gains. It can be described as fishing in troubled waters. Political opportunism is a matter which is nothing but a greed for power and authoritarianism; it mimics what the previous ruling regime was doing in terms of greedy behavior and taking the rights of the others. The foregoing happens while the River Nile reportedly at highest level in 100 years. Many dead and homeless as Sudan declare state of emergency. More people are affected by the floods than any other disaster type year after year.
Rising floodwaters and heavy rainfall have killed around 100 people southern Khartoum’s Alshiqlab neighbourhood. The residents are struggling to cope with the damage caused by record floods that inundated over 100,000 houses since late July.  Residents of the neighbourhood are setting up barricades and installing sandbags to protect themselves from the water, which has reduced some homes to a pile of wreckage. Furthermore, Flooding caused by seasonal heavy rainfall, mostly in neighboring Ethiopia, led the Nile River to rise about 17.5 meters late in August, the highest level it has reached in about a century according to the Sudanese Irrigation Ministry.
Sudan has declared a 3-month state of emergency. Floods have killed dozens, affected ½ million people this year & damaged or destroyed >100,000 homes. UN says many people need urgent help. Rain in 2020 exceeds records of 1946 & 1988 & is set to continue.https://www.africanews.com/2020/09/10/record-floods-inundate-sudanese-capital/
Rising floodwaters and heavy rainfall have killed around 100 people. The United Nations (UN) humanitarian agency has warned that the situation is expected to get worse over the coming weeks, as above-average rains are forecast until the end of September.
Howard Joseph Ruff the financial adviser and writer of the pro-hard money investing newsletter The Ruff Times and the author of Famine and Survival in America, How to Prosper During the Coming Bad Years, Survive and Win in the Inflationary Eighties, Making Money, and other bookshas been quoted as saying: “It wasn’t Raining When NOAH Built the Ark”https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Howard_Ruff
PAUL BARKER THE ENGLISH WRITER AND JOURNALIST HAS BEEN QUOTED AS SAYING: ‘IF YOU WAIT UNTIL IT FLOODS, IT WILL BE TOO LATE”.https://www.quotetab.com/quote/by-paul-parker/if-you-wait-until-it-floods-itll-be-too-late
Michael Franti the  American rapper, musician, poet, activist, documentarian, singer-songwriter who is known for having participated in many musical projects, including the Beatings and the Disposable Heroes of Hiphoprisy, has been quoted as saying: “You can bomb the world to pieces, but you can’t bomb it into peace; Power to the peaceful.”https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/tag/bombing
Pope Francis the head of the Catholic Church and Sovereign of the Vatican City State and who is the first Jesuit pope, the first from the Americas, the first from the Southern Hemisphere, Argentine born and the first pope from outside Europe since the Syrian Gregory III, who reigned in the 8th century , have been quoted as saying: ”There is a need for financial reform along ethical lines that would produce in its turn an economic reform to benefit everyone. This would nevertheless require a courageous change of attitude on the part of political leaders”.https://www.brainyquote.com/topics/political-leaders-quotes
Dr. Mahmoud A. Suleiman is an author, columnist and a blogger. His blog ishttp://thussudan.wordpress.com/
