BRIEFING FROM THE SPLM/N :ON THE PEACE TALKS PROCESS BETWEEN THE SPLM/N & THE SUDAN GOVERNMENT FOR THE AFRICAN PEACE &SECURITY COUNCIL .10TH OF MARCH 2014What is the problem of Sudan
The problem of Sudan is the mismanagement of its diversity , since the independence of Sudan in 1956 the success regimes in Khartoum based the national project in a limited parameters that is Islam and Arabism excluding other components of the Sudanese realities , they monopolized the political and economic power in the centre, that let to the marginalization of a wider group of the society , this situation became worse when general Bashir took power in 1989 using political Islam and Jihad slogans against its own people which let to the cessation of South Sudan and spread of the war to other marginalized areas.
The tow areas
The two areas were part of the CPA , the government from the beginning during negotiations of the CPA was reluctant to include them as part of the agreement , in the phase of the implementation GOS posed many obstacles on the implementation of the popular consultations the security arrangements and for them to monopolize power in the north , they preferred the sesation of the south that the democratic transformation of the centre, after the seassion of the south they started intemidating the SPLM north threading to ban the orgnization and evanuallly they send a letter from the army HQs for the SPLA to disarm within (7) days from the 23rd. May to the 31st.May 2011 , when they started implementing the disarmament program it let to the eruption of the war in Nuba mountains on the 5th. June 2011.
The disarmament decision by the government in Khartoum was contrary to the matrix of the CPA which gave the two parties one year more to resolve their differences .
Assisted by the AUHIP under President Thabo Mbike and the late Ethiopian PM Ato Malize Zinawi the two parties reached the Addis Ababa frame work agreement on the 28th.June 2011, which was disowned by General Bashir who continued the war in Blue Nile and removed the elected governor of Blue Nile state who is as well the chairperson of the SPLM dispute the tireless efforts exerted by the late PM Malize Zinawi and the AUHIP ,The war resulted humanitarian crisis in the two areas refugees and IDPS despite various attempts to open access, For the last three years GOS denied humanitarian access to the two areas, and denying humanitarian access is a war crime in the international humanitarian law,in implementing the subsequent resolutions of the AU and the UNSC res. 2046 the SPLM north signed two memorandum of understanding with the tripartite group on the 18th. Feb. 2011 and 4th. Of Aug.2011 both of them were not implemented as a result of Khartoum decision to continue denying humanitarian access and using food as a weapon and continuing the areal bombardment against the civilian population which resulted in killing and inflicting injures among the civilian population including (15) civilians were killed during the last round of negotiations last week of Feb. a swell as there are more than (200000) became refugees in the Republic of S.Sudan and around (50.000) are refugees in Ethiopia plus more than (700.000 ) are internally displaced in the two areas.
What is the problem of the two areas
The problem of the two areas is the SUDAN problems in the two areas,it is imenating from the wrong polices of the centre and it can only be resolved by addressing its particularities within a national frame work, that is what exactly have been spelled out in the Addis Ababa agreement of the 28th. June 2011 , which Khartoum is adamantly trying to avoid despite the resolutions of the AU and the SC 2046 calling the two parties to base their negotiations on the frame agreement .
Khartoum government is for a pice meal solution that will isolate the problem of the periphery from the transformation of the centre , that impossible , and as we are talking now last week Khartoum militias burned down thirty five villages in Darfur raping women forcing around (40.000) to flee their villages , this is not my report but UNAMID report.
The way forward(1) we are asking your august council to reaffirm the previous resolutions of the PSC on the SPLM north and the two areas as well as theUNSC 2046 as well as the 28th. June frame work agreement ,(2) to mandate the AUHIP , Mohamed Ben Shambaz , the representative of the UN SG in Sudan , the representative of the chair of the IGAD the Ethiopian PM to work as an independent body to facilitate for all Sudanese forces and civil society including the ruling party to hold a national constitutional conference to address how Sudan is going to be governed with a clear roadmap and agreeable procedures in a conducive atmosphere and confidant building measures agreed by the stakeholders .
Ending wars in Sudan
Ending wars in Sudan is key to any political reforms and stability , SPLM is ready for an immediate humanitarian seastion of hostilities participating in the national constitutional conference as well as addressing the particularities of the two area including the security arrangements .
