EUROPEAN UNION NEWS DIGEST
CAR fighters, including Sudanese, cross border to Central Darfur(Radio Dabanga) A number of fighters fled from the Central African Republic (CAR) in 36 Land Cruisers loaded with all kinds of weapons, to Um Dukhun locality in Central Darfur on Monday, according to eyewitnesses. The fled fighters have settled in the area of Um Nunu, the eyewitnesses from the area told Radio Dabanga. They said that the authorities received the fighters and provided them with food, water, and tents.Mohamed Hassan El Amin, the former chairperson of the Security and Defence Committee of the Parliament had earlier reported that numbers of fighters fled CAR and entered Darfur, still carrying their weapons. El Amin confirmed in a press statement that there are Sudanese among the fighters. On 12 December, Dr Tijani Sese, the head of the Darfur Regional Authority (DRA) warned that “the war in the neighbouring country will affect the security situation in Darfur, as fighters from CAR easily cross the Sudanese border with their weapons and equipment”.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Sudan to evacuate nationals from Central Africa Republic
(Xinhua) Sudan on Saturday decided to evacuate its nationals from CentralAfricaRepublic which is witnessing violence following the overthrow of President Francois Bozize by the Seleka Front recently. “The move comes from keenness of the government to secure its nationals everywhere, and in implementation of directives by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Ali Karti,” said ambassador Abdul-Aziz Hassan Salih, Director of Consulates at the Sudanese Foreign Ministry. In the meantime, the ambassador said the evacuation of the Sudanese nationals from Juba, the capital city of South Sudan, had started on Saturday through Sudan Airways, noting that a special plane would be sent to evacuate the remaining Sudanese citizens who are still in Juba.
Read More: http://news.xinhuanet.com/
97 Chinese workers evacuated from South Sudan to Khartoum(Xinhua) A total of 97 Chinese oil workers on Wednesday arrived in the Sudanese capital Khartoum after being evacuated from South Sudan due to the widespread clashes there. The workers of the China National Petroleum Corporation were operating at the Fuluj oil field in South Sudan’s Upper Nile state, where the South Sudanese army have confirmed clashes are raging between them and some defectors. Two more batches of Chinese workers, 97 and 110 in headcount, are expected to arrive in Khartoum later. The first batch of the Chinese workers were received at Khartoum airport by Chinese Ambassador to Sudan Luo Xiaoguang and an official from CNPC. Luo commended the Sudanese government for its role in facilitating the evacuation of the Chinese workers to Khartoum.
Read More: http://news.xinhuanet.com/
Sudan’s former first vice-president misses NCP’s leadership meeting(Sudan Tribune) The former Sudanese First Vice President, Ali Osman Taha, has not attended a five-hour regular meeting of the ruling National Congress Party’s (NCP) leadership office on Saturday. The leadership meeting discussed papers raised by the party’s reform committee on transparency issues in the party and the government including combating administrative corruption, threats to national security, and ways for reconciling between freedoms and national security. The NCP’s deputy chairman for party affairs and official spokesperson, Ibrahim Gandour, justified in press statements on Saturday Taha’s absence from the important meeting saying that he is “busy”.Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
