EUROPEAN UNION NEWS DIGEST
Carter center to shut down its office in Khartoum
(Sudan Tribune) The CarterCenter has decided to close its office in Khartoum which carried out activities under the name “The Democratic Program” by the end of next March, the government disclosed today. The foreign ministry spokesperson, Abu Bakr al-Sideeg, expressed regret for the decision as he declared that they received an official notice from the center. He told reporters on Wednesday that despite the closure the center will not sever ties with Sudan adding that representatives from the center will continue to visit Khartoum to follow developments in the country.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
US cautiously optimistic about Sudanese president’s call for dialogue
(Sudan Tribune) The United States said the world will be “watching Sudan carefully” to see what emerges from president Omer Hassan al-Bashir’s call last month for comprehensive political dialogue that would bring together all political forces as well as rebel groups. “The world will be watching Sudan carefully to gauge the seriousness of this initiative, which if truly holistic, inclusive and comprehensive offers an opportunity to address the underlying causes of Sudan’s tragic history of war between its center and its periphery,” US special envoy to Sudans Donald Booth told lawmakers at the House of Representatives in a hearing held on Wednesday. But Booth warned that the Sudanese government should not think the US will be sold on any political process that does not lead to real reform.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
Khartoum accepts Mbeki’s draft framework agreement
(Sudan Tribune) Sudanese government has agreed to accept a draft framework agreement put forward by the African Union High-Level Implementation Panel (AUHIP), announced Khartoum’s chief negotiator after a meeting between president Omer Al-Bashir and chief mediator Thabo Mbeki on Wednesday. The president urged the mediator to “speed up the dialogue and not to waste time in secondary issues,” Ghandour said. He stressed that a comprehensive peace should be achieved through a comprehensive agreement not bilateral deals.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
‘Rapid Support Forces in Darfur to fight rebels’: General
(Radio Dabanga) The Commander of the Rapid Support Forces has stated that his troops’ movements and deployment in military operations are arranged in coordination with the General Command of the Sudanese army. They are in Darfur to fight the armed opposition movements. Maj. Gen. Abbas Abdel Aziz, the commander of the Rapid Support Forces, locally known as Janjaweed militias, told the pro-government Ashorooq TV channel on Tuesday that the movements of the troops are arranged in coordination with the General Command of the Sudanese Armed Forces (SAF). “They are not the concerns of the State Governors.”
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
