(Radio Dabanga) Fighting erupted in El Fasher city on Monday evening, residents reported, and resumed on Tuesday. A number of people have reportedly been killed. A resident reported that dozens of casualties have been transferred to the hospital. Radio Dabanga could not yet independently varify the number of dead.A medical source told Agence France-Presse that four dead were brought to the hospital. Three were ‘soldiers’, but it remains unclear up to this point from which force. The other victim was a woman.The fighting ceased in the night, but resumed on Tuesday at about 4am in Hai Jebel neighbourhood, in the eastern part of El Fasher. The Sudan Armed Forces (SAF) have surrounded the areas in Hai Jebel where Border Guards, many of them being former Janjaweed, are living. According to residents, the militias have been involved in several raids and armed robberies in the city.Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Fighting in Sudan Darfur city kills four: medic May 20, 2014 12:46 PM
(The Daily Star) Fighting erupted in a city in Sudan’s Darfur Tuesday, killing four people and ending an uneasy calm after the region’s worst unrest in a decade, residents and a medic said. “They are fighting inside El Fasher town — heavy fighting,” one resident told AFP by telephone, adding that he could not identify the combatants, although some were in uniform. Continuous gunfire was audible over the phone line as he spoke. A medical source said the bodies of four people were brought to hospital in the town. Three of the dead were “soldiers” but it was not clear from which force. The other victim was a woman, the source said. Residents claimed some were from the Rapid Support Forces, a counter-insurgency unit that the head of the UNAMID peacekeeping mission in Darfur said had “perpetrated attacks on communities”.Read More: http://www.dailystar.com.lb
Sudan’s ambassadors summoned by UK, NL over woman’s death sentence(Radio Dabanga) The Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom and the Netherlands have summoned the Sudanese ambassadors regarding Khartoum’s death sentence against a Sudanese woman, accused of ‘apostasy’ under Article 126 of the Sudanese Criminal Law. “Freedom of religion and belief is a universal human right,” the Dutch Minister of Foreign Affairs, Frans Timmermans, said on Monday evening. “Sudan has its own constitution, and signed a UN convention, in which this is enshrined.” In his meeting with the Sudanese ambassador, he will urge the Sudanese government to take up its responsibilities.Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Sudan’s security suspends Al-Saiha newspaper indefinitely
(Sudan Tribune) Sudan’s National Intelligence and Security Services (NISS) on Tuesday has suspended al-Saiha daily newspaper indefinitely following confiscation of its Tuesday issue from the printing press. The suspension decision was made under the direct orders of NISS’s director, Mohamed Atta Abbas al-Moula.The decision appears to comes against the background of publishing several stories on corruption cases within government institutions. The famous amongst which was the corruption accusation against the current undersecretary of the justice ministry, Esam al-Din abdel-Gadir. NISS has conveyed the suspension decision to the newspaper’s editor over the phone without stating reason. The Sudanese presidency on Monday delivered a firm warning to media outlets on its coverage of certain items that poses a danger to national security and the country as a whole.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
Egyptians in Sudan Elect Al-Sisi(Sudan Vision) 95% of Egyptians who voted in the Egyptian presidential election in the Sudanese capital, Khartoum, elected the presidential candidate Abdul Fattah Al-Sisi, while his rival Hamdeen Subahi got only 5% of the vote. Egyptian Ambassador to Khartoum, Osama Shaltout announced the results of the electoral process that took place in the premises of the embassy, from Thursday, May 15 to Monday, May 19. Shaltout said, in a press statement, that the total number of Egyptians voters in Sudan reached 1397, while the number of valid votes reached 1382 and 15 damaged ones. He stressed that Field Marshal Abdul Fattah Al-Sisi got 1322 votes, compared to 60 votes for his rival Hamdeen.
Read More: http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/
FVP Inspects Security Conditions in W. Kordofan(Sudan Vision) First Vice President, Lt. Gen. Bakri Hassan Saleh visited W. Kordofan state where he saw for himself security conditions on the ground and arrangements for the reconciliation conference between Rizeigat and Maalia scheduled for 30th of current month in the state capital , Al-Foula .T
Read More: http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/
Jailed child of condemned Sudanese mother a ‘could be US citizen’(Radio Dabanga) Daniel Wani, husband of the convicted Sudanese Maryam Yahya Ibrahim (27), is reportedly a naturalised US citizen who has sought help from the US State Department for himself, his 20-month-old son, his wife, and the unborn child whom she is carrying in prison. Wani himself says he gaind US citizenship some years ago. The State Department refused on Monday to answer questions about the citizenship of either father or baby. The news site reported that Wani said the US Embassy in Khartoum wanted him to provide DNA evidence to prove the imprisoned child, Martin Wani, was his son.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
