(Radio Dabanga) A coalition of 17 political parties led by the Sudanese Communist Party (SCP) will boycott the national dialogue called for by President Al Bashir. The spokesman for the coalition, SCP member Siddig Yusuf, told the press on Saturday that the 17 opposition parties adhere to theirterms for a national dialogue. “The Khartoum regime should provide a conducive climate, including the stoppage of the wars, abolition of the laws restricting freedoms, and the release of all political detainees. Besides, the regime should accept that the dialogue will lead to a fully transitional situation in the country.”
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Sudan Welcomes Saudi Arabia’s Decision to Lift Meat Imports Ban
(All Africa, Sudan Tribune) Sudan’s chamber of livestock exporters has welcomed the decision made by Saudi Arabia to lift the temporary ban on imports of frozen beef, lamb and goat meat from Sudan. The head of the chamber, Sideeg Haidoub, said in a press statement to the government-sponsored Sudan Media Center (SMC) website that the decision will have a positive impact on Sudan’s economy, noting it will increase foreign exchange revenues. The Saudi market ranked first in the exports of the Sudanese livestock which is estimated at 4 million heads of cattle.
Read More: http://allafrica.com/
Sudan’s PCP hails Bashir’s directives, SPLM-N says they have “no value”
(Sudan Tribune) Sudan’s opposition Popular Congress Party (PCP) has offered a rare praise for president Omer Hassan al-Bashir against the background of his directive on Sunday to release political detainees and allow for more political and press freedoms. Bashir announced a series of resolutions at the onset of a political roundtable held yesterday in Khartoum with the participation of 83 political parties. But the Secretary General of the rebel Sudanese People’s Liberation Movement/North (SPLM-N) Yasser Arman, in a press release on Monday downplayed the presidential resolutions and described them as “wordplay”, saying they have no value as long as extraordinary laws continue to exist. Arman proposed forming an independent body comprised of the representatives from the African Union and the United Nations in order to initiate a genuine dialogue.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
Examination of Sudan School Certificate Kicks off Across the Country
(Sudan Vision) Bells toll in all Sudanese States signaling the start of the Sudanese school certificate examination in 3216 centres, 15 of them abroad. Up to 443,442 male and female students will take the examination this time around amid tight security measures. The Ministry of Education established an emergency centre to resolve the problem of missing names and the difficulties encountering students of affected areas and displaced. She said the security committee headed by the Ministry of Interior tightened security measures to secure examination centres especially in Darfur States and Kordofan. In South Kordofan, 9268 male and female students are taking the exam in 81 centres adding that the examination papers were delivered on time and the situation is normal.
Read More: http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/
Sudan Leaks: ‘UN surrendered displaced to abductors’
(Radio Dabanga) An armed convoy of UN soldiers escorting a group of displaced people to a peace conference last year surrendered the group to armed abductors without resisting, according to internal UN documents from Darfur. The UN African Union Mission in Darfur (Unamid) initially failed to report to its headquarters details of the abduction as well as the fact that the peacekeepers did not resist the abduction, which was carried out by the Sudan Liberation Movement, led by Abdel Wahid El Nur (SLM-AW), on 24 March 2013. The cable further included further memoranda on the capacities of the UN peacekeepers, complaining of shortcomings in terms of “military contingents’ capacity, robustness, lack of commitment and training.”
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Egypt presidential hopeful threatens to use force over Ethiopian dam
(Sudan Tribune) A potential candidate for the Egyptian presidency announced today that he will order the use of military force against Ethiopia if the latter does not suspend the construction of the Grand Renaissance dam. In announcing his presidential bid at a press conference on Sunday, lawyer Mortada Mansour said that “water for Egypt is Egypt’s life”.The controversial figure, who was elected last week as head of Cairo’s Zamalek Club, accused Israel of standing behind the Ethiopian dam project and dismissed popular initiatives to resolve the dispute with Addis Ababa.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
