Sudanese Marginalized ForumWashington, DC USAFebruary 27, 2012
Dear Officers of the Sudanese Revolutionary Front:On behalf of the Sudanese Marginalized Forum of USA, we would like to extend our congratulations for the appointment of Malik Agar as President of Sudan Revolutionary Front (SRF).  We feel this is a well-deserved honor bestowed upon him.Ever since he assumed the position as one of the commanders within the Sudan People’s Liberation Army (SPLA), the Sudanese people have invested a lot of faith in Agar.Throughout the years, your steadfastness has contributed to the defeat of the Khartoum regime.  The Khartoum regime has been relentless in imposing their ideologies upon the marginalized people of Sudan.  Yet, the SPLA has adopted the same relent in fighting against the injustices of our people.  Agar’s appointment as Governor of Blue Nile state further solidified the competence you possess as a trusted leader and army.The Sudanese Marginalized Forum consists of leaders and people of Sudan and the USA.  These people represent the regions of Sudan, which are Nuba Mountains, Blue Nile, Abyei, Darfur, Eastern Sudan, Nubian Far North and South Sudanese Civil Society.  Also, the members represent many regions of the USA and Canada.  The Sudanese Marginalized Forum of USA’s mission is to inform US and International citizens of the struggles of indigenous Sudanese to advocate for support and solidarity for justice.  Unification and equality are necessary for the communities of Sudan to stand together to destroy the Khartoum regime.  Notably, the seven regions represented within the forum comprise the majority of Sudan.Dr. Molefi Asante, leader of Sudanese Marginalized Forum of USA, exclaimed “long live the spirit of Dr. John Garang!  Victory is our destiny!”  Please know that the team’s struggling is not in vain.  We believe in you and garner all the support necessary to liberate the marginalized people of Sudan.  Once again, we congratulate and thank you for your tireless efforts.
Sincerely,Sudan Marginalized Forum of USA
