(Radio Dabanga) The Justice and Equality Movement (JEM), and the two factions of the Sudan Liberation Movement, led by Abdel Wahid El Nur (SLM-AW) and Minni Minawi (SLM-MM) on 17 April addressed the UN Security Council (UNSC) with the request to urgently investigate accusations concerning the performance of Joint United Nations-African Union Mission in Darfur (Unamid).  The Darfur rebel leaders refer to “the serious allegations raised by Aicha Elbasri, Unamid spokeswoman from August 2012-April 2013, regarding false reporting of the Mission on developments in Darfur”. Early April this year, USA based Foreign Policy, and Radio Dabanga published details disclosed by Elbasri about instances of deliberate misreporting by Unamid on incidents and the situation in Darfur to the UN Secretary-General.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Darfur civil society initiative calls for resumption peace negotiations
(Radio Dabanga)   A group of Darfuri civil society members, united in the Initiative in Support of the Peace Process in Darfur, have handed a memorandum to the head of Unamid in which they call for the resumption of peace negotiations. The Initiative plans to hand a copy to the President of Sudan.  The memorandum, submitted to the head of the joint African Union-United Nations Mission in Darfur (Unamid), Mohamed Ibn Chambas, calls for the need to compel the Sudanese government to abide by the international rules of internal armed conflicts, and respect the rights of civilians on the ground in all parts of Darfur.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/Sudanese university students demand a campus free of violence(Open Democracy) The students at the University of Khartoum in Sudan have gone on strike to protest the killing of a fellow student; demanding justice and a campus free of violence. After a three-week shutdown the university re-opened its doors on March 31, but only to a limited number of faculties that are scattered from each other, to make it harder for students to congregate and organize. Those returning faculties excluded the Faculties of Arts – where Ali Abbaker was shot and killed – and the Faculty of Economics where he was studying. Since then,Khartoum University students have managed to stage a rare feat: a 10-day strike that included solidarity from a non-official coalition of 23 sympathetic professors and almost 100 percent of the attending student body. The students also put forward a set of specific demands to the University’s administration. As the strike is announced, students hold pictures of killed student Ali Abbaker demanding justice and a violence-free campus.Read More: http://www.opendemocracy.net/Sudan seeks probe into killings in S.Sudan(Daily Star) Sudan called on Thursday for an investigation into the “assassination” of its nationals in a South Sudan oil town, where the UN has accused rebels of killing hundreds of civilians.”The foreign ministry condemns assassination of the Sudanese nationals in Bentiu and calls for urgent investigation”, the official SUNA news agency said in an SMS alert.  The UN called for an investigation into one of the worst reported atrocities since fighting erupted in South Sudan last December.Read more: http://www.dailystar.com.lb/
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Sudanese university students demand a campus free of violence(Open Democracy) The students at the University of Khartoum in Sudan have gone on strike to protest the killing of a fellow student; demanding justice and a campus free of violence. After a three-week shutdown the university re-opened its doors on March 31, but only to a limited number of faculties that are scattered from each other, to make it harder for students to congregate and organize. Those returning faculties excluded the Faculties of Arts – where Ali Abbaker was shot and killed – and the Faculty of Economics where he was studying. Since then,Khartoum University students have managed to stage a rare feat: a 10-day strike that included solidarity from a non-official coalition of 23 sympathetic professors and almost 100 percent of the attending student body. The students also put forward a set of specific demands to the University’s administration. As the strike is announced, students hold pictures of killed student Ali Abbaker demanding justice and a violence-free campus.Read More: http://www.opendemocracy.net/Sudan seeks probe into killings in S.Sudan(Daily Star) Sudan called on Thursday for an investigation into the “assassination” of its nationals in a South Sudan oil town, where the UN has accused rebels of killing hundreds of civilians.”The foreign ministry condemns assassination of the Sudanese nationals in Bentiu and calls for urgent investigation”, the official SUNA news agency said in an SMS alert.  The UN called for an investigation into one of the worst reported atrocities since fighting erupted in South Sudan last December.Read more: http://www.dailystar.com.lb/
Sudanese university students demand a campus free of violence
(Open Democracy) The students at the University of Khartoum in Sudan have gone on strike to protest the killing of a fellow student; demanding justice and a campus free of violence. After a three-week shutdown the university re-opened its doors on March 31, but only to a limited number of faculties that are scattered from each other, to make it harder for students to congregate and organize. Those returning faculties excluded the Faculties of Arts – where Ali Abbaker was shot and killed – and the Faculty of Economics where he was studying. Since then,Khartoum University students have managed to stage a rare feat: a 10-day strike that included solidarity from a non-official coalition of 23 sympathetic professors and almost 100 percent of the attending student body. The students also put forward a set of specific demands to the University’s administration. As the strike is announced, students hold pictures of killed student Ali Abbaker demanding justice and a violence-free campus.
Read More: http://www.opendemocracy.net/
Sudan seeks probe into killings in S.Sudan(Daily Star) Sudan called on Thursday for an investigation into the “assassination” of its nationals in a South Sudan oil town, where the UN has accused rebels of killing hundreds of civilians.”The foreign ministry condemns assassination of the Sudanese nationals in Bentiu and calls for urgent investigation”, the official SUNA news agency said in an SMS alert.  The UN called for an investigation into one of the worst reported atrocities since fighting erupted in South Sudan last December.Read more: http://www.dailystar.com.lb/
Sudan seeks probe into killings in S.Sudan
(Daily Star) Sudan called on Thursday for an investigation into the “assassination” of its nationals in a South Sudan oil town, where the UN has accused rebels of killing hundreds of civilians.”The foreign ministry condemns assassination of the Sudanese nationals in Bentiu and calls for urgent investigation”, the official SUNA news agency said in an SMS alert.  The UN called for an investigation into one of the worst reported atrocities since fighting erupted in South Sudan last December.
Read more: http://www.dailystar.com.lb/
