Darfur rebels ‘seize armoured vehicle in battle’
(AFP) Sudanese rebels on Saturday said they captured one government armoured vehicle and destroyed others in a battle near the capital of North Darfur state, which has seen an upsurge in violence.  The Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) said insurgents on Friday afternoon attacked a large government convoy travelling north from Shangil Tobay, which is about 50 kilometres (30 miles) south of El Fasher, the state capital.  Sudan’s army spokesman could not be reached for comment.  Along with the armoured vehicle,rebels seized trucks and cars as well as equipment, weapons and ammunition, JEM said in a statement.  It said its forces worked with the Sudan Liberation Army’s Minni Minnawi faction in the attack which “captured a number of government troops” and inflicted heavy losses.  A Sudan analyst and humanitarian sources have said they expected fighting to increase in Darfur after the Addis agreements as more rebels returned to their home turf from the South.Further Reading:http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/
Sudan rebels ‘shoot down’ Khartoum bomber
(BBC) Rebels in Sudan say they have shot down a government military aircraft after it had bombed rebel targets.  The Sudan People’s Liberation Movement-North (SPLM-North) says the Antonov bomber crashed on Wednesday in the Jau area, South Kordofan state.  The Sudanese authorities have not commented on the rebel claim.  The government plane was shot down on Wednesday afternoon, Arnu Ngutulu Lodi, a spokesman for the SPLM-North, told the AFP news agency.  He said the rebels “shot at it until they saw the wing burning”, adding that the aircraft went down near Jau – on the disputed border between Sudan and South Sudan.  The rebel claim has not been independently verified because of restricted access to the area. Fighting is said to be vicious, with refugees describing frequent air raids by government forces. The Sudanese military denies claims it is targeting the Nuba ethnic community who are seen as rebel supporters. The SPLM-North has twice shelled the South Kordofan capital, Kadugli, this month.Further Reading:www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-africa-20258076
Al Mirghani calls for More Dialogue and Cooperation with the World
Al Sayed Mohamed Osman Al Mirghani received the European Ambassador Tomas Ulicny in his residence at Abu Galabyia.  Ambassador Tomas Ulicny briefed Al Mirghani about the progress in the Euro Sudanese relations at all areas.  Al Mirghani welcomed the visit and called for the importance of dialogue between Sudan at the regional and international context confirming the efforts of his party working for the unity of the people and territory of Sudan.  The European Union Ambassador welcomed the conducting of the party’s convention at the beginning of next year and the efforts and wisdom of Al Mirghani in achieving national reconciliation between the different political forces in Sudan.
Sudan inflation rises to 45 percent
(Reuters) Sudan’s annual inflation rate rose to 45.3 percent in October from 41.6 a month earlier, driven mostly by large increases in food prices since last year which now seem to have stabilized, official figures showed on Thursday.  Prices have soared in Sudan since South Sudan seceded last year, taking with it three-quarters of the country’s oil output. Petroleum was Sudan’s main source of foreign currency, which it needs to support the Sudanese pound and pay for food and other imports.  In a report issued this week, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) predicted Sudan’s inflation rate would average The price of food and non-alcoholic drinks in Sudan’s October index rose 48.6 year-on-year, but also edged down 0.1 percent month-on-month, the inflation bulletin said.Further Reading:http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/11/08/
Sudan Says IMF Recommendations on Subsidies not Binding
(Sudan Vision) The Sudanese government pushed back against recommendations made by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) on subsidies saying it is not binding to Khartoum.  In its annual report on Sudan released this week the IMF commended the government for rolling out the austerity package last summer which included partial removal of subsidies on sugar and petroleum products.  The Sudanese State Minister of Finance Abdul-Rahman Dirar downplayed the advice which raised concern among the general public on the possibility of seeing further increases in prices.  Dirar noted that Khartoum already slashed subsidies in June.  Sudan also stressed that it is committed to a “flexible exchange rate regime “but prefer a gradual and comprehensive approach to avoid escalating inflation”.Further Reading:http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/details.html?rsnpid=215928
Peacekeepers FindNorthDarfurVillage Deserted After Recent Attack
(Sudan Tribune) A verification team reported that a North Darfur village was totally abandoned by its inhabitants following a recent attack carried by a pro-government militia.  Properties left behind by the population of Sigili, North Darfur, who abandoned the village due to the attack by an armed force last Friday, 2 November. (UNAMID)  On 2 November militiamen attacked Sigili, a village inhabited by Zaghawa ethnic group located at 40 kilometres southeast of Al Fasher, North Darfur. According to the African Union, United Nations mission, UNAMID, 10 people were killed. But HRW said the death toll reached 13 people.  A UNAMID team reached the village on 6 November to verify reports about this attack. Previously on 3 November, Sudanese police prevented a UNAMID team from attaining Sigili.  “The team found Sigili village completely deserted, with apparent signs of an abrupt departure,” UNAMID said in a statement released on Thursday.Further Reading:http://allafrica.com/stories/201211100187.html
Darfur’s Yellow Fever Outbreak Affects 211 People
(Sudan Tribune, All Africa) The outbreak of Yellow fever in Sudan’s western region of Darfur has so far affected 221 people killing 78 of them, the country’s minister of health reported on Thursday as efforts continue to contain the disease’s deadly spread. The minister of health, Bahar Abu Garda, presented his report to the council of ministers, saying that Yellow fever cases appeared in Darfur since October and has so far spread to 221 people most of them are in CentralDarfurState. Abu Garda’s report also stated that the disease caused 87 cases of death, a fatality rate of 37 percent.  In response, the council of ministers called on the public not to move in or out of the affected areas because the virus that causes the disease is carried by mosquitoes. It has also been rumored that hospitals in Khartoum received suspected cases of Yellow Fever.Further Reading:www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?article44479
No agreement reached at Sudan-South Sudan joint committee meetings
(Xinhua) The recent meetings of the Sudan- South Sudan joint political and security committee have failed to reach any agreement on the issues of difference between the two countries, Sudanese media reported Thursday.  “The meetings of the political and security committee between Sudan and South Sudan, being held in Juba, capital of the south, have failed to reach agreement on issues under discussion,” Khartoum’s Al-Sudani daily reported.  Meanwhile, Khartoum’s Al-Ray Al Am daily quoted Sudanese Minister of Defense Abdul-Rahim Mohamed Hussein as saying that “the negotiations between the two sides have thoroughly discussed a number of issues, but faced difficulties regarding others.”Further Reading:http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/world/2012-11/08/c_131960510.htm
