(Radio Dabanga) The Delegation of the European Union and the Embassies of its Member States in Sudan, as well as the Embassy of Norway are seeking assurance that anyone found to have committed violations in Tabit be held to account. In a press statement issued on Wednesday, the EU Heads of Mission and the Ambassador of Norway in Khartoum express their apprehension over the continued instability and insecurity in Darfur. “In particular, we have been following with concern the reported allegations of sexual violence in the village of Tabit in North Darfur.” They also “take careful note of the announcement of the Minister of Justice of Sudan to investigate the reports and expect the publication of a full inquiry by Yasir Ahmed Mohamed,the Special Prosecutor for Crimes in Darfur. The statement says that the EU and Norway “recall that victims of sexual violence must be assured of the state’s protection, dignified treatment and access to justice. [This is]in line with the Doha Document for Peace in Darfur and international human rights and humanitarian law instruments to which Sudan is party.”Read More:https://www.radiodabanga.org/node/83522
USA joins call for full access to Tabit, North Darfur(Radio Dabanga) The USA has added its voice to the chorus of international reaction to allegations of a mass rape of women and girls in Tabit, North Darfur on 31 October, calling for unrestricted access to the area by Unamid and the UN. In a press statement on Wednesday, US State Department spokesperson Jen Psaki said that the USA is deeply concerned by allegations of mass rape by Sudanese military forces in Tabit, North Darfur. “While we take note that the Government of Sudan recently allowed access to Unamid to investigate these allegations, we regret the fact that initial access was denied, and after significant delays, access to potential witnesses and victims was only allowed under close observation of Sudanese security officials. Such behaviour calls into question Sudan’s compliance with the Security Council’s call to ‘remove all obstacles to Unamid’s full and proper discharge of its mandate including securing freedom of movement in conflict affected areas.’ The United States calls on the Sudanese authorities to end the culture of impunity by allowing Unamid and the National Human Rights Commission to conduct credible, thorough and timely investigations and to hold accountable all those found to be responsible,” Psaki concludes.
Read More:https://www.radiodabanga.org/node/83539
