Darfur Union in the UK: the Prosecution of our People through out Sudan by the GoS will never Deter The Masses from Pursuing Justice – The killing of Student Awad Allah Abbaker Adam; Invasion of IDP camp South Zalingei, Central Darfur
As mentioned before in previous Darfur Union Correspondence, the regime is working day and night to execute their plan “b” for dealing with the situation in Darfur. The execution of the plan is an on-going, and it has now surfaced after Al-Bashir government managed to gather the precursors of their ultimate final product. The following steps are not listed in a chronologically order.
1. Masterminding and orchestrating  a vicious war in the Province
2. Impoverishment and systematic marginalisation of the Province
3. Committing crimes such as genocide and ethnic cleansing, plus promotion of fear to act as a deterrent against people in the region
4. Create divisions between the fabrics that make the Darfur community.
5. Mass enforced displacement of the original/ native population
6. Geographical division of the Province (three to five, as of Jan 2016)
7. From 2014-2018 a new waves of attacks across the region, after the government reform the Janjaweed and the Border Control militias under one umbrella. This new unit is known as the Rapid Speed Force (RSF). It is a notorious group known for committing crimes such as mass rape and killing against the civilians. This group has somewhat replaced the army and police and it operates above any existing laws and rules.
8. Dismantlement of the IDP camps across Darfur is one of the main objectives of the regime. As the existence of IDP camps acts as an evidence for all the atrocities committed by Bashir and his pro government militias.
9. Introducing demographic changes in the Province, where the pro government personals, brought to fight the war, will be rewarded with lands which were cleared by enforced displacement of the native residents.
Darfur Union in the United Kingdom calls upon the international community to put pressure on the government of Sudan to stop targeting the civilian population of Darfur.  To stop dismantling IDP camps there without an proper plan that ought to protect the rights of the people. We also appeal to Amnesty international and Human Right Watch to raise the case of the kidnapped persons and to document their cases, as this tend to guarantee them being alive in custody.
The peace process and negotiations needs an independent mediator. We ask major players (US, UK and EU) to be part of theprocessgiven Britain’shistoric ties with Sudanand due tothe current mediatorsseeming biastowards protecting dictatorships in the region.
We ask the international community to continue its support of the international criminal court and also should push countriesnot to receive President Bashir for visits. The UK should also urge the ICC to amend arrest warrantsin light of recent atrocities and consider advocating for expansion of the mandate to include atrocitiescommitted in SouthKordofan, Blue Nile, and other parts of Sudan.
https://www.icc-cpi.int/darfur/albashir
A copy of this report plus the mentioned accounts will be sent to the following:
1) Office of International Criminal Court’s chief prosecutor Fatou Bensouda,
2) The Sudans department, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office
3) United Nation, UNAMID Central Press Office, Sudan
4) Office of Secretary General, United Nation
5) Office of Secretary General, African Union
6) US State Department, the Sudans’ Division.
7) Amnesty International
8) Human Rights Watch
