Darfur Remains at Crossroads as Bashir Takes it a protective cover from theICC
By Mahmoud A. Suleiman
This article comes against the backdrop of the statement attributed to theSudan’s ruling regime as saying that it is the “Timefor UNAMID to leave Darfur”http://www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?article65601
It is known thatIn May, the Security Council(SC)will be briefed on the 60-day report of the Secretary-General on the AU/UN Hybrid Operation in Darfur (UNAMID). The mandate of UNAMID expires on 30 June.It isaknownfactthat every June of the year, a report is submitted to the United Nations Security Council(UNSC)on UNAMID’s performance in the Darfur region, the security situation and the safety of the Sudanese citizens in their areas, especially internally displaced persons(IDPs),andthen the necessity of the continued presence of theUNAMID isendorsedor otherwise a contrary decision would be arrived at. Now is the time to evaluate it.
The security situation in Darfur has improved, but the causes of the conflict and their related consequences are still largely unaddressed. Human rights violations and abuses, such as sexual and gender-based violence and violations against children, continue to be perpetrated with impunity.
http://www.securitycouncilreport.org/monthly-forecast/2018-05/sudan_darfur_37.php
Thus, contrary to theLies and fabrications of therulingNational Congress Party (NCP)regime in Sudan, it is notthetimeforthe hybrid operation in DarfurtoleaveIn the critical circumstances in which citizens suffer the scourge of crimes and the escalationof violence againstthem caused by theGovernment of Sudan(GoS) allied former Janjaweed militias currently renamed the Rapid Support Forces (RSF).
The regime’s claims of a low level of violence in Darfur are a false lie.Omer al-Bashir’s militias continuecommittingcrimesagainst theinternally displaced persons’ camps andas well as attackingthe villages of thevoluntarilyreturned  (IDPs), specifically in Jebel Marraareaand inthe Khamsa Dagayig – translated tofive-minutes –camps in Zalingei,where11people werekilled and 11 injuredalong witha new massacre on Idan village for voluntary repatriation in South Darfur. It is noteworthy that more than 7 attacks have taken place in the villages of voluntary return in the state during the past two months, which negatively affected the desire of the displaced to leave the camps of displacement.The Janjaweed Tribal Militias are wreaking havoc on large swaths of Darfur. Earlier, reports indicated that the AradeibacampinGarsilawas the target for the Government forces and the allied militias of the so-called Rapid Support Force (RSF), as well astherepeated attempts by the government of Sudan toremove and evacuate the Kalma camp for the Internally Displaced persons (IDPs) in Nyala using force.Thus, one will say that in the circumstances, nothing tangible has been achieved in terms of security and safety of civilians in Darfur to justify to prompt the exit of the hybrid peacekeeping mission in Darfur (UNAMID). Moreover, any attempts for the withdrawal of the UNAMID Mission based on the false reports by the genocidal (NCP) regime about stability of security in the Darfur regionwill besurrounded by hazards and disasters for civilians, particularly those in displacement camps.Of the ironies which the obstinate (NCP) regimetended to opt for to camouflage the crimes it perpetrate is the news item saying that the governmentof Sudanis backtracking on its plan to forcibly evict camps for displaced people in Darfur after repeated attacks by its militias on displaced returnees.“If We Return, We Will BeKilled “hasbeen thesloganthat consistently raised throughout the years of the Darfur crisisby theinternally displaced persons(IDPs) inside Darfur regionandtherefugees in Chadwhoareallegedlycalled voluntary returneesbecause the militiasallied tothe(NCP)regime will have the means to eliminate them.https://www.hrw.org/legacy/backgrounder/africa/darfur1104/6.htm
UNAMID’s Presence in Darfur isindispensable, despite its weakness, reduction in its number and equipment, and the continued threat of its withdrawal from the region because it is the only refuge used by Sudanese citizens in Darfurwhen threat ofthe  tribalmilitias strike.
As noted previously, the presence of UNAMID, despite its weakness and especially after the reduction of its components, will continue to be a near-safe haven for civilians in all five Darfur states when their safety is threatened by government forces and their militias.
As one commentator said about the  National Congress Party  (NCP) regime’s  asking and saying to the UN that it is time for UNAMID to leave Darfur:” This is a stunning statement to hear, the ruling party who wanted the UN AMID to leave Sudan so that, they would continue killing innocents civilians in the region. UN has already failed to protect the (IDPs) who were looking for safety and protection in the camp for years, since independence in 1956; the Sudan’s government has been campaigning against their own citizens”!
The claims of the NCP regime that three factors of disarmament campaign, national dialogue and the voluntary return of IDPs and refugeeshave contributed to achieving the current level of security areblatant lies and fabrications  that denying The grim reality on the ground in Darfur.
The UNAMID exit strategyfrom Darfur by thetripartite working grouphas shown abject failure and brought plethora of disasters to the people of Sudan In Darfur, in particular the (IDPs) and other civilian populations of the region.Evidence for this is clear to those who do not have a hidden agenda behind the curtain, as does the ruling regime led by the Génocidaire, war criminal and the fugitive from the global justice Marshal Omar Hassan Ahmed al-Bashir, who is struggling day and night to get rid of internally displaced camps (IDPs) and UNAMID, as they symbolize clearly to the world and the International Criminal Court (ICC) as the main cause of the tragedies of the people of Sudan in the Darfur region during the past    fifteenlean years of the crisis.
As for the renewed call for the so-called “exit” for the UNAMIDthere is nothing new. That “Exit” had taken place in fact since June2017whentheAfrican Union (AU)and theUnited Nations (UN)decided to draw down the UNAMID by withdrawing theMilitaryPersonnel by 44% and that of thePolice component by 30%, theClosure of 11Team sites in the first phase and the withdrawal of theMilitary component from another 7Team sites in the second phase.The question that increasingly imposes itself is what remains of UNAMID in the Darfur region, so that it can be the focus of the repeated andboringtalk?The United Nations Security Council seems absent from what is currently happening in the Darfur region or is perhaps trying to turn a blind eye to it for the purpose of the rapprochement between the ruling regime of the National Congress Party and the United States of America since Donald Trump’s administration came to power, while heinous crimes against the civilian populationsare continuing in the Wars ravagedDarfur region.It is strange that the Security Council of the United Nations(UNSC), asserting that security has settled in the entire Darfur region, except for some pockets in thetop of theJebel MarraMassif, where the Sudan Liberation Movement(SLM/A) forces led byAbdul Wahid Mohammed Ahmed Nur, who refuses to declare a unilateral truce or enter intoPeacenegotiations!
At this juncture, it seems appropriate to remind the (UNSC) of the statement related to Ambassador Matthew Rycroft, UK Permanent Representative to the United Nations, on Darfur which reads:”Darfur will remain unstable and unpredictable so long as the root causes of conflict remain unaddressed.”https://www.gov.uk/government/speeches/darfur-will-remain-unstable-and-unpredictable-so-long-as-the-root-causes-of-conflict-remain-unaddressedMr. Ambassador Matthew Rycroft continued saying Darfur is at a crossroads. Down one path lies continuation of 14 years of conflict, 14 years of bloodshed, impunity. He added saying:” Darfur is at a crossroads. Down one path lies continuation of 14 years of conflict, 14 years of bloodshed, impunity. It’s a path that has forced 2.6 million people from their homes. It’s a path littered with persistent violations of international humanitarian law, human rights violations and abuses, and persistent sexual and gender based violence. And it’s a path, simply, that Darfur has been on for too long.”https://www.gov.uk/government/speeches/darfur-will-remain-unstable-and-unpredictable-so-long-as-the-root-causes-of-conflict-remain-unaddressedIt is an all-agreed opinion that the Darfur issue is a political one and has to be resolved assuch. Furthermore,forUnited Nations and African Union Mission for Darfur (UNAMID) to fulfil its mandated duty to protect civilians, the mission requires unfettered access throughout Darfur, not just for a few days, or even for a few weeks, but on a sustained basis.The Change of the International Mission to DarfurUNAMID from Peacekeeping to peacebuilding has so far shown no tangible peace on the ground especially for the safety of the civilian Sudanese citizens in Darfur. The main reason is the restriction of the movements of the Mission by the Government of Sudan (GoS)fromaccessing the  vulnerable populations of the internally displaced Persons (IDPs) and those voluntarily returning to their original homes most of which have been occupied by those mercenaries  brought by the (NCP) regime from the neighbouring countries to fight the proxy warfare.Martin Luther King Jr. was an American Baptist minister and activist who became the most visible spokesperson and leader in the civil rights movement from 1954 until his death in 1968 has been quoted as saying: “Peace & Inspirational Quotes. Peace is a daily, a weekly, a monthly process, gradually changing opinions, slowly eroding old barriers, quietly building new structures. “Peace cannot be kept by force; it can only be achieved by understanding.” “Darkness cannot drive out darkness; only light can do that”.~ Martin Luther King, Jr.https://www.google.co.uk/search?q=quotes+about+peace+building&oq=quotes+about+peace+building&aqs=chrome..69i57j0.14633j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8“If we are to have peace on earth, our loyalties musttranscend  ourrace, our tribe, our class and our  nations; and this means we must develop a world perspective”.~ Martin Luther King, Jr.https://www.google.co.uk/imgres?imgurl=https://peacealliance.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/mlk_world-perspective_vs2_sm.png&imgrefurl=https://peacealliance.org/t“Darkness cannot drive out darkness; only light can do that. Hate cannot drive out hate; only love can do that.” ~ Martin Luther King, Jr.https://peacealliance.org/tools-education/peace-inspirational-quotes/At the end of this article we can say that the sustainable peace desired for the people of Sudan in the Darfur region is difficultto achieveif it is not impossible in light of the presence of the genocidalcriminal, thefugitivefrom theinternational justice Omer Hassan Ahmed al-Bashironthehelmof Sudan forhisfear ofthegripping hand of theInternational Criminal Court(ICC)in the eventthepeaceis achieved for the territory that was thecauseforhispursuitbythe Court located at TheHague in the Netherlands aimingto arrest him since 2009.Derek LandytheIrish writer and screenwriterhasbeen quoted as saying: “You’re under arrest for multiple counts of murder. You have the right to not much at all, really. Do you have anything to say in your defense?” https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/165168.Derek_LandyDr. Mahmoud A. Suleiman is an author, columnist and a blogger. His blog ishttp://thussudan.wordpress.com/
At this juncture, it seems appropriate to remind the (UNSC) of the statement related to Ambassador Matthew Rycroft, UK Permanent Representative to the United Nations, on Darfur which reads:”Darfur will remain unstable and unpredictable so long as the root causes of conflict remain unaddressed.”
https://www.gov.uk/government/speeches/darfur-will-remain-unstable-and-unpredictable-so-long-as-the-root-causes-of-conflict-remain-unaddressed
Mr. Ambassador Matthew Rycroft continued saying Darfur is at a crossroads. Down one path lies continuation of 14 years of conflict, 14 years of bloodshed, impunity. He added saying:” Darfur is at a crossroads. Down one path lies continuation of 14 years of conflict, 14 years of bloodshed, impunity. It’s a path that has forced 2.6 million people from their homes. It’s a path littered with persistent violations of international humanitarian law, human rights violations and abuses, and persistent sexual and gender based violence. And it’s a path, simply, that Darfur has been on for too long.”
https://www.gov.uk/government/speeches/darfur-will-remain-unstable-and-unpredictable-so-long-as-the-root-causes-of-conflict-remain-unaddressed
It is an all-agreed opinion that the Darfur issue is a political one and has to be resolved assuch. Furthermore,forUnited Nations and African Union Mission for Darfur (UNAMID) to fulfil its mandated duty to protect civilians, the mission requires unfettered access throughout Darfur, not just for a few days, or even for a few weeks, but on a sustained basis.The Change of the International Mission to DarfurUNAMID from Peacekeeping to peacebuilding has so far shown no tangible peace on the ground especially for the safety of the civilian Sudanese citizens in Darfur. The main reason is the restriction of the movements of the Mission by the Government of Sudan (GoS)fromaccessing the  vulnerable populations of the internally displaced Persons (IDPs) and those voluntarily returning to their original homes most of which have been occupied by those mercenaries  brought by the (NCP) regime from the neighbouring countries to fight the proxy warfare.
Martin Luther King Jr. was an American Baptist minister and activist who became the most visible spokesperson and leader in the civil rights movement from 1954 until his death in 1968 has been quoted as saying: “Peace & Inspirational Quotes. Peace is a daily, a weekly, a monthly process, gradually changing opinions, slowly eroding old barriers, quietly building new structures. “Peace cannot be kept by force; it can only be achieved by understanding.” “Darkness cannot drive out darkness; only light can do that”.~ Martin Luther King, Jr.
https://www.google.co.uk/search?q=quotes+about+peace+building&oq=quotes+about+peace+building&aqs=chrome..69i57j0.14633j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8
“If we are to have peace on earth, our loyalties musttranscend  ourrace, our tribe, our class and our  nations; and this means we must develop a world perspective”.~ Martin Luther King, Jr.
https://www.google.co.uk/imgres?imgurl=https://peacealliance.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/mlk_world-perspective_vs2_sm.png&imgrefurl=https://peacealliance.org/t
“Darkness cannot drive out darkness; only light can do that. Hate cannot drive out hate; only love can do that.” ~ Martin Luther King, Jr.https://peacealliance.org/tools-education/peace-inspirational-quotes/
At the end of this article we can say that the sustainable peace desired for the people of Sudan in the Darfur region is difficultto achieveif it is not impossible in light of the presence of the genocidalcriminal, thefugitivefrom theinternational justice Omer Hassan Ahmed al-Bashironthehelmof Sudan forhisfear ofthegripping hand of theInternational Criminal Court(ICC)in the eventthepeaceis achieved for the territory that was thecauseforhispursuitbythe Court located at TheHague in the Netherlands aimingto arrest him since 2009.
Derek LandytheIrish writer and screenwriterhasbeen quoted as saying: “You’re under arrest for multiple counts of murder. You have the right to not much at all, really. Do you have anything to say in your defense?” https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/165168.Derek_Landy
Dr. Mahmoud A. Suleiman is an author, columnist and a blogger. His blog ishttp://thussudan.wordpress.com/
