(Radio Dabnaga) At a session of the National Assembly, Darfur MPs have threatened to collectively submit their resignations if the procrastination in the construction of the Western Salvation Road continues, Radio Dabanga has learned on Wednesday November 28.  The MPs described the road as a ‘myth’ and renamed it to ‘media and myth’ road.A number of deputies stated they doubted there are any benefits to having six ministers in the Federal Government, 96 seats in the National Assembly and a Vice-President, all from Darfur, with the Western Salvation Road project at a standstill for more than 20 years. They criticized the delay in establishing the road due to finance issues and problems with companies and subcontractors.  The minister revealed that an advance of approximately 29 billion Sudanese Pounds (SDG) has been paid to construction company Shirian al-Shimal. Also, he disclosed that the company has received another payment of 14 billion SDG, even though the project has not started yet.Further Reading:http://www.radiodabanga.org/node/39020
Sudan protesters rally over flashpoint Abyei region
(AFP) About 100 protesters rallied in Khartoum on Wednesday proclaiming the flashpoint Abyei region Sudanese territory, ahead of a deadline for Sudan and South Sudan to settle the area’s status. “Abyei 100 percent north Sudanese,” said one banner carried by the group.The African Union set a deadline of December 5 for the two countries to resolve Abyei’s final status or be bound by an AU proposal for a referendum in October next year.  That proposal was mediated by an AU panel led by former South African president Thabo Mbeki. It gives Dinka the right to vote along with Sudanese with “permanent abode” in the Abyei area.”Mbeki is an American agent,” they called.  Sudanese riot police made no attempt to disrupt the protest, in contrast with their response to anti-government demonstrations which are normally met with tear gas.Further Reading:http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article
Khartoum rejects South Sudan’s criticism over Abyei meeting
(Sudan Tribune) A Sudanese official said his government is conducting consultations on its nominees for Abyei interim institutions, refuting South Sudanese criticism over the delay in the formation of these regional bodies.  Sudan’s top negotiator for Addis talks with the South Sudanese government Idris Mohamed Abdel Gadir issued a statement on Tuesday saying that consultations are still underway to complete the government’s list of candidates for all the functions of Abyei institutions.  He further regretted a statement released by the co-chair of Abyei steering committee, Luka Biong, saying Juba was the cause of the delay during all the past period because of their refusal to accept that a Misseriya be appointed at the head of legislative council.
Further Reading:http://www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?iframe&page=imprimable&id
Iran’s navy fleet to dock at Sudan’s coast: commander
(Xinhua) The Iranian Navy’s 23rd fleet will dock at Sudan’s coast in the coming days, Press TV reported Wednesday, quoting a senior Navy official.  The Navy’s deputy commander for operations, Rear Admiral Seyyed Mahmoud Mousavi, said that the fleet is composed of the Jamaran destroyer and the logistical vessel of Bushehr, according to the report.  Such a visit will send the message of peace and friendship to the friendly countries, Mousavi said.  “The mission is also in line with the announcement of the preparedness of our country’s navy for performance of mission in the international waters as well as the establishment of security in the region and connecting routes,” he noted.Further Reading:http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/world/2012-11/28/c_132005043.htm
Al Bashir Briefed on West Darfur Situation
(Sudan Vision) President Omer Al Bashir was briefed, Wednesday, on the political, security and economic situations in West Darfur and the authorities’ efforts to control the spread of yellow fever.  This came when President Al Bashir met Governor Haider Galukoma of West Darfur at his RepublicanPalace office, who claimed West Darfur’s situation is stable.  The president, during the meeting, gave directives for the implementation of the Gineina Sports City Project.  Governor Galukoma said in press statements after the meeting that the President promised to sponsor the development projects.
Further Reading:http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/details.html?rsnpid=216616
