Darfur Union in the UK among other civil society organisations plea to the UK government, US and EU and other major players in the international community to continue their efforts to end the suffering of our people by addressing the following:
The process of restructuring UNAMID to be a fully oriented force towards protecting Darfur’s displaced, and also to be more committed to documenting and addressing the aerial bombardment against civilian targets (ref. 3).
Darfur Union in the United Kingdom calls upon the international community to put pressure on the government of Sudan to stop targeting the civilian population of Darfur. Also to allow the humanitarian organisations to have full access to treat the wounded, and provide aid to the displaced people.
The peace process and negotiations needs an independent mediator. We ask major players (US, UK and EU) to be part of the process given Britain’s historic ties with Sudanand due to the current mediators seeming bias towards protecting dictatorships in the region.
We ask the international community to continue its support of the international criminal court and also should push countries not to receive President Bashir for visits (ref. 4). The UK should also urge the ICC to amend arrest warrants in light of recent atrocities and consider advocating for expansion of the mandate to include atrocities committed in South Kordofan, Blue Nile, and other parts of Sudan.
Darfur Union in the UK and sister civil society organisations and Friends of Sudan are organizing a demonstration and mobilizing the masses across the England to descend to London on Saturday 30th June 2018 (ref. 5)  to register a urge Her Majesty’s Government (HMG) to take actions against the ongoing violence by the government of Sudan and its allies against the civilians of the country. Your presence will be important to give voices to the voiceless.
Osama Mahmoud – Deputy Press Officer, Darfur Union in the United Kingdom
Website: darfurunionuk.wordpress.com
Email:[email protected]
Twitter handle: @darfurunionuk
