By Osama Mahmoud,
The price of protesting against oppressive regimes, and genocidal regime in the case of Sudan is very high. Sudanese has been experiencing this very statement throughout the last 29 years. War crimes in the south that lead to the succession of an integral part of the country. Genocide, war crimes and crimes against the humanity followed in Darfur (ref. 1), and then the evil plan was reenacted Blue Nile State and Nuba Mountains. Shoot to kill orders are been executed in many towns and cities in the country, and one has to look at what happened on Christmas Day, 2018, where tens were killed by police and NISS live rounds of ammunition. Bashir fled to Wad Madani to show that he is still exercising freedom of rallying in fronts of masses, only to be greeted by chants calling for his removal from power and for him and his cronies to face justice, justice that he is currently denying millions in the country. On the eve of Boxing Day, Bashir regime National TV has shown a group of Sudanese students in detention, looked as they have been beaten up by the government secret service. A false statement was given to one of them, Mekki, who was later identified as the chairman, and he was forced to read the statement claiming that him and his colleagues are part of a “group that are sent to cause havoc and cause trouble across Sudan”. Again this is not new, it is part of ongoing fabrications against the the Sudanese students who dare to speak up, particularly those from Darfur and other marginalised areas. This aim of the government is to utilize this story to cause a break on the fabric of the demonstrators; divide and rule and to link anything that’s to do with burning places to certain sect of the society. This card has been used and kudus to the demonstrators of 25/12/2018 for identifying the aim and for standing with the detained Students from Sinnar University. A list below combining the names of students detained by the NISS:-1. Ahmed Mekki Abdel allah Ibrahim. – School of Economics – level 32. Mohammed Abdelrahman Saleh – School of Economics – level 43. Alfaiq Ibrahim – IT – level 24. Abdelaziz Omer Ahmed – Civil Engineering – Level 35. Issa Adam Issa – Agr. Engineering – Level 46. Musab Mohamadin – Civil Engineering – Level 27. Abdelrahman Handoka – Com. Engineering – level 78. Abdel Aziz Saif Eldin – Science – Level 39. Abdel Aziz Hamid Zakaria – Electric Engineering- Level 210. Nasr Eldin Suliman – Agr. Engineering – Level 311. Yasin Bahir Nour – Islamic Science – Level 312. Elsadig Adam – History – Level 213. Abdel Karim Adam Mahmoud – Literature – Level 214. Najim Eldin Jubaraa – Com. Science – Level 115. Zahir Mutwali – Literature – Level 116. Mohammed Ahmed – Literature – Level 217. Mustafa Abbaker Jido – Com. Science – Level 218. Omer Abbaker – Islamic Science- Level 419. Mohammed Omer – Literature – Level 120. Abubaker Adam Musa – Literature – Level 221. Alfadil Abdel Allah – Mechanical Engineering- Level 322. Hassan Abdel Jabbar – Literature- Level 123. Mudathir Abdel Karim Mohammed – Com. Science – Level 124. Najim Eldin Abdel Allah Hammad – Mechanical Engineering- Level 125. Idris (did not manage to get the surname) – Lit. Geography- Level 126. Mustafa Abdelrhaman- Islamic Literature – Level 427. Ayob Omer Issa – he is from The University of Khartoum – School of Vet. – Level 3 – he was detained among in the same cell with the student transferred from Sinnar to the Capital.28. Hassan Abdel Allah – University of Khartoum graduate (2018) – School of Agr. – he is too was detained among in the same cell with the student transferred from Sinnar to the Capital.The list was originally circulated by Tagheer Now group and since then more persons were detained from all sectors of society.Darfur Union in the UK calls human rights groups in and outside the country and lawyers too to keep follow the cases of all detainees and to true to secure their release. Also for the demonstrators to keep documenting the names of individuals detained, injured as well as all the casualties of the regime.Furthermore it is important to reiterate the call for all Sudanese diaspora, keep backing the popular uprising in the country by organising demonstrations in the country. Furthermore, utilizing social media to support the reports received from the country because the government of sudan is in control of the internet service providers and they may refer to blocking the internet completely as they have been doing in the past. In addition world media and citizens of the worlds are key to keep the momentum of the revolt. RE:- A strong message to the opposition parties in Sudan, it is time to side unreservedly with the people of Sudan against the oppressors. It is time to use your bases and leadership to come together and stand with the people, as history will remember those who chose to stay on the fence.
#Sudanprotests#مدن_السودان_تنتفضOsama Mahmoud, Head of Comms, Darfur Union in the UK
Website:http://darfurunionuk.wordpress.com
Email address:[email protected]Ref. 1:- The Prosecutor vs. Omar Hassan Ahmad Al Bashir – ICC-02/05-01/09https://www.icc-cpi.int/darfur/albashir
