DARFUR Union in the UK: A Respond to A Satement Made by FFC Madni Abbas Madani About What has Happened in El-Fashir
Representatives of Forces of Freedom and Change (FFC) visited El-Fashir, North DARFUR, on Sunday, 1st Sep. 2019, and they were about to conduct a rally to speak to the crowd about the ongoing in the country. The envoy lead by Mohammed Nagi Alasa, a leading figure in Sudan Professional Association (SPA) and Khalid Omar, aka Khalid Silik, Secretary General of Sudan Congress Party. The crowd received them with chants such as “where is the peace we were promised – ref. 1”. The conference failed to start as the masses were not interested. The envoy was evacuated from the premise, the Martyrs Square.
Two hours later, Madani Abbas of FCC appeared on Al-Harath TV channel and stated that what happened in El-Fashir was “carried out by those who belong to the counter revolution and the act does not reflect the mannerism of the people of DARFUR”
To reduce the demands of the people, which are peace and justice, to mannerism is an echo of the rhetoric of the last 30 years. The just case of the people of Sudan in the marginalized area had always being true peace accompanyed by justice, both of which have been reduced to footnotes by the leading components of FFC in efforts to take part in the next transitional government of the appointed prime minister Hamadouk (ref. 2).
The leading components of FFC have successfully executed the polarisation we are seeing today because of the following:-
1. FFC stated clearly that the transitional government will consist of not political figures, technocrats. At the beginning they were aggressive towards anybody or groups that demanded the right to be represented in the upcoming government. Technocrats and no quotas were the widely used terms by the leaders of FFC. Yet, after the exclusion of the Sudan Revolutionary Front, SRF, the FFC components went back on their promise and appointed their affiliates in the Sovereign Council and they are also putting the appointed prime minister under pressure to pass their agenda by choosing from their list – which is full of politically affiliated members of FFC components. The delay in forming the government is due partly due to the failure of keeping the promise that was given to the people of Sudan.
2. The shamble that Bashir trial has become, which DARFUR Union (DU) wrote about last week (ref. 2 and 3).
3. Peace and justice which were reduced to footnotes; also DU wrote about (ref. 2).
The polarisation will continue and it will deepen unless the root cause of the issue of Sudan is addressed. Peace can not be achieved by empty speeches or by visiting El-Fashir to score political points. Direct dialogue with the parties involved, recognising what has happened to the areas, and then make it the upmost priority to resolve the issue; only that will bring stability in the country and will create a political climate which is good enough for the country to move forward, otherwise Sudan bad political reproduction system will give birth to another elitist state that would not last for long.
A sincere apology to the people of Sudan in El-Fashir, aka Abu Zaharia, is only way forward Mr. Madani Abbas!
Osama Mahmoud
Head of Comms.
Press Office – Darfur Union in the UK
Website: https://darfurunionuk.wordpress.com
Email:[email protected]
Twitter handle: @darfurunionuk
Ref. 1:-
مدني عباس مدني_قوي الثورة المضادة هي وراء طرد وفد قوي الحرية  و التغير من ندوة بالفاشر
Posted by ‎سودان حر ديمقراطي‎ onSunday, September 1, 2019
Ref. 2:-
https://darfurunionuk.wordpress.com/2019/08/24/darfur-union-in-the-uk-bashir-picture-behind-court-bars-is-symbolic-however-that-is-not-enough-for-the-victims-of-the-genocide-as-the-perpetrators-and-the-powers-hungry-groups-often-prioritise-bein/
Ref. 3:-
https://www.icc-cpi.int/darfur/albashir/pages/alleged-crimes.aspx
