Darfur Union in the UK: The Bloodshed in DARFUR – Shangili Tobai- is Always Accompanied by a Deafening Silence… Is it because FFC Is not Aiming to Spoil the Party Ahead?
This is a reminiscence of Bashir Regime; Killing in Darfur (location Shangili Tobai-North Darfur-Nifasha IDP camps) at the hands of Janjaweed (Abdelrahman Saleh Tahir; Ahmed Adam Omer; Ali Alnour were killed in a violent act by the pro government militia – janjaweed) and the best those new “freedom seekers” can come up with is “it is a tribal thing”. At least be creative with your genocide denial rhetoric!!!
We are yet to hear from the Force of Freedom and Change (FFC)/ Sudan Professional Association (SPA) on this crime committed by the very people they are about to sign a deal with this Friday. The silence or delayed response from FCC is most likely driven by the fear of derailing the “sharing of power deal” by this crime. The leadership of the aforementioned bodies should be at the front of the rally in North Darfur at the moment as they did it so many times in other parts of Sudan! Such act sends bad signals to the marginalized people. The issue of the people of Sudan in Darfur and the marginalized areas is the core of the Sudan problem and should not be treated as a footnote, Peace and Justice come first then everything else will follow organically. FFC leadership should be there. An important note: the people of Sudan provided the current “change”, FFC leadership should cater for “all” otherwise the destabilization of the country shall continue. For this reason and other, the deal of power sharing between FFC and the old and this new military junta can not be done on the back of the Sudan just in DARFUR and the marginalized areas. The ongoing practice of the elites is not going unnoticed and shall be corrected so that we will not end up again in a post revolution eras such as October 1964 and April 1985 were the “civilian/ demographically elected governments” treating the burning regions of Sudan as an afterthought, and even worse, they help to wage wars against these areas, e.g. the then South Sudan; then after failing miserably to govern the diversity of the country, and decided to not prioritize the issues of peace and historical injustice- they handed the fate of the country in both cases to military Junta that ruled and continued to rule Sudan to date.
It is high time for the FFC (& SPA) to recognize their duties and to elevate themselves to deal with their responsibilities towards the neglected marginalized areas and this starts with giving the same attention to the crimes happening in DARFUR, Nuba Mountains, Blue Nile and the other marginalized areas, and apply pressure on the military junta by holding them accountable for committing atrocities.
Keeping silent and ducking low would not go unnoticed after all, during the longest ongoing genocide in the world (ref. 1), what killed our people was two things:-
a) The arsenal of the Bashir regime and there military and militias.
b) The silence of “the others”
After all one can help it but to bring the famous slogan “bullet does not kill what kills is the silence of the people”.
Osama Mahmoud
Head of Comms.
Press Office – Darfur Union in the UK
Website: https://darfurunionuk.wordpress.com
Email:[email protected]
Twitter handle: @darfurunionuk
Ref. 1:
https://www.icc-cpi.int/darfur/albashir/pages/alleged-crimes.aspx
