Darfur Union in the UK…Neirtiti Sit-in Demands Security on the Ground, Peace and Justice against Perpetrators.. Transitional Government of Sudan Must Meet the Demands of the People
It is day six of the Civil sit-in by the people of Sudan in Central DARFUR state, in Neirtiti. The demands are clear. The sacking of the security committee that is dealing with implementation of that one the ground, governor and his local government. This is due to their lack of commitment regarding protection of population there where militias are terrorising the civilians, militiamen that known to the government of the state. Only today the people as sit-in refused to meet with the local government as promises were not fulfilled before and the perpetrators are known yet the government failed to bring them in for questioning. Furthermore, general prosecutor of Sudan has often resorted to forming committees to investigate crimes, yet non of these have yielded in solution or prosecution of perpetrators throughout DARFUR.
In parallel the people at the sit-in call for the transitional government of Sudan to speed up of the negotiations that would lead to a lasting peace on the ground. Justice for the victims of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. Justice that starts by handing in the International Criminal Court indictees to the court to be tried in Le Hague (Bashir and co. – ref. 1) and the start of a REPARATION process that will ensure reinstate the force displaced persons in IDP and refugee camps to their land as part of the implementation of peace process.
Darfur Union the UK stands with the rights of the people of Sudan in Neirtiti to carry out the peaceful protest and to conduct the sit-in and demand the local and national transitional government to meet their demands, and demands the following from the transitional government of Sudan.
This should go side by side with the efforts to complete the peace negotiations in Juba.
At the moment, the transitional government of Sudan are delaying justice for the victims of genocide (ref. 2) and other crimes in Sudan. The capture/ surrender of Ali Kushayb should encourage the government to save face; this or be ready to be written in history as obstructer of justice. Bashir and the other wanted persons Will face justice sooner or later.
Osama Mahmoud
Head of Comms.
Darfur Union in the UK
Website: https://darfurunionuk.wordpress.com
Email:[email protected]
Twitter handle: @darfurunionuk
Ref. 1
https://www.icc-cpi.int/Pages/item.aspx?name=200609-otp-statement-ali-kushayb
Ref. 2
https://www.icc-cpi.int/darfur/albashir/pages/alleged-crimes.aspx
