Darfur Union in the UK: 25th Anniversary of the Srebrenica Massacre, A Day for the Whole World to Remember the victims and to Reflect on “The Never Again” Slogan; 10 Years Since Bashir Indictment by ICC for Genocide in Darfur
A very sad day for humanity where 8000 Muslim boys and men were killed in a mass execution by the Bosnian-Serb military forces (ref. 1).They were killed because of their ethnic background and religion. The scale of death, destruction and torture of all forms escalated to genocide.Below are reminders of some of the perpetrators and masterminds behind the heinous crimes.* Slobodan Milošević was a Yugoslav and Serbian politician who served as the President of Serbia from 1989 to 1991 and within the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia from 1991-1997, and President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia from 1997 to 2000. He was indicted by the tribunal in Le Hague … counts of war crimes. He died in custody of the court before the trial was concluded (ref. 2)* Radovan Karadžić is a Bosnian Serb former politician who served as the President of Republika Srpska during the Bosnian War, and was later convicted of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavi. In March 2016, he was found guilty of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity and was sentenced for 40 years imprisonment by the court (ref. 3).* Ratko Mladić is a Bosnian Serb former military commander and convicted war criminal who led the Army of Republika Srpska during the Yugoslav Wars. In 2017 he was found guilty of committing war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. He was found guilty of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity (ref. 4).
Sudan:- DARFUR – the longest ongoing genocide in recent history.Half a million killed and 3.5 millions refugees and millions of internally displaced persons. Genocide, war crime and crimes against the humanity were committed by the government of Omar Bashir.Below are some of the perpetrators and masterminds behind the heinous crimes.* Omar Bashir – former / ousted president of Sudan. He was indicted by the International Criminal Court for 2 counts of genocide, 5 counts of war crimes and 3 counts of crimes against the humanity (ref. 5). He is still at LARGE and resides in Kober “correction facility” because of his age and due to the lack of collaboration of the transitional government of Sudan with the ICC.* Abdel Raheem Muhammad Hussein (former defence & interior minister). Charges: 7 counts of crimes against humanity and 6 counts of war crimes (ref. 6). He is still at LARGE and resides in Kober prison due to the lack of collaboration of the Transitional government of Sudan with the ICC.* Ahmad Muhammad Harun (former government official, governor of states and executive coordinator on the ground. Chargers: 20 counts of crimes against humanity and 22 counts of war crimes. He is still at LARGE and resides in Kober prison due to the lack of collaboration of the Transitional government of Sudan with the ICC.* Ali Muhammad Ali Abd-Al-Rahman (Kushyib), commander and head of pro government militia and coordinator on the ground between militias and army. He surrendered himself to the authority in Central Africa Republic (CAR), then to the international troops, then he was transferred to Le Hague where he is at the custody of the ICC. The initial appearance of Kushyib before the ICC took place on 15th June 2020. The opening of the confirmation of charges hearing is scheduled provisionally for 7th December 2020.
Darfur Union the UK demands the following from the transitional government of Sudan.1. To officially invite the ICC DARFUR investigation team to the country and GRANTING them full access, security and freedom of movement, to conduct further investigations regarding the genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity.2. In parallel, immediate handover of Bashir and other wanted persons to ICC for them to face justice at Le Hague
Osama MahmoudHead of Comms.Darfur Union in the UKWebsite: https://darfurunionuk.wordpress.comEmail:[email protected]Twitter handle: @darfurunionuk
Ref. 1:-https://www.voanews.com/europe/25th-anniversary-srebrenica-massacre-observed
Ref. 2:-https://trialinternational.org/latest-post/slobodan-milosevic/
Ref. 3:-https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-47642327
Ref. 4:-https://www.ft.com/content/e3ee8218-4fc1-11e9-b401-8d9ef1626294
Ref. 5:-https://www.icc-cpi.int/darfur/albashir
Ref. 6:-https://www.icc-cpi.int/darfur/hussein
Ref. 7:-https://www.icc-cpi.int/darfur/harun
