EUROPEAN UNION NEWS DIGEST
Demonstrations against price hikes in seven Central Darfur camps
(Radio Dabanaga) Demonstrations took place on Tuesday against the price hikes and high cost of living in a number of camps for the displaced in Central Darfur.  The demonstrators demanded the downfall of the regime and chanted slogans like “The people want to overthrow the regime”, “The people are hungry, you dancer”, “Leave, leave, you murderer”, and “Revolt, revolt untilwe overcome””.  The Spokesman for the National Congress Party of Central Darfur state, Mohamed Abakir Hassan Hamadein, admitted that demonstrations were taking place in “some camps for the displaced in Central Darfur”. They were staged by those he called “supporters of the Sudan Revolutionary Front”.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Sudanese President Headed to Ethiopia for AU Summit On ICC
(All Africa, Sudan Tribune)  The Sudanese president Omer Hassan al-Bashir will travel this week to Ethiopia and Saudi Arabia for the first time since the outbreak of some the worst protests that engulfed the country in years.  Al-Youm al-Tali newspaper said that Bashir will participate in the African Union (AU) in Addis Ababa which will start on Friday.  The two-day summit extraordinary summit pushed for by Kenya and Uganda will seek to convince other African nations to withdraw from the International Criminal Court (ICC), according to African officials.  Nairobi has lobbied African nations over the last year to have cases against president Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto dropped.
Read More: http://allafrica.com/
Thousands demonstrate in Central Darfur over kidnapping of a merchant
(Sudan Tribune) Police forces dispersed thousands of protesters using tear gas in the camps of the Hemeidia and Khamsa Dagayeg in the Central Darfur state capital of Zalingi on Tuesday following the abduction of a well-known merchant by unknown armed group.  Multiple eyewitnesses said that an armed group of seven members boarding a Land Cruiser kidnapped Mohammad Rajab from his home in the market district at six o’clock on Monday evening.  Rajab tried to fight back the assailants but was beaten leading to unspecified injuries which led to traces of blood discovered at the site of the incident later by law enforcement officers.  Sources say that the victim is one of the most prominent businessmen in the city and was also subjected to 3 kidnapping attempts in the past.  Different officials in Darfur including the head of the regional authority, Tijani El-Sissi, also said that tribal violence is among the biggest threat to ongoing efforts to implement a peace document signed in Doha more than two years ago.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
NCP figure warns against ignoring youths in political dialogue
(Sudan Tribune) A leading figure in Sudan’s ruling National Congress Party (NCP) said that while violent protests that broke out this month may have subsided on the face of it, it has “deepened the layers of negative feelings and fear of the future”.  Former presidential adviser Ghazi Salah al-Deen al-Attabani said on his Facebook page that “the society needs to heal and Sudanese need a major reconciliation among themselves”.  Al-Attabani was one of more than 30 NCP figures who signed an open petition this month sent to president Omer Hassan al-Bashir urging him to reinstate fuel subsidies which triggered the recent demonstrations and end killings of protestors.  Al-Attabani and other signatories have refused to appear before the panel, leading many to speculate that they will end up being fired from the NCP.  In his Facebook post, al-Attabani said that the recent protests revealed a new political map which must be taken into account by the government.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
Sudan minister says most protest detainees freed
(Global Post) Sudan said on Tuesday it has freed most of the hundreds of people detained after protests sparked by fuel price hikes in late September, when dozens were killed.  “Starting from yesterday anyone who has not actually committed any sort of crime or destruction or killing has been released,” with more expected to be freed on Wednesday, Information Minister Ahmed Bilal Osman told AFP.  Bashir on Sunday ordered several female detainees to be freed including Dalia El Roubi, an activist and an employee of the World Bank in Khartoum.  The African Centre for Justice and Peace Studies, a human rights watchdog, said Saturday more than 800 people had been arrested throughout the country by police and the NISS.  Thirty-five people initially appeared on charges of vandalism and causing a disturbance but a judge acquitted 19 for lack of evidence.
Read More: http://www.globalpost.com/
More stranded South Sudanese from Sudan leave for Juba
(GBC- Ghana) More South Sudanese who had been stranded in the South Sudanese border town of Renk since 2011 are being transported by barge to the capital, Juba, according to the International Organization for Migration (IOM).  IOM has been organizing barges to transport the South Sudanese from the border town in the UpperNileState to their final destinations.  IOM said that since the beginning of the year, IOM has helped nearly 6,000 returnees with transportation to reach their final destinations in South Sudan.Read More: http://www.gbcghana.com/
Council of National Unity Government Parties protests over US stand against Sudan participation at UN meetings
(SUNA) The Council of National Unity Government Parties aims to submit a memo of protest to the UN Secretary General against UN-headquarters state, the United States which intentionally delayed giving entry visa of President of the Republic to attend UN General Assembly meetings, a matter which deprived Sudan from practicing their genuine rights.  The Secretary General of the Council of National Unity Government Parties, Aboud Jabir, has expressed the council’s regret that UN has turned a blind eye to deprivation of Sudanese people from using their rights and preventing their President from attending the UN meetings, as a right guaranteed to all the presidents of the member states, pointing that US stance is contrary to UN charter.
Read More: http://www.suna.com/
Sudan, Russia to Boost Cooperation in Oil, Gas Sectors
(Sudan Vision) Sudan and Russia have agreed to push forward cooperation in petroleum and gas sectors through introduction of modern technology in the industry, at their recent meeting in Moscow, the two oil ministers in both countries stressed on that cooperation. The Sudanese petroleum minister Dr. Ahmed Awad Al-Jaz underlined the importance of increase of investment in the oil sector to meet the growing demand for energy. Al-Jaz welcomed Russian trend to invest in Sudan, highlighting availability of oil infrastructures and inviting his Russian counterpart to visit the country.Read More: http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/
