(Sudan Tribune) – The European Union (EU) mission in Sudan along with the Norwegian embassy issued a joint statement on Wednesday expressing concern over the government crackdown on political figures, activists and journalists. “The EU Heads of Mission and the Ambassador of Norway in Khartoum are deeply concerned about the ongoing detention and condition of opposition party members, youth activists,human rights defenders and journalists in Sudan. We strongly urge the Government of Sudan to guarantee the peaceful exercise of the freedoms of expression, association and assembly,” the statement reads.
Read more:http://www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?article51631
Sudan denies any Qatari role in national dialogue process
(Sudan Tribune) – The Sudanese foreign minister Ali Karti on Wednesday denied that president Omer Hassan al-Bashir’s visit to Doha was linked to any Qatari role in the ongoing national dialogue process. Karti however noted that the Qatari Emir Sheikh Tamim Bin Hamad al-Thani is one of the key Arab leaders supporting it. Sudan’s top diplomat said the two leaders discussed a comprehensive review of their bilateral relations, especially in economic and investment fields and joint projects carried out in Sudan in the fields of agriculture, real estate, mining, electricity and tourism.
Read more:http://www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?article51632
Rebels claim attack on military convoys in North Darfur
(Radio Dabanga) – Joint rebel forces reportedly destroyed two military convoys in North Darfur on Wednesday. The Sudan Liberation Movement for Justice (SLMJ), in cooperation with the Sudan Liberation Movement, led by Minni Minawi (SLM-MM), today attacked two military convoys in Jebel Hireiz, located between Shangil Tobaya and Abu Zireiga.SLMJ spokesman Mohamed Ahmed Yagoub reported to Radio Dabanga that 17 government troops were killed, and seven military vehicles were destroyed.
Read more:https://www.radiodabanga.org/node/76438
Muted Independence Day for S/Sudan
(Star Africa) – Many South Sudanese have expressed disappointment over the state of affairs of the world’s newest country which is marking two years of independence. July 9th marks three years since South Sudan attained independence from the rest of Sudan after decades of separatist conflict. However, six months into a civil war, which began with reports of a failed coup, tens of thousands had died, nearly a fifth of the population forced to flee and millions driven into destitution and hunger. In an interview with APA on Wednesday, South Sudanese refugees in Sudan have expressed mixed feelings about the Independence Day event.
Read more:http://en.starafrica.com/news/muted-independence-day-for-ssudan.html
Two paramilitary elements killed in clashes with police in North Darfur
(Sudan Tribune) – Two members of the paramilitary Popular Defence Forces (PDF) were killed during clashes with an army/police patrol in El-Fasher, capital of North Darfur state on Wednesday. Eyewitnesses told Sudan Tribune that the fighting between the patrol and PDF elements occurred in the vicinity of the Saudi Hospital. The recruits of the paramilitary force violated an order that banned wearing of a turban-veil locally known as “al-Kadmol” that covers the head and the face and makes difficult the identification of a person.
Read more:http://www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?article51630
Opposition forces don’t have a viable alternative for Bashir’s regime: PCP
(Sudan Tribune) – Sudan’s Popular Congress Party (PCP) led by Hassan al-Turabi has accusing opposition forces who seek to overthrow the regime of not having a viable alternative for it. The PCP political secretary, Kamal Omer Abdel-Salam, denied that the national dialogue was a product of a deal concluded “under the table”. He further directed harsh criticism to the opposition forces which call for toppling the regime, challenging them to present their alternative if they have one.
Read more:http://www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?article51629
