Sudan opposition calls for strikes, protests
(Reuters) Sudan’s main opposition parties on Wednesday called for strikes, sit-insand demonstrations to topple the government of President Omar Hassan al-Bashir,throwing their weight behind anti-austerity protests.  Opposition parties,struggling with an image as fractious and ineffective, had so far only voicedlimited support for the demonstrations, which have rarely mustered more than a fewhundred people at a time.  The main opposition groups on Wednesday signed a pactcalling for “collective, peaceful political struggle in all its forms… tooverthrow the regime” including “strikes, peaceful demonstrations, sit-ins and civildisobedience”.  Supporters outside the National Unionist Party’s Office in theKhartoum suburb of Omdurman, chanted “revolution, revolution until victory”, beforethe deal was signed.  Farouk Abu Issa, head of the National Consensus Forces, anumbrella group of opposition parties, said the deal – which vowed to carry out a“democratic alternative program” after the current government fell – would fuel moredemonstrations.“We want to rally our people, organize our people so that theystand fast with us in achieving our goal in toppling this regime,” he told Reutersafter the deal was signed.  It was not clear when the opposition leaders planned tobring their members to the streets in force, but activists have called for moredemonstrations on Friday.  Information Ministry official Rabie Abdelati said theopposition parties did not have the popular momentum to turn their vows into action.“They have no support from the people,” he said. “We are not bothering about whatthey are saying.”
Sudan cuts 5 Cabinet posts in austerity program
(7 News) Sudan’s state news agency says five government ministries will be merged aspart of austerity measures that earlier sparked protests.  The latest move wasapproved Wednesday by President Omar al-Bashir. It reduces the number of Cabinetposts from 31 to 26.  Demonstrations erupted when subsidy cuts increased the cost ofpublic transportation and doubled the price of fuel and food. Demonstrators havecalled for an end to al-Bashir’s 23-year reign.  Al-Bashir has explained the needfor belt-tightening steps by noting that since the secession of South Sudan, oilrevenues have dwindled. He also pointed to the cost of the ongoing conflict withSouth Sudan.  Al-Bashir has been charged by the International Criminal Court withwar crimes over a long conflict in Darfur.
SPLM-N leadership holds talks in Paris over Sudan’s humanitarian crisis
(Sudan Tribune) People’s Liberation Movement – North (SPLM-N) leadershipdiscussed with new French government officials on Wednesday the political situationin Sudan and humanitarian crisis in South Kordofan and Blue Nile.  Agar and Armanare in Paris for the first time since the election of Socialist President FrançoisHollande last May to brief the French officials about the deteriorating humanitariansituation in the southern Sudan states where the rebels fight against Khartoumgovernment.  The two rebel leaders discussed urged France which is a permanentmember at the UN Security Council to put more pressures on Khartoum government incoordination with the other members of the international community, reliable sourcestold Sudan Tribune.  The delegation; in meetings with senior French officials at theforeign ministry and the presidency, explained that Sudan despite its announcedacceptance of a tripartite initiative to reach the rebel held areas continue to denyaid groups from working in the rebel held areas.  The SPLM-N leaders, who also metwith the ruling Socialist Party, are expected to meet the Sudanese community inFrance and to hold a press conference before to leave Paris.
Sudanese journalists protest against censorship
(Al Arabyia) More than 100 Sudanese journalists on Wednesday protested againstcensorship and other media restrictions, activists said, amid a government crackdownon unprecedented anti-regime demonstrations. “It was a very big crowd compared toother events we organized before,” veteran journalist Faisal Mohammed Salih toldAFP. He said about 100 of his colleagues gathered in front of Sudan’s Human RightsCommission but others, blocked by state security agents, clustered nearby in threeor four groups. Security agents told the journalists not to hoist banners, Salihadded.  The journalists submitted a written memo to the rights commission,“complaining about censorship and continued harassment of journalists,” he said.Salih said there were “small clashes” with security forces and two journalistswere briefly detained.  On Saturday, the spokesperson for European Union foreignpolicy chief Catherine Ashton expressed concern at “growing levels of censorshipand restrictions on the media and the political opposition in Sudan, including thedetention of a number of journalists and political activists.”
UN: Sudanese Refugees in Critical Condition in South Sudan
http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/sudanese-refugees-in-critical-condition-in-south-sudan-un-says.html
(Bloomberg) People fleeing war in Sudan are facing “critical” levels of diseaseand malnourishment and the United Nations is short of funds to help them, UN HighCommissioner for Refugees Antonio Guterres said today.   The UN said 217,000 peoplehave fled fighting between the government and rebels in Sudan’s Blue Nile andSouthern Kordofan states. Ethiopia is hosting 36,000, while the rest are in SouthSudan where heavy rains have flooded camps and blocked movement.   “We arecontending with a situation in which many newly arriving refugees are alreadydangerously malnourished, the threat from water-borne disease is high, large refugeepopulations are in locations that are clearly dangerous, and flooded roads blockaccess and the possibility of relocating people elsewhere,” Guterres said in ane-mailed statement.   The UN refugee agency, UNHCR, said it has received $45.9million of the $219 million it needs this year to respond to the crisis. The agencysaid it is particularly worried about an outbreak of disease in Yida camp in SouthSudan’s Unity state, which houses 59,000 people and is receiving as many as 1,000new arrivals a day.
U.S. Ambassador to South Sudan Visits Abyei
(Sudan Tribune) The United States’ Ambassador to South Sudan, Susan Page, visitedAbyei, a key fertile oil-producing area that is claimed by both Sudan and SouthSudan on Tuesday.  The status of the area is one of the main issues still to beresolved after South Sudan seceded from Sudan last year. Page is visiting the areato acquaint herself with both security and humanitarian in the area.  Communityleaders and the returning displaced persons took the opportunity of Page’s visit tourge the international community to provide immediate assistance to help rebuildtheir lives.  Traditional leaders in the area expressed disappointment about whatthey claimed was the failure of the United Nations and the African Union to exercisepressure on Khartoum to implement UNSC Resolution No 2046 and Resolution 1990, whichdemanding complete withdrawal of all Sudanese and South Sudanese forces from thearea.  Luka Biong Deng, a Chief Representative of South Sudan’s president Salva KiirMayardit in the Abyei Joint Oversight Committee, commended Page’s visit and hoped itwould allow her to get first hand information on the situation.
Sudan’s Delegation On Security Issues Departs to Addis Ababa
(All Africa, Sudan Tribune) Sudanese delegation to Addis Ababa talks on the securityarrangements will travel Wednesday to Addis Ababa before to resume talks on thebuffer zone on Thursday.  Sudanese sources said the delegations have two days to endthe discussions on the demilitarized zone which were hampered by the divergencesover a number of disputed areas on the common border.  The mediation proposed a mapto define this buffer zone but Sudan vetoed it stressing it includes an area called‘Mile 14’ and called on the African Union panel to work with the map according towhich the South Sudan got its independence.  The leadership council of the NationalCongress Party headed by President Omar Al-Bashir will discuss on Wednesdayafternoon a number of propositions and understandings the delegation can put on thenegotiating table.  The African Union rejected also a proposal by South Sudan tohand the border demarcation issue to the international arbitration reminding the twoparties to observe the resolution 2046.
