Monday 03 March 2014
Akhbar Al Yoom
Thabo Mbeki says so much time wasted in the talks.
AU Mediation will discuss the progress of the talks at the AU Peace and Security Council.
Arman says SPLMN has a just case and there are others who listen to SPLMN demands.
Akhir Lahza
Political Forces warn against the collapse of peace talks with SPLMN.
Human Rights Commission calls on the Ministry of Justice to investigate the violent incidents in Nyala.
Al Gareeda
General Audit report reveals serious Financial and administrative breaches in the monetary system.
Al Miserya tribesmen call on the government to protect them.
Al Intibaha
Ibrahim Ghandour, President Assistant says will not internationalize the Sudanese dialogue.
Deputy Chiefs of Justice are sworn in.
Sudanese army says Minni Minnawi rebels attacked villages in North Darfur.
Ministry of Justice says Yasser Arman and Malek Agaar face death penalty.
Juba denies its involvement in the attacks on Misserya in Abyei.
Al Khartoum
Peace talks in Addis Ababa collapses.
Umma Party warns from bilateral and partial agreements in Addis Ababa.
Al Mashad Aan
Thabo Mbeki criticizes the government and SPLMN positions to the AU Security Council.
Al Mighar
AU Mediation announces officially the suspension of peace talks for a non definite time.
Juba calls on a join defence agreement to protect the oil fields in the region.
NCP women call on 50% participation and the posts of Ministers of Defence and Foreign Affairs.
Al Ray Aam
Thabo Mbeki criticizes the proposals of SPLMN as the cause for not reaching an agreement.
Minni Minnawi Rebels attack two cities in North Darfur.
Yasser Arman, Leader in SPLMN says the non reaching of an agreement is normal.
President Bashir launches today new centres for police forces.
Al Sahafa
Phone calls reveal the involvement of the UN in the toppling of Salva Kiir.
Ali Karti travels to Cairo today.
NCP agrees to increase the women share in the elections to 40%.
Sudan and Hungary sign a protocol to organize the customs.
Al Wifag
Peace Talks in Addis Ababa are suspended.
Ministry of Oil discuss the compensations to the employees of West Kordofan oil fields.
Al Yoom Al Taly
AU mediation: The bridging of the gaps between Khartoum and SPLMN is impossible.
50 girl students dismissed from public schools because they failed to pay the fees.
Sources say the Ministry of Finance is blocking the anti smoking law because 1/3 of its budget comes from tobacco.
Altagheer
Juba threatens to expel the UN Mission.
Al Sadig Al Mahdi and Ibrahim Al Amin from the Umma Party disagree on the national dialogue.
Customs chase the oil smugglers to Ethiopia.
Alwan
6000 lawyers undergo the licence test to become registered and official lawyers.
Khartoum says will seek peace without Arman, Agar and Al Helu.
Citizen
Myan Dott says more than 12,000 Southern refugees in Sudan.
Peace Negotiations in Addis Ababa hits a dead end.
SudanVision
Government accuses SPLMN of deviating from dialogue.
President Al Bashir lays the foundation stone for Nyala Zone.
Sudan receives foreign assistance to combat human trafficking.
