European Union: Bombing of a hospital is unacceptable
(EU News) The European Commissioner for International Cooperation, Humanitarian Aid and Crisis Response, Kristalina Georgieva, made the following statement:”I am deeply disturbed by the bombing and partial destruction of a hospital during an aerial attack on the Sudanese village of Farandalla on 16th June. Two bombs hit the hospital, which is run by the international medical humanitarian organisation Doctors Without Borders/Médecins Sans Frontières in South Kordofan.Five people were wounded in the attack on the village and an MSF staff member was injured at the hospital. It is unacceptable that a hospital, clearly identified with a flag and a cross on its roof, is attacked in this manner. According to MSF several other medical facilities have been bombed in South Kordofan in recent weeks.
Read More; http://europa.eu/
Khartoum must do more before talks: opposition
(Daily Star) The release of Sudan’s former Prime Minister Sadiq al-Mahdi is not enough for the resumption of a national dialogue aimed at resolving the country’s multiple crises, a leading opposition figure said Wednesday. Mahdi was freed Sunday, one month after state security agents detained him on treason-related charges in a case that sparked Western concern. Ghazi Salahuddin Atabani, who founded the Reform Now opposition party in December, told AFP that his and other parties which had joined the dialogue met Tuesday “demanding the government to reverse all its latest actions against opposition.”Read more: http://www.dailystar.com.lb/
AU urges Sudan on political reforms for stability
(News Nigeria) The Commission of the African Union (AU) has urged the Government of Sudan to partner stakeholders towards a successful political reform for a stable government. This is contained in a statement issued by the AU Commission’s Chairperson, Dr. Dlamini Zuma, made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Zuma, who welcomed the former leader’s release, appealed to the Sudanese government and all stakeholders to desist from actions that would threaten the proposed National Dialogue.Read More: http://thenewsnigeria.com.ng/
Sudan’s NUP to set new conditions for resuming participation in the dialogue
(Sudan Tribune) Sudan’s opposition National Umma Party (NUP) has suggested that it intends to set new conditions in order to resume participation in the national dialogue stressing that this process cannot start from the point where it stopped prior to the arrest of its leader al-Sadiq al-Mahdi. The NUP suspended participation in the dialogue last month to protest al-Mahdi’s arrest and what it said was a government crackdown on political and media liberties. The NUP said in a statement on Wednesday that its call for national dialogue was driven by strategic and circumstantial reasons relating to the dangers facing the country, adding that it joined the government’s initiative for dialogue with great enthusiasm and urged all political parties to join as well.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
‘Sudan’s national dialogue proposal not serious’: Musa Hilal spokesman(Radio Dabanga) The ruling National Congress Party (NCP) may withdraw its proposal to hold a national dialogue.“There are indications that the NCP will not continue preparing for a national dialogue”, Ahmed Mohamed Abakar, the spokesman for El Sahwa Revolutionary Council, headed by militia leader Musa Hilal, told Radio Dabanga in an interview on Tuesday. “Recent conflicts within the NCP, the detention of political leaders, the gagging of the press, along with the absence of any possibility to reach a comprehensive solution, are all signs that the government is not serious about the dialogue.”Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Sudan opposition party says detained leader refused to apologize in return for release
(Sudan Tribune) The Sudanese Congress Party claimed that its leader Ibrahim al-Sheikh, who has been imprisoned by authorities since June 8th has refused to issue an apology for remarks he made on a government militia in return for being released.The National Intelligence and Security Service (NISS) arrested al-Sheikh after speaking at a seminar in which he criticized the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) and accused them of committing abuses in conflict zones. He faces charges that could hand him the death penalty if convicted. The Congress Party said in a statement on Tuesday, that its leader received on Monday an initiative from the “The National Figures Commission” through al-Sheikh defense lawyer Sate’ al-Haj. The commission asked that al-Sheikh defense lawyers submit plea to the attorney seeking to drop the charges based on specific merits, but the party rejected the proposal at an emergency meeting yesterday.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
Nile Basin ministers to meet in Khartoum on Thursday
(Sudan Tribune) Ministers in charge of water affairs in the Nile Basin Initiative (NBI) countries will meet in Khartoum Thursday for their annual Nile Council of Ministers (Nile-COM) conference. The one-day event, NBI said in statement, will also witness a change in the NBI governance in which South Sudan’s minister for electricity, water and irrigation, Jemma Nunu Kumba will hand over the chairmanship of the Sudanese minister for water resources and electricity, Mutaz Musa Abdalla Salim.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
Sudan says Egypt suspended participation in activities of the Nile Basin Initiative
(Sudan Tribune) The Nile-Technical Advisory Committee (Nile-TAC) of the Nile Basin Initiative (NBI) announced today that Egypt has suspended participation in NBI activities. Egypt fears that Ethiopia’s $4.6 billion hydropower plant on the Blue Nile will diminish its share of water resources (Photo: Reuters/Amr Abdallah Dalsh) Sudan’s minister of irrigation and water resources and chairperson of the NBI, Saif al-Din Hamad, said at a press conference on Wednesday that Egypt suspended participation in the NBI and did not attend the preparatory meetings which was held recently in Khartoum. But Sudan’s official news agency (SUNA) reported that an Egyptian delegation headed by ambassador Sherif Isa arrived in Khartoum to participate in the NBI 22nd ministerial meeting that will start on Thursday.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/Sudan Reiterates Rejection of ICC Proceedings(Sudan Vision) Sudan has protested ICC Prosecutor-General branding of rapid support forces as militias, affirming they belong to Security and Intelligence Services, reiterating non-concern with its proceedings. Sudan’s response was triggered by ICC Prosecutor-General report to UNSC last Tuesday requesting the Council to seek ways of arresting some Sudanese officials accused of committing crimes in Darufr. Meanwhile, Sudan Charge d’ Affaires’ to UN, Ambassador Hassan Hamid Hassan on Wednesday issued a response statement saying Sudan is not at all concerned with the ICC proceedings as it is not a party to the court.
Read More: http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/Parliament Urges US Charge d’ Affaires to Initiate Khartoum, Washington Dialogue(Sudan Vision) Charge d’ Affaires of the United States of America to Sudan, Jerry Lanier has welcomed the launch of a national dialogue, saying the release of the leader of the National Umma Party (NUP) Imam Al-Sadiq Al-Mahdi will boost the negotiations. During a meeting on Tuesday with the Speaker of the National Assembly, Al-Fateh Izzeldin, the Chief of Mission underlined the importance of a national dialogue to further the peace process. The Speaker urged Mr. Lanier to undertake a role to initiate dialogue between Khartoum and Washington and Sudan’s Parliament and the US Congress.
Read More: http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/
New Ma’aliya-Rizeigat clashes in East Darfur(Radio Dabanga) At least six tribesmen were killed and an unknown number wounded in renewed fighting between Ma’aliya and Rizeigat in East Darfur on Wednesday. While the reconciliation conference between the warring tribes in El Fula, West Kordofan, has been going on for days without any progress, fierce clashes erupted this morning near Abu Jabra town in East Darfur. A resident of Abu Jabra told Radio Dabanga that the clashes started with the assassination of Ma’aliya Sheikh Mousa inside his house at Abu Jabra El Mahata by Rizeigat tribesmen at 3am on Wednesday morning. The resident appealed to both parties to listen to the voice of reason and commit themselves to the halting of hostilities.
Read More; https://www.radiodabanga.org/
