EUROPEAN UNION NEWS DIGESTSudan: Dozens Held Without Charge(Human Rights Watch) Sudan is still detaining dozens of people without charge in connection with September 2013 protests, and some released detainees have said they were beaten in detention, Human Rights Watch said today. The Sudanese authorities should charge or release them, investigate allegations of ill-treatment and torture by detained protesters, and hold any officials responsible to aaccount.  Of 11 former detainees Human Rights Watch interviewed, six men said they were beaten while in detention.Others said they saw security officials beating detainees, or injuries on detainees that they believed were the result of beatings.  “Sudanese authorities are holding dozens of people just because of their political views,” said Daniel Bekele, Africa director at Human Rights Watch. “Sudan should immediately put an end to any ill-treatment of detainees, and either charge or free them.”
Read More: http://www.hrw.org/
Dissidents bid for new Sudan to end decades of rebellion
(AFP) Sudan needs to give real power to all its ethnic groups to end regional rebellions that still plague it two years after South Sudan broke away, a new opposition movement says.  The founders of the National Movement for Change, themselves all Islamists, want to reach out to secularists and leftists in their campaign for an inclusive democracy to replace the Arab-dominated regime of President Omar al-Bashir.  “We are very concerned about designing a new political system for Sudan,” said Khalid Tigani, one of the group’s founders and chief editor of the weekly economic newspaper Elaff.  Prominent political scientist Al-Tayib Zainalabdin Mohammed, a cofounder of the new movement, said the group must reflect that diversity.  “It has to represent other people: secularists, Islamists, leftists, and from different regions, women and young people and old people,” he said.  The movement is currently a “forum for dialogue” about how to govern the country, but Mohammed hopes it will become a political party in two or three years.
Read More: http://english.alarabiya.net/
