Fighting breaks out in Sudan’s Blue Nile border state
(Reuters) Fighting broke out in a Sudanese border state between the military and rebels trying to overthrow President Omar Hassan al-Bashir, both sides said on Monday, and the government said its forces had killed scores of insurgents.  The rebels gave a different account, saying the government forces had attacked civilian areas.On Monday, Sudanese state media reported the armed forces had taken the Muffa area in Blue Nile and “expelled the remnants of the rebels,” who had been backed by tanks and artillery.  The army killed 66 rebels, it said, quoting the armed forces spokesman al-Sawarmi Khalid. The armed forces suffered a “small number” of casualties, it said, without giving details.  The rebels, known as the SPLM-North, said the Sudanese armed forces and allied militia had started a “military dry season campaign” on February 14 in a heavily populated area at Muffa.  It said the fighting had forced thousands of civilians to flee toward Ethiopia and South Sudan.
Read More:http://www.reuters.com/
UN sends relief for Darfur displaced
(Oman Tribune) A convoy carrying blankets, water and other supplies began a days-long journey on Sunday to deliver emergency assistance in Sudan’s Darfur where about 100,000 people have been affected by recent violence, the UN said.   “We have sent out a further 100 metric tonnes of assistance,” Damian Rance, of the United Nations humanitarian agency (OCHA), said. “It started rolling this morning, I believe.”  Amnesty International says Sudanese security officers were reportedly involved in the gold mining-related attacks earlier this month that killed up to 200 people and led to the massive displacement across a wide area of North Darfur state’s Jebel Amir district.
Read More:http://www.omantribune.com/
Thousands of Sudanese refugees arrive in Chad
(Radio Dabanga) Approximately 5,000 Sudanese refugees have arrived in the region of Goz Beida in southeastern Chad, over the past two weeks.  Saudi Hassan, head of the Chadian National Committee for receiving Sudanese refugees in the region, told Radio Dabanga that around 5,000 Sudanese refugees are currently residing in the areas of Tisy and Saraf Barko in Goz Beida, southeastern Chad. The refugees arrived over the past two weeks, he added.  Saudi stated that the refugees are now under the care and protection of the Chadian government until humanitarian organizations register and assist them.
Read More:http://www.radiodabanga.org/
Sudan: Bashir Regime ‘About to Fall’
(Al Monitor) Sadiq al-Mahdi, the former Sudanese prime minister and leader of the opposition Umma Party, believes that the regime of President Omar al-Bashir is crumbling and “about to fall.” He said the weakness of the opposition has allowed Bashir’s regime to survive, and he called on it to form a new alliance. The ruling party, however, downplayed the importance of the opposition and accused unnamed “Western countries” of failing to overthrow Bashir and betting on cracks within the regime.  Mahdi warned against the dangers of changing the regime through a revolution or a coup. He proposed changing it through a civilian uprising or a national compromise, similar to South America and South Africa.  “The forces calling for the overthrow of the regime are currently unable to make the required change despite the presence of 12 factors that indicate that the regime is deteriorating,” Mahdi said, accusing the ruling National Congress Party of seeking to find crises of which to take advantage by popular mobilization through threatening to wage war against the state of South Sudan.
Read more:http://www.al-monitor.com/
President Al-Bashir to Visit Nahral-Neil State
(Sudanese Radio) President Omer Al-Bashir, is due to begin Wednesday a visit to Nahral-Neil State during which he will inaugurate a number of development and services projects, including Atbara – Al-Damer – Barbar Water Station, the second stage of Al-Damer Hospital, and the new premise of the National Congress in the state.  He will also inaugurate the new train locomotives and inspect the gold production operations of the Moroccan Mining Companies at Wadi Gabgaba at Abu-Hamad Locality.  During his two-day visit to Nahral-Neil State, President Al-Bashir will inaugurate the Lectures’ Compound at Shendi University, the courts’ Complex in Shendi own, Al-Fayet agricultural scheme in Shendi area, the Services Compound of Osman Mohamed Al-Toam in Mattama town, besides launching the introduction of electricity power at Al-Kemair Tayeba agricultural scheme.
Read More:http://www.sudanradio.info/
