Foreign Aid Organizations to Be Expelled From Darfur
(Radio Dabanga) Sudan’s Commissioner of Humanitarian Aid (HAC), Suleiman Marhab, threatened to expel foreign aid organizations operating in Darfur that do not comply with an agreement signed with HAC. The Commissioner said he would not allow foreign aid organizations to operate in Sudan without a national partner from 2013 onwards. Marhab added that as of next year he will not allow the provision of relief via air or across borders, explaining that all relief operations should come from inside the Sudanese territory.During the parliamentary hearing, Marhab said the measures in Darfur are the same HAC took regarding foreign aid organizations operating in KassalaState, in the east of Sudan. He pointed out that a number of foreign organizations were already expelled from that area. The Commissioner stated that the number of foreign aid organizations working in Darfur reduced from 200 to less than 40 since 2006.
Sudanese President Firm against Allowing U.S. Troops
Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir has confirmed that his country will not allow U.S. troops, reiterating that Sudan is capable of providing security at American and other foreign diplomatic missions. “We are capable of and pledge to provide security of citizens of foreign countries and their embassies and will not accept any foreign troops,” al-Bashir said after a meeting with his Egyptian counterpart Mohamed Morsi.
Gunmen loot NGO offices in Morni
(Radio Dabanga) Unidentified gunmen attacked offices of international aid organizations located at the Morni camp, West Darfur, on Monday 17 September, a witness told Radio Dabanga. He said that millions of Sudanese pounds (SDG) and other equipment were stolen. There are no reports of injuries at this moment. Onlookers informed Radio Dabanga that gunmen, driving vehicles equipped with Dushkas, stormed WEST’s office at around 3am, which was empty. They said the perpetrators only found office equipment and other devices in the office. The armed men stormed then the headquarters of a Sudanese health insurance, which belongs to the government, witnesses recounted. They said that the gunmen found again only office stationery and other equipment.
