General Bashir’s Racism and Promotion of Religious Hatredare Behind the Burning Down of the Church in the Heart of KhartoumIn the last two weeks, General Bashir and his colleagues have used inflammatory language of racism and religious hatred against his own citizens and the citizens of the Republic of South Sudan, describing Southern Sudanese as insects.  Later on, he tried to limit it to the Government of South Sudan, but he was much earlier exposed when he dehumanized and robbed half a million Southern Sudanese citizens from their rights.  It is evidently clear that it is Southern Sudanese that he is targeting.Moreover, he used an old phrase of an Arabic poem against one of the black Egyptian rulers, which said that “you should not buy a slave without a stick.”  This is not an insult to Southern Sudanese only, but it is in the first place an insult to Northern Sudanese in whose name Bashir is ruling.  Moreover, it is an insult to humanity and a violation of all human rights and international charters.  Likewise, it is an insult to the entire African continent and to black women and men worldwide, which includes all Northern Sudanese.General Bashir is misreading and misjudging the recent international appeals to him and his government and he believes he is in a honeymoon with the international community.  This is a recipe for disaster because it will encourage him to intensify war and human rights violations within the Republic of Sudan and to scale up the aggression against the Republic of South Sudan.  He has already taken more than 500,000 civilians, displaced persons, in the Nuba Mountains and Blue Nile hostage, denying them from their very basic rights to humanitarian assistance, and moreover, he is bombarding them with his air force.  He is encouraged that the situation of the hostages has been overshadowed with other crises.The policy of appeasement to Bashir, who is wanted by the International Criminal Court, is the same policy of appeasement in a different context and environment that long ago created Adolf Hitler.As a result of Bashir’s language of religious hatred and with direct encouragement and protection from the security and police in Khartoum, who are spoon feeding the fundamentalist groups; a religious group associated with the National Congress, burned down Algreaf Church, an evangelical church, in the heart of Khartoum.  They looted the church and burned it down to ashes.  This does not represent Islam and in particular the Sudanese Islam, which is a Sufi tolerant Islam.  It only represents Bashir, his group and his ideology.  This is an extension of what he is doing in the Nuba Mountains and Blue Nile.  The only difference is that it moved to Khartoum under his own eyes and protection.  We call upon the Sudanese Muslims to stand against the policies of the National Congress and Bashir, who are destroying the very Sudanese social fabric, and we should defend the right of Sudanese Christians as equal citizens of our great country.It is worth mentioning that the Sudanese security forces launched the biggest campaign detaining more than 30 of the SPLM-N leaders and members in the 15 different states of the North.  Those are members of the SPLM-N who are not carrying arms and are working peacefully for what they believe in the areas controlled by Bashir.  Among them are Izdhar Jmmua, a lawyer, and Alawya Kepada in addition to more than 200 who are missing, detained and are sentenced to death.  Among them are the poet, Moniem Rahma, and Dr. Bushra Gamar and many others.We, the Sudanese people, and all those who believe in the values of equal citizenship, human rights and religious and ethnic co-existence and those friends who are ready must stand against a racist delusional person who happens to be the president of a state and who is wanted by the International Criminal Court and is committing genocide and crimes against humanity that the world will live to regret.  And in particular, the massive starvation policy that is putting more than 500,000 people on the brink of death must not be forgotten and humanitarian aid to them should be the number one priority.  This is the SPLM-N’s message on my visit right now to the United States and we will leave no a stone unturned to deliver our message.  The SPLM-N is ready to meet all requirements for the delivery of humanitarian aid including the cessation of hostilities on humanitarian grounds.Yasir ArmanSecretary GeneralSudan Peoples’ Liberation Movement NorthApril 24, 2012
