Ghazi Attabani Joins Mediation to Salvage Talks Over Two Areas
(Sudan Vision) Leader of the Reform Now Party (RNP) Dr. Ghazi Salahueldin Attabani arrived at the talks in Addis Ababa and met with the delegation of SPLM-N. The US envoy Donald Peterson also met with the head of the Sudan government’s negotiation team Ibrahim Ghandour and the meeting focused on the issues of the talks.   Upon arrival, Attabani held a lengthy meeting with the SPLM-N and the US envoy also met with the Government’s chief negotiator Ibrahim Ghandour.Attabani said the meetings focused on the current track of talks which until yesterday did not see direct meeting between the two sides.
Read More: http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/
Uganda accuses Khartoum of resuming support for LRA
(Sudan Tribune) A senior Ugandan government official on Wednesday accused Sudan of resuming its support for the Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA) rebels.  Speaking on the seemingly wary relations between the two countries, Prime Minister Amama Mbabazi said Uganda has filed a complaint with the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) about Sudan’s alleged support for LRA.  Both Sudan and Uganda are members of the OIC, a 57-member body which safeguards and protect the vital interests of Muslims as well as work for the settlement of conflicts and disputes involving member states.  Kampala and Khartoum have, in the past, traded accusations of supporting rebel groups. Sudan government says Uganda hosts Sudanese Revolutionary Front rebels.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
Rebel SRF road map ‘towards National Dialogue Sudan’
(Radio Dabanga) The Sudan Revolutionary Front (SRF) stated that its new road map will lead towards an end to the conflicts in Sudan, and creation of the necessary conditions for the National Dialogue.  The SRF, an umbrella organisation of Sudanese rebel movements, published its road map on Friday. It stated that the SRF remains committed to solving the conflicts in Darfur, South Kordofan, Blue Nile, and other Sudanese areas, in a peaceful way. However, it reiterated its negative stance towards the National Dialogue: “This new initiative may be merely a tactic to carry the National Congress Party to elections.”  The SRF is a formal coalition of rebel movements, formed by the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement-North (SPLM-N), the Sudan Liberation Movement factions, led by Minni Minawi (SLM-MM) and by Abdel Wahid El Nur (SLM-AW), and the Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) in 2011. The United Popular Front (UPF), a coalition of eastern Sudanese factions, officially joined in October 2013.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
MPs to lift Khartoum governor’s impunity over corruption scandal
(Star Africa) The Sudanese legislators will lift the impunity of the governor of Khartoum Abdul Rahman al-Khidir over corruption claims, a Sudanese PM Ismail Hussien told APA.  The governor faces a major corruption scandal after reports leaked to the media revealing that his office staff was involved in the scandal.  According to the allegation, two employees at Khidir’s office forged his signature to transfer ownership of lands worth billions of dollars to bogus owners and sold it later for huge profit.  Mr. Hussien who is the chairman of the opposition parliamentarian block said that the assembly is insisting this time to implement its power and fight the impunity which always covered corrupt officials.
Read More: http://en.starafrica.com/
Finance Ministry Calls for Expediting Taxation Reform
(Sudan Vision) State Minister of Finance and National Economy, Dr. Mohammed Yousuf called on the taxation reform committee to expedite its work to accomplish the aspired reform process.  The Minister, while chairing the Third Revenue High Council meeting, reviewed the public corporations and institutions which were not subject to auditing, besides reviewing the customs exemptions granted to the voluntary and charity organizations.  The Minister affirmed that the taxation reform committee will submit its report next September.
Read More: http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/
NISS deploys additional RSF militias to end rebellion in South Kordofan
(Sudan Tribune) The Sudanese National Intelligence and Security Services (NISS) has announced that it is deploying additional Rapid Support Forces (RSF) troops to South Kordofan in order to end rebellion in the state.  The RSF militia, which is widely known as the Janjaweed militias, were originally mobilised by the Sudanese government to quell the insurgency that broke out in Sudan’s western region of Darfur in 2003.  The militia was activated and restructured again in August last year under the command of NISS to fight rebel groups in Darfur region, South Kordofan and Blue Nile states following joint attacks by Sudanese Revolutionary Front (SRF) rebels in North and South Kordofan in April 2013.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
