Governor El Faki is Determined to DismantleallIDP Campin DarfuragainstAllInternational Conventions.
A week,or so, ago, Governor ofSouth Darfur, Adam El Faki stunned the IDPsof Darfur in general and thoseof Kalmacamp in particularwith his decisiontoforcibly dismantleall IDP camps in Darfur withintheyear 2018 and Kalma camp withina fortnight.Kalma camp,17k east of Nyala houses over 130,000 inhabitants.  The IDPs are yearning to go back to their original villages, now occupied by new settlers.  As expected,and indeed affirmed by all international conventions on refugees and IDPs,Darfur IDPsmaintainlegitimate demands.  These consist of securityarrangements,theremoval of Janjaweed and other hostile settlers and,of course,provision ofbasicservices.  It isto be noted that public amenities in the area including clinics, wells and schools have been deliberately destroyed by government forces and their Janjaweed allies.
El Faki’s decision comesasno surprise to the IDPs and Human Rightsactivists.That is so because it has been abundantly clear that the Regime is bent to dismantle the IDP campswhich remain as a symbol of itsatrocious crimes in Darfur.To implement its decision,the regime is determined to useall means, including violence,and in complete disregard to the international Humanitarian Law and the other conventions thatprotect IDPs and refugees against forced return.
Governor El Faki’shistoryis dotted withmassacres, ethnic cleansing andblatant breachingof human rights.Prior to his appearance in South Darfur, he worked as a senior security agent, second only to the Governor, in South Kordofanandwas credited with atrocious assaults on Nuba villages,in addition tothose who were accused of being sympathetic to the SPLM.His aptitude for brutality comes fromhis mentor Ahmed Haroun,the previous Governor ofSouth Kordofan.Haroun must have founditeasy to mentor his already half-baked,El Faki,forthelatter is a graduate of one of the many Wahabi colleges of Saudi Arabia.  In thename of Jihadist ideology of the Wahabis, he isattunedto massacring theChristian and Pagan Nubaopponents,andthe Muslims of Darfur are not spared either.  His mentor,Haroun,isone of four Government personnel who were indicted by the ICCfor crimes against humanity in Darfur.To this day, heis still at large, a trusted confidant of Al Bashirandretainsthepost of Governor of NorthKordofan.
El Faki endeared himselfto AlBashirby organizing a presidential visit to the Stateof South DarfurinSeptember 2017.  Thebotchedvisit was a disaster for Kalma residents whohad resolutely refused to welcomeGenocidaire AlBashir at their camp, the very man whohadorchestrated their ejection from their lands in the first place.In a punitive mission, El Faki unleashed his notoriousforces against Kalma protestors,killing six on the spot,withfourdyinglater, not to mentionthe additionalinjury of more than 30others.  UNAMID, located within eye-sight of the attack,released its usual lukewarm “Deeply Concerned”statementshortly afterwards.Itshamefullydescribed the assault as a “CLASH”, presumably between two equal parties.It wasas thoughtheviolence was not one-sided!
The Governor’sdecision to dismantle Kalmaand other IDP campsby forceis yet to draw a strong responsefrom UMAMID, Rights groups or other agents of the international community.If these bodies are still duped by previous agreementswith the Khartoum government, we urge them loudly to wake up.As we all know, Sudanhas concluded an agreement with the UNAMID, the UN and leaders of Kalma IDPs to optonly for voluntary repatriation,withouttheuseofforce or disguised pressure.  The history of Al Bashir and his government is tellingandcan hardly escape anyone who is willing to learn and understand.  If the Khartoum government isgood andconsistent in anythingat allthroughoutitsclose to30-yearhistory,itis in theirutter disregard forany accord or agreementthey signwith other parties.
Additionally,El Faki did not mince his words regardinghis intent to dismantle Kalmaand other IDP camps.  His plan is to removethe camps either way, voluntarily or otherwise.  He told the IDPs thathe has already reserved 300cells in Sawakin prison in Eastern Sudan forcamp leaders who opposerepatriationandthe planes have already been commissionedtotransport anyuncooperative chiefs to their new destination.
As far as safety fears of the IDPs are concerned, Governor ElFaki has hisanswerready.  He gave them a chilling example of his response to an earlier appeal of IDP returnees for protection against Janjaweed atrocitiesstating:
“A couple of days ago in the morning, returnees fromMarla area came to me in Nyala, complaining about someone who had his leg broken.  I asked them if they were reportingany death to which they said no.I then told them not to come unless they havea minimum oftenpersons killedbecause the government cannot protect everyone”(Radio Dabanga).
The message is then clear, for the IDPs, UNAMID and the international community.  Kalma returnees shouldbe readytoexpect, and evensustain, thekillingof less than ten peoplein each village,alongsidelooting, rape and other formsofoppression,without bothering hisExcellency, El Faki.  The ceiling for justified complaints is now setattheloss of ten lives or more.That is theminimumsecurityprotection the governorcan offerDarfurIDPreturnees, full stop.
The UN has also assuredKalma IDPs ofthegovernment’scommitment toprovide a simulant ofpublicservicesback home,but, acarefulexamination ofEl Faki’s words indicates otherwise.  Focussing onkillings of ten or more,before hedeemsit fit to intervene, El Faki is simply too dumbor perhaps too inhumane to contemplatethemore lethal killerssuch as thelack of health care, potable water and education services.  The IDPs simply have to do without such servicesand at theirperil.
The international community must act and do soasfastas it can.  Global leadersintheUN,EU,USA,Human Rights and UNAMID must rush to prevent Governor El Faki and theRegime inKhartoum proceedingalongwith this catastrophic plan.I concede that thisisa tall order but it has to be voiced andasloudly aspossible.The fate ofDarfur IDPsdepends ontheresolveofsuch global leaders; theirhumaneness,civilityandthevery willingnesstoprotect the weakest among us,such asthe IDPs ofDarfur.
Abdullahi Osman El-Tom
Secretary for Foreign Affairs &InternationalCooperation,JEM
He can be reached at:[email protected]
