(Radio Dabanga) On Saturday the chairman of a popular committee that opposes the sale of four historical school buildings in Port Sudan to investors was summoned by the police. Workers of the Southern Port in Port Sudan started an open-ended strike on the same day. Chairman Ja’afar Abdel Gader was called to the police office on Saturday after the security service had filed a complaint against him for ‘disturbing’ a rally of the Red Sea State Governor on 19 May. Governor Mohamed Taher Eila had planned to address a crowd in Haya locality in the state, but angry citizens started to throw stones,demanding the Governor to step down. The tension in Port Sudan against the Governor’s policies is building up. On 4 May, a group of citizens in the Red Sea State launched a “million signatures campaign” with the purpose to remove Governor from his post. Students protested more than once against the deteriorating living conditions, and parents of children of the four schools for sale have staged various protests the past weeks.Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Sudan bans media from reporting on detained ex-PM
(NST) Sudanese prosecutors on Monday banned journalists from reporting on the case of former prime minister Sadiq al-Mahdi, detained after reportedly accusing a counter-insurgency unit of abuses against civilians in Darfur. Mahdi is charged with treason-related offences and could face a possible death sentence if convicted. State security prosecutors “banned the publication and the media’s dealing with the criminal case” of Mahdi, the official SUNA news agency said. The decision was made to avoid negatively affecting the investigation and course of justice, it said.Read more: http://www.nst.com.my/
Council calls on SA to intervene in Sudan sentence
(News 24) The General Council of the Bar of SA (GCB) has called on South African authorities to intervene to stop the death sentence of a pregnant woman in Sudan. “Members of the international community cannot allow Sudan to continue to breach International Law and basic human rights norms in the manner illustrated by this case,” GCB chairperson Ishmael Semenya in a statement. “The GCB is of the view that the South African government, through diplomatic measures, must try to persuade the Sudanese authorities to overturn [the] sentence in furtherance of these principles. She is currently being detained and her death sentence can only be carried out when her baby has been born and after she had breastfed the baby for two years.
Read More: http://www.news24.com/
Finland’s Development Minister to visit Eritrea and Sudan
(Capital Eritrea) Finland’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs has announced today that Minister for International Development Pekka Haavisto will visit Sudan and Eritrea on 26–30 of May. In Khartoum, capital of Sudan, the Minister will meet representatives of the Sudanese administration, national and international actors, including representatives of the EU and the UN, and aid workers. The purpose of the visit is to discuss development policy issues, the humanitarian situation, and Sudan’s views on the regional issues in the Horn of Africa region. Minister Haavisto visits the region also in his capacity as co-chair of the International Dialogue on Peacebuilding and Statebuilding (IDPS).
Read More: http://www.capitaleritrea.com/
Internal dialogue committee launched in Darfur(Radio Dabanga) The Darfur Internal Dialogue and Consultation (DIDC) Implementation Committee was launched today in a ceremony hosted by Unamid in North Darfur’s capital El Fasher. The DIDC mechanism, as stipulated in the Doha Document for Peace in Darfur (DDPD), is designed to consolidate peace in Darfur, promote confidence-building and encourage reconciliation as well as unity among the people of Darfur and Sudan in general through popular consultation and dialogue. The DIDC is facilitated by the African Union, Unamid, and the State of Qatar, Unamid announced today (Monday) in a press release. The Committee will ensure all appropriate preparations, overseeing and conducting the dialogues and consultations, as well as guaranteeing thorough documentation and analysis of the process and outcomes. It will also ensure that the process remains inclusive, transparent and credible at all times.Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
