Sudan’s rebels, Umma Party invited to Addis Ababa(Radio Dabanga) The Sudan People’s Liberation Movement-North (SPLM-N) has denied the announcement by a Sudanese government official that the stalled Addis Ababa peace negotiations between the Sudanese government and the SPLM-N on South Kordofan and the Blue Nile will resume on Thursday. Yassir Arman said that the signatories of the Paris Declaration, the SRF and the National Umma Party (NUP), received an invitation to meet with the chairman of the mediation team, Thabo Mbeki, and the Ethiopian Prime Minister in Addis Ababa next week. “This meeting can be considered as part of Mbeki’s consultations with political forces in Khartoum on the Paris Declaration.”Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Gunmen rape 8 women in South Darfur state
(Sudan Tribune) An unidentified group comprised of 20 gunmen has raped eight women, including two minors, in the locality of Buram, 80km south of the South Darfur capital, Nyala. Ahmed Salih, a relative of one of the victims said that 20 armed men raped six women and two 10 year old girls while they were working at a farm. He added that the gunmen, who were on horseback, broke into a farm and raped the women after threatening to kill them. Salih said the victims were taken to Buram hospital for treatment, adding that the perpetrators fled the scene towards the southern direction of Buram locality.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
Peace mediators to consult Sudan rebels on national dialogue: Arman
(Sudan Tribune) The Sudan people’s Liberation Movement North (SPLM-N) secretary-general dismissed statements by Sudanese officials about the resumption of peace talks in Addis Ababa, saying the mediation invited them for a consultations meeting on the national dialogue. Yasir Arman was reacting to statements on Sunday by the spokesperson of the ruling National Congress Party (NCP) and state minister for information Yasir Youssef who called on the SPLM-N to join the negotiating table to end the conflict in Blue Nile and South Kordofan states. Sudanese government officials say they are very serious in their call for a national dialogue inside the country with the participation of all the political parties and rebel groups.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
Sudan’s Nuba celebrate Indigenous Peoples’ Day(Radio Dabanga) On Saturday, Nuba celebrated the International Day of the World’s Indigenous People in Omdurman, the western part of Greater-Khartoum. The original inhabitants of the Nuba Mountains in South Kordofan celebrated the International Day, (annually celebrated over the world on 9 August) in a festival organised at El Buheira square in Ombadda, Omdurman, under the banner “Kuku knows”. Natalina Yagoub, student at El Ahfad University in Omdurman, crowned Miss Nuba of 2014, said that all the Nuba want is peace, noting that many of her relatives are suffering from the ongoing war in South Kordofan.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Saudi investments in Sudan poised to exceed SR48.7bn(Arab News) Saudi investments in the Sudan are expected to cross $13 billion (SR48.75 billion) in the next few months, particularly following a decision on canceling entry visas for Saudi investors, local media said quoting a senior official at the Sudanese Higher Council of Investment (HCI). Saudi investments in Africa are distributed at varying rates, topped by the Sudan at 20 percent, followed by Egypt and Ethiopia (10 percent each), and shares of other countries ranging between 2.5 and 3 percent, he pointed out.
Read More: http://www.arabnews.com/
Ruling NCP Downplays Meeting of SRF Rebels With Dup Leader
(All Africa) Sudan’s ruling National Congress Party (NCP) on Sunday has downplayed the impact of the meeting which took place between leaders of the rebel alliance of the Sudan Revolutionary Forces (SRF) and the leader of the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP), Mohamed Osman al-Mirghani. Al-Mirghani, met in the British capital on Friday 22 August for the first time with a delegation from the SRF which briefed him on the Paris Declaration and discussed a possible boycott of the general election scheduled for April 2015.The NCP spokesperson, Yasir youssef, said the meeting comes within the framework of a public relations campaign launched by the SRF to promote the Paris Declaration it signed with the National Umma Party (NUP) on 8 August.Read More: http://allafrica.com/
Sudan’s Al-Mahdi on regional tour to explain Paris Declaration
(Sudan Tribune) The leader of Sudan’s opposition National Umma Party (NUP), al-Sadiq al-Mahdi, has begun a regional tour that will take him to the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Ethiopia and South Africa to explain the Paris Declaration he signed with the rebel alliance of the Sudan Revolutionary Forces (SRF). Al-Mahdi arrived in Abu Dhabi on Monday morning and met with the UAE’s foreign minister, Abdullah bin Zayed. The NUP leader will head from Abu Dhabi to Addis Ababa to brief the African Union (AU) on Paris Declaration and he will then fly to Pretoria to address the South African parliament on the developments of the situation in Sudan in light of the Paris Declaration.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
