(Sudan Vision) Sudan’s Humanitarian Aid Commission (HAC) announced the stability of the humanitarian situation in South Kordofan.  Commissioner-General, Suleiman Abdul Rahman, Who arrived to Kadugli chairing a convoy of humanitarian support and a delegation of aid commissioners in Sudan states,said that all humanitarian aid commissions in Sudan support the citizens of South Kordofan State across many convoys to meet the challenges.  On his part, the Governor of South Kordofan, Ahmed Haroun praised the role of national organizations working in the field of humanitarian aid in maintaining the stability of citizens through various assistances.Read More:http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/details.html?rsnpid=217269
NCP Political Sector Hails African Decision on Abyei
(Sudan Vision) NCP political sector praised the decision of the African Peace and Security Council to solve Abyei issue in the African context, rather than the UN Security Council.  Secretary of the political sector, Hassabo Mohamed Abdul Rahman said, in a press statement after the regular meeting of the sector yesterday, that the sector lauds African role and their wisdom in solving their problems. He said that the government is with the African solution. Abdul Rahman said the decision is in favour of the Sudanese government’s moves to resolve the Abyei file within Africa, adding, “We are sure that African leaders will come to a solution.”Read More:http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/details.html?rsnpid=217272
Freed Sudan opposition chief says regime scared
(Gulf News) The head of Sudan’s opposition political alliance, freed after two days in detention, said on Sunday that the government fears rising popular discontent in the crisis-hit nation.  Farouq Abu Eisa, who represents more than 20 opposition parties, told AFP he was released on Saturday after two days of detention by the National Intelligence and Security Service (NISS).  “They are scared because the country is in a real crisis,” he said.  “They are scared that I am head of the opposition, and they are scared that the opposition will move” into action.  Abu Eisa said he was held after giving a “fiery” speech in support of four dead Darfuri students.  Abu Eisa blamed the deaths on Islamic militia.  “I accused them of killing these boys,” he said.Read More:http://gulfnews.com/news/region/sudan/freed-sudan-opposition-chief-says-regime
Al Bashir Briefed on Khartoum Plan to Resolve Transportation Problem
(Sudan Vision) President Omer Al Bashir and the First Vice President Ali Osman Taha have been briefed on KhartoumState’s plan to address challenges of transportation, housing and investment in addition to other key projects in the state which will be inaugurated during Independence celebrations.   The President directed KhartoumState to implement the plans with relevant partners to find integrated solutions to the transportation problem.Read More:http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/details.html?rsnpid=217267
