EUROPEAN UNION NEWS DIGEST(AP) The prosecutor of the International Criminal Court accused the U.N. Security Council on Wednesday of prolonging the conflict in Darfur by its failure to take action to arrest Sudan’s President Omar al-Bashir and others accused of war crimes. Fatou Bensouda said the council’s inaction and paralysis in the face of increasing violence against civilians has emboldened al-Bashir to ignore council resolutions and left victims with no hope for justice. Darfur has been gripped by bloodshed since 2003 when rebels took up arms against the government in Khartoum, accusing it of discrimination and neglect. The United Nations says 300,000 people have died in the conflict and 2.7 million have fled their homes.The Security Council referred the Darfur conflict to the International Criminal Court in 2005, but has failed to pressure the government to arrest al-Bashir and others accused of war crimes. U.N. diplomats say China, a major buyer of oil from Sudan, has blocked council action.
Read More: http://abcnews.go.com/Sudan’s Turabi approached to mediate political crisis in South Sudan
(Sudan Tribune) A senior official at Sudan’s opposition Popular Congress Party (PCP) has disclosed that the party leader, Hassan Al-Turabi, is being approached by influential figures in South Sudan to mediate the current political crisis in the fledgling republic. Influential sources within the PCP told Sudan Tribune that Turabi was asked by prominent political figures in South Sudan to intercede with president Salva Kiir Mayardit who dismissed senior figures from the ruling SPLM and the government sparking an atmosphere of tensions. Last week, senior SPLM leaders accused Kiir’s leadership style saying it was characterised by corruption and deviation from the party’s vision as well as encouraging regionalism and ethnicity. Meanwhile, the Sudanese Communist Party (SCP) and its counterpart in South Sudan held a joint meeting on Tuesday in Khartoum. The SCP delegation was led by its secretary general, Mohamed Mukhtar Al-Khateeb, while the delegation of South Sudan’s communist party was led by, Joseph Modesto.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
About 10,000 newly displaced in Bulbul Timbisco, South Darfur
(Radio Dabanga) An estimated 10,000 newly displaced people from Ed El Fursan locality have recently arrived in Bulbul Timbisco, approximately 30km west of Nyala, the capital of South Darfur, OCHA reports in its latest Humanitarian Bulletin. The about 10,000 (2,000 families) are Salamat. They fled their homes in fear of armed clashes between Salamat and Misseriya tribesmen in November. The newly displaced are in need of food, water, non-food items, and sanitation. World Vision International (WVI) is providing clean water to the newly displaced by utilising water tankers. WVI is also constructing a water bladder and hand pumps in the area. The American Refugee Council (ARC) is providing health services through their primary health care centre. However, due to the increased demand for services brought on by the new arrivals, the international organisation is running out of supplies.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
