INVITATION: Darfur Union In the UK Commemorates the 11th Anniversary of Bashir Indictment by International Criminal Court (ICC) in Birmingham
Time: 2 pm, Saturday , 7th March 2020,Location:Wadi Hawar Community Hall33 New Spring StreetBirminghamB18 7LG
In memory of the victims of :1. The ongoing genocide in Darfur2. The ongoing Bashir war in Nuba Mountains, Blue Nile and the current and past uprisings of Sudan.3. Enforced displacement – IDP and refugees.4. Demographic changes in the region
Change is going to come and eventually justice will prevail
The 4th March 2009, represent an important date for the people in Sudan in general, and those in Darfur in particular. It marks the beginning of long lost justice. A quick run down the memory lane unfold that famous press conference in La Hague, 11 years ago, where Luis Ocampo, the former general prosecutor of the ICC, announced that his team have enough evidence to prosecute Omer Bashir, the sitting president of Sudan, for crimes committed under his commands, that counts for the following:5 counts for crimes against humanity2 counts of war crimes3 counts of genocide
Darfur Union in the United Kingdom invites you all, to commemorate the date, to bring awareness to the issue, and try to find ways to reignite the just case of the people of Sudan in all platforms.The main topics to be discussed:-
1) The 11th anniversary of Bashir Indictment by ICC, the history of the case; the significance of the day for the people of Sudan in Darfur and the all of the Sudan.
2) Humanitarian situation on the ground.
3) the derailed course of Justice for the victims of Genocide in Sudan, and delayed ratification of Rome Statue by transitional government in Sudan; Does the announcement from Juba signal a wave of change to come?
4) Peace negotiations in Juba, the possibilities, realties and the obstacles.
The day concludes by an open mic session for all to share their stories, memories, comments and questions.
There will be a letter for all to sign. This letter will be sent to all organisations and governments representatives as part of Darfur Union media campaign with regards to significance of the day for our people.
The invitation is extended to those who wish to see an end to the human crisis, indictment of the perpetrators and an end to the act of genocide. NEVER AGAIN.
For more details please contact the following numbers.Elsadig Ali – 07478258243Mohamed Ishag – 07445973996Or via the listed email, website or Twitter handle below.
See you all thereKind regards,
Osama Mahmoud – Head of Comms.Darfur Union in the United Kingdom
Website: http://darfurunionuk.wordpress.comEmail:[email protected]Twitter handle: @Darfurunionuk
