Iran, Sudan emphasize expansion of bilateral ties
Iran’s Majlis Speaker Ali Larijani and Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir have emphasized the expansion of bilateral ties between Tehran and Khartoum. The two officials met on the sidelines of the 8th General Assembly Meeting of the Islamic Inter-Parliamentary Union (IIPU) in the Sudanese capital on Tuesday and discussed global and regional issues including the Palestinian plight.They also discussed the challenging threats against the Islamic countries and talked about expanding political, cultural and economic ties.  Larijani also met with Sudanese Vice President Ali Osman Taha, discussing the expansion of bilateral economic, political and cultural ties.Both officials emphasized the necessity of political means to resolve regional and international issues and said their countries were against military intervention by foreign countries in the region.
Read More:http://www.presstv.com/
FM: UNSC Will Not Pressure Khartoum
(Sudan Vision) The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has discarded the idea that the UN Security Council will mount pressure on Khartoum when it assesses the Sudan-South Sudan negotiations in an emergency session on Tuesday.  In statements to Sudan Vision the undersecretary of the foreign ministry said that Sudan’s position was positive during the negotiations, citing that the Security Council urges both sides to redouble their efforts to reach a settlement on all files.  Earlier Sudan stressed the importance of keeping the problems and solutions between Sudan and South Sudan within Africa and rejected any attempts to take them beyond Africa, in its belief in Africa’s will to resolve all disputes between the countries. The undersecretary described the Security Council’s meeting as a normal procedure being held after every round of negotiations between the two states.
Read More:http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/
Sudanese security agents break into home of opponent in capital
(Sudan Tribune) Sudanese security services have broken into the home of a local official of the Sudanese Communist Party (SCP) in Omdurman and seized a number of documents and electronic devices in what appears to be an attempt to increase pressure on opposition parties, In a press release issued on Monday, the SCP condemned the search operation, adding that security agents stormed the house of Ali Al-Kanein, organisational secretary of its branch in Omdurman, without any legal authorisation.  The opposition party said the sharp increase of repressive measures against political forces comes after the signing of the ‘New Dawn’ charter between opposition parties and rebels groups on 5 January.
Read More:http://www.sudantribune.com/
JEM Reiterates Refusal to Join Darfur Peace Talks in Doha
(All Africa) The Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) has reiterated its refusal to join the talks in Doha on the basis of the Doha Document for Peace in Darfur (DDPD).  Jibril Adam Bilal described the document a “disaster for Sudan, especially for Darfur”, when speaking to Radio Dabanga from London on Monday, 21 January.  The spokesman said he met with a committee in charge of communicating with non-signatory parties and encourage them to join the Doha peace process.  Siddig Wada’a, a Darfur businessman is the leader of the committee that consists of 12 members. He was appointed in November 2012 by Dr. Tijani Sese, head of the Darfur Regional Authority and of the Liberation and Justice Movement (LJM).  Besides, JEM is a coalition member of the Sudan Revolutionary Front (SRF) and a signatory of the New Dawn Charter, which aims at overthrowing the regime in Khartoum.
Read More:http://allafrica.com/
