حركة العدل و المساواة السودانية
Justice & Equality Movement Sudan (JEM)
26April 2018
Mr. António Guterres
Secretary-General
United Nations
RE:Concerns over the 2018 Report of the Secretary-General on Conflict-Related Sexual Violence
Onbehalf of the Justice and Equality MovementSudan(JEM), I write to expressmy shock and great concernregardingthe inclusion of JEM as a “partycredibly suspected of committing or being responsible for patterns of rape or other forms of sexual violence in situations of armed conflict”in the Annex to the 2018 Report of the Secretary-General on Conflict-Based Sexual Violence(“2018Report”).JEM has alwaysstaunchly opposed any form of sexual violence and has undertaken everyreasonableeffort to prevent and combat sexual violence, not only among its own members but also with its allies in the Sudan Revolutionary Front and Sudan Call.
Since 2012, JEM has issued and renewed express Command Orders providing for, among other things, theprohibition of sexual violence.  In fact,JEM most recently issued a Renewed Command Order prohibiting sexual violence in January 2018 as part of a Command Order regarding the protection of children.These Command Orders build upon and reinforce the JEM Penal Code and the JEM Forces Organization Law, which provide for the prohibition of and punishment for the commitment of crimes of sexual violence by JEM members.
Moreover, in accordance withitsestablished Operational Mechanisms andAction Plans, JEM has maintained committees to oversee and monitor adherence to its moral and international legal obligations, and JEM has no record of a single incidence ofsexual violence crimeshaving beencommitted byone ofitsmembers(armedor non-armed).
The Leadership of JEM has always maintained a firm commitment to the protection of women and the prohibition of sexual violence.  JEM has thus never wavered from its obligation to uphold international norms and standards governing conflict-related sexual violence, and JEM has adhered to all relevant Security Council resolutions.
It is thusquiteconcerning that the 2018 Report has identified JEM as being credibly suspected as a perpetrator of such egregious crimes in Sudan and South Sudan, despite JEM having no recorded instances ofconflict-relatedsexual violence committed by its members and the lack of any explicit evidence or explanation to thateffect in the 2018 Report.
The news about JEM beingaccused of sexual violencein the 2018 Reporthas already been spread across the Sudanese and international media, with the Government of Sudan-backed news outlets using these claims as part of a broader campaign to defame JEM and tarnish its image in the midst of the ongoing Darfur peace process.
We, therefore,earnestly requestthat the 2018 Report be amendedso thatit no longer identifiesJEM as a party suspected of committing sexual violence in situations of armed conflict.
Thank you sincerely for your attention to this serious matter and your commitmentto ensuring that the 2018 Report is based onsubstantiatedevidence so that the correct actors are held accountable.
Sincerely
Gibril Ibrahim
Chairperson
Justice and Equality MovementSudan
CC:
