(LONDON) — The Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) has called on the head of the African Union United Nations mission in Darfur (UNAMID) to resign after the death of several people in a local unrest involving Sudanese police and peacekeepers
A simple altercation between the police, traders and vendors over the relocation of a local market led to the death of five people (3 in the market and 2 outside UNAMID site) in the vicinity of Kabkabiya, at 130 kilometers west of El Fasher, North Darfur.
However more violence occurred after the tragic outcome of the incident and the visit of UNAMID chief Ibrahim Gambari and head of Darfur Regional Authority Tijani El-Sissi to the area provoked more protests. Reportedly, two more people were killed when the protesters attempted to force their way into UNAMID compound to hand a letter to the head of the mission.
JEM Secretary for foreign relations,Ahmed Hussein Ahmed, denounced the silence of the international community particularly the United Nations Security Council, over the incident and urged to dispatch a fact finding mission to the region to investigate the incident.
He underscored that the peacekeeping mission was involved in the death of locals, adding that 4 people were killed by the UNAMID soldiers.
“We also urge the resignation of Ibrahim Gambari because he was there when some civilians were killed or injured by the peacekeepers,” said Adam. “And if he refuses we call on the Security Council to dismiss him,” he further said.
Darfur lawyers Association condemned the incident of Kabkabiya and called to form an independent and neutral commission to investigate the circumstances of the death and stressed that such body should not include Sudanese government or the UNAMID as they are both accused of being part in the dispute.
The rebel official went further to say that the Council should not only probe the incident but also has to investigate the performances of the UNAMID, pointing out that the “leadership of the Mission” has overlooked its mandate (protection of civilians) and become an ally of the Sudanese government.
Adam wondered why all this international mobilization for the victims of repression and violence in Syria and ignorance for Darfur civilians. “as if the Syrian blood is different from Darfurian blood,” he further said..
He also underscored that UN soldiers have no immunity for crimes they commit, and urged a quick move from the Security Council. He also emphasized that the Mission is now part of the crisis in the region.
on 29 March, Gambari issued a statement defending his position after statements by North Darfur officials accusing the UNAMID of having a responsibility in the incidents of Kabakabiya and the death of some civilians.
“UNAMID has confirmed that it did not attempt to harm any member of the population during the demonstrations in front of its camp this past Tuesday and Wednesday. Seven UNAMID peacekeepers were injured when protestors tried to force entry into the UNAMID compound” said a statement released by the hybrid operation.
The peacekeeping mission said Gambari offered UNAMID’s mediation support to resolve the conflict. It disclosed that “a multi-disciplinary assessment mission” will be sent soon to investigate its soldiers. Also said another joint mission with Sudanese authorities will be formed to probe the dispute.
(ST)
