JEM: Sudan’s vice president mobilising Darfur tribal militias
(Sudan Tribune) Sudan’s rebel Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) has accused second vice-president Hassabo Mohamed Abdel-Rahman of leading a campaign to arm Darfur tribes and described him as “warlord”. JEM’s secretary of social affairs, Babiker Abakr Hassan Hamadain, said in a press release on Monday that Khartoum continues to mobilise Darfur tribes on a social basis besides targeting certain ethnicities on the same basis.He pointed to the grave crimes committed by government militias led by Mohamed Hamadan Dalgo in southeast of South Darfur state capital of Nyala and north of the North Darfur state capital of El-Fashir, saying Hassabo was appointed as vice-president in order to become the official sponsor of tribal militias. Hamadain disclosed that Hassabo’s militias committed heinous crimes including mass killings, looting, and burning of villages, saying a rational regime would neither recruit militias on tribal bases nor adopt a racial combat doctrine.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
EU, Italy launch health programme in eastern Sudan
(Radio Dabanga) The National Museum of Sudan in Khartoum hosted the launch ceremony of the new health services programme in eastern Sudan today. The programme, “Promoting Qualitative Health Services in Eastern Sudan,” is funded by the European Union and will be implemented by the Italian Development Cooperation – Embassy of Italy. The event was attended by Assistant of the President, Musa Mohamed Ahmed, diplomats and hundreds of Sudanese guests related to health services in Sudan, according to a joint statement of the Delegation of the European Union to Sudan and the Embassy of Italy-Italian Cooperation issued today. The main goal of the EU-Italian project is to increase the access and improve quality of health care for the most vulnerable communities and improve efficiency of health system in Eastern Sudan. The new project amounts to 12,8 million Euros, totally funded by the EU, and will be implemented by the Italian Cooperation in Kassala, Gedaref, and the Red Sea States until 2016.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Sudan’s DUP calls for establishing a national transitional government
(Sudan Tribune) The Sudanese Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) led by Mohamed Osman al-Mirghani has laid out its view on the national dialogue initiative announced by the Sudanese president Omer Hassan Al-Bashir earlier this year. The DUP urged the government to declare general amnesty for the rebel groups in Darfur, South Kordofan, and Blue Nile besides allowing public freedoms and declaring an immediate ceasefire as of today as an essential part of the requirements for creating environment conducive for dialogue.The DUP’s spokesperson, Ibrahim al-Mirghani, said they proposed dividing the dialogue agendas into three main categories including national principles, urgent national issues, and the implementation mechanisms, underscoring the need for establishing a national interim government to carry out tasks of the transitional period.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
Darfuri students threaten boycott of University of Khartoum
(Radio Dabanga) The Darfuri students at the University of Khartoum have threatened to boycott their studies, if the authorities will not immediately start an investigation into the killing of student Ali Abakar Musa Idris on 11 March. The students consider the murder of Idris a national issue, the Darfur Students’ Association said in a press statement on Sunday. The Association, in its statement, condemned the excessive violence against peacefully demonstrating students at the University of Khartoum, which led to the death of Ali Abakar Musa Idris, and the wounding of several other students. It also denounced the “systematic targeting of Darfuri university students and the denial of their access to the students’ dormitories”.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
More than 1,000 dead in 2013 tribal clashes in Central Darfur(Radio Dabanga) Since the armed conflicts between the Salamat and Misseriya tribes erupted in the locality of Um Dukhun, Central Darfur, last year, more than a thousand people have died, the Governor of Central Darfur reported to the press on Sunday. El Shartai Jaafar Abdel Hakam Ishag reiterated his call to the warring parties to “renounce the fighting and uphold a sustainable peace”. He attributed the violation of the reconciliation agreement between the two tribes signed in Zalingei on 1 July 2013, to their tribesmen’s intransigence during conflicts, and their “denial of the Islamic law”.Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
More than 1,000 dead in 2013 tribal clashes in Central Darfur
(Radio Dabanga) Since the armed conflicts between the Salamat and Misseriya tribes erupted in the locality of Um Dukhun, Central Darfur, last year, more than a thousand people have died, the Governor of Central Darfur reported to the press on Sunday. El Shartai Jaafar Abdel Hakam Ishag reiterated his call to the warring parties to “renounce the fighting and uphold a sustainable peace”. He attributed the violation of the reconciliation agreement between the two tribes signed in Zalingei on 1 July 2013, to their tribesmen’s intransigence during conflicts, and their “denial of the Islamic law”.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
