The Sudan Justice and Equality Movement (JEM)www.sudanjem.com[email protected]
GoS proceeds to execute JEM prisoners held in KhartoumA Statement from JEM/SRF
In a blatant breach of international laws and previous agreements signed by the Khartoum government, GoS has now renewed its procedures for carrying out death sentences on members of JEM held in the capital.  Following JEM invasion of the capital in May 2008, a number of Darfuris were arrested and issued with death sentences in the usual Kangaroo court trials.  Some of those prisoners of war belonged to JEM fighters but others were innocent Darfuris who have nothing to do with JEM.
In march 2009, JEM signed the Good Will Agreement that included release of all POWs held by the two parties.  JEM released all POWs under its captivity.  GoS released a few but kept some of them in jail to this day.  It is these PPWs and who were “pardoned” by Al-Bashir who are the subject of this message.
Following the recent Heglig conflict, Khartoum government made an appeal to its Supreme Court to review the case of JEM POWs under its captivity.  It is to be noted Heglig was occupied and later v vacated by the SPLM-South and not JEM as affirmed several times by Mr. Kiir, President of South Sudan.
According to our intelligence, the Supreme Court ordered release of one POW belonging to JEM.  The man, by the name Abdel Razig was released few days ago but no reason given for his release.  In an attempt of selective murder, the Supreme Court cleared the way for execution of three (JEM) prisoners of war who allegedly took part in JEM invasion of 2008.   Names of the three war prisoners have not been declared.
JEM condemns the Khartoum government for this callous behaviour that clearly contravenes international law and is equally in breach of the Good Will Agreement, not the pardon issued by a presidential decree.
JEM appeals to the UN and other humanitarian organisations to exert utmost pressure on the Khartoum government and ensure safety of our POWs in the capital.
Gibriel BilalSpokesperson for JEM19/06/2012
