(Radio Dabanga) The security service in Omdurman used tear gas against the demonstrators, and beat them, after they attended the commemoration of the killed student which was held on Friday. At least two demonstrators were injured by the security.110 Darfuri students were arrested in Khartoum. A witness told Radio Dabanga that thousands of citizens in Umbadda in Omdurman participated in the memorial service of Ali Abakar Musa Idris, a student at the Faculty of Economics at the University of Khartoum, who was assassinated by security forces during protests on Tuesday. The service was led by the family of the deceased, students, university professors, political figures, and civil society organisations. The memorial place was surrounded by hundreds of heavily armed vehicles of the security service, the source said. After the memorial service, the crowd started demonstrating for the departure of the Khartoum regime. The security service and police forces used tear gas against the demonstrators, and beat them, injuring at least two people. “The police has taken 300 Darfuri students into custody since the events on Tuesday, and released 190 of them so far. 110 remain in detention”, Ahmed Ali Ahmed, spokesman of the Darfur Students’ Association, told Radio Dabanga.
Source: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Air traffic affected by strike at Khartoum airport
(Sudan Tribune) Khartoum International Airport (KIA) has witnessed a state of utter chaos and confusion following a strike by the security personnel which affected scheduled flight arrival and departure times for several hours. The security staff staged a sit-in for 8 hours and disabled safety devices in protest of the KIA administration’s decision to hire a private company to run the security work at the airport. Eyewitnesses affirmed that scuffles and altercations took place between old and new security personnel.
Source: http://www.sudantribune.com/
Two bloggers Khartoum arrested by Sudan security
(Radio Dabanga) Security officers of Sudan have arrested two bloggers after raiding their premises, relatives confirmed. Abdelmoneim Adam, a lawyer and blogger, was taken on Thursday from his office in Suq al Arabi by ten national security officers. On the same day, in Burri-residential area, seven security officers came to arrest Ghazi Alrayah El Zaghuri. He is the brother of a pharmacist who was killed by the security forces during the September 2013 demonstrations when thousands of citizens protested the hike in fuel prices. Both were writing about the protest of students last week, when the security forces killed one student. Both bloggers have been brought to an unknown location. They have been denied access to counsel. The international human rights organization, Freedom House, calls on Sudan’s government to immediately release Abdelmoneim Adam.
Source: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
