‘Limited riots at university’: Khartoum police
(Radio Dabanga) The police of Khartoum released a statement today on the ”incident” this afternoon at the University of Khartoum. Two wounded students were transferred to the hospital, where one of them died. The Sudanese Committee of Solidarity with the Victims of the September Demonstrations confirmed that one student was killed, and others were wounded in attacks by security forces on Darfuri students at the University of Khartoum. According to the statement issued by the police of Khartoum “limited riots erupted this afternoon at the University of Khartoum, instigated by students from Darfur.” The police prevented the rioting students to go out to the streets, using tear gas.
After the students’ return to the campus, the police stayed on guard outside the university buildings. There they learned that two students were wounded inside the campus. Both were transferred to a hospital, where one of them died.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
One dies as troops fire on Darfuri students in Khartoum
(Radio Dabanga) A Darfuri student of the University of Khartoum was shot dead by security forces on Tuesday. Other students were injured. Darfuri students had organised a political meeting within the university premises, condemning the silence of the Sudanese government about the ongoing violence against civilians in Darfur. When they went to the streets in a peaceful march, security troops opened fire on them. Speaking to Radio Dabanga, multiple sources reported that the security forces used excessive violence during and after the meeting, when the students went to the streets in a march to hand a memorandum against the violence in Darfur to the UN representative in Khartoum. The security forces used batons, tear gas, and live bullets to disperse the demonstrators.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Sudanese government prepares to crush rebels in North Darfur
(Sudan Tribune) The Sudanese government has issued a directive to crush the rebel Sudan Liberation Movement/ Minni Minnawi (SLM-MM) and force it out of areas it controlled in the east of North Darfur state within the coming 72 hours. A meeting was held to discuss the deteriorating security situation in the state which was attended by Sudan’s 2nd Vice President Hassabo Abdel-Rahman, minister of interior Abdel-Wahid Youssef, defense minister Abdel-Rahim Mohamed Hussein, governor of North Darfur state Youssef Kibir, and the director of the National Intelligence and Security Services (NISS) Mohamed Atta Abbas al-Moula. Sources told Sudan Tribune that the quintet meeting approved crushing of SLM-MM militarily within 72 hours and restoring the four localities of Haskanita, Al-li’ait Jar Al-Nabi, Al-Tiwaisha, and Kalmando which fell at the hands of the SLM-MM over a week ago.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
AUHIP chairman meets with Sudan Revolutionary Front leaders
(Radio Dabanga) The chairman of the African Union High-Level Panel (AUHIP), Thabo Mbeki, on Sunday held talks in Addis Ababa with three representatives of the Sudan Revolutionary Front (SRF, an alliance of opposition groups and armed movements) on solutions for the crises in Sudan. El Tom Hajo, SRF Head of Media, told Radio Dabanga from Addis Ababa that the meeting, which lasted for an hour and a half, focused on SRF’s vision on a comprehensive and fair solution for the crises in Sudan, its rejection of partial solutions, and the importance of unifying the Darfur and South Kordofan/Blue Nile negotiation platforms. The three SRF leaders, Dr Jibril Ibrahim of the Justice and Equality Movement (JEM), Minni Minawi, leader of the Sudan Liberation Movement, MM faction, and El Tom Hajo, of the Democratic Unionist Party, handed Mbeki a paper clarifying the details of their vision on a comprehensive solution, and the requirements to create a conducive environment for a national dialogue.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
