Memorandum of Understanding
The Sudan People Liberation Movement (SPLM)
And
The Awakening Revolutionary Council (ARC)
After a series of meetings and consultations between the SPLM and the ARC, under the leadership of Musa Hilal, the parties agreed to the following;
1-      To work together to end the state of wars in all part of Sudan.
2-      To work together to end the totalitarian system of governance and replace it with a democratic system.
3-      To work together to establish a State based on citizenship and equal rights and duties without discrimination.
4-      To work together to put an end to the divide and rule policies and marshalstribes against each other.
5-      To work together to remedy the social fabric which was ruptured by the policies of salvation government gang and thus created animosity and grievances between the sons and daughters of the Sudan.
6-      To work together to strengthen the honest brotherly relations between all Sudanese.
7-      To safeguard the unity of the people and land of the Sudan based on the principle of equal rights for all.
8-      The establishment of balanced relations between the center and the regions.
9-      The establishment of a State that is based on institutions and good governance by adopting a constitutional reform process that answer the question of how to rule the Sudan.
10-  The call for national dialogue requires a conducive environment including; the cessation of war, safeguard of freedoms and the agreement on the details of the transitional period.
Moreover, the parties stressed the necessity for the ARC to  continue its serious and deep negotiations and dialogue with the SRF, NCF and other political forces in order to reach a consensus and a shared vision that can take the Sudan to a just and comprehensive peace and democratic transformation. The parties also pledged to develop their bilateral relations on all level and work side by side with all other forces of change and those interested in ending the wars and reaching a just peace.The parties also agreed to prepare for a high level meeting that brings together their leadership to operationalize all shared objectives. The parties also voiced their support for reconciliation between tribes in Darfur and the Sudan in order to reach a just and comprehensive peace.JagoudMukwarMoudaSPLMIsmail AgbashAwakening Revolutionary Council10/07/14
Moreover, the parties stressed the necessity for the ARC to  continue its serious and deep negotiations and dialogue with the SRF, NCF and other political forces in order to reach a consensus and a shared vision that can take the Sudan to a just and comprehensive peace and democratic transformation. The parties also pledged to develop their bilateral relations on all level and work side by side with all other forces of change and those interested in ending the wars and reaching a just peace.
The parties also agreed to prepare for a high level meeting that brings together their leadership to operationalize all shared objectives. The parties also voiced their support for reconciliation between tribes in Darfur and the Sudan in order to reach a just and comprehensive peace.JagoudMukwarMoudaSPLMIsmail AgbashAwakening Revolutionary Council10/07/14
The parties also agreed to prepare for a high level meeting that brings together their leadership to operationalize all shared objectives. The parties also voiced their support for reconciliation between tribes in Darfur and the Sudan in order to reach a just and comprehensive peace.
JagoudMukwarMoudaSPLMIsmail AgbashAwakening Revolutionary Council10/07/14
JagoudMukwarMouda
SPLM
Ismail Agbash
Awakening Revolutionary Council
10/07/14
