Mr. Ban Ki-moonUN Secretary-GeneralNew York, United StatesMassive Atrocities are being committed in SudanDear Mr. Ban Ki-moon,The last few weeks have become some of the darkest in Sudan’s recent history. General Omar AlBeshir, who  has been indicted for war crimes in Darfur, is not only using his regime to pursue conflicts on multiple fronts  Through-out the country, but is also now using indiscriminate force to attack peaceful protesters in many of the major  cities throughout Sudan.The latest of wave of protests has been a long time in the making. Recent austerity measures have triggered massive  demonstrations in all corners of Sudan, from Nyala in Darfur, to Port Sudan in the furthest East. The capital,  Khartoum and its surrounding areas have been engulfed in continuous demonstrations. Unarmed civilians, peacefully  exercising their rights which are clearly stipulated in Sudan’s Transitional Constitution of 2005, have borne the  brunt of the crackdown by security forces.Faced with an upsurge of discontent, the government of General Albeshir has resorted to unprecedented violent means  to suppress non-violent demonstrations. Security personnel, militias and legions of  vigilantes have been allowed to roam the streets, terrorizing the population and shooting demonstrators at  will. As a result, over two hundred unarmed civilians have been killed; thousands of people have disappeared and are  languishing incommunicado in undisclosed locations, without due process of the law or access to their families. Among  the detainees are elderly citizens who are in dire need of urgent medical care.Time is of the essence for your immediate intervention. The regime of General Albeshir is well versed in extrajudicial  methods for extracting intelligence and confessions by torture. Hence, we are gravely concerned and respectfullyask for the following:1. Thorough and comprehensive investigation by a UN commission into the wanton killing of well over 200  civilians. Their families and the general public demand to receive reports of the coroner and medical doctors who  conducted the autopsy.2. We call on the UN Commissioner for Human Rights to investigate the detention conditions of over  1000 detainees and to demand their immediate and unconditional release;3. Disclosure of burial sites where scores of martyrs were secretly buried;4. Immediate restoration of fundamental freedoms as stipulated by Sudan’s 2005 Transitional  Constitution and UN instruments on human rights.The people of the Sudan are immensely grateful for your continuous attention and concern in their quest for peace,  democracy and justice. We respectfully appeal to you to use your good offices to keep the regime of General Albeshir incheck.With my very best wishes for a good health, I remainYours sincerely,Farouk AbueissaChairman of the Alliance of NationalConsensus (Sudan main opposition alliance)
