Militiamen kill, rape displaced in North Darfur
(Radio Dabanga) – Pro-government militiamen shot dead a displaced man near Korma, North Darfur, on Thursday afternoon. Four others were wounded. The men ordered the camp residents to stop tending the surrounding farms. Militia elements also raped a displaced girl in Kutum locality on Thursday, and injured three others severely. A witness and activist from Shoba camp in El Fasher locality told Radio Dabanga that ten militia members, riding on the backs of five camels, stormed the camp at 6 pm.
Read more:https://www.radiodabanga.org/node/77804
Sudan’s ruling party rejects transitional government
(Sudan Tribune) – Sudan’s ruling National Congress Party (NCP) has hinted at the possibility of forming a broad-based government to implement a national program, reiterating its categorical rejection of opposition calls for the establishment of a transitional government. Al-Youm Al-Tali daily newspaper quoted a leading figure at the NCP who preferred to stay anonymous as saying that his party has already approved the 2015 elections plan, stressing “they insist on holding elections on time in order to avoid a constitutional vacuum”. He added the NCP would run in the elections along with the political forces that are willing to participate in the process.
Read more:http://www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?article51890
Sudan’s PCP leader demands 2015 elections be delayed
(Sudan Tribune) – The leader of Sudan’s Popular Congress Party (PCP), Hassan al-Turabi, said his party participated in the national dialogue in order to return “power to the people”, disclosing he demanded the government delay the 2015 elections. Turabi, who delivered a Eid al-Fitr sermon at a mosque in his native village on Monday, said they accepted president, Omer Hassan Al-Bashir, initiative for national dialogue in order to return power to the Sudanese people, stressing he asked the government to extend elections date to allow political parties contact their bases.
Read more:http://www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?article51858
Islamist radical group vows to punish Sudanese religious and security figures
(Sudan Tribune) – A Sudanese radical Islamist group calling itself “Hamza Group for Preaching and Jihad” issued a statement today vowing to target media and religious figures along with officers at the National Intelligence and Security Services (NISS). The group did not name the three NISS officers but said that they are ones who specialized in targeting Jihadist groups namely the Dandar extremist cell which was apprehended in late 2012 following a bloody clash with authorities.
Read more:http://www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?article51898
Sudanese woman who had faced execution for conversion arrives in U.S.
(Reuters)- A Sudanese woman who was sentenced to death for converting from Islam to Christianity, then detained after her conviction was quashed, arrived in the United States on Thursday. Mariam Yahya Ibrahim arrived in Manchester, New Hampshire, where she has relatives and where she was greeted by a crowd of people from the local Sudanese immigrant community who sang and handed her bunches of flowers.
Read more:http://af.reuters.com/article/sudanNews/idAFL2N0Q63FI20140801
‘2,400 displaced need aid in Sudan’s South Kordofan’: HAC
(Radio Dabanga) – About 2,400 people in South Kordofan, who fled from the fighting between Sudanese government forces and the rebels, are in need of humanitarian aid. Most of them have come from El Abassiya and Rashad localities, and Abu Kershola, north-east of state capital Kadugli, Sudan’s Humanitarian Aid Commission (HAC) reported. Several areas west of Rashad town were bombed by the Sudanese Air Force from 13 to 18 April this year, which resulted in waves of displacement.
Read more:https://www.radiodabanga.org/node/77859
