EUROPEAN UNION NEWS DIGESTMilitias expelled from North Kordofan arrive in South Darfur
(Radio Dabanga) The residents of the Nyala camps for the displaced have been living in fear for about a week, after large numbers of militiamen arrived and settled at Wadi Bileil, between Kalma and El Salam camps. Speaking to Radio Dabanga, Hussein Abu Sharati, the spokesman for the Association of Displaced People and Refugees of Darfur said that large numbers of “government-backed militiamen” in 400 Land Cruisers loaded with heavy weapons arrived a week ago in South Darfur. The gunmen came from North Kordofan where they were expelled, and sent to North and South Darfur. The presence of huge numbers of militiamen near the camps are affecting the displaced daily live, Abu Sharati explained. “They cannot leave the camps anymore to fetch firewood or to cultivate their farmlands.”
Source: https://www.radiodabanga.org/node/67037
Sudan government-SPLM-N negotiations suspended for ten days
(Radio Dabanga) AU mediator, former South African President Thabo Mbeki, has decided to suspend the current negotiation round between the Sudanese government and the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement-North (SPLM-N), for a period of ten days. The negotiations collapsed on Sunday as both parties adhered to its position. “The Sudanese government rejects a comprehensive solution for the whole of Sudan, and the SPLM-N rejects a partial solution for South Kordofan and Blue Nile States only,” Episcopal Bishop Andodo Adam El Nil of the Diocese of South Kordofan’s capital of Kadugli told Radio Dabanga from Addis Ababa on Tuesday.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Pregnant teenager alleging gang-rape charged with adultery in Sudan
(The Guardian) A pregnant teenager who says she was gang-raped has been charged with adultery in Sudan, and faces a possible sentence of death by stoning. The 18-year-old Ethiopian, who is nine months pregnant, is being held in a police cell and until recently was sleeping on a bare concrete floor without a mattress or suitable food or clothing, according to the Strategic Initiative for Women in the Horn of Africa (SIHA) network. SIHA accused Sudan of discriminating against the alleged victim because she is both a woman and a migrant, and demanded her immediate release or transfer to hospital. The young divorcee claims that last August, when she was about three months pregnant, she was lured to an empty property in the capital, Khartoum, and violently gang-raped by seven men. She reported the incident to a police officer at the time, but he decided against pursuing an investigation.
Read More: http://www.theguardian.com/
Al-Turabi: We Are Seeking to Settle Differences with NCP Peacefully
(Sudan Vision) The Secretary General the opposition Popular Congress Party (PCP) Dr. Hassan Al-Turabi has reiterated his party’s welcome of President Al Bashir’s call for dialogue with political forces.Al-Turabi called upon all political forces to meet through available means to schedule contentious and debate how to overcome them. Al-Turabi, who met with European Union (EU) ambassadors at his house on Monday, told reporters following the meeting that he explained to his NCF allies the motives behind his party’s decision to accept the NCP call for dialogue, affirming differences with the NCF have been settled.
Source: http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/
