(Radio Dabanga) The fighting between Salamat and Misseriya that erupted on Thursday in Um Dukhun locality, Central Darfur, continued on Saturday. More than 100 tribesmen were killed and wounded in the area of Muradaf, 8km north of Um Dukhun town. The Central Darfur State Governor, Jaafar Abdel Hakam Ishag, confirmed to Radio Dabanga that large clashes took place between the Misseriya and Salamat on Saturday. He could not give an indication about the number of deaths and wounded, “as the counting has not been completed yet”.
Read More:https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Sudan: Tribal clashes kill more than 100
(Radio Tamazuj) Fighting between two Arab nomadic tribes in western Sudan has left more than 100 people dead. The major clashes in central Darfur continued for several days. The fighting between the Salamat and Misseriya tribes erupted on Thursday in Um Dukhun locality, Central Darfur, and continued until Saturday.On Saturday the fighting shifted to an area called Muradaf, about 8km north of Um Dukhun town. Multiple sources reported that at about 10 a.m. the Misseriya attacked the area, the most important stronghold of the Salamat in the region.Read More:https://radiotamazuj.org/
Sudanese GOAL staff missing in Darfur(RTE) Workers went missing in Sudan’s Darfur region which has been experiencing its worst violence in a decade. Irish aid agency GOAL has said it is working with the relevant authorities in Sudan to locate two of its Sudanese aid workers. They are among three people missing following an incident in the Darfur region earlier this week. GOAL has said three of its local staff members and a Sudanese national working with another agency were abducted by an unknown group while travelling by vehicle on Wednesday. The driver of the vehicle, a GOAL staff member, was later released, but the other three aid workers remain unaccounted for.
Read More:http://www.rte.ie/
UN rights experts receives Sudan’s official report on September protests
(Sudan Tribune) The United Nations Independent Expert on the situation of human rights in Sudan Mashood Baderin received a report from the Sudanese Ministry of Justice about the protests of last September. At least 200 protesters died, 15 of them children, and more than 800 others have been detained. The government puts the death toll at 80 and accused Sudan Revolutionary Front (SRF) of involvement. The country’s attorney general Ahmed Mohammed Omer, told Baderin that legal procedures relating to incidents that took place during these protests is proceeding in accordance with the criminal procedure code. The UK ambassador in Khartoum Peter Tibber warned last April against trying to overlook the issue of the September victims in the ongoing national dialogue.
Read More:http://www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?article51436
Sudan’s Umma party insists on revisions to national dialogue process
(Sudan Tribune) The opposition National Umma Party (NUP) warned the Sudanese government that it now faces two choices, either seek a political solution after making revisions to national dialogue process, or dismiss it and focus on the choice of a popular uprising. At a meeting of its politburo, the NUP endorsed its leader al-Sadiq al-Mahdi’s position on the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) and his view that security should be exclusively the task of uniformed forces and not militias. In the same context, Bashir was quoted by a local newspaper on Sunday, as saying that “the supreme interests of the country and its national security is the ceiling at which the freedom of any individual ends, no matter how high their status is”.He challenged anyone to prove alleged violations by the RSF since operating in Darfur, adding that all breaches attributed to them that occurred in northern Kordofan “has occurred in circumstances known to the leadership all of which are now undergoing legal procedures”.
Read More:http://www.sudantribune.com/
South Sudan’s interior minister in Khartoum
(Radio Tamazuj) South Sudan’s Minister of Interior, Wildlife, Conservation, and Tourism General Aleu Ayeny Aleu traveled to Sudan’s capital Khartoum this weekend. We are going to Khartoum to discuss the outstanding issues between the two counties, especially issues of the four freedoms and borders,” he said. Aleu was accompanied by a high level delegation including two directors of the Migration, Passports and Nationality, and Customs services.
Read More:https://radiotamazuj.org/
Eastern Sudan Reconstruction and Development Fund does not work’: MP(Radio Dabanga) Parliamentarians and scholars from eastern Sudan have accused the Eastern Sudan Reconstruction and Development Fund (ESRDF) of a bad performance and lacking transparency. Member of the Parliamentary Caucus for eastern Sudan Mohamed El Taher Osham said that the projects being carried out in eastern Sudan “are missing any feasible development value”, in his lecture at a workshop on the performance of the ESRDF in Khartoum on Thursday. The MP appealed to the eastern Sudan parliamentary caucus and civil society organisations to act urgently by submitting a memorandum to President Omar Al Bashir about the performance of the Eastern Sudan Reconstruction Fund. Ahmed Ibrahim Onur, professor at the Faculty of Administrative Sciences of the University of Khartoum, criticised the defective implementation of projects too in his contribution to the workshop. He also accused the ESRDF of being not transparent regarding the finances of the Fund. “
Read More:https://www.radiodabanga.org/
38 House Members Write to Kerry about Persecuted Sudanese Christian Meriam Ibrahim(Breibart) 38 members of Congress urged Secretary of State John Kerry to “further prioritize the case of Meriam Yahya Ibrahim Ishag, a Sudanese Christian who was sentenced to death for apostasy and 100 lashes for adultery.” The bi-partisan letter, cc’d to Secretary of Homeland Security, Jeh Johnson, was spearheaded by U.S. Rep. Trent Franks. It is just the latest in a number of efforts in both the House of Representatives and the Senate to help save the life of the young wife and mother, and reunite her and her two children who are incarcerated with her with husband Daniel Wani, an American citizen originally from South Sudan. Meriam and Daniel’s son, Martin, who is almost two years old, has been incarcerated with his mother in Omdurman Women’s Prison since her arrest. The couple’s newborn daughter, Maya, was born in the prison on May 27 while Meriam remained in shackles.
Read More;http://www.breitbart.com/
