National Day of Action for Sudan:  George Clooney at Sudan ProtestOn Tuesday March 16, 2012, Voices for Sudan joined prominent anti-genocide organizations and Sudan advocacy groups for the National Day of Action for Sudan in Washington, DC to draw attention to the serious humanitarian crisis in the Sudan’s conflict regions of Blue Nile and Southern Kordofan, which lie in border area between Sudan and South Sudan. The Sudanese government has been blocking humanitarian aid from reaching the region where hundreds of thousands of people facing starvation in the next months.In his opening remarks at Sheridan Circle, Jimmy Mulla, Voices for Sudan President and Co-founder, called for a moment of silence to pay respect to Representative Donald M. Payne, a friend of Sudan, former chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus and co-chair of Sudan Caucus who died on Tuesday March 6th in Livingston, N.J.Mr. Mulla also stated that although the campaign to end genocide in Sudan has become smaller, he is encouraged by the star power of George Clooney, members of Congress and leading activists who have joined the movement to champion the cause.Along with actor and activist George Clooney, there were several members of congress including Representative Jim McGovern and other human rights and faith leaders who were detained outside the Sudan Embassy in a display of civil disobedience.On March 7, Rep. Jim McGovern introduced the H.R. 4169 Sudan Peace, Security, and Accountability Act of 2012. This piece of legislation calls for a comprehensive U.S. policy on Sudan, something Voices for Sudan has strongly advocated for over the years.  It also would address the humanitarian situation in Blue Nile and Southern Kordofan and allow for tougher sanctions on countries or individuals assisting the Khartoum government. Voices for Sudan is encouraging the community to support this critical piece of legislation and we urge you to call your representative and ask them to co-sponsor the bill today.With your support Voices for Sudan will continue to work with policy makers, major organizations, students, faith groups and other grassroots organizations to provide valuable insights and energize the efforts to achieve justice and peace in Sudan.We need your help.  Please consider pledging a $25 donation today. Your gift will ensure Voices for Sudan is able to keep its doors open and continue to advocate every single day for justice and peace for Sudan and South Sudan.Thank you for supporting our work at this critical time.
VOICES for SUDAN (VFS) is a national organization consisting of a cross section of all Sudanese groups residing in the United States. VFS closely follows developments in both South Sudan and Sudan, advocates for stability, peace and development in the new South Sudan, and seeks to bring an end to the genocidal violence that rages in various regions of Sudan.
Voices for Sudan1413 K Street N.W. #1000 Washington, DC 20005202-440-5392,[email protected]
