Nominations request fo 2012 Human Rights Defenders TulipImportance: High
Dear (Sudanese) colleagues,
We are pleased to inform you that the Netherlands is now taking nominations for the 2012 Human Rights Defenders Tulip and is looking forward to receive nominations of Sudanese Human Rights Defenders.
Anyone is welcome to put forward a candidate between now and 15 June 2012.The award honours people who, in their daily lives, work to promote and protect the rights of their fellow citizens, through peaceful means. The recipient should be a person who has shown exceptional courage and suffered (or runs the risk of suffering) negative consequences as a result of his/her actions as a human rights defender. The honouree should also stand to benefit from the recognition and visibility associated with the award. Please note that only individuals are eligible for the award, not organisations.
Human rights defenders anywhere in the world can be nominated. The winner will be selected by an independent jury. The award consists of a bronze human rights defender’s tulip (a special variety of the flower) and financial support for a human rights project devised by the winner (see the website for financial conditions). In consultation with the winner, a working visit will be organised to coincide with the award ceremony.
Nominations can be submitted online, by email, fax or post. They will only be accepted if accompanied by a completed nomination form and the necessary documents. Submissions can be made in Dutch, English, French or Spanish.  The nomination form is available in these four languages. You can find:www.mensenrechtentulp.nl/simplepage/page/nominations. To learn more, please visitwww.humanrightstulip.orgor contact Chris Collier at the Human Rights Tulip secretariat, by email ([email protected]or phone +31 (0)6 3493 6026).Nomination forms can be downloaded and be submitted by fax, email (preferred):www.mensenrechtentulp.nl/nominationform
For further additional information please do not hesitate to contact Ms. Gerda Vrielink at the Netherlands Embassy in Khartoum:[email protected]
Sincerely,NL embassy in Khartoum/Sudan
