Northern opposition clings to all-inclusive dialogue
by Adam Abkar Ali
In Northern Sudan, the attempts of the National Consensus Force (NCF) in starting an all-inclusive dialogue have been answered by a mixture of rejection, procrastination and manoeuvring, by the National Congress Party (NCP). The NCP seems to be aiming at undermining the unity of the alliance, through conductingfragmented agreements with some parties and making promises of their inclusion in the ruling class.The opposition has declared its readiness to negotiate with the NCP in accordance with the principles of the national agenda. The leader of the NCF, Farouk Abu Issa, said that \”the coalition confirms the NCF\’s unity and commitment to work towards a comprehensive solution to the national crisis.\”
For constantly updated analysis of Northern Sudanese politics check StillSUDAN
Abu Issa refused dialogue on a bilateral basis between any party from the NCF and the NCP, warning against accepting such propositions and said: \”If dialogue takes place, we will present our programme until the end of the transitional period. If not, there is no alternative but overthrowing the NCP.\”
The NCP\’s response was ready, with President Omar al-Bashir describing the opposition as delusional when he said: \”The Sudanese people have proved wrong those who thought that the increase in fuel and sugar prices will lead to outbreaks of demonstrations in the streets.\” The President specified that the Sudanese people accept these increases, which the opposition is using as a weapon to bring down the regime.
In light of the statements issued by each side, signs of resolution of the conflict at hand seem meagre, as the ruling party holds on to its usual position, refusing any dialogue with the opposition concerning the country\’s political affairs.
The head of the Communist Party of Sudan\’s Central Committee, Siddiq Yusif, reiterates the position of the NCF saying: \”We have called for a dialogue according to the national agenda. If the NCP accepts our preconditions for negotiation, we are ready to start the dialogue. If not, the NCP has to bear the consequences of its lack of cooperation.\”
Muhammad Dia al-Din, a member of the national leadership of the Arab Socialist Baath Party, thinks that the NCP is not serious about finding solutions and does not accept negotiations. \”The NCP would like to isolate some of the parties, in order to weaken the coalition and not to reach an agreement with these parties\”, he said, adding: \”We have emphasised that the dialogue is conditional on the provision of freedoms, the release of detainees and the abolition of the price increases, and as such there is no negotiation with the regime unless it is all inclusive\”.
More background information on the political parties at the Electionnaire
Political observers see the meeting, which brought together the chairman of the National Umma Party, Sadiq Al-Mahdi, and President al-Bashir, as a drive away from solving the problems of Sudan. This is especially true at a time when all political forces of the country are standing together, trying to find satisfactory solutions for all, without excluding any party of the Sudanese political spectrum.
Dr. Adam Mohammed Ahmed, professor at the Al-Zaim Al-Azhari University, said that bilateral agreements will not lead to solutions in this critical stage of the country\’s history. \”It is necessary to engage in a comprehensive dialogue that includes all the parties and with concessions from everyone and in particular from the side of the NCP. There are many issues such as the Darfur crisis and the economic crisis that have led to the suffering of the people of Sudan.\”As for Dr. Salah Duma, a political science professor, he believes that bilateral dialogues were designed to achieve hidden agendas and not for meeting popular or national interests. He added that there has been a breach in the ranks of the NCF, and those who committed these violations should be held accountable. He as well speculated on a possible coalition between the NCP and the Umma party.
Dr. Duma added that \”the NCP sees a clear weakness within the ranks of the opposition, which makes it (the NCP) unconcerned with their repeated threats of going down to the streets. The President made the NCP\’s position clear when he mocked the opposition parties and called them delusional for thinking that the Sudanese people will protest against the price increase of fuel and sugar.\”
Read Hassan Farouk\’s \”From Bouazizi to Facebook: Reasons differ but the goal is one\”
These interactions drive political observers to believe that Sudan is on the verge of a new reality which might not be so much determined by what politicians proclaim, but rather by the extent to which the tumult in neighbouring Arab countries is to affect Sudan.
The National Umma Party leader Sadiq Al-Mahdi has categorically denied any tendency towards participating in the base government called for by president al-Bashir, and stressed the need to implement the national agenda, including the redrafting of the constitution, forming a transitional government, and solving the Darfur crisis.
\”We want a realistic discourse and a transitional government\”, Mahdi said, adding: \”Our participation in the government without a guarantee and a real practice of freedoms is not possible.\” Mahdi explained that the question is not about who rules Sudan but how to rule Sudan.
The Democratic Unionist Party\’s section in the United States of America condemned agreeing with the NCP on sharing power and declared their opposition to any action in this direction. The statement issued by the party\’s cadres in the USA accused the party leadership to have disavowed all the principles of the party and its history of struggle against colonialism and dictatorships, thus falling into the arms of the NCP, despite the crimes committed by the party in power, displacing, torturing, repressing, terrorising, and killing its own people, and finally ending with the crime of separating the South from the North.
The statement claims that the party leadership has abandoned its National Salvation Programme and now \”the party itself is about to be sold out\”.
Would the opposition in this atmosphere, be able to affect real change? Or will the NCP be the final winner? These questions wait to be answered in a time where Sudan is reigned by feelings of confusion about an uncertain future to come.
