(Sudan Tribune) South Sudanese president Salva Kiir will visit Khartoum next Saturday for talks with his counterpart Omer Al-Bashir , the Sudanese foreign ministry announced on Tuesday. The spokesperson of the foreign ministry Abu Bakr Al-Sidiq said the one-day visit comes in response to an invitation extended by presidentAl-Bashir during his last visit to Juba in January. Ambassador Sidiq added that Kiir’s visit comes within the framework of the continuous contacts between the leadership of the two countries to enhance bilateral relations.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
North Darfur State convenes emergency meeting
(Radio Dabanga) The North Darfur State government convened an “extended meeting” in El Fasher on Tuesday to discuss an emergency plan for the people affected by the recent attacks of the Rapid Support Forces and other militias on villages in areas near El Fasher. The Governor of North Darfur, Osman Kibir, condemned the “shameful criminal acts recently carried out by outlaws” in the rural areas west and northwest of El Fasher.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Sudanese opposition party rejects ex-vice president call for dialogue
(Sudan Tribune) Sudan’s opposition Sudanese Congress Party (SCoP) has rejected a request to meet with the former First Vice President, Ali Osman Taha, saying it will not engage in the national dialogue without creating the appropriate environment for it. SCoP described the government’s call for dialogue as an attempt to divide the opposition front and weaken Sudanese people struggle for change. The party’s spokesperson, Abu-Bakr Youssef, said in a press release on Tuesday that they had previously declined to meet with the ruling National Congress Party (NCP) to discuss national issues, noting that the regime continues to curtail media and political freedoms.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
Sudanese diplomatic missions subject to inspector general’s authority
(Sudan Tribune) Sudan’s foreign ministry has denied reports alleging financial irregularities at its embassies and underscored that all diplomatic missions are subject to the Inspector General’s authority like any other government institution. It affirmed that government financial procedures and audit measures are applied to all diplomatic posts with the exception of few. The foreign ministry spokesperson, Abu-Bakr al-Sideeg, said in press statements on Tuesday that auditors from the finance ministry are present in all embassies, noting that all diplomatic missions use the same money receipts like any other government unit. The Sudanese parliament had earlier directed the inspector general to audit the financial accounts of the diplomatic missions and investigate financial irregularities and accusations of selling Sudan’s embassy building in Switzerland.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
