Protestors beaten, assaulted in Sudan
(Radio Dabanga) Badroddin El Haj, who was detained on Friday at a demonstration in Aljiraif East says that he and 14 others were beaten with sticks, kicked, bunched and slapped by members of the security forces.  El Haj and other Aljiraif East residents staged a protest against the government selling their lands and changing the name of the area into El Mansheya East.  He told Radio Dabanga that the protesters suffered varying injuries to the head, eyes, ribs, and chest.He also said that the police refused to give them Form 8 for medical treatment.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Al Bashir Leaves for Ethiopia to Participate in African Security Forum
(Sudan Vision) President Omer Al Bashir leaves next Friday, for the Ethiopian town of Bahr Dar, leading the high level delegation participating in the 3rd Forum on Security in Africa which is scheduled to be held during April 26-27 in response to an invitation extended by the Ethiopian Prime Minister, Hailemariam Desalegn.  Press Secretary of the President, Emad Saidahmed said in press statements that the forum which will be attended by the African Head of States will discuss a number of work papers, top of which, a paper on the illegal financial influx and its impacts on African peace and security presented by the Chairman of the African Union High level Committee, Thabo Mbeki.
Read More: http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/
Minawi blames Sudan government for Bentiu massacre
(Radio Dabanga) The head of the Sudan Liberation Movement (SLM) and Deputy-President of the Sudan Revolutionary Front (SRF), Minni Arko Minnawi has accused Khartoum regime, its militias, and the opposition forces in the south of the county of causing last week’s massacre that claimed the lives of more than 400 Darfuris in Bentiu, South Sudan.  Minnawi said that that Khartoum regime has similarly caused a crisis in Mali, the Central African Republic and now in South Sudan today, as the Darfuris have been targeted in a deliberate manner.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Inside Egypt’s new threat: Ansar Beit al Maqdis
The Cairo Court for Urgent Matters ruled that Ansar Beit Al Maqdis be classified as a terrorist organization. A number of Gulf States, led by Saudi Arabia, had already designated the group as terrorist. They were quickly followed by Washington.  Many questions about the structure of Ansar Beit Al Maqdis organization and its links with other salafi jihadist groups and organizations remain unanswered. The network operates on two levels. On the structural level it is led by commanders who have experience operating in Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iraq and Yemen.  They moved from the Asian to the African arena — Somalia, Sudan, Libya, Tunisia, Syria and then Egypt — lured first by the collapse of the tight security that had prevailed in the pre-Arab Spring regimes and then by the rise of the religious right, or the Islamist movements, in the political sphere.  The second level is ideological and shaped, in particular, by Abdallah Azzam, the godfather of Al-Qaeda, and Abu Mohamed Al-Maqdisi a leading Salafist Jihadist ideologue.
Read More: http://www.albawaba.com/node/570818
