Rebels attack militia and army troops in East Jebel Marra
(Radio Dabanga) On Sunday the “Darfur joint resistance forces” repelled an attack by the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF), and attacked a military convoy in East Jebel Marra. The joint rebel forces repelled a RSF attack on East Jebel Marra, and forced them to retreat on Sunday, Mustafa Tambur, the military spokesman for the Sudan Liberation Movement led by Abdel Wahid El Nur (SLM-AW) reported to Radio Dabanga. In the area of Kulkul, north of El Fasher, the capital of North Darfur, 83 Sudanese army and militia troops were killed,and dozens of others injured during an attack by the “Darfur joint resistance forces” at about 5pm on Saturday.
Source: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Sudan: 10,000 Flee Militia Attacks On Darfur’s East Jebel Marra
(All Africa) About 10,000 people, displaced from East Jebel Marra arrived at the area of Tawila town in North Darfur on Saturday. They had fled from attacks by the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces.A Tawila camp sheikh told Radio Dabanga that about 10,000 newly displaced arrived on Saturday evening, coming from the areas of Tarny, Khartoum Belleil, and Konjara in East Jebel Marra.
Source: http://allafrica.com/
Top government officials request meeting with Darfuri tribal leader
(Sudan Tribune) Senior Sudanese officials have made a request to meet the leader of the Darfurian Arab Mahameed clan and MP, Musa Hilal, to convince him to end his undeclared mutiny in North Darfur state and stop bloody attacks carried out by his militias against the army. Hilal’s forces seized five areas in North Darfur state following clashes against government troops over the last few weeks. The tribal leader is currently living in one of those areas after leaving Khartoum a year earlier. Despite this, the government has not taken any measure to strip him of his parliamentary immunity or sack him from public office. Sources say that Hilal’s position is currently closer to the rebel groups than the government, saying he sensed those groups are more serious to achieve real stability in the volatile region. The tribal chief stands accused by many human rights groups of leading a terror campaign against the African tribes in Sudan’s western region of Darfur.
Source: http://www.sudantribune.com/
‘Sudan government destroyed social fabric in Darfur’: El Mahdi
(Radio Dabanga) The president of the National Umma Party (NUP), Sadig El Mahdi, has accused the Sudanese government of “destroying the social fabric in Darfur”. The NUP leader stated at a press conference that the conditions in Darfur have reached the stage of “war of all against all”. The social fabric in the region has been destroyed owing to the policies of the Sudanese government. El Mahdi expected that the situation of “Darfur on fire” will not end soon.“The Abuja and Doha agreements have failed to achieve peace and security.
Source: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Sudan rebel leaders sentenced to death
(Al jazeera) Two leaders from the main rebel alliance fighting Sudan’s president and 15 members of their group were sentenced to death in absentia, their lawyer said, a move that will raise the stakes in fighting in southern regions. Malik Agar, who was governor of Sudan’s remote Blue Nile state before taking up arms, and Yassir Arman, who stood against Sudanese President Omar Hassan al-Bashir in the 2010 elections, both received death sentences, lawyer Altujani Hassan told Reuters on Thursday. “The judge Abdelmonem Youness sentenced (them) over staging a war against the state… and terrorism,” Altujani Hassan said.
Source: http://www.aljazeera.com/
