Rifts and lament of the glorious December Revolution explain as to why the Third Sudanese people’s Revolution is at risk
الخلافات ورثاء ثورة ديسمبرالمجيدة تفسر سبب تعرض ثورة الشعب السوداني الثالث للخطر
By Mahmoud A. Suleiman
And the most dangerous threat to theGlorious DecemberRevolution is the abundance of security chaos, as well as the ongoing disputes between the components of the Sudanese politicalparties,the Forces of Declaration of Freedom and Chang –aka- GHAT-,the armed struggle movements, and some components of the Sudanese people in specific states; Eastern Sudan is not an exception.
While the establishment of the transitional government, with its military and civil componentin Sudan has eased prevailing tensions,butthe military’s share ofupper hand ofpower within it has diminished the possibility of achieving the goals of thePopular Glorious December Revolution, some political observers say.Furthermore, they thought strongly thatthe failure to implement the priorities by the Sudanese transitional government has caused the continuation of serious crises and insecurity in all regions of Sudan.The failure to implement the priorities by the Sudanese transitional government has caused the continuation of serious crises and insecurity in all regions of Sudan, where the priorities are the following:
1) Achieving a just and comprehensive peace in all parts of Sudan
2) Handing over the accused, former members of the ruling regime of the exiled National Congress, wanted by the International Criminal Court in The Hague. This is required more prompt action given the fact that the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court (ICC) Ms. Fatu Bensouda no long ago  has visited Khartoum a while ago in this regard.The list is very long, but the ones really wanted by the International Criminal Court (ICC) are: the ousted President Omer Hassan Ahmed Al-Bashir and his close ally Abdul Rahim Muhammad Husseinand Ahmed Muhammad Haroun and Ali Kushayb, who has surrendered himself to the Court.
3) Improving the citizens’ living conditions
4) Extending security throughout Sudan to eliminate the phenomenon of insecuritywhich is carried out by the fifth column of the remnants of the ousted former regime, its president Omar Al-Bashir
5) Not to engage in military confrontation with neighboring countries such as Ethiopia over the Al-Fashaqa area
6) The formation of a new, enlarged, transitional government that distributes the ministerial position equitably according to competence, away from quotas
7) Continuous work to obtain financial resources capable of fighting the black market that operates with US dollars
8) The humanitarian crisis and insecurity occurring in West Darfur State and the capital El Geneina. We must work to restore security and provide basic living provisions for citizens, in addition to providing security by extending the prestige of the state and supporting the governor there.
9)​InSudanJustice Needed for Protester KillingssaystheHumanRights Watch
When will Justice is conducted in Sudan against the criminals belonging to the ousted regime of the Islamic Movement/National Congress Party (NCP) for Retribution which the people of the Darfur region and others have been demanding and waiting for Solong?Is an unanswered question so far.
As the popular proverb says that it is not expected that the shadow of the pole will bestraight,while thepoleis crookedfromits origin!They also say that people follow the doctrines of their presidents and leaders, regardless of the degree of their authority. Therefore, there is no surprise. The people of Sudan have been under thirty years under the rule of a dictator like the notorious Omer al-Bashir and his criminal entourage wanted by the International Criminal Court (ICC).
It seems that there are no magical solutions in the near future to modify the warp in the course of the revolution except by implementing the demands of the popular revolution mentioned above.This is not possible without making concessions from everyone in order for Sudan to remain united and prevent further fragmentation as South Sudan separated before.
Gary Demonte Chapman the American author and radio talk show host  is most noted for his Five Love Languages series regarding human relationships and  the senior associate pastor at Calvary Baptist Church in Winston-Salem, North Carolina has been quoted as saying: “WHEN WE HOLD HANDS, IT SEEMS AS IF OUR BLOOD FLOWS TOGETHER. WE COULD KISS FOR EVER IF WE DIDN’T HAVE TO GO TO SCHOOL OR WORK”.https://www.google.com/search?q=WHO+IS+GARY+CHAPMAN&rlz=1C1OKWM_enGB936GB936&oq=WHO+IS++GARY+CHAPMAN&aqs=chrome..69i57j0i7i30j0l3.46564j0j4&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8Dr. Mahmoud A. Suleiman is an author, columnist and a blogger. His blog ishttp://thussudan.wordpress.com/
Gary Demonte Chapman the American author and radio talk show host  is most noted for his Five Love Languages series regarding human relationships and  the senior associate pastor at Calvary Baptist Church in Winston-Salem, North Carolina has been quoted as saying: “WHEN WE HOLD HANDS, IT SEEMS AS IF OUR BLOOD FLOWS TOGETHER. WE COULD KISS FOR EVER IF WE DIDN’T HAVE TO GO TO SCHOOL OR WORK”.https://www.google.com/search?q=WHO+IS+GARY+CHAPMAN&rlz=1C1OKWM_enGB936GB936&oq=WHO+IS++GARY+CHAPMAN&aqs=chrome..69i57j0i7i30j0l3.46564j0j4&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8
Dr. Mahmoud A. Suleiman is an author, columnist and a blogger. His blog ishttp://thussudan.wordpress.com/
Dr. Mahmoud A. Suleiman is an author, columnist and a blogger. His blog ishttp://thussudan.wordpress.com/
Dr. Mahmoud A. Suleiman is an author, columnist and a blogger. His blog ishttp://thussudan.wordpress.com/
