Rioters sent to ‘ghost prisons’
(AFP, Herald Sun) The arrests came on yesterday’s anniversary of President Omaral-Bashir’s coup.  The information minister called the protesters “rioters” whothreaten the country’s stability.  “Some were arrested and released,” said anofficial from the Organisation for Defence of Rights and Freedoms.  The group’sfigures indicate a dramatic rise in the number of arrests on Friday, the 14th day ofanti-regime demonstrations sparked by inflation.  “The figure of those arrestedbefore yesterday (Friday) was about 1000 in the whole country,” said the officialwho asked not to be identified because of the tense situation.Many are still beingheld in prisons or “ghost houses,” the location of which is unknown, he alleged.“They don’t tell you where they are. You are not even allowed to ask,” he said.  Oneof those detained was Sudanese journalist Talal Saad, who had taken some freelancephotos of the protests to the AFP bureau in Khartoum on Friday.  Armed nationalsecurity agents raided the bureau, ordered AFP’s correspondent to delete the photosand then detained Saad for almost 24 hours.  Saad called AFP yesterday evening tosay he had been released and was fine.  Police said “some of the rioters” werearrested and would be brought to trial after “small groups” demonstrated in Khartoumand elsewhere.  Police contained the situation “with a minimum use of force,” theysaid.  The Organisation for Defence of Rights and Freedoms said “a few hundred”people were injured during the Friday protests.  Many elderly people were affectedby tear gas, but other injuries came from rubber bullets, tear gas canisters orbeatings, the rights group official said.  Information Minister Ghazi Al-Sadiqissued an appeal for people “not to allow the rioters to undermine security andstability of the Sudan.”  In one key disturbance, witnesses said police fired teargas and rubber bullets to disperse hundreds of peaceful protesters who had gatheredin Hijra Square beside the mosque of the opposition Umma party in Khartoum’s twincity of Omdurman.
