South Sudan rebel chief meets Sudan’s Bashir
(Daily Star) South Sudan’s rebel leader Riek Machar held talks with Sudan’s President Omar al-Bashir Sunday as a deadline passed to end months of civil war in the South. Machar is on his first visit to Khartoum since December when his forces and those loyal to President Salva Kiir began the war which three cease-fires have failed to end. “We have a long history together,”Machar said after briefing Bashir about peace talks in Addis Ababa led by the East African regional block IGAD. “There are some problems in the negotiations,” he told reporters, citing disagreements over whether talks should occur directly with the government or involve broader representation.
Read More:www.dailystar.com.lb
Sudan’s opposition launch international lobby campaign
(Radio Dabanga) – The Sudan Revolutionary Front (SRF) and the National Umma Party (NUP) have agreed to launch an international campaign to lobby for support for ending the violent conflicts in Sudan, and a peaceful transition to democracy. Dr Jibril Ibrahim, Deputy President of the SRF, an alliance of the main Sudanese rebel movements, and the leader of the Darfuri Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) described the meeting between the SRF and the NUP leaders in Paris last week as “historic, frank, and of utmost importance for Sudan and its citizens”.
Read More:https://www.radiodabanga.org
Sudanese government rebuffs SRF cessation of hostilities
(Sudan Tribune) The Sudanese government Saturday has rejected a cessation of hostilities announced by the Sudanese Revolutionary Front (SRF) on Friday and reiterated its demand for a ceasefire agreement.SRF leader Malik Agar on Friday announced a unilateral two-month cessation of hostilities as gesture of good willingness to mark the signing with the opposition National Umma Party (NUP) of Paris Declaration, which calls for peace and democratic reforms in Sudan. “We reiterate our call for a comprehensive ceasefire,” said presidential assistant Ibrahim Gandour, brushing aside the rebel offer when he announced the signing of a framework agreement on the national dialogue with some opposition parties.
Read More:http://www.sudantribune.com/
Govt ‘withdraws responsibility’ for Sudanese in Libya
(Radio Dabanga) The Committee for Sudanese Stranded in Libya has urged the Sudanese government to evacuate its nationals from Libya. The Committee reported in a statement on Friday that apart from the deaths of dozens of Sudanese nationals, there are also dozens of wounded in need of emergency care and medical intervention.
Read More:https://www.radiodabanga.org
Another bombing near MSF hospital in Sudan border region
(Radio Tamazuj) A Sudanese warplane last week dropped a bomb near a medical facility run by Doctors Without Borders (MSF) in the southern Nuba Mountains region. According to an MSF official, the bomb landed 200 metres away from the medical facility. “However, there were no injuries and the hospital sustained no damage, so we cannot confirm whether this was a targeted bombing or not,” the official told Radio Tamazuj. This comes after another bombing of the hospital in Farandalla in mid-June. That bombing injured six people – five villagers and one MSF staff member.
Read More:https://radiotamazuj.org/
Rains bring more destruction to Darfur and Sudan’s capital
(Radio Dabanga) Six people are missing and dozens of homes have collapsed after floods in the area of Birkat Seira on the border between Central and North Darfur on Saturday. In Omdurman, the sister-city of Khartoum, downpours led to the destruction of hundreds of houses on Saturday. The reopening of schools in Khartoum state, closed after the torrential rains on 30 July, has been postponed for a week. A citizen in Nierteti town told Radio Dabanga that the heavy rains destroyed 90 homes in the villages of Wiringa, Dankoj, and Dabanga, and 20 in the neighbouring villages
Read More:https://www.radiodabanga.org/
No suspected Ebola cases reported in Sudan
(Kuwait News Agency) Sudanese Health Minister Bahr Idris Abu Garda affirmed Sunday that no suspected cases of Ebola have been reported in Sudan, saying that there is a number of measures to prevent transmission of the deadly Ebola virus to Sudan. In a press conference Sunday, Abu Garda said that the government has taken preventive measures to prevent the spread of virus in the capital by forming teams on Sudanese borders with other countries and distributing bulletins to train professionals in Sudanese western outlets.
Read More:http://www.kuna.net.kw/
