(Radio Dabanga) Six people were killed and others injured on Monday in a bombardment on Trawa village in South Kordofan. In the period from November to February more than 30 villages were destroyed by government and militia forces. Speaking to Radio Dabanga, multiple sources reported that on Monday afternoon a Sudanese Air Force fighter jet dropped a bomb on the market of Trawa village, Rashad locality in South Kordofan. Six people were killed and many others injured, some of them seriously. One of the sources reported that from November to February more than 30 villages were destroyed in the areas between Jebel Abu Elhassan and Abu Karshola.The villagers were forcibly evacuated by government and militias forces.
Source: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Sudan committed to dialogue with SPLM-N: Al Bashir
(Radio Dabanga) Sudanese President Omer Al Bashir has affirmed Sudan’s commitment to realise peace and stability in South Kordofan and the Blue NileStates, in accordance with the Security Council Resolution 2046. Al Bashir received the chairman of the African Union High-Level Implementation Panel (AUHIP) on Sudan, Thabo Mbeki, in the presence of his advisor, and chairman of the government delegation for the negotiations with the SPLM-N, Dr Ibrahim Ghandour. In a press conference, Dr Ghandour said that the President during the meeting called for speeding up the peace process in Addis Ababa. Al Bashir told Mbeki that participation in the proposed national dialogue necessitates the stoppage of war and an agreement on a comprehensive cease-fire. When these issues are solved, the SPLM-N will be able to an effective political party at the Sudanese political arena, the President stated during the meeting with the AUHIP chairman.
Source: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Khartoum, SPLM-N to resume peace talks in EthiopiaA fresh round of talks between the Sudanese government and representatives of the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement-North (SPLM-N) is due to kick off in Addis Ababa on Thursday, according to Sudan’s top negotiator. “The negotiations would focus on issues relating to Blue Nile and South Kordofan states,” Ibrahim Ghandour told a joint press conference in Khartoum with former South African president Thabo Mbeki, who is mediating the talks. The movement consists of fighters who sided with South Sudan during the civil war, which ended with a 2005 peace treaty that opened the door to South Sudan’s independence in 2011.Source : http://www.turkishpress.com/
Sudan President in DR Congo
(HRW) President Omar al-Bashir of Sudan arrived in the Democratic Republic of Congo today for a conference of the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA), Congolese media reported. Bashir faces charges by the International Criminal Court (ICC) of genocide, war crimes, and crimes against humanity allegedly committed in Darfur, in Sudan. “Congo as an ICC member has an obligation to arrest and transfer President al-Bashir to The Hague, where he is wanted for crimes against humanity and war crimes,” said Georges Kapiamba, president of the Congolese Association for Access to Justice, based in Kinshasa.
Source: http://www.hrw.org/
