(Sudan Tribune) Warplanes allegedly belonging to Sudan Armed Forces (SAF) on Tuesday carried out aerial bombardments, killing at least five civilians in South Sudan’s Northern Bahr el Ghazal state, the spokesperson for South Sudan army (SPLA) said.  Those killed, according to Philip Aguer, were mainly women and children.  SAF spokesperson Al-Sawarmi Khaled said the rebels impose tax on civilians and added that the armed forces will not stand idle to the rebel provocations.Meanwhile, an area member of the South Sudanese parliament has strongly condemned the attack, which he said not only violates the 27 September agreement between the two countries, but also contravenes internationals law on each nation’s sovereignty.Further Reading:www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?iframe&page=imprimable&id
South Sudan accuses Sudan of bombing its territory
(Reuters) JUBA(Reuters)South Sudan said on Wednesday that Sudanese warplanes had bombed its territory, killing one civilian and wounding four others, a fresh setback to plans to resume cross-border oil flows.  Sudan and South Sudan agreed in September to end hostilities and restart vital southern oil exports through Sudan after coming close to war in April, the worst violence since the south became independent in July 2011.  But relations have soured again in the past few days after both sides failed to agree on how to move their forces back from the unmarked joint border, something both had said must happen before oil exports resume.  Analysts say while both governments need the oil they also want to be seen as tough on the other side to shore up domestic support.Further Reading:http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/11/21/us-southsudan-sudan-
Sudan army denies link to unrest in Darfur flashpoint
(AFP) Sudan’s army on Tuesday denied any connection with unrest in the Hashaba region of Darfur, where a peacekeeper died in an ambush after the US said dozens of civilians were killed.  Sawarmi Khaled Saad, the army spokesman, also offered the military’s “full cooperation” with the peacekeepers, who have said government restrictions prevented them from reaching the Hashaba area in late September.  Saad’s statements were the army’s first substantive comment on what happened in Hashaba, northwest of the North Darfur state capital El Fasher, where more than 70 civilians died in September from rebel-government fighting and aerial bombardments, the United States said.
Further Reading:www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5jNd0SJNGP
South Sudan says new demands from Sudan delay oil restart
(Reuters)  MELUT, South Sudan(ReutersSouth Sudan’s President Salva Kiir said resumption of the country’s oil output had been delayed after Sudan made new demands related to rebel fighting in Sudanese territory, in new signs of tension between the African neighbors.  Landlocked South Sudan, which seceded from Sudan in July last year, shut down its roughly 350,000 barrels per day of oil output in January in a dispute with Khartoum over how much it should pay to export oil through Sudan to the Red Sea.  In September, the African Union managed to broker several deals between the neighbors to defuse hostilities after both came close to war in April. The two agreed on oil export fees and to improve border security, opening the way to resuming crude exports, the lifeline of both economies.Further Reading:http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/11/20/us-sudan-south-oil-
Third day of attacks in Saraf Jidad
(Radio Dabanga)  Armed herders allegedly attacked the area of Saraf Jidad, Sirba locality, in West Darfur on Tuesday November 20 for the third day in a row, Radio Dabanga has learned.  An armed group of herders attacked Saraf Jidad camp in Sirba locality on Sunday morning and allegedly kidnapped three policemen.  The reason for the attack, according to the perpetrators, is because they believe members of the community police killed a herder.  On the other hand, the Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) condemned the attacks, describing them as ‘pro-government militia attacks’.  Bashir al-Sanosi, adviser to movement’s leadership, told Radio Dabanga that the militants attacked the area of Saraf Jidad after looting the local police station.
Further Reading:www.radiodabanga.org/node/38664
