SPLM-N to hold talks with Sudanese government(Sudan Tribune) The Sudan People’s Liberation Movement-North (SPLM-N) will hold talks with the Sudanese government in Addis Ababa on 5 March, announced Yasir Arman, the secretary-general of the group on Friday.In a written statement emailed to Sudan Tribune, Arman said the SPLM-N chairman, Malik Agar, had confirmed in a message to the African Union High-Level Implementation Panel (AUHIP) that a 10-member delegation, led by the movement’s secretary-general, will take part in the talks. “The SPLM-N delegation will go with a clear vision, including all the national and international commitments of the movement, Arman said, stressing that the humanitarian crisis in the SPLM-N-controlled areas should be at the top of the agenda at the talks.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
Britain urges Chad to arrest Sudan’s Bashir
(AFP, Ahram Online) Britain called on Chad on Saturday to arrest Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir while he visits N’Djamena for a regional summit and to hand him over to the International Criminal Court.   Chad is one of the countries signed up to the ICC’s founding treaty which are legally bound to arrest Bashir, who is wanted for war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide in the long-running Darfur conflict.  “If President Bashir is not arrested, this will be the third time the government of Chad has failed to implement warrants issued by the International Criminal Court for war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide,” British minister for Africa Mark Simmonds said.  The ICC on Friday issued a formal notice to the Chadian government reminding it of its obligation to arrest Bashir.  A note was also sent to Libya amid reports Bashir will also visit there this weekend, although Libya is not a signatory to the ICC.
Read More: http://english.ahram.org.eg/
Al Bashir Addresses N’djamena Summit
(Sudan Vision) President Omer Al Bashir reiterated Sudan’s commitment to achieve security and stability across the country, especially in Darfur, stating that outstanding issues with South Sudan could be resolved if good intentions prevailed. In his address to the opening session of the extraordinary summit of the Desert and Coast Grouping in the Chadian capital of N’djamena, he said the government’s target is to achieve peace across the country, including Darfur, through dialogue.   The Desert and Coast Grouping was dominated by Kaddafi, and that weakened its organs and prevented progress. The President said the grouping encounters many challenges that entail cooperation to achieve security. He called on the summit to focus on commercial and economic exchange. Foreign Minister Ali Karti said two important proposals were made including the establishment of a peace and Security Council to work for peace in the region.
Read More: http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/
Sudan Informs UN on its Cooperation with Experts Team
(Sudanese Radio) Sudan Permanent Envoy to the UN Dafalla Al-Haj Ali Osman has informed the Security Council of the Sudan commitment to cooperate with the Experts Committee which is concerned with sanctions. Mr Ali said that Sudan will continue to cooperate with, indicating that if it was proved that any member of the experts team is involved in any activity posing a threat to Sudan national security, then will have the right to refuse to deal with him and demand replacing him with another person who works in accordance with the UN Charter.  He described as false the allegation on Sudan involvement in staging air raids in Darfur, explaining that Sudan government is using planes in the administrative and logistic tasks.  It is to be recalled that the Security Council has unanimously extended the mandate of the experts’ team till February 17, 2014 and called on the government to cooperate with the experts’ team.
Read More: http://www.sudaneseradio.com/
NCP Shura Council: Government Must Try to Curb Corruption
(Sudan Vision) The NCP Shura Council stressed, in its financial recommendations to recover from the current economic crisis that government should try harder to curb corruption and overspending, besides continuing to restructure the state and restrict imports of unnecessary goods.  In its concluding session, the council called, for government to reform civil service and transport, complete the free market policy and support the army financially and logistically.  The council affirmed the importance of agriculture as a strategic economic resource, which requires the repair of agricultural projects and upgrading agricultural production.
Read More: http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/
