(Radio Dabanga) The Sudan People’s Liberation Movement-North has officially declared its participation in the peace talks in Addis Ababa on Thursday 13 February. “The government has no way out, except for the comprehensive solution for Sudan’s issues.” Yasir Arman, the general-secretary of the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement (SPLM-N) declared in an interview with Radio Dabanga on Friday that he will lead the delegation consisting of nine people.Arman assured that the delegation will go to Addis Ababa with a “very clear plan to solve all issues of Sudan and in particular the conflict areas, as well as the political and humanitarian issues.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
SPLM-N names external experts for talks with Khartoum
(Sudan Tribune) The Sudan People’s Liberation Movement North (SPLM-N) on Friday released the names of its negotiating team for peace talks with the government and a list of national experts including rebels, opposition parties and civil society members. In a statement released on Friday, the spokesperson of the SPLM-N negotiating delegation, Mubarak Ardol, said that a group of seven experts will join their delegation in each round of talks with the government. The SPLM- N says the peace process should negotiate a comprehensive cessation of hostilities and to ways to open humanitarian corridors to bring aid to the civilians affected by the conflicts in Blue Nile, Darfur and South Kordofan.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
Janjaweed Members Causing Chaos in North Kordofan Capital
(Radio Dabanga) Two people were seriously wounded when a car belonging to militia elements, known as Janjaweed, hit them in a village south of El Obeid, the capital city of North Kordofan, on Wednesday. Meanwhile the state governor accused the Janjaweed of causing panic amongst citizens. The governor of North Kordofan, Ahmed Haroun, accused the Janjaweed forces of causing panic and chaos in the city in a statement on Wednesday. The Janjaweed militias have carried out killings, rapes and looting in El Obeid after returning from the South Kordofan battlefields last January. They are demanding a huge financial compensation for their services and those of deceased militia members, and refuse to return to South Kordofan, threatening to return to Darfur instead.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
