(All Africa, Sudan Tribune) The rebel Sudan People’s Liberation Movement has called on Germany to cancel a conference to support foreign investment in Sudan, following its lose of oil revenue resulting from South Sudan’s secession. The international community decided last year to postpone an international conference to supportSudanese economy, earmarked for Turkey, as Washington and a number of its western allies decided to not attend calling to put pressures on Khartoum to allow humanitarian access to civilian in the rebel held areas. Ali Karti, Sudan’s Foreign Minister, is reportedly scheduled to visit Germany on 29 January 29, to attend an investment and economic conference.
Read More: http://allafrica.com/
Sudan releases jailed teacher after nine months
(Sudan Tribune) Sudanese teacher and activist Jalila Khamis Koko, who was arrested by the National Security Service (NSS), was released following a court hearing on Sunday after spending nine months in detention. Jalila was acquitted of all charges except those related to “spreading false news”, a vague provision of the criminal code often used by the government to silence dissent, Amnesty International said in a press release extended to Sudan Tribune.The offence is punishable by six months in prison, but the court released her because of the nine months she had already served in pre-trial detention. “Jalila’s release is victory for justice but the nine months that she has spent in detention simply for expressing her opinions cannot be ignored,” said Audrey Gaughran, Amnesty International’s Africa program director. The mother-of-six had faced the death penalty after being charged last September with five counts of crimes against the state, including undermining the constitutional system, espionage and waging war against the state.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
Sudanese authorities prevent activists from commemorating death of religious thinker
(Sudan Tribune) Sudanese security on Friday blocked a celebration organized by the Republicans Brotherhood sect to commemorate the 27th anniversary of the death of its leader Mahmood Mohamed Taha at the hands of the government of late president Ja’afar Mohamed Nimeiri. Taha was sentenced to death in 1985 following a quick trial on charges of apostasy. The trial is described by his supporters and many observers today as a sham. He has refused at the time to plead before the judges or contest the accusations. The Republican Brotherhood are known for resisting Islamic fundamentalism and its leader Taha published a book on this issue a few months before Nimeiri implemented Islamic Shar’ia laws in September 1983. Eyewitnesses told Sudan Tribune that some people gathered in front of the center and refused to obey orders by security officers who closed all roads leading to the area.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
RI Majlis Speaker leaves Tehran for Khartoum
(IRNA) Iranian Majlis Speaker Ali Larijani heading a high-ranking parliamentary delegation left Tehran for Sudanese capital Khartoum on Sunday to attend Islamic Inter-Parliamentary Union (IIPU) meeting, IRNA reported. Larijani is accompanied by a number of Iranian lawmakers and Hassan Ghashghavi, deputy foreign minister for consular, parliamentary and Iranian expatriates’ affairs. Larijani is scheduled to brief the meeting on Iran’s stands on the latest regional and international issues. The meeting will begin in Sudan later on Sunday with participation of parliament speakers and parliamentary officials of 50 Islamic countries. IIPU was founded by Iran with an aim of promoting parliamentary cooperation among Islamic countries and it has held seven meetings successfully so far.
Read More: http://en.trend.az/print/2110153.html
