(Radio Dabanga) Radio Dabanga has learned that the Sudan Revolutionary Front (SRF) has completed preparations for a comprehensive initiative to resolve the root causes of the Sudanese crisis. This follows several days of continuous meetings between SRF commanders. The SRF source stressed that the project, scheduled to be announced officially this week, is “geared for all Sudanese civil society organizations, youth, and all the political forces including the National Congress Party”.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
European Union proposes dialogue for Peace in Sudan
The Ambassadors of the European Union (EU) have informed the leader of the National Umma Party Al Sadiq Al Mahdi of the EU’s determination to hold a meeting bringing together the political forces of Sudan. In the same regard, the Popular Congress Party has revealed an expected meeting would be held with the EU ambassadors next Monday. The NCP hastened to downplay the importance of the proposed EU initiative, stating that they “only view the Heidelberg meeting as a workshop”. The Party’s head of Foreign Relations, Dirdiri Mohamed Ahmed, told reporters on Tuesday that President Omar Al Bashir will have to be part of any dialogue.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Sudan’s Press Freedom Worst for Third Year Running
(Radio Dabanga, All Africa) Sudan’s press freedom is gradually deteriorating, according to its new ranking in the World Press Freedom index of 2013. It is for the third year in a row one of the world’s worst countries to work in as a journalist. Sudan ranked 172th out of the 180 listed countries in the new Press Freedom Index 2014 by Reporters Without Borders, published on Wednesday. The country occupied number 170 last time, however Belize has been added to the index list, which means Sudan moved one place up – to its disadvantage. The heads of the National Consensus Forces, which include main opposition parties in Sudan, decided on Sunday that they will only enter dialogue with the regime if, among others, all laws restricting freedoms such as press freedoms are abolished.
Read More: http://allafrica.com/
10,000 Sudanese illegally migrated to Israel: official
(Sudan Tribune) The Secretariat of Sudanese Working Abroad (SSWA) has declared that 10,000 Sudanese citizens have illegally migrated to the state of Israel with one quarter of them coming from the restive region of Darfur and the remaining numbers from central and northern Sudan. The secretary general of the SSWA, Karrar Al-Tuhami, said the numbers of illegal Sudanese migrants are going up adding that the majority of them are youth. He said at a press conference in Khartoum on Sunday that the anti-human trafficking code must be implemented and protected, noting that Sudan was the third highest-ranking country in the 2013 global report on human trafficking.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
