By Mahmoud A. SuleimanThe Visit of the Sudan Revolutionary Front (SRF) to seven countries in the European Union (France, Germany, Finland, Italy, Belgium, Switzerland and Slovenia) was described by political observers as a quantum leap and a real breakthrough to the vestibules and the corridors of Western diplomacy. This raised the ire of the National Congress Party (NCP) regime of hatred and envy where its mouthpieces began screaming and hurling insults to the members of the delegation. The SRF’s successful European tour is a diplomat blow to the NCP following its repeated defeats in the battlefield in the last few weeks.The leaderships in the EU and others in the international community in the past found unification of the Sudanese opposition, particularly, the armed rebels movements an impossibility. Now the SRF components managed to unite on their own accord.  They have consolidated their vision and devised a ‘Roadmap’ leading to sustainable peace and comprehensive solution to the persistent challenges that face the Sudanese people.The News Media reported that NCP henchmen accusing SRF delegates to the EU as enjoying a lavish live in luxury hotels and wooing the help of foreigners. Furthermore, the reports indicated that the regime’s security apparatus, so-called, National Intelligence and Security Services (NISS) officers paraded the streets of the three-town capital Khartoum on December 3, 2013 (Sudan Tribune) chanting slogans pledging demise for the SRF rebels by the end of the year 2013. The Chief of the NISS said his army is ready to enforce the directives of his master, al-Bashir and crush the SRF and establish security and stability in the country.The hirelings in the NCP regime, instead of causing traffic jams and terrorizing the city dwellers in Khartoum, they should have gone to the battlefields in Kordofan, Blue Nile, Darfur and elsewhere to confront the gallant knights of the SRF.  Of course, the NISS prefer to parade in Khartoum than face the SRF in the battlefield.  The SRF are ready to sacrifice themselves in defense of their cause.  In so doing , SRF combatants are forced into this position by al-Bashir who he declared publicly he got to power by force and he would not negotiate with unarmed rebels.The parading NISS hirelings must have forgotten the fact that most of their master of grace elements in the National Islamic Front (NIF)/NCP descended from poverty-stricken backgrounds. They have never dreamt of living in a modest house let alone their today’s palaces that they acquired through the public purse employing corruption, looting and embezzlement.The SRF delegation visiting EU countries are not hosted by the EU receiving countries.  It is the Sudanese in the Diaspora who accommodated them. The obsequious elements in the NCP regime know for fact that the SRF members in the delegation cannot afford paying for luxury hotel rooms. Given the fact that  main source of SRF war budget comes from successive defeats sustained by  the mercenary militias composed of remnants of  Islamic extremists from Mali, Central African republic (CAR)  and opponents of the Chadian government. Those militias tend to flee, leaving their weapons and vehicles for the SRF. The mercenaries do not have any interest in that damn war. Moreover, they have no right to contest in a losing war and the Sudanese people are not their enemy. The feeling of the mercenary militias is that they have become victims of deceit by the hypocrite regime that claims Islam. They became victims of fraud and brainwashing. They felt the inevitable painful fate that has thrown them in the Holocaust of the dreaded warfare. This crossed their minds of the foreign recruits especially when they realised that those whom they are fighting people struggling for a genuine issue acknowledged by the whole world. This reality was more evident in the recent battles in the states of North and South Kordofan where SRF forces inflicted a crushing defeat on the army of the ramshackle NCP militias.The SRF calls on and appeals to the honourable members of the Sudanese Army Forces (SAF) who still have honest loyalty to the motherland to ally themselves with the Sudanese citizens. Let them join the ranks of the Sudanese people to accelerate the ousting of the hateful NCP regime led by the war criminal, al-Bashir.Despite the large number of mosques in Khartoum preaching honestly and denouncing theft, the Sudan has come to be one of the most corrupt countries in the world for 2013 (Index of Transparency International). Leaving corruption aside, Sudan sits in the list of the top ten of the poorest countries in the world. Corruption and poverty are two sides of the same coin. Corruption and poverty proliferate amid vacuous speeches on the application of the Sharia law, and the Islamization of society, and cultural project, and the separation of the south of the country to facilitate the Islamisation of the state.The forces of the SRF took up arms after the NCP regime forced them to resort to it.  The NIF did the same before with the Darfur rebels. Moreover, the regime did so with the people of South Sudan who seceded to establish their nascent state. The SRF came to liberate the homeland and its citizens, not to stir up sedition and has been known to avoid harming of innocent people and destruction of their properties. The forces of SRF occupy many areas they liberated in Sudan. SRF components are not advocates of war. The NCP holds the key to stop the war.  If they agree on a comprehensive solution to all the Sudanese issues, the SRF today will lay down arms and engage in peaceful action.The Sudanese people do not consider what the NCP calls a new government representing them. They think the ‘new’ government is no more than ‘old wine recycled in new bottles’. The alliance of Sudanese opposition formed of SRF, National Consensus Forces (NCF) and other components of the Sudanese political spectrum work tirelessly to restore the hijacked homeland by ousting the regime using all the available means. The means to topple the NCP regime include peaceful protests, demonstrations protected by a military force and thirdly, direct SRF military intervention in the case the NCP regime opting for killing innocent peaceful protesters. That happened during the glorious September 23, 2013 Uprising where over 250 martyred in the pattern of shoot to kill, which was ordered by Ali Osman Mohamed Taha, First Vice President of the Republic of the NCP.  Moreover, thousands of demonstrators were seriously injured and hundreds arrested.Dr. Mahmoud A. Suleiman is the Deputy Chairman of the General Congress for Justice and Equality Movement (JEM). He can be reached at[email protected]
