Author: JEM Sudan.
Find a solution, not just a problem. In that distinction most of the world’s focus on Sudan has failed. Celebrities line up to tell huge crowds how terrible war, famine and rape are, but they never tell the millions of people who listen to them how to end those horrors. Politicians tell the media how bad Bashir is, but they never propose a concrete plan for removing him.
The Justice and Equality Movement Sudan tried internal reform (The Black Book of 2000) but that failed because Bashir’s response was to kill everyone he thought was guilty and sack everyone else. So JEM adapted and tried peace negotiations in Doha, 2008-11. But Bashir wouldn’t make any guarantees so that failed. Now JEM is assessing the situation again.
If Bashir was the cause of the failure the last two times, the logical thing to do is to remove his input from the decision-making process. In this case, given that he refuses to leave power, the conclusion is that he must be removed from power.
All of those politicians being driven in their shiny cars to those important-looking meetings in Khartoum might want to explain the logic behind it all? They can’t really think that they will convince a man who has held power for twenty-five years after a military coup to step down through saying something clever.
JEM understand that power is not just a political matter. It affects the lives of everyone and when abused it destroys the lives of everyone. So alongside the usual military training JEM has been defining its political campaign. The 151-person strong Legislative Assembly has been putting on paper numerous policy documents (which can be found on the website) for the Chairman’s approval, and for public scrutiny and engagement. Read them, tell us your thoughts, refine our plans, and work with us for a better Sudan.
Transparency has been another focus. Everyone in Sudan makes promises; JEM is committed to showing the people how it works and who does what, so we can all be held to account for our actions. An enormous media campaign has been prepared so the Sudanese public can see and decide for themselves whether JEM is part of Sudan’s dark past or bright future.
http://jemsudan.org/
