Press ReleaseStanding committee of Sudanese PhysiciansImportant Statement
About the Violations taking Place in Field of Health Care and Inside Hospitals
During the Demonstrations of Recent DaysThe Security and police forces continues to perpetrate clear violations of laws, traditions and norms of human rights during the Friday 29th June demonstrations, when excessive violence had been used in dispersing demonstrators. Tear gas, rubber bullets and live ammunition were deployed in addition to tactics that bear no relation to a humane response in handling civil unrest.We witnessed the polce force and large numbers of regime thugs take control of Omdurman’s hospital A&E entrance to prevent those injured from gaining access  to the admission desk to receive treatment. This is a dangerous precedent in annals of humane treatment of those needing care. International law protects this right in the case of war wounded and prisoners of war, and guarantees them the right to medical treatment, let alone those who are exercising their constitutional and lawful right to protest peacefully.
Another incident that took place in Khartoum North Hospital indicates the disregard with which this regime holds the Sudanese people, when tear-gas canisters were fired directly inside the Hospital courtyard, which resulted in numerous cases of seizures, as there are asthmatic inmates in the hospital.
A reported incident in  Al-Gadaref described the arrest of a patient during his treatment inside the A&E treatment ward. This is a deliberate violation of the rights of a Sudanese citizen to receive medical care in total security, at the same time it is a violation of the sanctity of a medical establishment and reveal the extent of collusion between government-appointed hospitals administration with the state security organs.
We in the Standing Committee of Sudanese Physicians affirm the the right of the Sudanese people to peaceful protest and free expression of its views, and we demand the immediate release of all detainees. We also express our deep anxiety regarding the well-being of those detained in the light of the sadistic practices with which the today’s demonstrators have been met. We call on all those concerned with human rights  to urgently intervene to protect civilians from gratuitous violence and torture inflicted upon them by the denying them treatment. We also call upon honourable physicians to protect patients in their care, as they are impelled to do under the hippocratic oath solemnly swore, to protect the patients and protect their confidences, and afford them the best treatment and care. We also warn hospital authorities against collusion with the security forces, and allows them a free hand in hospitals. The Standing Committee of physicians, and in the name of all Sudanese physicians that in the case of the repeat of these violations, which are tantamount to torture: as in preventing a Sudanese citizen medical treatment, we will adopt the appropriate response dictated by our conscience and our direct responsibility for safety and wellbeing of the Sudanese people.
Long live our landThe Standing Committee for Sudanese Physicians29th June 2012
