Sudan’s National Congress Party Regime is poised to set 20th March 2012 for Trial of the Darfur POWs
By Mahmoud A. Suleiman
It has come in the news media that as of Tuesday March the 20th 2012 the Kangaroo courts presided by National Intelligence and Security Services (NISS) Judges will be putting into retaliatory trial a group of Commanders belonging to the rebel Justice and Equality Movement (JEM), among them lieutenant general Ibrahim al-Maz Deng and his gallant colleagues who had been capturedduring the battle between the Sudanese Armed Forces (SAF) and the troops of the Movement last year. The planned trial in the inquisition courts owned by the National Congress Party (NCP) led by the International Criminal Court (ICC) indicted fugitive Omer Hassan Ahmed al-Bashir its result a foregone conclusion. The security apparatus in the Islamist National Congress Party Regime in Sudan will not hesitate to issue unfair rulings against these war prisoners in blatant contravention to all the international conventions, agreements and laws. Not long ago, the very courts passed death sentence on the prisoner of war, Commander General El-Tom Hamid Tutu Malik on 6th February 2012. As this would amount to “a human rights scandal”, Amnesty International is expected to launch another emergency campaign to highlight the situation in Sudan in respect to the upcoming trial of the POWs related to the crisis in the Darfur region. This is in flagrant violation of international humanitarian law. This group of individuals is Prisoners of war whose Movement has been recognized by the National Congress Party (NCP) government and negotiated with at the Qatari capital Doha Forum for reaching a sustainable peace in Darfur. It is obvious and needless to reiterate the fact that Combatants who fall into the hands of any of the parties, Government of Sudan (GoS) or Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) would be «Prisoners of war» in accordance with international norms and conventions; and none of the two parties is entitled to bring them to trial regardless of the form or nature of the Court. In the circumstances, it is expected that the Kangaroo Court will hand death sentence to each of the prisoners of war by the same known ‘High Court Judges’ who would submit their verdict to the ICC indicted Génocidaire, NCP President Omer Hassan Ahmed al-Bashir, to sign it within two months ratifying execution.
Urgent appeal is to save the lives of the Prisoners Of War who have been captive in the infamous ghost houses of the Sudan’s National Congress Party regime. The Sudanese people Appeal and call on humanitarian organizations and international human rights organizations to immediately intervene  to save the lives of lieutenant general  Ibrahim al-Maz Deng and his comrades before the blood thirsty vampires in the despotic NCP regime of committing their atrocious crimes. On the other hand, the Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) warn the government of Sudan (GoS) for bearing full criminal responsibility if it launches harm on the lives of its Prisoners of War. Retribution will be immediate and would apply to the perpetrators of heinous crime.
Dr. Mahmoud A. Suleiman is the Deputy Chairman of the General Congress for Justice and Equality Movement (JEM). He can be reached at[email protected]
