(Sudan Tribune) – The Sudanese government is stepping up its efforts to meet pledges made by president Omer Hassan Al-Bashir to end tribal conflicts in the country by the end of the year. A reconciliation conference between Hamar and Ma’alia tribes will be held on July 23 in Al Foula town in West Kordofan state. The presidency also called for making arrangements to hold a similar conference between Ma’alia and Rizeigat tribes on August 10. Tribal fighting has intensified during the last two years in Darfur and Kordofan regions in western Sudan leading to thousands of dead and injured and forcing over 300,000 people to flee their homes.
Read more:http://www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?article51705
Sudan: Rains Wipe Away 1,000 Homes in Central Darfur Camps
(Radio Dabanga) – Torrential rains on Saturday destroyed more than 1,000 shelters at the Hamidiya, Khamsa Degaig, Hassahissa, and Teiba camps for the displaced in Zalingei locality, Central Darfur. “We have not witnessed rains like this for more than 20 years. Between 4 and 7 pm on Saturday, heavy downpours accompanied by strong winds and hail washed away the possessions of more than 1,000 families,” the coordinator of the Central Darfur camps told Radio Dabanga.
Read more:https://www.radiodabanga.org/node/76785
Sudan: ICC Sets November Trial Date for Darfur Rebel Commander
(All Africa) – The International Criminal Court (ICC) has announced that the trial for a Darfur rebel commander accused of killing African peacekeepers will start in November 2014. “Trial Chamber IV of the International Criminal Court (ICC) scheduled the opening of the trial in the case The Prosecutor v. Abdallah Banda Abakaer Nourain on 18 November 2014, for three charges of war crimes allegedly committed in Darfur,” said the ICC in a statement released on Monday.
Read more:http://allafrica.com/stories/201407151218.html‘Havoc after Govt. defeat in Central Darfur’: rebels(Radio Dabanga) – Army troops and elements of the Rapid Support Forces reportedly raped and robbed a number of citizens, and torched two villages during their withdrawal from Golo, Central Darfur, after their defeat on Monday. Mustafa Tambour, the military spokesman for the Sudan Liberation Movement, led by Abdel Wahid El Nur (SLM-AW), told Radio Dabanga that the government forces, after being defeated by the SLM-AW in the area of Golo, wreaked havoc in the area.
Read more:https://www.radiodabanga.org/node/76798
New ‘Sudan Liberation Forces’ unites three Darfur rebel factions
(Radio Dabanga) – Three offshoot factions of the Sudan Liberation Movement (SLM), led by Abdel Wahid El Nur, merged into the newly formed Sudan Liberation Forces on Tuesday. El Taher Hajar, leader of the Sudan Liberation Movement for Justice (SLMJ), told Radio Dabanga that the SLMJ, together with SLM-Unity, led by Abdallah Yahya, and the recently split off SLM-Second Revolution (SLM-SR) under the command of Abulgasim Imam El Haj, today announced the formation of the Sudan Liberation Forces (SLF).
Read more:https://www.radiodabanga.org/node/76801
Gunmen drive away gold miners in South Kordofan
(Radio Tamazuj) – Gold miners at the disputed El Laffa area between Liri and Talodi Localities in Sudan’s South Kordofan state were attacked by unknown gunmen yesterday. Speaking to Radio Tamazuj, several citizens confirmed that they were attacked by unidentified gunmen, saying the attackers might be youths from Talodi Locality.
Read more:https://radiotamazuj.org/en/article/gunmen-drive-away-gold-miners-south-kordofan
