(Sudan Tribune) – The Sudanese president Omer Hassan al-Bashir will travel to Doha on Tuesday in a two-day visit in response to an invitation from Qatar’s Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani, it was announced here today. The announcement came at the heels of a surprise stop in Khartoum on Sunday by the Qatari Foreign Minister Khalid Al-Attiyah who held a meeting with Bashir along with his Sudanese counterpart Ali Karti.Karti was quoted by Sudan official news agency (SUNA) as saying that al-Attiyah’s visit aims at exchanging views on developing bilateral ties and deliberating on regional current events.
Read more:http://www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?article51592
Gunmen assassinate Sudanese local official S. Darfur
(KUNA) – Unknown gunmen ambushed and killed Abdullah Yasseen, head of the Katila municipality, South Darfur state, in the western area of Towal Umm Jamal on Sunday. Yasseen was on his way back from Nyala, the provincial capital of South Darfur, when the attack took place; he was killed on the spot and a number of his companions were injured, governor of the state Adam Mahmoud Jar Al-Nabi said.
Read more:http://www.kuna.net.kw/ArticleDetails.aspx?id=2386323&language=en
Sudanese authorities renew suspension of al-Saiha newspaper
(Sudan Tribune) – The National Intelligence and Security Services (NISS) ordered the suspension of al-Saiha newspaper less than 24 hours after it resumed publication following a previous ban by the security apparatus. Sudan Tribune has learned that NISS agents instructed al-Kazimiya print house not to print any issue of al-Saiha until further notice. Al-Saiha editor in chief of al-Saiha Yasser Mahjoub also received a phone call from NISS media department informing him that the newspaper is suspended without giving him reasons. Journalists at al-Saiha told Sudan Tribune that their first post-suspension issue on Sunday contained columns that directed strong criticism of government policies especially by Mahjoub, newspaper owner al-Tayeb Mustafa and managing editor Ahmed Youssef Altai.
Read more:http://www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?article51594
Detained student activists on hunger strike in Sudan’s capital
(Radio Dabanga) – Three student activists detained by the National Intelligence and Security Service (NISS) in Khartoum embarked on a hunger strike on Friday, in protest against a renewed detention period of three months. The NISS detained Mohamed Salah, of the Democratic Front, the students’ arm of the Sudanese Communist Party; Tajelsir Jaafar, member of the New Forces Movement, and Muamar Mousa, of the Reform Now Party (RNP) on 12 May without charges, against the backdrop of student demonstrations at the University of Khartoum.
Read more:https://www.radiodabanga.org/node/76253
Sudan’s Bashir appoints new chief of National Elections Commission
(Sudan Tribune) – Sudanese president Omer Hassan al-Bashir has issued a presidential decree naming Mukhtar al-Asam chairman of the National Elections Commission (NEC) and Abdallah Adam Mahdi as deputy chairman. Bashir also issued another decree appointing Safwat Fanus and Atta Allah Hamad Bashir members of the NEC. The president on Wednesday accepted the resignation of NEC chief Abdullah Ahmed Abdullah who attributed it to health issues.
Read more:http://www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?article51591
