Sudanese in Libya plead to be evacuated
(Sudan Tribune) A committee calling itself representative of Sudanese stranded in Libya issued a statement today calling on the government to evacuate its citizens from areas witnessing clashes between armed groups. The statement stressed that all diplomatic missions have evacuated their citizens from Libya thanks to quick action from their governments except the Sudanese one because of its refusal to assume responsibility towards its citizens.Last Friday, about 200 Sudanese gathered at the Meetiga airport demanding that they be evacuated back home.
Read More:http://www.sudantribune.com/
NCP to Study Paris Declaration and Decides
(Sudan Vision) Political Secretary of the National Congress Party, Dr. Mustafa Osman Ismail, has revealed that he received a telephone call from president of the National Umma Party (NUP), Imam Al Sadiq Al Mahdi, who is currently in France. Ismail said Al Mahdi briefed him on the agreement he signed with the Sudan Revolutionary Front (SRF) two days ago. Ismail promised to convey details of consultation between him and Al Mahdi to the NCP leadership for further study on the agreement known as Paris declaration. The DUP leader signed two days ago an agreement with the SRF chairman, Malik Agar.
Read More:http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/
NUP, SRF call on Sudanese opposition to unify to restore peace and democracy
(Sudan Tribune) The opposition National Umma Party (NUP) and rebel alliance of the Sudan Revolutionary Forces (SRF) have signed a joint political declaration in Paris whereby they call to unify the political opposition forces over peace and democratic reforms. NUP and SRF leaders, Sadiq al-Mahdi and Malik Agar, on Friday signed the “Paris Declaration” which calls to end war and to engage in a genuine national dialogue aiming to restore democracy in Sudan. The Declaration also provides the readiness of the rebel alliance to implement a renewable cessation of hostilities in order to allow humanitarian access to the needy in the war zones and to engage in the preparation of a constitutional dialogue.
Read More:http://www.sudantribune.com/
Sudan’s capital paralysed by torrents, floods
(Radio Dabanga) The Governor of Khartoum State issued a “high alert”, as weather forecasts warn for a continuation of the rains for another two weeks. Schools are officially closed until 10 August. A resident of the Ombadda district in Omdurman, the twin city of Khartoum, reported to Radio Dabanga that the rains, and in particular the ensuing floods led to the destruction of more than two thousand houses in Ombadda, Dar El Salam, and El Fitihab. “The families are now living in the open, having lost most of their possessions.” He added that many people hold the Khartoum State government responsible for the damage, as “the cleaning of the water drains has been neglected again, even after the floods in August last year”. “All the gutters are still filled with rubbish.”
Read More:https://www.radiodabanga.org/
50 Control Points Established on the Nile in Khartoum
(Sudan Vision) The General Directorate of the Civil Defence has established fifty control points in preparation for the aftermath of expected heavy flooding, supervisor of control points in the directorate, Ahmed Al Matary told Al Shorooq TV on Saturday. He revealed that the fifty control points have been distributed among four pivotal areas in Khartoum, Omdurman, Khartoum North and Tuti Island.
Read More:http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/
Egyptian army demolishes 20 tunnels, bringing total to 1659
(Daily News Egypt) The Egyptian military has demolished an additional 20 tunnels between Sinai and Gaza, putting the total at 1659 tunnels destroyed, announced the armed forces spokesman on Friday. The statement from the armed forces also said that it had made further efforts to control Egypt’s southern border with Sudan.
Read More:http://www.dailynewsegypt.com/
Sudan Committed to Full Cooperation with Nile Basin Countries
(Sudan Vision) Sudan fully supports cooperation and coordination between the Nile Basin Countries, Minister of Water Resources and Electricity, Mutaz Musa Abdallah Salim said during an interview with Sudan News Agency (SUNA) on Saturday. He added that Sudan’s current presidency to Nile Basin Countries Ministers’ Council will contribute to unite views between Egypt and the rest of the territory. “Khartoum will host the trilateral ministerial committee joining Sudan, Egypt and Ethiopia on August 18 to mull over issues relevant to Egyptian reservations on the Renaissance Dam,” Salim disclosed.
Read More:http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/
Gunmen kill passenger on highway linking North and South Darfur states
(Sudan Tribune) One person was shot dead on Friday on the highway linking North Darfur state capital of El-Fashir and South Darfur state capital of Nyala. The incident took place in an area inside al-Salam locality in North Darfur state. Last week, unidentified armed men imposed toll charges on buses travelling between Nyala and El-Fashir. The chairman of the buses owners’ union in Nyala, Ali Shomo, told Sudan Tribune that the gunmen forcibly imposed exorbitant amounts on the buses under the pretext that they would secure passengers and their belongings against looting.
Read More:http://www.sudantribune.com/
Social Dialogue Conference Kicks-off(Sudan Vision) President Omar Al Bashir will address the social dialogue conference launching today at the Friendship Hall in Khartoum. According to an official source, representatives of civil society organisations with social leaderships will take part in the conference. The conference is cantered on cementing a unified vision on the national dialogue proposed by President Al Bashir last January.Read More:http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/
