Sudan’s opposition acknowledges authenticity of letter to rebels leaked by govt.
(Sudan Tribune) The chairman of the National Consensus Forces (NCF) Farouk Abu Issa acknowledged on Monday the authenticity of a letter attributed to him that was sent to the Malik Agar, the head of the Sudan Revolutionary Front (SRF) rebel group.  The contents of the message were published by Sudan’s official news agency (SUNA) over the weekend.  In press statements today,Abu Issa said that NCF plans to investigate how the letter fell into the hands of the government but nonetheless downplayed its significance.  The NCP spokesperson Badr al-Deen Ahmed Ibrahim said that Abu Issa’s letter proves that opposition is in agreement with the charter despite statements to the contrary. He urged opposition parties to state their position on the letter “else there will be a new measure”.Read More:http://www.sudantribune.com/
MP calls for prosecution of “New Dawn” signatories
(Sudan Tribune) The chairperson of the Sudanese parliament’s Law Subcommittee, Badria Suleiman, said Monday that the opposition parties which signed the “New Dawn” charter in Uganda this month need to be held accountable.  Speaking at a forum sponsored by the Sudan Armed Forces (SAF) newspaper on Monday, Suleiman called the charter a “criminal project” that seeks to topple the regime through both peaceful means and a military campaign.  Suleiman said that the signatories are subject to punishment on different criminal counts and called for investigation into the participation of political parties in drafting the document.  She stressed that in accordance with international law only the government of Sudan is authorised to conduct talks with armed rebel groups and not opposition parties.  Suleiman urged the Parties’ Council, which oversees registration the activities of political parties in the country, to investigate the matter and submit a report to the Constitutional Court.Read More:http://www.sudantribune.com/
Interior Minister to visit North Darfur State Tuesday
(Sudanese Radio & TV) The Interior Minister Ibrahim Hamid will begin today Tuesday a visit to El Fasher the capital of NorthDarfurState, accompanied by a number of Police commanders. The visit aims to prepare a new plan for protecting personnel working on the western salvation highway “Tareeq el-Ingz el-Gharbi”. Earlier last week Sudanese and Chinese nationals working on road construction were kidnapped in Koma, North Darfur state and were released Saturday.Read More:http://www.sudanradio.info/
Presidential Aide meets Norwegian Officials in Oslo
(Sudanese Radio) The Assistant of the President and Deputy Chairman of the ruling National Congress Party (NCP) Nafie Ali Nafie, held in Oslo a series of meetings with Norwegian officials. He met the Secretary-General of the Norwegian ruling Party and invited him to visit Sudan. The meetings of the Assistant of the President also included the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Norway Espen Barth Eide , the Norwegian special envoy for Sudan and South Sudan and the Director-General of the Regional Affairs at Norwegian Foreign Ministry.Read More:http://www.sudanradio.info/
Beni Halba, Misseriya tribal clashes kill 7 in S. Darfur
(Radio Dabanga) Seven people were killed and several others were injured following tribal clashes between the Arab Beni Halba and Misseriya tribes in Umm Nunu, on the border between Central and South Darfur on Tuesday.  Local sources told Radio Dabanga the reasons for the clashes are not “completely clear”.  According to sources, the situation in Umm Nunu is “very tense” at the moment as government troops moved into the area to break up the fighting and gain control of the situation.Read More:http://www.radiodabanga.org/
Two Arrested in Protests Against Sudan Forum in Germany
(All Africa) German authorities arrested two Sudanese nationals on Tuesday who were protesting against the Sudan economic forum in front of the German Federal Foreign Office in Berlin.  Ibrahim Omar, told Radio Dabanga the dozens of demonstrators blocked the road to the Office to prevent the Sudanese delegation from attending the economic forum.  On Monday, Radio Dabanga reported that international human rights organizations and Hawa Mohamed Saleh, a Sudanese activist, were calling on the German government to cancel the forum.Read More:http://allafrica.com/
