Sudan Revolutionary Front leaders meet with US Special Envoy
(Radio Dabanga) The US Special Envoy to the Sudan, Donald Booth, held talks in Kampala on Thursday with Sudan Revolutionary Front (SRF, an alliance of opposition forces) leaders Abdel Wahid El Nur, Minni Minawi, and Dr Jibril Ibrahim. The talks centred on the SRF’s position with regard to a comprehensive peace, unification of the negotiations platform, and their view about President Al Bashir‘s call for dialogue. Speaking to Radio Dabanga, Dr Jibril Ibrahim, head of the Justice and Equality Movement (JEM)and Co-Vice President of the SRF said that they affirmed to the Special Envoy that the SRF is against any partial solution for the crises in Sudan.
Source: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Sudan opposition alliance rejects NCP offer of national government
(Sudan Tribune) The Sudanese opposition alliance known as the National Consensus Front (NCF) has rejected the ruling National Congress Party’s (NCP) offer to form a national government with the participation of opposition parties. On Saturday, the NCP announced for the first time its acceptance of a national government in the event that the upcoming national dialogue with opposition parties approves it. The ruling party however, cautioned that such a government would not be a transitional one as the NCF demands. The NCF chairman, Farouq Abu Issa, told Sudan Tribune they stick to their conditions saying if the ruling party rejected them they would continue to mobilize the masses to overthrow the government through popular uprising.
Source: http://www.sudantribune.com/
Sudanese Army Major-General joins armed movement
(Radio Dabanga) A Major-General of the Sudan Armed Forces on Friday announced his defection from the army. He joined the Justice and Equality Movement (JEM), under the banner of the Sudan Revolutionary Front (SRF, an alliance of opposition forces). Maj. Gen. Bandar Ibrahim Abu El Baloul told Radio Dabanga that his decision to defect was because of “the situation Sudan has reached during the regime of the National Congress Party (NCP)”, mentioning “systematic corruption, extreme poverty and monopoly of wealth by a minority, preference of security and military solutions to resolve the country’s problems, a centralised system of governance, and the use of policies of divide-and rule and impoverishment in order to destroy the social fabric of the Sudanese society”.
Source: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Janjaweed militia arrive in East Darfur capital
(Sudan Tribune) The commander of the rapid support forces which were stationed in North Kordofan state, Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, has described his forces as “national” and “neutral”, saying they played important role in maintaining security and stability in Darfur. He addressed a public crowd celebrating his forces’ arrival in the East Darfur state capital, El Daein, saying that rumours circulated by certain parties about his forces were unfair and meant to distort its image.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
