Sudanese lawmakers alarmed by corruption levels in the country
(Sudan Tribune) A number of Sudanese lawmakers have warned that the state and the economy are under threat from a surge in levels of corruption that is coupled with growing poverty among the population. MP Mohamed Ahmed Zein said during deliberations on the Inspector General’s report that some countries refuse to deal with Sudan due to the lack of transparency and the continued abuse of public funds. He pointed out that more than 60,000 police officers left the force due to low salaries and went to say that the Ministry of the Interior uses its revenues to construct buildings. MP Suad al-Fatih accused “known agents” of working to sabotage the economy and her colleague MP Salah Gosh warned that crackdown oncorruption could be a cover for political infighting. Gosh also criticised the Inspector General, accusing him of focusing on mid-level civil officers in tracking corruption while ignoring big violations by more senior officials.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
EU warns of ‘genocide’ in South Sudan(ABC) A leading European Union diplomat has warned that “all the ingredients leading to genocide” are evident in South Sudan, where an internal power struggle has assumed increasingly ethnic characteristics over the course of four months of fighting. Alexander Rondos, the European Union’s special envoy to the region, today said that the crisis “risks becoming an ethnic conflict”, with hundreds of thousands of people fleeing in “what is becoming widespread and consistent systematic killing”. Rondos’s warning follows a series of massacres across the country, which gained independence from Sudan in July 2011. The EU has had a special envoy to Sudan (and, later, to South Sudan) since 2005. However, the EU’s foreign policy chief, Catherine Ashton, decided last October to reduce attention to the Sudans, by merging the post with the position of EU special envoy to the Horn of Africa.
Read More: http://www.europeanvoice.com/Sudan Pound Sinks in Black Market as Oil Fields at Risk
(Bloomberg) Sudan’s pound slumped to a record against the dollar in the black market as the war in South Sudan threatens to curb inflows from oil shipments. The currency changed hands at 9.1 pounds per dollar yesterday in the capital, Khartoum, according to two money changers who both trade on the streets of the city where most residents buy their foreign exchange. That compares with about 8.2 on March 31, they said by phone. The official rate is about 5.7, according to central bank data.
Read More: http://www.bloomberg.com/
‘Comprehensive solution requires rebuilding of Sudan’: United People’s Front
(Radio Dabanga) The eastern Sudan’s United People’s Front for Liberation and Justice rejects any partial solution for the country. “Only a comprehensive, holistic approach can solve the many crises of Sudan,” Dr Zeinab Kabashi, head of the United People’s Front (UPF, a coalition of eastern Sudanese factions) told Radio Dabanga in an interview on Tuesday. The chairwoman of the UPF predicted that “the dictatorial regime of Khartoum and its repressive security organs are now living in their last days, as they continue their militia attacks on civilians in the name of religion and the Holy War”. She warned of a disintegration of Sudan, “the result of continued political failing of the successive governments in solving the country’s problems.Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
