(Sudan Tribune) – The Sudanese president, Omer Hassan al-Bashir, has renewed promise to end rebellion and tribal conflicts in the country by the end of 2014 and denounced criticism directed to the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) from some political forces. Bashir, who received from the speaker of the parliament, Alfatih Izz al-Din, on Sunday the parliament’s response to the letter he tabled at the National Assembly, praised efforts of the Sudanese army and other regular forces in defending the country.He further strongly defended the RSF, saying they defeated rebel groups in several areas in Darfur and South Kordofan.
Read more:http://www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?article51675
Hamar, Ma’aliya sign agreement in Omdurman, Sudan
(Radio Dabanga) -Representatives of the warring Hamar and Ma’aliya tribes signed an agreement to stop their violent confrontations in East Darfur and West Kordofan, which have been continuing for two years. Both tribes agreed to participate in a reconciliation conference that will start next Friday, July 18, in El Fula, West Kordofan. The agreement was signed by the leader of the Hamar Union, Abdel Rahim Ahmed Salem, and the chairman of the Ma’aliya Consultative Council, Mordos Juma Abdallah, on Friday evening at the premises of Hamar leaders in Omdurman, the sister-city of Khartoum.
Read more:https://www.radiodabanga.org/node/76642
Sudan offers Indonesian companies chance to invest in energy
(Antara News) – Sudan has offered Indonesian businessmen the opportunity to invest in energy, considered one of the most attractive for investment, not least because of the possibilities in petroleum production and refining. In announcing these opportunities, Ambassador of Sudan to Indonesia Abd Alrahim Alsiddig Mohamed Omer said here on Saturday, “But there are other areas to consider, such as thermal power generation, hydro-power generation and renewable resources, such as solar energy and wind power.”
Read more:http://www.antaranews.com/en/news/94827/sudan-offers-indonesian-companies-chance-to-invest-in-energy
Sudan: Lawyer expects release of SCP leader
(Radio Tamazuj) – Native administration and other community leaders in En Nahud town have joined consultations alongside a national advocacy committee to discuss the possible release of the detained head of the Sudanese Congress Party Ibrahim al Sheikh. The politician, who hails from the town, was arrested on 8 June after making critical remarks of a government paramilitary division known as the Rapid Support Forces.
Read more:https://radiotamazuj.org/en/article/sudan-lawyer-expects-release-scp-leader
South Sudan says European Union sanctions “unfair”(Sudan Tribune ) – South Sudanese government described as “unfair and unjustifiable” last week’s sanctions imposed by the European Union on Santino Deng, one of its top army generals. “It is unjustifiable and unfair for the European Union council to sanction a commander of an army division for carrying out constitutional mandate. This is not right”, defense minister Kuol Manyang Juuk exclusively told Sudan Tribune Sunday.Read more:http://www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?article51681PDF recruits involved in murder of South Darfur commissioner(Sudan Tribune ) – South Darfur governor Adam Mahmoud Jar Elnabi revealed that that members of the Popular Defence Forces are involved in the killing of Katila commissioner, Abdallah Yassen, last week. The commissioner of Katila county, 156 km south west of Nyala, was killed in ambush while he was travelling from Nyala to his county on 6 July. The assailants stole the salaries of municipality staff. The governor on Sunday told the family of slain commissioner that following preliminary results of the investigation, the prosecutor charged 9 recruits of the paramilitary forces with involvement in the commissioner murder.Read more:http://www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?article51680
South Sudan says European Union sanctions “unfair”
(Sudan Tribune ) – South Sudanese government described as “unfair and unjustifiable” last week’s sanctions imposed by the European Union on Santino Deng, one of its top army generals. “It is unjustifiable and unfair for the European Union council to sanction a commander of an army division for carrying out constitutional mandate. This is not right”, defense minister Kuol Manyang Juuk exclusively told Sudan Tribune Sunday.
Read more:http://www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?article51681
PDF recruits involved in murder of South Darfur commissioner
(Sudan Tribune ) – South Darfur governor Adam Mahmoud Jar Elnabi revealed that that members of the Popular Defence Forces are involved in the killing of Katila commissioner, Abdallah Yassen, last week. The commissioner of Katila county, 156 km south west of Nyala, was killed in ambush while he was travelling from Nyala to his county on 6 July. The assailants stole the salaries of municipality staff. The governor on Sunday told the family of slain commissioner that following preliminary results of the investigation, the prosecutor charged 9 recruits of the paramilitary forces with involvement in the commissioner murder.
Read more:http://www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?article51680
