In an interview with Radio Dabanga, JEM chairman Dr Jibril Ibrahim stated that theKhartoum regime should show its sincerity “by deeds, not by words alone”, in response to the National Intelligence and Security Service’s announcement on Wednesday about the release of all political detainees, following a decree by President Al Bashir.
“Earlier experiences have shown that the regime’s sweet words usually contradict its deeds. After Al Bashir announced his decrees about the release of political detainees, press freedom, and freedom for political parties to operate, the Sudanese security arrested activists, and confiscated newspapers. That is why confidence is missing among the political forces in Sudan.”“The ruling National Congress Party has to put tons of efforts to prove its credibility and seriousness by creating a conducive climate for a national dialogue. A good first step would be the release of all political detainees and JEM convicts in the various prisons of Sudan. If the hostages of the Khartoum regime are not released, we will not return peacefully to Sudan to participate in a national dialogue, and end up joining our families in the prisons.”ParisConcerning his meeting with President Idris Deby, Ibrahim said that the Chadian President had requested a meeting with JEM in Paris on Monday.Deby informed the JEM delegation members that the Um Jaras conferees had asked him to meet with the leaders of the Darfur armed movements, and tell them to enter peace negotiations because “their relatives were tired of war and want peace”. JEM had responded by confirming that the armed movements are also bored of warfare, and also want peace, but that there is no a “peace-making partner”. “Clearly Khartoum has not decided to make peace yet, as the ongoing widespread attacks on rural areas in Darfur show.”“The decisions on war or peace are taken by the regime in Khartoum, and not in Um Jaras,” the JEM delegation members had explained to the Chadian President. “If our relatives want us to surrender, tell them that we are not ready to do so, nor call upon us to do so. If they want peace, they should talk to the palace in Khartoum.”
