Sudan police fire tear gas at protesters attending student’s funeral
(Reuters) Security forces in the Sudanese capital Khartoum on Wednesday fired tear gas at demonstrators attending the funeral of a student killed in a protest, a Reuters witness said, and KhartoumUniversity suspended classes “indefinitely”. Ali Musa was killed at a 200-strong protest march against escalating violence in the western Darfur region on the university campus when police fired tear gas at the protesters.Police said on Tuesday they would investigate his death. About a thousand people, some carrying flags and chanting “killing a student is killing the nation” and “revolution is the people’s choice”, marched in the procession. Some threw stones at police, and about five were slightly wounded. Critics accuse the government of war crimes and human rights abuses among ethnic minorities in the region.
Source: http://uk.reuters.com/
Sudan: ‘Revolution’ call at student’s funeral(News 24) Hundreds of angry mourners called for the overthrow of Sudan’s government on Wednesday at the funeral of a student allegedly shot dead by security forces at a protest about violence in Darfur. Ali Abaker Mussa Idris, a third-year economics student, died in hospital from gunshot wounds “after security forces used tear gas and opened fire with live ammunition” at the University of Khartoum demonstration on Tuesday, Amnesty International said. About 500 mourners, most of them students, gathered on Wednesday at a cemetery in South Khartoum waiting for the victim’s body to arrive, an AFP reporter said. About 300 students, many of them from Darfur, protested at the university on Tuesday. Police said they fired only tear gas when the rally tried to move out of the campus onto surrounding streets.
Source: http:// www.news24.com/
Slain student buried in Khartoum; Darfur Association calls security statement ‘racist’
(Radio Dabanga) Thousands of people attended the funeral of the student who was shot dead on Tuesday afternoon during a demonstration at the University of Khartoum. A large crowd tried to accompany the procession with the body of Darfuri student, Ali Abakar Musa Idris, to his final resting place at the Sahafa Shereg cemetery in Khartoum. The security forces had rejected the transferral of the body to the house of Idris’ uncle in Omdurman, the sister-city of Khartoum, after which he would be buried at the Hamed El Nil cemetery nearby, allegedly to avoid a much larger crowd of mourners. The Darfur Students’ Association described the statement issued by the Khartoum State Security Service on the activities of Darfuri students as “racist”. The Darfur Students’ Association considered the statement of the Khartoum State Security Service an “outright directive to make the Darfur university students a legitimate target for the police and the security services to persecute.”
Source: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Darfur conflicts displace 100,000 in one week
(Radio Dabanga) Recent large displacements by armed conflicts in Darfur have caused an influx of 100,000 people to camps for the displaced in North and South Darfur over the past week. Around 45,000 newly displaced have arrived at South Darfur’s Sani Deleiba town and El Salam, Kalma, Otash, and Dereig camps following attacks by the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF) in areas near state capital Nyala, the World Health Organization (WHO) reported. Other humanitarian agencies estimated that more than 55,000 people were displaced from Saraf Omra in North Darfur over the past week owing to attacks and plundering by militias led by Musa Hilal. According to the International Organization of Migration (IOM), 10,000 to 15,000 people have fled from El Taweisha, Ailliet, and Haskanita towns in North Darfur, while others have fled to Ghubeish locality in West Kordofan. They fled from the joint rebel forces’ attacks.
Source: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
