(Sudan Tribune) Sudan’s National Intelligence and Security Services (NISS) has carried out a massive arrest campaign against pro-opposition students amid escalating violence at the University of Khartoum (UofK). The detained students included Tag al-Sir Ja’afar from the New Forces Movement (NFM), Muamar Musa from the Reform Now Party (RNP) and Mohamed Salah from the Democratic Front (DM) which is the students’ arm of the communist party. The NCP students attacked their protesting peers at the main campus and Shambat campus using bladed weapons. The government authorities failed to respond to repeated appealsby students to interfere and protect the university. The faculty of commerce at al-Neelain University (AU) also witnessed violent confrontations on Tuesday following attacks by pro-NCP students against students belonging to the Arab Ba’ath Party (ABP).
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
Khartoum University shut down amid clashes(Star Africa) The administration of Khartoum University has announced it was shutting down the school after tensions between students had escalated in recent days. In statement on Tuesday, the university authorities expressed regret over the outbreak of violence among supporters of the different candidates for the leadership of the university students’ union. The university said closing the school is aimed at avoiding causalities among students, some of whom have been injured in recent disturbances. The chancellor of the University of Khartoum has since resigned in protest against the government’s apparent inability to intervene and stop the violence.Read More: http://en.starafrica.com/SPLM-N’s Arman pessimistic over peace talks with government(Sudan Tribune) The secretary-general of the rebel SPLM-N and head of its negotiating delegation Yasir Arman said the two warring parties in Blue Nile and South Kordofan states are far from reaching a peace agreement. Arman in statements he extended to Sudan Tribune on Tuesday disclosed that the Sudanese government delegation” accepted once again to negotiate under the 28 June 2011 agreement”, adding that the positions of the two parties are still far apart on the humanitarian assistance and the democratic transition process called national dialogue. “I can confirm now that we will not agree to negotiate a bilateral agreement (on the Two Areas) because we seek an agreement that opens the door for a comprehensive solution to the complex Sudanese crisis with the participation of the all national partners,” he said.Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/No room for Sudan Revolutionary Front in peace talks’: Ghandour(Radio Dabanga) Dr Ibrahim Ghandour, the head of the Sudanese government delegation for the Addis Ababa peace negotiations on South Kordofan and the Blue Nile, refused to include representatives of the Sudan Revolutionary Front (SRF) on Monday. Dr Ibrahim Ghandour said that the UN mandate and the African Union mediation team have determined that the negotiations are to be held between the delegations of the government and the Sudanese People’s Liberation Movement-North (SPLM-N). “There is no room to open the Addis Ababa platform for dialogue on any other issues.”Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/EU calls for protection of religious freedom in Sudan(Radio Dabanga) The representatives of the EU Delegation to Sudan and its member states in Khartoum have received the legal defence team of Maryam Yahya Ibrahim, who on 11 May was convicted of apostasy at the El Haj Yousif Criminal Court in Khartoum North. The diplomats were briefed about the development of the case, and its implications on religious tolerance and human rights, the EU Delegation to Sudan said in a press statement today (Tuesday).The EU and its member states have been attentively following this case. While reiterating full respect for the independence of the Sudanese legal system, the EU representatives recall that the freedom of religion is a universal human right that needs to be protected everywhere and for everyone.Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Khartoum University shut down amid clashes
(Star Africa) The administration of Khartoum University has announced it was shutting down the school after tensions between students had escalated in recent days. In statement on Tuesday, the university authorities expressed regret over the outbreak of violence among supporters of the different candidates for the leadership of the university students’ union. The university said closing the school is aimed at avoiding causalities among students, some of whom have been injured in recent disturbances. The chancellor of the University of Khartoum has since resigned in protest against the government’s apparent inability to intervene and stop the violence.
Read More: http://en.starafrica.com/
SPLM-N’s Arman pessimistic over peace talks with government
(Sudan Tribune) The secretary-general of the rebel SPLM-N and head of its negotiating delegation Yasir Arman said the two warring parties in Blue Nile and South Kordofan states are far from reaching a peace agreement. Arman in statements he extended to Sudan Tribune on Tuesday disclosed that the Sudanese government delegation” accepted once again to negotiate under the 28 June 2011 agreement”, adding that the positions of the two parties are still far apart on the humanitarian assistance and the democratic transition process called national dialogue. “I can confirm now that we will not agree to negotiate a bilateral agreement (on the Two Areas) because we seek an agreement that opens the door for a comprehensive solution to the complex Sudanese crisis with the participation of the all national partners,” he said.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
No room for Sudan Revolutionary Front in peace talks’: Ghandour
(Radio Dabanga) Dr Ibrahim Ghandour, the head of the Sudanese government delegation for the Addis Ababa peace negotiations on South Kordofan and the Blue Nile, refused to include representatives of the Sudan Revolutionary Front (SRF) on Monday. Dr Ibrahim Ghandour said that the UN mandate and the African Union mediation team have determined that the negotiations are to be held between the delegations of the government and the Sudanese People’s Liberation Movement-North (SPLM-N). “There is no room to open the Addis Ababa platform for dialogue on any other issues.”
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
EU calls for protection of religious freedom in Sudan
(Radio Dabanga) The representatives of the EU Delegation to Sudan and its member states in Khartoum have received the legal defence team of Maryam Yahya Ibrahim, who on 11 May was convicted of apostasy at the El Haj Yousif Criminal Court in Khartoum North. The diplomats were briefed about the development of the case, and its implications on religious tolerance and human rights, the EU Delegation to Sudan said in a press statement today (Tuesday).The EU and its member states have been attentively following this case. While reiterating full respect for the independence of the Sudanese legal system, the EU representatives recall that the freedom of religion is a universal human right that needs to be protected everywhere and for everyone.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
