ADDIS ABABA(
25 Nov.) –
On the second day of the second track negotiations on Darfur in the Ethiopian capital Addis Ababa on Monday, Dr Jibril Ibrahim’s Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) and the Sudan Liberation Movement led by Minni-Minawi (SLM/A-MM) handed the AU mediation team (AUHIP) under the chairmanship of former South African President Thabo Mbeki their vision for a comprehensive political solution in Sudan.
The vision of both Gibril and Minawi is summarised in a comprehensive solution to the political issue as an entry point for a solution to all the issues of Sudan.
In an interview with Radio Dabanga, SLM head and Deputy-President of the Sudan Revolutionary Front (SRF) explained that the vision submitted by the two movements confirmed the specifics of regions experiencing war, as well as political issues of identity, provided that it brings together all the components of economic, politics and margin areas issues. Also, the vision pointed to the constitutional issues that must bring together all components of the Sudanese people so as to reflect a new Constitution for Sudan.
Dr Ibrahim explained that the high committee to coordinate the negotiations held meetings with political forces that came from the Sudanese government in order to coordinate the negotiations and clarify the points. Gibril explained that the paper submitted to the mediation talks about declaration of principles, road map, or framework agreement in the light of the discussion in Addis Ababa. He pointed out that it contains all relevant political and economic issues.
The two movements described the Government’s view that the Darfur negotiations, which started on Sunday in Addis Ababa, are concerned only with a ceasefire as a political propaganda.
Dr Ibrahim said the Government is free to say whatever it wants; however, the ceasefire process in any negotiation comes in a subsequent phase. He told Radio Dabanga that this phase taking place in Addis Ababa is fir such declaration of principles to be scheduled which will then turn into a framework agreement under which people will be divided into committees on political issues and security arrangements. Then that will be concluded with a ceasefire.
Minni Minawi accused the Government of “promoting political propaganda” by saying that the negotiations are concerned only with the ceasefire. He told Radio Dabanga that mediator Mbeki spoke at the opening ceremony and said that this is the beginning of negotiations for a political process to resolve all the issues of Sudan. Minawi added that “the Government received money from Qatar and is so ashamed to say to Qatar that there is a new negotiations track”.
