(Sudan Tribune) Sudan’s ranking on corruption perception index is only better than Afghanistan, North Korea and Somalia in 2012, according to a report released today by an anti-corruption watchdog.  Sudan now stands at 173 out of 174 compared to 177 out of 182 in2011. Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan moved ahead of the East African nation since last year.  Earlier this year Sudanese president Omer Hassan al-Bashir established an anti-graft agency in response to growing concern over corruption and what is seen as lack of accountability in that area. However so far nothing has emerged from the agency on its corruption probe.  Sudanese officials including president Bashir have downplayed the level of corruption in the country calling it exaggerated. But the Inspector General’s annual reports to the parliament including this year’s continue to show cases of embezzlement and fraud within the government.  Last month the Inspector General’s said that violations in states have increased by 38.1% compared to the previous reporting period.
Further Reading:http://www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?iframe&page
US navy denies docking ships in Sudan
(Sudan Tribune) The United States Navy denied statements made by Sudan foreign minister Ali Karti yesterday saying that U.S. ships made a stop for a few hours in Port Sudan last month.  Karti used this argument to defend Sudan’s decision to allow Iranian ships to dock last October saying this is normal and routine in the context of international relations.  But a U.S. navy official, speaking on condition of anonymity, told Sudan Tribune today that they “don’t have any record” of their ships visiting the country last month.  Khartoum denied that granting permission to Iranian ships was linked to a suspected Israeli air strike on a weapons factory in the Sudanese capital few days prior to the visit.  The Sudanese foreign minister last month along with lawmakers yesterday have criticized relations with Iran saying it is becoming problematic for Khartoum and negatively affecting ties with other countries.Further Reading:http://www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?iframe&page=imprimable&id_article=44754
Army claims victory over rebels, 2 LJM field commanders killed
(Radio Dabanga)  Two field commanders of the Liberation and Justice Movement (LJM), Hamad Abbaker Dahia and Abdel Kareem Hassan, were reportedly killed in an attack launched by the Sudanese army. Sources informed Radio Dabanga that the armed forces attacked the movement’s site at the western gate of El-Fasher early Wednesday morning, 5 December.  At the same time, the army allegedly arrested three members of the movement and seized three of its Land Cruiser vehicles loaded with arms and ammunition. The movement led by Dr. Tijani Sese, head of the Darfur Regional Authority, described the attack ‘which came without any warning’ as a ‘clear violation of the ceasefire agreement’ signed between the government and the movement.Further Reading:www.radiodabanga.org/news-archive
