EUROPEAN UNION NEWS DIGEST
Sudanese president to skip Mandela funeral amid ICC arrest fears(Sudan Tribune) Sudanese president Omer Hassan Al-Bashir will not be travelling to South Africa to participate in the memorial service for former president Nelson Mandela who passed away last week. Newly-appointed first vice-president Bakri Hassan Saleh, who was sworn in earlier this week, will represent Sudan at the event, according to a list released by South Africa’s international relations and cooperation department.A spokesman for the Sudanese embassy confirmed to South Africa’s Sunday Independent newspaper that Bashir would not be attending in order to avoid any complications associated with his indictment by the International Criminal Court (ICC). South African officials said no invitations had been sent out to world governments for the funeral, and it was left up to individual countries to decide who to dispatch.Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/Two Main Rebel Groups Attend Addis Ababa Forum On Peace and Security in Darfur(All Africa) The All Inclusive Peace and Security in Darfur Technical Workshop, co-organised by Unamid and the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) has begun today in Addis Ababa. The three-day ‘technical workshop’ aims to bring the non-signatory Darfur rebel movements to the negotiation table. Of the Sudan Revolutionary Front member movements, the Sudan Liberation Movement led by Abdelwahid El Nur (SLM-AW) refused to participate, but the Sudan Liberation Movement led by Minni Minawi (SLM-MM) and the Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) led by Dr Jibril Ibrahim, responded. From Addis Ababa, Minni Minawi reported to Radio Dabanga that during the first day the humanitarian situation in Darfur was discussed, in relation to international humanitarian law, human rights, the previous peace agreements (N’Djamena, Abuja , and Doha) and the reasons for their failure.Read more: http://allafrica.com/stories/
South Darfur’s Buram tense after Abbala-Habbaniya clashes(Radio Dabanaga) At least ten people were killed and dozens wounded in armed clashes between Abbala and Habbaniya tribesmen in Buram locality in South Darfur on Sunday evening. Speaking to Radio Dabanga, multiple sources reported the clashes between the two tribes on Sunday and renewed clashes west of BuramTown on Tuesday. Abu Ghurra described the situation in the area as very tense. He appealed to the authorities to urgently intervene to contain the situation and avoid more casualties.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Sudan, Egypt, and Ethiopia fail to agree on dam construction(Sudan Tribune) Water ministers of Sudan, Ethiopia and Egypt failed to reach an agreement on the disputed Ethiopian Renaissance Dam project and decided to refer the sticking points to a third meeting. The second ministerial meeting which was held in Khartoum on Monday sought to reach an agreement on forming a joint mechanism for implementing the recommendations of the International Panel of Experts (IPoE) regarding the dam. The IPoE is composed of six representatives each drawn from Ethiopia, Egypt and Sudan, and another four international experts and was established to assess the impact of the dam project on downstream countries. The Sudanese water minister, Muattaz Musa Abdallah Salim, told reporters following the meeting that they have addressed a significant part of the issues on the follow-up of the implementation of the IPoE recommendations.Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
