EUROPEAN UNION NEWS DIGESTSudan cabinet holds emergency meeting after 39 die in floods
(Global Post) – Sudan’s cabinet met in emergency session on Tuesday after flooding killed 39 people, destroyed thousands of homes and sparked complaints of government negligence. Interior Minister Ismat Abdul-Rahman told the meeting that “39 people died across the country, 17 of them from Khartoum state,” the official SUNA news agency said. “Most of the country has been affected by above-normal heavy rain,” he reported, detailing a total of almost 5,500 collapsed houses in five states early in the rainy season. Most of the damage was in the Khartoum region, his figures showed.The downpours have led to a noticeable rise in the Blue Nile River in Khartoum, and Water Resources Minister Muattaz Musa Abdallah Salim told the cabinet meeting that higher river levels “may cause more floods”, SUNA reported.
Read More:http://www.globalpost.com/
More than 1,000 Sudanese stranded in eastern Libya
More than thousand Sudanese are stranded in the area of Bireiga in eastern Libya. They are facing dire humanitarian conditions, owing to the heavy fighting in the country, and their inability to travel to Sudan. Speaking to Radio Dabanga on Monday, one of the stranded Sudanese reported that about thousand Sudanese employees of Libyan companies have sought refuge in a yard in the area of Bireiga. “The situation is catastrophic. We want to return to Sudan but all the roads are blocked because of the clashes between government troops, militias, and Islamist groups. In addition, people who left the yard have been prone to armed robberies.”
Read More:https://www.radiodabanga.org/
EU support to strengthen peace in Sudan
(Radio Dabanga) – The European Union has allocated 13,5 million Euro under the “Instrument contributing to Stability and Peace” for Sudan over the next three years. The new programme, adopted on 29 July, will continue to contribute to peace, security and stability in Sudan, especially in the conflict-affected areas in the vicinity of its southern border. It will also address a range of other needs, including those linked to the impact on Sudan of the most recent conflict in South Sudan, the Delegation of the European Union to Sudan announced in a press release on Tuesday. “The programme will primarily support stabilisation, democratization, and good governance in Sudan through technical support to local peace processes, and the generation of visible peace dividends for local communities,” the press release said. “Also, small scale infrastructure projects will bring together local communities in conflict-affected areas, and thus help mitigate existing conflicts and prevent new ones. Promoting the role of women in conflict resolution is also foreseen to foster inclusive political participation.”
Read More:https://www.radiodabanga.org/
PCP: ‘1998 Constitution Reflects Our Vision’
(Sudan Vision) – The 1998 constitution expresses the vision of the Popular Congress Party (PCP) in relation to the upcoming elections, Head of the PCP’s Women Desk, Dr. Suhair Ahmed Salah told SUNA on Tuesday. In statement to be published later, she said that the PCP’s vision has now expanded to include freedoms for states and that governors should be elected by voters of their own states.
Read More:http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/
US-Africa summit ‘abnormal’, says excluded Sudan
(Standard Digital News AFP) – The attendance of nearly every African nation at an unprecedented summit in Washington on Monday is “abnormal” as long as Sudan is excluded, Khartoum says. Sudan’s President Omar al-Bashir, who is wanted for alleged war crimes, is one of only four leaders not invited by US President Barack Obama for the three-day meeting focussed on building economic ties between the two continents. “It was abnormal that Africa accepts to go to this meeting while one of its very important members was not invited”, Sudan’s Foreign Minister Ali Karti said in comments published Monday by Sudanese newspapers. Islamist-run Khartoum has been under US economic sanctions since 1997 over what Washington said were human rights violations and other issues.
Read More:http://www.standardmedia.co.ke/
