Sudanese opposition divided over dialogue with NCP
(Sudan Tribune) The Popular Congress Party (PCP) led by Hassan al-Turabi has formally agreed to engage in a dialogue with the ruling National Congress Party (NCP) despite objections by other members of the opposition coalition known as the National Consensus Forces (NCF) .The PCP deputy Secretary-General Abdullah Hassan Ahmed and the PCP Political Secretary Kamal Omar Abdel-Salam informed an NCF meeting on Sunday of their decision but vowed nonetheless to carry the coalition’s point of view during the dialogue.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
Outrage at Janjaweed Crimes in North Kordofan
(Radio Dabanga) The Governor of North Kordofan, Ahmed Haroun has admitted that the Janjaweed militias have committed a series of crimes against the citizens of El Obeid and the villages surrounding the city. The crime wave has prompted a chorus of outrage from across the political spectrum. Haroun described these incidents as shocking. He apologised in a statement to the citizens of the state about the incidents of killing, rape and looting. He added that the forces accused of the killings, called ‘rapid support troops’, are large numbers of regular forces belonging to “national intelligence” who have recently been recruited for national missions.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
UNAMID Head Holds Talks with Darfur Rebels
(Radio Dabanga) Unamid head, Dr Mohamed Ibn Chambas, held talks on Monday with the leaders of the three main armed opposition movements in Darfur, under the banner of the Sudan Revolutionary Front (SRF). In Kampala, capital of Uganda, Ibn Chambas met with Abdel Wahid El Nur, leader of the Sudan Liberation Movement-AW, Minni Minawi leader of the Sudan Liberation Movement-MM, and Dr Jibril Ibrahim of the Justice and Equality Movement (JEM). Speaking to Radio Dabanga, Minni Minawi, head of the Sudan Liberation Movement and the Co-Vice President of the SRF described the meeting as “the way to hold the dialogue and the way to convince the international community and the decision-making circles in the UN Security Council and the African Union.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
HUDO: Sudan repression tightened in January
(Radio Dabanga) The month of January 2014 saw an increase in repression in Sudan, according to the latest report by the Human Rights and Development Organisation (HUDO). It states that the Sudanese government has been enforcing controversial laws. For example, the Armed Forces Act amended in June last year, which allows prosecution of civilians before military courts. The HUDO report confirms that the Sudanese authorities continue the aerial bombardment of the NubaMountains and Blue Nile. The security situation is worsening in Kordofan and El Obeid due to the presence of the Janjaweed who have been driven from the battlefield in South Kordofan.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
