The National) The local commander of the government troops, known as Rapid Support-2, was reported killed. “Our forces launched a big offensive in Daldako”, Arnu Ngutulu Lodi, spokesman for the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement-North (SPLM-N), said on Saturday. Fighting continued into Saturday evening, said Mr Lodi, who could not be contacted on Sunday.Troops from Rapid Support-2 said they had seized the strategic Daldako area, 17 kilometres north-east of South Kordofan’s state capital Kadugli, on May 18. But, on Sunday Al Sudani newspaper, quoting the defence minister Abdelrahim Mohammed Hussein, said the Daldako field commander of Rapid Support-2 had been killed in the rebel counter-attack.Read more: http://www.thenational.ae/
SAF silent on reports of senior RSF commander’s death
(Sudan Tribune) The Sudan Armed Forces (SAF) has maintained its silence on reports a senior commander from the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) was killed on Saturday in Daldako area, east of the South Kordofan state capital of Kadugli. High-level sources told Sudan Tribune earlier that Col. Hussein Jabr al-Dar’s death occurred during heavy clashes with the rebel Sudanese People’s Liberation Movement-North (SPLM-N) in Daldako area. Attempts to reach SAF spokesperson al-Sawarmi Khalid Sa’ad by phone were unsuccessful. The sources said that a shrapnel of a rocket-propelled grenade hit the commander’s vehicle, killing him along with several other soldiers. Jabr al-Dar, who hails from South Kordofan state, was a member of the Republican Guard forces in Khartoum.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
Sudanese troops deployed between Darfur and W. Kordofan to prevent tribal clashes
(Sudan Tribune) Military troops in West Kordofan and East Darfur states have been deployed on Saturday to secure the dividing line between areas of Hamar and Ma’alia tribes following the renewed fighting between the two ethnic groups. At least 29 tribesmen were killed and 23 others injured when clashes erupted on Friday between the two tribes. MPs of the two sides in the Sudanese national assembly developed a joint mechanism in preparation for the reconciliation conference which will be held on June 12th in West Kordofan state capital of al-Fula. According to the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) , some of the 38,000 displaced people in West Kordofan have fled recent fighting between the Hamar and Ma’alia tribes in North and East Darfur in March and April.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
Sudanese presidency refuses to interfere to secure release of Al-Mahdi
(Sudan Tribune) The Sudanese presidency on Sunday has refused to issue directives for the release of the National Umma Party (NUP) leader, al-Sadiq al-Mahdi, declaring that it would not interrupt the legal course. It pointed to the need for completing the ongoing investigations with al-Mahdi, underscoring its commitment to national dialogue as a strategic choice. Al-Mahdi was arrested last week, days after he was called for questioning by state prosecutors over statements he made accusing the Sudan’s paramilitary unit known as the Rapid Support Force (RSF) of committing abuses against civilians in Darfur and Kordofan regions. The Sudanese First Vice President, Bakri Hassan Salih, met on Sunday with leaders of the opposition parties that are taking part in the national dialogue following their call for the immediate intervention of the presidency to release al-Mahdi in order to create an environment conducive for dialogue. The statement pointed that Salih told the opposition leaders that the NUP leader was arrested due to legal procedures and it is necessary to wait until completing the investigation and then considering the next step. Leaders of the opposition parties said in statements following the meeting that the arrest of al-Mahdi and restrictions on freedoms of expression and press hinder the national dialogue, expressing hope that the government removes those obstacles.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
Unamid moves bases from North Darfur camps(Radio Dabanga) The Unamid teams stationed at the Fata Borno and Kassab camps for the displaced in Kutum locality moved their bases to the town of Kutum on Friday. One of the sheikhs of Fata Borno camp reported to Radio Dabanga that on Friday morning, the Unamid team stationed in the camp “took all its equipment for water supply, electricity, wires, and tents, and loaded them into large lorries. They transported the equipment to Kutum town, 17km east of the camp”.Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
