(Sudan Tribune) – The opposition National Umma Party (NUP) on Saturday has appointed, Meriam al-Mahdi, daughter of the party leader, al-Sadiq al-Mahdi, as deputy chairperson. Al-Mahdi acknowledged the news in a WhatsApp message, saying she was informed of the appointment during her father’s detention last May. Several NUP leaders blame al-Mahdi for appointing his sons and daughters in leadership positions and accuse him of preparing them to bequeath the party at the expense of its historic leadership.
Read more:http://www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?article51580
Sudan’s NISS confiscates newspaper from printing press
(Sudan Tribune) — Sudan’s National Intelligence and Security Services (NISS) has confiscated on Saturday copies of the daily newspaper Al-Tayyar from the printing press. Al-Tayyar, which is a privately daily owned by Osman Mirghani, was suspended in June 2012 for publishing a series of investigative articles on alleged corruption within Sudan’s National Cotton Corporation (NCC). It was only allowed to resume publication last month. Several journalists at Al-Tayyar said the newspaper was confiscated because it reported on Friday issue that the ruling National Congress Party’s (NCP) secretary of political relations and minister of investment, Mustafa Osman Ismail, left for Egypt angrily due to the stalled national dialogue process.
Read more:http://www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?article51581
‘New Sudan Elections Act enforces Dialogue’: opposition
(Radio Dabanga) – The umbrella organisation of Sudanese opposition parties said that the Parliament’s submission of the election act on Tuesday came because the government wants to realise the National Dialogue with all political parties. It has criticised the government’s plan to incorporate a Darfur peace agreement into the Sudanese constitution. Yousif Hussein, spokesman for the National Consensus Forces (NCF) added that the Parliament submitted the election acts because it wants to put pressure on the parties which have announced to freeze the National Dialogue.
Read more:https://www.radiodabanga.org/node/76171
‘Tortured’ Sudan activists will not be broken: mothers
(AFP) – The mothers of two detained Sudanese political activists vowed Saturday that their sons “will not be broken” despite alleged torture and their detention without charge having been extended.A UN rights expert raised concern about the condition of Tajalsir Jaafar, 28; Mohammed Salah and a third activist, Moamer Musa Mohammed, during a visit to Khartoum in late June.
Read more:http://news.yahoo.com/tortured-sudan-activists-not-broken-mothers-163809162.html
