Sudan’s Parliament Lashes out against “New Dawn Charter”
(Sudan Vision) The opposition political parties which have signed the New Dawn Charter (NDC) in Kampala, Uganda, have only one choice: to exercise peaceful politics according to the law or leave the country, Sudan’s parliament said.  Mohamed Al-Hassan Al-Amin, chairman of the National Assembly’s committee for security, defense and external relations said the opposition political parties have to choose:to pursue military activity and in this case they have to leave the country or declare their rejection of the so-called “new dawn charter” and hold accountable the elements who have signed the document on their behalf.  The same parties have earlier signed a document committing themselves to follow peaceful means in their exercise of political activity and not to take part in any military action, he said. These political parties have now become part of armed insurgency which seeks to undermine the state and if they do not take clear stance toward the elements who have signed on their behalf the state will react by all available means including legal, Al-Amin warned.
Read More:http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/details.html?rsnpid=218226
President Issues Decree Appointing President, Members of Constitutional Court
(Sudanese Radio and TV) President Omer Al Bashir issued a decree relieving the president and members of the Constitutional Court. He issued another decree appointing new president and members for the constitutional court as follows: Abdellah Ahmed Abdellah, appointed president of the court and membership of Prof. Haj Adam Hassan Al-Tahir, Somi Zaizan Attia Salem, Mohamed Ahmed Mohamed Al Tahir, Thania Al-Rashid Mirghani, Abdul Rahman Yaoub Ibrahim and Dr. Mohamed Ibrahim Al-Tahir Al-Sayed. The new president and members of the constitutional court will take oath of office before the President today Sunday.
Read More:http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/details.html?rsnpid=218228
Al Qaeda in Sudan launches ‘student wing’ at University of Khartoum
(Long War Journal)  The organization Al-Qaeda in Sudan announced yesterday the birth of its student wing in the University of Khartoum in a new sign of growing extremist influence in the country.  The Main Street in Al-Wasat complex in Khartoum witnessed a public address on Wednesday afternoon by what appeared to be Al-Qaeda sympathizers who spoke on “The preceding Jihad in the Land of Two Niles”.  The speakers said they disagree with the ultra-conservative Ansar al-Sunna Salafist group in Sudan but they do not consider them blasphemous. They also expressed readiness to conduct a dialogue with secularists.  They denied that Al-Qaeda group is being pursued by the Sudanese security and rejected their labeling as extremists saying that the US is behind this adding that they adhere to the Quran and Sunna of the Prophet.
Read more:http://www.longwarjournal.org/threat-matrix/archives/2013/
Sudanese army says it killed more than 50 rebels
(CNN) The Sudanese army said it killed more than 50 rebels during clashes in a state bordering neighboring South Sudan.  Several government soldiers died in the attack in South Kordofan state Friday, according to Sudanese state media, SUNA.  It did not provide a number for the soldiers killed, but said the clashes occurred near the state capital of Kadugli.  An army spokesman told the news agency that the rebels killed were members of the Revolutionary Front, an alliance of militant groups. They operate in Sudanese states that border South Sudan.  Sudan and South Sudan have accused each other of supporting rebels.
Read More:http://edition.cnn.com/2013/01/12/world/africa/sudan-rebel-attack/index.html
