(Asharq Al-Awsat) The leader of Sudan’s Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) threatened a repeat of its May 2008 attack on Khartoum and Omdurman, saying that the central government is facing “the final chapter of the collapse of the regime.” In a rare statement to the press, JEM leader Jibril Ibrahim spoke to Asharq Al-Awsat via intermediaries, threatening a repeat of the 2008 attack that marked the group as the key anti-government force in the longstanding Darfur conflict. “The government has moved its forces from Darfur to central Sudan to be closer to the capital,” Ibrahimsaid amid reports that the local commander of government forces had been killed by Sudan People’s Liberation Movement-North (SPLM-N), an allied rebel militia. SPLM-N forces successfully re-seized the strategically important region of Daldako in South Kordofan from Rapid Support-2, a controversial counter-insurgency unit that had only “liberated” it from rebel control last week. Fighting is ongoing between government and rebel forces in the southern province. Commenting on Khartoum’s use of counter-insurgency units, Ibrahim told Asharq Al-Awsat: “It seems that there is a decision to dissolve the Sudanese Army in favor of special militias that operate outside the law.”
Read More: http://www.aawsat.net/
Sudan army starts recruiting retirees to fight in Blue Nile
(Radio Tamazuj) Local residents of Damazin town in Sudan’s Blue Nile state say the Sudanese Armed Forces (SAF) has started recruiting pensioners and ex-combatants into the ranks of the Sudanese army, so that they fight the SPLA-N in the Ingessana Mountains front.Speaking to Radio Tamazuj on Monday, local sources confirmed that the SAF in collaboration with Saba organization have opened military training centres for elderly to fight the SPLA-N in Ingessana.Read More: https://radiotamazuj.org/
Police in Sudan use teargas to disperse protests
(Sudan Tribune) Sudanese police in the River Nile state capital, al-Damer, clashed with angry protestors on Tuesday who took to the streets to demand the release of the National Umma Party (NUP) leader, al-Sadiq al-Mahdi. Eyewitnesses said the leadership of the NUP and its religious wing, Ansar sect besides opposition parties in the state staged a demonstration to hand over the state’s government a memorandum protesting arrest of al-Mahdi. They said that the police dispersed the crowd near the government headquarters using teargas and rubber bullets, affirming that several injured protesters have been taken to al-Damer public hospital. Meanwhile, the police also dispersed a peaceful demonstration organised by the Sudanese Congress Party (SCP) at the locality of Saudari in North Kordofan state to protest the current situation in the locality.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
Sudanese woman facing death for apostasy gives birth
(BBC) A Sudanese woman awaiting the death penalty for abandoning her religious faith has given birth in jail near the capital, Khartoum, her lawyer has said. Meriam Yehya Ibrahim Ishag married a Christian man and was sentenced to hang for apostasy earlier this month after refusing to renounce Christianity. She is allowed to nurse her baby girl for two years before the sentence is carried out. Born to a Muslim father, she was convicted by a Sharia court. Ms Ibrahim was also convicted of adultery on the grounds that her marriage to a Christian man from South Sudan was void under Sudan’s version of Islamic law, which says Muslim women cannot marry non-Muslims. Western embassies and rights groups have urged Sudan to respect the right of the woman to choose her religion.
Read More: http://www.bbc.com/
Khartoum locality to remove camp housing South Sudanese refugees
(Sudan Tribune) The coordinating committee for security affairs in Khartoum has decided to remove a refugee camp located between al-Azozab and al-Shajara neighbourhoods, south of the Sudanese capital. The decision was made following complaints from residents about the increasing negative practices and threats to the community’s security. The Sudanese government had placed hundreds of South Sudan’s citizens in that camp in order to deport them to their country. There has been reports that additional numbers have entered the camp following the outbreak of conflict in South Sudan last year. Intensive discussion took place in recent weeks to transfer 6,000 refugees from the open areas in Khartoum to Jebel al-Awliya area in the far south of the capital.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
Umma party leader demands fair trial in Sudan(Radio Dabanga) The detained leader of the National Umma Party (NUP), El Sadig El Mahdi, has reiterated his insistence on a fair trial from within his detention camp in Kober prison in Khartoum North, regarding the charges filed against him by the Sudanese National Intelligence and Security Services (NISS).Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Darfur Displaced Have Little Faith in DRA Committees
(All Africa) The head of the Darfur Regional Authority (DRA), Dr Tijani Sese, on Sunday launched the formation of a Truth and Reconciliation Committee and a Justice Committee, as provided for in the Doha Document for Peace in Darfur (DDPD). The Darfur displaced are sceptical about the work of the Committees. Omda Ahmed Ateem Osman, coordinator of the North Darfur camps for the displaced, described the idea of a Justice Committee ” a foregone conclusion, and a waste of the rights of the victims”. Hussein Abu Sharati, chairman of the Association of Displaced People and Refugees of Darfur, and one of the leaders of Kalma camp in South Darfur, told Radio Dabanga that he “does not think that the Truth and Reconciliation Committee will achieve much in the light of the continuing war and the absence of a comprehensive peace agreement in the region”.Read More: http://allafrica.com/
