The consequences of Britain leaving the EU
The prospects for Britain’sExit from the European Union
By Mahmoud A. Suleiman
As they say, we lived and witnessed many exciting events and changes in life in the world, including the exit of Britain from the European Union attheEleventh houraccording toBritish Standard- time whichcoincided theTwelve hoursaccording to theEuropeanUnion Standardtime on Friday, January 31, 2020 in what was called BREXIT, meaningBritainExitingorleaving ofthe European Union (EU). On that Unfortunately quasi-Catastrophic event, I must admitthat,Iwaswith the Remaindersonthe Day of the BallotsonThe United Kingdom European Union membership referendumthattook place in the United Kingdom and Gibraltar on Thursday 23 June 2016, but the rules of the gameseemed to havecompelledus to respect the opinion of themajority
Leave
17,410,742
51.89%
Remain
16,141,241
48.11%
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Results_of_the_2016_United_Kingdom_European_Union_membership_referendum
, although the opinion of the majority came at a time when public opinion did not form properly towards the referendum, and the results of the referendum narrowly in favor of exit in exchange for staying, and it became obligatory for Parliament to enact the Brexit legislation that allows Under whichtheBritons haveleft the European Union(EU), and from strange paradoxes in the world of politics, sometimes leaders make crazy decisions in moments of enjoying power changing the course of peoples ’lives and history, leaving the European Union was not a popular demand in Britain, and it will not be one of the political issues raised in the political scene Which They are the British voter, in moments of serenity and without objective introductions, the former put British Minister David Cameron in his election program if he won the election for the second time the British people in a referendum given the choice between staying in the European system or out of it. It was not easy to enter Britain to the European Union, as leaving it was not easy. Britain submitted an application to join the European Common Market in 1961, after two previous attempts by Charles deGaulle, the former French president, to use the veto. Britain’s membership in the market was accepted in 1973, the Labor Party came to power in 1974 and decided Renegotiating Britain’s membership in the European Common Market and displaying the outcome of the negotiation to a popular referendum in which the people voted 67%؜in favor of remaining in 1975. The Labor Party first entered the issue of leaving the European Union in its election campaign in 1983, but it suffered a crushing defeat, and with it the issue of leaving the European Union got out of the political agenda. Within the Conservative Party,anEuroscepticPopulist discourse grew in the background of the controversy surrounding the nature of exclusive powers between the federations and the member states of the European system.
When Cameron won the general elections for the second time, he negotiated the European Union over the conditions for his return to the European fold and called for a public referendum in which exit advocates won by 51.9%andthe then Prime Minister DavidCameron submitted his resignation to give way to Teresa May, who was committed to negotiating to leave the EuropeanUnion (EU). Theresa May failed to obtain a majority in the British Parliament to pass the results of her negotiations with the European Union three times and was forced to submit her resignation andleaving thespaceafieldfortheBrexiterBorisJohnsonwhoimmediately after assuming power he decided tosendthe Parliament on leave and tried to pass his agenda on the withdrawal agreement.But theBritishjudiciarypassedhis statementtothe Supreme Courtwhichdeclared Johnson’s decisionas null and void and he hadtosend Parliamentinto recessionin order toenable himself topasshisunconstitutional politicalagenda.Nevertheless, BorisJohnson won the last elections with a comfortable majority, and he managed to pass the withdrawal agreement unilaterally through the British Parliament. Britain left the EuropeanUnion (EU) inform, but the final exit challenges are contingent upon reaching a complete withdrawal agreement with the European Union, according to new conditions imposed by the European Union. Britain maytry toreturn thefolds once again to re- enter the EU, some optimistic experts say.
TheIntergenerational conflictorIntergenerational strugglegameover Britain’s exit from the European Union
Despite this historical backgroundnarrative,thereare twoundeclared warfare- like battles are going on. They are going onin the British experience on the issue of staying or withdrawing from the European Union.
The struggle of generations, whereOlder/Youngergenerations see survival in the European Union as a product of the concept of globalization in which these generations were born, while old / large generations viewed the matter through the struggle of old powers in the old continent, as staying within the European Union considers a victory for Germany by annexing Britain by means Diplomacy, which failed militarily.
The second observationis the difficulty of leavingunionsand once joiningIt.it seems that the European Union has drafted strict laws since its formation, with which it is difficult to exit or withdraw, so Britain’s mission became not easy to negotiate for exit, especiallywith regard toeconomic relations.
Thus, Friday night, January 31, 2020, has witnessed in Britain an atmosphere of overwhelming joy, which was agitating, raising flags, singing and dancing to celebrate the Exit from the European Union, while there is some anger and sadness about leaving the European Union from groups that had previously voted against leaving the European Union and Indeed, the Friday night of January 31, 2020 was a night that history will remember and passed it for the new generations that come.
Jean-Claude Juncker the Luxembourg politician, who served as President of the European Commission from 2014 to 2019 and the 23rd Prime Minister of Luxembourg from 1995 to 2013 and also the Minister for Finances from 1989 to 2009 has been quoted as saying: “As complicated and complex and as difficult as we are, the unity of Europe is a pre-condition for a better organized world, and if the European Union would fail or decompose, or other members left, the U.S. would have a more difficult role to play in the world”.
https://www.brainyquote.com/lists/topics/top-10-european-union-quotes
Dr. Mahmoud A. Suleiman is an author, columnist and a blogger. His blog ishttp://thussudan.wordpress.com/
