The declaration of asymmetric warfare over the Fashaqa area against neighboring Ethiopia is a new setback for the peace of Sudan, which is already stalled
‎إن إعلان حرب غير متكافئة من أجل منطقة فشقة ضد الجارة إثيوبيا انتكاسة جديدة لسلام السودان المتعثر بالفعل
By Mahmoud A. Suleiman
The above titled article comes at and against the backdrop of the beating of the drums of futile and waging a lost war in advance against the sisterly neighbouring country Ethiopia and its Prime Minister Abe Ahmed have supported the Sudanese Peace signed finally in Juba on the Third of October 2019. The underlying reason for trying waging the Warfare against Ethiopia to regain the territory of Fashaga is not a priority for Sudan especially at a time when Peace in Sudan remains volatile and incomplete, let alone the dire daily living conditions of the Sudanese people amid the insecurity continuing caused by gangsters who target the civilians all over the regions of the country. Worse, is the situation regarding failure in completing the dues of Sudanese Peace finally signed in Juba; bearing in mind the fact the final departure of the UNAMID from the Darfur region at the fixed date that would leave a vacuum for the expected Lawlessness while the New force known as the Integrated Transitional Assistance Mission In Sudan (UNITAMS) being installed. At this juncture, one will not ignore for a moment the health implications of the COVID-19 Pandemic and the high costs of the loss of precious lives of those citizens inflicted by the disease. It is high time for the Sudanese Transposal government components to give it a thorough thought as to whether it is necessary and wise to wage a new war at this complicated critical time for Sudan. The Fashaga territory has not been occupied by the Ethiopians today. It was occupied on the day the elements affiliated to the deposed Muslim Brotherhood Movement (MBM) Regime in Sudan carried out a failed assassination attempt of the then Egyptian President Mohammed Hosni Mubarak and the Fashaga was annexed by Ethiopia following that incident and Omer al-Bashir led so-called National Islamic Front (NIF)/National Congress Party (NCP) regime kept silent ever since and kept the crime covered up to avoid revenge from the Egyptian authorities. So what is the new motive for thinking to waging a lost war in advance?!
Sudan has top priorities related to building Peace, improving daily living of the people and many other important duties which remain without been addressed yet. This, beating War Drums are not needed at all O’ General Abdel Fattah Abdelrahman al-Burhan and Prime Minister Dr. Abdalla Hamdok. Listen to the Voice of Wisdom and Think Deeply about the Priorities of this pivotal period of Sudan emerging from the grip of three decades of oppressive Dictatorship led by the accursed International Muslim Brotherhood Movement (MBM), the Khartoum branch which has been ousted by the people of Sudan, through their popular Glorious December Revolution, and who were then expecting a better Peaceful Sudan free from wars, Internal displacement and emigration and above all that the saddening loss of precious human lives. The wise people of the Sudanese public keep calling on the Transposal Bodies ruling the country to stop the hapless plans for waging War against Ethiopia rather the implementing of the remaining peace dues.
One fined it appropriate to quote the message sent by one of the renowned international scholars,Alex de Waal the Research professor, Tufts, Fletcher School of Law, who starts with a question: What’s reigniting a border dispute between Ethiopia & Sudan?
Alex de Waal – Research professor, Tufts, Fletcher School of Law and Muaz Tongo – Head of Sudanese National Boundaries Commission ; the statement goes as follows: “Ethiopia and Sudan are warning each other against worsening a historic border dispute. They have fought over the fertile Al Fashaga region for a century. Although Ethiopians have long settled there, Sudan says the area is part of its territory. Skirmishes have increased in the past two months. What’s behind the flare-up?
We may conclude this topic that seems endless by quoting this wisdom that states: “ As the saying goes, consciousness is considered the top of the lump of knowledge”.
Furthermore and as is known, the implementation of the outcomes of the Sudanese peace agreement finally signed in Juba, the capital of the sisterly state of South Sudan under the Chairmanship of General Salva Kiir Mayardit, on the third of October 2020, as the last available opportunity for the unity of the country and the Sudanese people. God forbid, if fulfilling the outcomes of that signature fails to fulfill the slogans of the glorious December Revolution, Freedom, Peace and Justice the consequences will be dire and dangerous. For the Prime Minister of the Transitional Government, Dr. Abdalla Hamdok and its incubator, the Forces of the Declaration of Freedom and Change (FDFC) agreed upon because this is the task of the transitional period, and any inclination away from these tasks is a betrayal of the trust granted by the Sudanese people who gave them the opportunity to lead the period after the overthrow of the ruling regime of Omer Hassan Ahmed Al-Bashir, who remains fugitive from international justice for committing crimes against humanity, war crimes and the crime of genocide against the Sudanese civilian citizens in the Darfur region during the past decades, and of course we do not forget the crimes of the defunct ruling regime for its multiple racist wars and which included its previous wars against the people in the South Sudan until pushed those citizens  to secede and form their own separate state out from racism, establishing the nascent South Sudan, with its capital Juba, where the final Sudanese peace agreement was signed on the third October 2020.
Thích Nhất Hạnh, who is a global spiritual leader, Vietnamese Thiền Buddhist monk, peace activist, and founder of the Plum Village Tradition and spent most of his later life residing at the Plum Village Monastery in southwest France, travelling internationally to give retreats and talk poet, and peace activist, renowned for his powerful teachings and bestselling writings on mindfulness  has been quoted as saying: ”People say waling on water is a miracle, but to me walking on earth peacefully is the real miracle”.https://www.google.com/search?q=thich+nhat+hanh&rlz=1C1OKWM_enGB936GB936&oq=thich+nhat+hanh&aqs=chrome..69i57j46i433j0i20i263j0j46i20i263j0j0i395l4.22681j1j4&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8
https://www.pinterest.com/pin/520236194437724264/
Furthermore, an unknown individual has been quoted as saying: “Never regret a day in your life: good days give happiness, bad days give experience, worst days give lessons and best days give memories”!https://www.quotespedia.org/authors/u/unknown/never-regret-a-day-in-your-life-good-days-give-happiness-bad-days-give-experience-worst-days-give-lessons-and-best-days-give-memories-unknown/
Ezra Weston Loomis Pound the expatriate American poet and critic, a major figure in the early modernist poetry movement, and a fascist collaborator in Italy during World War II and whose works include Ripostes, Hugh Selwyn Mauberley, and his 800-page epic poem, has been quoted as saying: “The real trouble with war (modern war) is that it gives no one a chance to kill the right people”.https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ezra_Pound
Dr. Mahmoud A. Suleiman is an author, columnist and a blogger. His blog ishttp://thussudan.wordpress.com/
