Written by: Joljol Mohamed Yayha.
[email protected]As mentioned above in the title of this article, ‘the second genocide in Darfur in twenty first century’, however, the current genocide, that is ongoing in Darfur, did not just start in 2003 as it is recorded in the world history books of genocides, such as Wikipedia. And this genocide is not the first genocide of its kind to be committed in Darfur by the National Islamic Front [NIF] led by Omer Al Bashir and those behind him. Omer Al Bashir, the blood sucker and the criminal, wanted by international criminal court [ICC] to be tried for the second genocide that he and his men have willfully committed against the African tribes.The genocide and its crimes were first perpetrated against Fur People back in 1987- 1991 by the then regime of former Prime Minister Assadig A l Mahdi who is currently the chairperson of Umma party in Khartoum. The former Prime Minister Assadig Al Mahdi had issued a secret degree ordering his then defense minister to swiftly initiate arming Arab tribes against Fur people in Darfur. Assadig Al Mahdi visited Darfur secretly in 1980s in an attempt to meet with the so called ‘the leaders of Arab congregation or Arab Alliance’ as they dubbed themselves.The purpose of his visit to Darfur was to best organize and set strategic plans with his cousins how to massacre and wipe or erase Fur people from the map of Darfur. To best implement genocide against Fur people, he [Assadig Al Mahdi] went to Muammar Al Qaddafi, in Libya to secure more arms to Arab militias in Darfur.Then, mass killings of Fur people began in 1987-1992 after the Arab tribes were armed after the deal of massacring Fur people was reached between him [Assadig Al Mahdi] and Muamar Al Qadaifi. Seven to eight thousand innocent Fur people were killed, thousands were displaced and hundreds of Fur villages were torched or destroyed by the Arab militia men. And thousands of heads of cattle were looted at gun point, let alone properties that were confiscated from Fur by the militias affiliated to Arab Alliance.The purpose of this article is to reveal to you the truth that; the genocide in Darfur didn’t begin only in 2003 as it is believed by many people. It has started in late eighties as I mentioned above and a man responsible of 1987’s genocide in Darfur is Assadig Al Mahdi, and his former regime.As a genocide survivor of both genocides in Darfur I call upon international community represented by United Nation to send, ‘FACT FINDING TEAM’, to investigate 1987’s genocide and bring Assadig Al Mahdi and other culprits to face justice in Hague.The second genocide in Darfur which is still unfolding even today has started in 2003 when Omar Al Bashir, announced to the world in a broad day light that, he was going to commit genocide in Darfur by saying, “I don’t want any wounded or alive Darfurians”, and he said this in Fashir, the historical capital of Darfur. Immediately after Omar Bashir’s statement of ‘not wanting alive or wounded Darfuries’, mass massacres of innocent civilians had started in Darfur. Today, Omar Bashir’s statement is the most devastating statement remembered by the people of Darfur.In conclusion, I appeal upon the UN Security Council to issue a resolution, demanding the arrest of both men, Assadig Al Mahdi and his Cousin Omar Al Bashir, who are responsible of both genocides in Darfur. Failure to arrest these criminals’ means, more bloodshed and consequently more genocides in Darfur and in the end, their dreams of getting rid of African tribes in Darfur is achieved.May God protect the people of Darfur from blood suckers and bless them with peace and security……..
The views expressed above do not represent any political organization or any movement, and they are not politically motivated views, they are strictly those of mine.Joljol Mohamed Yahya is a Darfuri researcher and a tutor of Fur language studies, based in Nairobi- Kenya, and he can be reached at the following address;[email protected],[email protected]or, +254, 711 822 062.
