BySalaheldin Hussein
The Era of paranoia is over and NCP is crumbling under the fires of revolutionary front
The inauguration for peaceful resolution that has been initiated by the rebel forces since 2003 seems to be vital and acceptable for NCP these days if it`s re-proposed again with the rebel conditions, in fact the regime severely suffering from the victories of JEM and other rebel forces in the region. Furthermore, the worst case scenario is expected these days, due to the economic catastrophes and dismantling of the entire system of NCP. No doubt the regime internationally isolated and crumbling with the international criminal court ICC to compromise itbrutality against the innocent civilians. Hence, the mentality of ruling people under totalitarian regime no longer active to sustain in power. Despite, NCP and other political regimes, successfully managed people`s trends over decades toward their fundamental rights through intensive explosion of false ideas and introducing the concept of monarchy is descended to  specific groups, however, the majority became fully aware to end this monopolization. From a psychological perspective, human behavior more likely to react with the most exposed situation whether positively or negatively, here is the media of NCP –SMS and others are deliberately exaggerating and appeared to play role of awareness agents, in fact used to control and represent particular culture is more accepted than other through discrimination and practice of racial segregation among this nation. History tells the truth if we dig the facts. This nation experienced the atrocities and hypocracy of these elites that appeared to be democratic and fair to Sudanese people. But the reality, NCP has been absorbing and exploiting the vigorous of the humblest nation in the earth. It is quite obvious; within the system of fascist, easily power can be abused and personalized in which that corruption and mystification is legal, or use the anonymous strategies to keep the entire society away from the reality and transparences. People declared redemption from Al-bashir who is neurotic and conspiratorial and also enact the harsh emergency laws to suppress the voices of freedom. But the backfires is now starting with strong signs of lapse. The series of governments in Sudan deliberately manipulated the Sudanese nation, by adapting various rhetorical approaches, and somehow, they success to manage during the period of sympathy. of course, religion is powerful tool to provoke the innocent people and drag them to  achieve the goals, but it is hard to maintain this kind of trend forever, it could be in a short-term strategy but in long-term will be complicated and finally fail with bad upshot. History tells us all totalitarian regimes such as Stalin the soviet tyranny, Hitler the Nazi delusion and Mussolini the Italian fascist all failed to hold their delusional ideology, by simply rejecting and denying others as human, Al-bashir called south Sudan people are insects; this means he betrayed the entire nation, because south Sudan is still in our vein. But we learn from his superfluous and rumbling speeches to compromise our differences and find out possible way of peaceful and sustainable life for all without discrimination and segregation. One of the NCP plights by inventing a concept of political assassination and define the society based on geographic, and demographical belonging, for more genocide, but it is hard in this era we live in era of accountability, and no longer impunity for war crimes, you cannot wash your hand and walk away through the back door, NCP committed and has been committing atrocities in Darfur, Blue-Nile, and Nubba mountains, the international community do nothing in-terms of brining war crimes to the international justices, but as Luis Moreno said when he met Darfurian community in New York last week, after he briefed the security council, he clearly indicated and strongly repeated that “ perpetrators will end up in jail and  Sudanese people will win this battle” I personally felt good and have positive hope that one day AL-Bashire and his other officials will be in ICC if they are lucky. No doubt, the regime is having hard time to absorb and digest the catastrophes that created, people start to rebel and riot, as well as speak out in the public and national army continue to lose ground in every battle with JEM, government officials are demoralized and frustrated. All options are gone NCP is no longer NCP; the ending era is approaching with strong hope for change and sustainable peaceful life. The changes comes from bottom up by learning the possible options to create platform as instrument to achieve the long-term goal, and we cannot reach to that platform until we change our concept of hopeless and build the possibility of achievement for better future  we deserve.
“We know that equality of individual ability has never existed and never will, but we do insist that equality of opportunity still must be sought” Franklin Roosevelt.
Salaheldin Hussein, he is student at University of Ontario and can be reaching through[email protected]
