The New Dawn CharterPreambleTo satisfy the yearning demands of our people in North Sudan who are looking forwards to see active Sudanese political power united to topple the tyrant National Congress Party regime; that degraded people of Sudan, committed war crimes and genocide against them,in addition to displacement of millions of innocent civilians internally and externally, some are refugees in neighboring countries and some other in diasporas scattered around the world. Moreover; the regime of the National Congress Party dismissed best of the scholars and experts ever produced in Sudan. Such criminal acts perpetrated by the National Congress Party; destroyed the social fabric and unity in the state. Therefore; it was our obligation to get united and stand up committed and determined, and move forwards towards new dawn bright future.The National Consensus Force, the Sudan Revolutionary Front, some women and youth organizations and civil societies groups met and in historical achievement; reached on consensus political vision that shifts Sudan from totalitarian system, towards; democracy, integrity,  peace and country of equal citizenship. The new vision unfettered Sudan from totalitarian system run by few parasites and punishers who monopolized power for more than two decades and more, without slightest religious conscious or moral wisdom.The forces mentioned agreed by consensus to topple and change the regime of the National Congress Party and also agreed on transitional interim period of four years;  which will be followed by free and fair election within which the constitutional conference would be held by national consensus to define how Sudan state would be governed by effective participants from the regions of Sudan, Sudan political parties, active forces and civil societies.Sudan National and Revolutionary Forces determined to continue fierce struggle to achieve the yearning aspiration of Sudanese people for democracy, justice peace and establishment of strategic relationships between the two Sudans; which would gradually lead to the creation of voluntary unity between the two independent states; as a consequence; would support and guarantee regional and international security, peace and stability.Sudan National and Revolutionary Forces determined to continue fierce struggle to achieve ambitions of Sudanese people in democracy and end of wars. The way of sacrifices and the consensus is the unity by which Sudan could be saved from more divisions and lost or rolling towards cliffs of economic collapse and impoverishing of millions of the people, and imposing of mono culture or politics, in a country known for its diversity and varieties; such misleading conducts disparage the dignity of Sudan and its people.Guided by the New Dawn Convention, which leads to democratic federal state in Sudan based on equality between the citizens; assures that the people of Sudan are the source of power, the equal citizenship is basic to get rights and perform duties, and guarantees individual and group freedoms and the state institutions are separated from religion institution to guarantee that the religion is not exploited in to politic.
For these reasons; we signed on this document are obliged with the following:
First: principles and objectives:1.    The identity:Sudan is multi ethnic, cultural, religions and languages country; therefore Sudanese identity is composed of collections of its cultural, geographical and inherited civilization which is more than seven thousands years old.
2.   The governing system:Sudan is federal democratic diversity country; based on equality between the citizens; and assures that the people of Sudan are the source of power and considers that the citizenship is a base to get rights and perform duties and guarantees individual and group freedom.
3.   Religion and the state:Manifest in constitution and laws; that the religion institutions must be separated from state institutions.
4.   International Conventions:The state of Sudan must bind with principles and values of human rights known internationally; particularly conventions that deals with women and minority rights.
5.   Justice and accountability:Assurance on principle of justice and accountability, including general understanding and mechanisms of transitional justice which is in agreement with Sudan context; put an end to impunity, through accountability to those who committed  serious crimes and violated international humanitarian law and laws of the human rights.
6.   The transitional constitution:Sudan state would be established on democratic constitution based on building state of justice and social welfare.
7.   Power and wealth:Equal distribution of power and wealth should be due to criterion of the numbers of the population in the region, with affirmative justice in favor of places affected by wars.
8.   Nationalization of state institutions:•      Confirmation and assurance that the state organized institutions; those keep security and implementing laws (Military, Police and Security services); are national and neutral.
9.   Judiciary system:•      Make sure the independency and professionalism of the national institution, that includes judicial system, civil service, media and the higher education institutions.
10.                  Neighborhood & peaceful coexistence:It’s the foreign policy that serves interests of the Sudanese nation and boosts good neighborhood relationships and coexistence which would heal and resolve inherited hostile political positions been created by continuous  confrontations with neighbors and the international community.
11. Women rights:•      Support for women politically, economically and other fields; in addition to abolish all laws that restrict women rights on top of them the what so called public laws. Thus would achieve dignity for woman and enable her to play her role in life and as well be equal with men on human dignity and rights.•      Issue laws that protect women from being targeted, sexual harassment   and invent mechanism for follow up to bring laws in to action.•      Fight the bad customs and traditions that harm women.
12.                  Basic rights and freedoms:•      All principles and criterions concerns the human rights that are included in international or regional conventions of human rights that are ratified or would be ratified by Sudan; will be part of the transitional interim institutions of Sudan. Any bylaw or decree or decision issued against is erroneous and unconstitutional.•      The laws give full equality between all citizens of Sudan fundamentally from principle of equal citizenship, respect for religious beliefs, traditions and customs. No discrimination against citizens because of the religion, race, sex, culture, geographical direction or political ideology. Any issued law against this, is unconstitutional.•      The state confesses and respects the diversity of religion beliefs, and obligates itself as well to work and achieves social coexistence and peaceful interaction, justice and forgiveness between different religions believers and traditional believers and gives equal peaceful preaching opportunities; on the other hand; forbid hate red and religious bickering instigations and discrimination against each other in the country.•      The state is obligated to respect dignity of Sudanese woman and reassure the positive roles she plays in national political movements. Likewise;the state acknowledges all duties and rights of Sudanese woman as stipulated in regional and international conventions and agreements which has been ratified and would be ratified by the Republic of Sudan.•      Media and education programs should be selected and designed to respect and serve values and principles of our people and regional and international human rights.•      The permanent constitution should include economic, cultural and social civil freedoms and other rights as stipulated in regional and international conventions and agreements. Furthermore; the laws and principles of the ratified conventions to be raised high than the national laws and legislations which are not in harmony with concerned rights.
13.  Non use of force:Non use of military force in political process; or coup d’état against the legitimate states’ elected government.
Second: arrangements and duty of the transitional period:1.    The composition of the transitional government:The force for change would ratify a constitution to rule the transitional interim period. The state would be governed by transitional government of national unity; composed from Sudan force for change who inked this document, that includes the National Consensus Force, Sudan Revolutionary Force, social and civil independent movements, leaders of independent civil societies, youth movements, women and independent national figures.
2.   The transitional period:The transitional interim period is 4 years (four years) within which the government would be run by transitional government of national unity where the participant shall be from all political parties, civil society organizations, women and youth who ratified on this document in addition to independent national figures.
3.   The levels of the governing systems in transitional period:The transitional governing system composes of four levels:•      Federal•      Regional•      State•      LocalThe four levels are exposed to be reviewed according to the commons interest; that would save the budget of the country for other services and development.The national capital:Khartoum with its existing administrative boundaries is a capital city and its symbol for our national unity and a place for the federal government.Endorsement of federal system within transitional period composes from 8 regions as follow:•      Khartoum•      Eastern Sudan•      Darfur•      Kordofan•      South Kordofan ( Nuba Mountains)•      Blue Nile•      Northern Sudan•      Central region
4.   bodies of the transitional government:•      Legislative council•      Presidency•      Council of ministers•      JudiciaryFirst:  The transitional legislative council:Is the supreme legislative authority in the state, watching the performance of the executive during the transitional period in accordance that represents; all national forces and the provinces of Sudan, women and men; however; the representation of women should not be less than 30% of the membership.Second: The transitional Presidency:Represents the national sovereignty and be head of state and is composed as follows:President:•      Vices  President ( regional governors+ one woman at least)Third: transitional Council of Ministers:a.    The national transitional council of ministers, to be formed from the forces signed on this document, in addition to other forces and independent national figures. On the other hand putting in to consideration the experiences, professionalism, geographical representation (regional) and representation of women not less than %30.b.    The transitional council of ministers is composed from President of the republic as head of the council, his deputies, and federal ministers. The transitional interim government should avoid extra lavish.The transitional interim council of ministers has highest executive power in the state; and would be compose from the forces signed the document, in addition to other forces and other national figures; with consideration to qualifications, experience and geographical representation.Fourth: the judiciary:The judiciary to  be formed from the current judicial system; to be independent, with independent judges not tied with any external influences or any pressure from the executive bodies.4.   The duties of the transitional interim period:1.    Bring stability and transitional security arrangements.a.    Immediate cease fire and end wars from contentious areas; in South Kordofan , Blue Nile  and Darfur, lift the emergency cases, release of  political prisoners,  war prisoners or those persecuted and detained for political reasons.b.    Immediate security arrangement for security reasons and stability; to facilitate the work and duties of the transitional interim government.c.    Transitional security arrangement agreements to facilitate the repatriation of the internally displaced people and refugees, then the preparation for the comprehensive security arrangement would follow at the end to form new national military forces.d.    National commission for comprehensive security arrangement would be formed to reform national organized forces from the forces of Sudan Revolutionary Front and the state current forces.e.    Formation of comprehensive transitional procedures to restructure and reform national forces that reflects the real nationalization forces and guarantees its professionalism and neutrality.f.     Dissolution of what so called the popular defense forces and all other militias formed by the regime out of the context of Sudan organized forces; and be immediately disarmed.g.    Take proper procedures to bring back nationalization of Sudan arm forces; restructure their military believe in consonance with national roles they are supposed to play, and as national institution assigned to protect the state and its sovereignty, that keeps them away from being involved  in power struggle.2. Laws and legislatives and the human rights:•      Termination of all restrictive laws and legislatives that are not in accord with international conventions.•      Achievement of justice, prevent impunity and bring all those who committed crimes of genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity,  crimes against the nation and the citizens to have fair trial before national and international courts.•      Confront the culture of racism and supremacy by laws that criminalize discrimination labels and those committing to be pursued by law.•      Manifest the genocide crimes as central evidence committed by National Congress Party that need comprehensive critical look and thinking to its cultural and historical roots.
3.   Special solutions to the war affected areas:It’s the responsibility of the transitional interim government to put an end to the bloodshed that is between the marginalized regions; (Darfur, Nuba Mountains, Blue Nile and Eastern Sudan) and the central government in Khartoum on framework of comprehensive solution to Sudanese crisis. This step needs courageous assertion that, each of those places has its special problems with its political, economical and social dimensions.•      Heal the wounds produced by declared wars against these regions the wounds of  the genocide, ethnic cleansing, forced displacement, looting of properties and settlement of new settlers on the lands of the indigenous people.•      Fully obligated to address the root causes of the historical problems and find solution according to the fair sharing of power and wealth carrying in mind the affirmative action in favor of those regions affect by wars; and admit their historically suffering of  economic deprivation, their special social and cultural  status as well.•      Resolve problems of grabbed lands and organize mechanisms to give them back to the owners.•      Material and moral compensations for the war affected people.•      Security arrangements that facilitates the repatriation of the internally displaced people and the refugees to their places of origins.•      Social reconciliations.
4.   Economic and development:Execute urgent economic plans to stop economic collapse, implement sustainable development projects and fight corruption and poverty; these steps should be resolved by the following procedures:•      Stop civil wars to reduce state expenditures and lavish spending on security bodies.•      Involve experts from different social sectors to put plans that could help development of civil services sectors such as health, education, clean water and sanitation, public housing and social welfare in addition to better ways  to prioritize to achieve social justice.•      Reduce legislative and executive bodies of the state.•      Fight corruption to bring back the public stolen properties inside the state and out of the state.•      Follow up economic policies that would achieve public interest of the majorities of the citizens, develop natural resources to develop sustainable devolvement; the step must include the revival of the major state economic skims and projects that are destroyed by the regime.•      Restructuring of Al-Jazeera skim, Sudan rail road’s, Sudan sea ports  corporation, Sudan civil aviation and other public sectors which are been destroyed.•      Revision of all contracts that includes land, mining, oil and the sold public sectors that includes (companies, corporation houses  …Etc).•      Redevelopment of the big agricultural projects in Al Jazeera, White Nile, Eastern Sudan, Darfur and Kordofan.•      Revive agriculture, animal production and mining sectors to up lift the production.•      Follow sustainable currency polices to keep the value of state currency stable by reducing government expenditures, increase of the income, support exports and expand circles of the revenues to stop deficits.•      Work to exempt Sudan from foreign debt by rebuilding relations with donor countries and international financial institutions and benefit from program that exempts countries from the debts and a open the doors of international finance and investments to pump Sudanese economy.•      Give special attention to clear up the consequences of war in the war-affected regions that has directly affected citizens, including support for segments of displaced people and returning refugees to settle and take advantage of development projects in their places of origin.•      Allocation of affirmative action programs aimed at ethnic groups or individuals discriminated or crimes committed against them,  and survivors of victims of  wars to be provided by training chances or work opportunities particularly the graduates of universities and high colleges.•      Create strategic economic partnership between Sudan and South Sudan to contribute for the development of the two nations.•      Find out the private voluntary organizations, companies and institutions that belong to the members of the ruling party; to  seize, liquidate them and bring them back to the ownership of the state public sector and their income go in to the public treasury.•      Restructuring of the current currency system (polices and management) to meet the requirements of economic development.•      Reconsider the current banking system called Islamic and save it from exploitation, to comply with the general understand and purposes of the economics.Formation of relationship between the farmers and the cattle herders:•      Implementation of urgent plans to enrich pastures.•      Define and draw lines between the farmers and the nomad’s cattle herders and put mechanisms to serve the interests of both sides.•      Define the farming areas and support horizontal agricultural expansion.•      Provide water in cattle herding areas.•      Enforce reconciliations between the warring groups and support the civil societies to foster peaceful coexistence.•      Establish well trained police surveillance stations to avoid conflict occurrence and robust intervention in cases of any conflict.
5.   The Public services:
•       Education:Education is considered as a pillar and backbone to resolve present problems and achieve future objectives and goals in Sudan; however; education must be designed to meet the requirements of the cultural, language and religions diversities in Sudan.Nevertheless; the education system in Sudan is been destroyed by Islamic regime run by National Congress Party; to the extent that the education in Sudan became impotent to grasp global scientific developments. The destruction was ideological tool used to spread illiteracy for domination. Therefore; the reformation of education sector in Sudan requires the following steps:1.    Develop curriculums that provides the learners with correct scientific and logic thinking.2.   Develop behaviors through right curriculums that boosts good and beauty values:–       Teach an individual for self respect; respect his people in the state and the global humanity.–       Boost justice and equality behaviors and peaceful coexistence.3.   Teach and enhance civil life values for the learners:–       Respect and value time.–       Respect the human rights.–       Respect professionalism, the specialization and fair competency.–       Shun inherited ethnic and religious fundamentalism and bias.–       Respect the privacy and freedoms of other people and created an environment to enable the individual to contribute according to his or her capability and take what she or he needs.4.   Learn skills which would enable her or him to obtain the best that is in modern life to contribute positively for the development of his or her community and serve the humanity as well; by the following education policies:1.    Democratization of the education by offering option of education languages, curriculums and tools.2.   The general education is compulsory, free through providing proper equal school environment in all over the state.3.   Follow up the international educational standards in general education system.4.   Secure the higher education by a pay gap system.5.    On framework of affirmative action the state is responsible of paying the tuition fees of universities for all students who come from war affected regions; Darfur, South Kordofan( Nuba Mountains, Blue Nile and Eastern Sudan; until education gap from these areas is narrowed.6.   Expand circles of technical education to enforce the culture of professionalism.7.   Close gender gaps8.   Endorse mix education and put regulations that would serve the objectives and goals of the education.9.   Increase enough budgets to facilitate the implementation of education policies.10.         Endorse emergent development strategy for high education institutions to restructure high colleges and universities to produce qualified cadres to serve people of Sudan and the humanity.11.Amend the education steps in a way that could meet the international standards, of the general education.12.         Prepare school environment and reverse back to the old system of boarding schools in country sides.13.         Pay attention to teachers and enable them to perform their duties in better ways; that includes selection, training and improvement of their conditions of service.14.         Independent of the universities and scientific research centers.15.Revival of old high schools boarding school system and national matriculation or admission to boost national interaction.
•      The health:
–       Give emergent priority to health sector by increasing the budget for the development and training of human cadres.–       Renovation of the hospitals and develop them.–       Develop small clinics with full equipments with regards to equal distribution of health services between the country sides and town and cities; renew the system of transferring the public servant from place to another when necessary.–       Control the census of health sector and health management information system to help for future planning.–       Free primary health care.–       Life saving treatments and emergency cases must be free.–       Expand the health insurance for poor and people of the margin.–       The mother-child health care and protective health services must be made available.–       Give great importance to preventive health materials and fight the contagious diseases through environmental health programs.–       Training and producing health cadres to cover the state.
•      The environment:–       Achieve the third millennium goal of the environment with promise that its serves development goals.–       Execute and evaluate continuous environment policies and reforms and put new strategies for water issues and latest regional and international updates on these regards.–       Enforce policies and regulations to combat drought and desertification through scientific means.
6.   Specialized commissions:In the transitional interim period there would be specialized commissions as part of state organs or institutions; they are as follow: the National Commission for Human Rights, Security Arrangement Commission, National Commission for Repatriation of Internally Displaced Persons and Refugees to (repatriate them to their places of origin and compensate them group and individually), Commission of Land, Judicial Commission, Commission of Revenues and Distribution, Commission of Justice and Accountability Commission…..etc  these commissions are independent and be daily administrated by skilled and experienced Sudanese in leadership and management.
7.   The special commissions:The transitional interim government would establish special commissions to look after those people affected by civil wars; injured, disabled, war children and old women and men; through polices of supervision on accommodation centers on purpose of reforms and development and foster special social insurance.
8.   The laws, legislations and Human Rights:Cancelation of all laws that restrict freedoms and also laws which are not in harmony with international laws of the human rights; and issue alternative democratic laws that boosts up the freedoms; of expression, grouping, organizing, voluntary unions, and freedom of free media. The transitional interim period would endorse new laws that would include legislations that guarantee human right accordance with international convention and standards; plus the ratification on regional and international treaties and agreements that criminalize crimes of torture, discrimination and oppression. Moreover; approval on international human laws and international laws for human rights; treaties that criminalize committing of crimes and physical abuse, in addition to  Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. Nevertheless; the Transitional Interim would endorse all treaties and agreements signed by Sudan that gives rights and freedoms and would be part of Sudanese justice system.9.   The Accountability and transitional Justice:a.    The fair trial for those who committed serious crimes of human right corrupted and looted the public wealth.b.     Compensation for the victims morally and materiallyc.    Achieve fair national and international justice by accounting those who committed serious crimes like genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes to stop impunity.d.    Stop against policies of institutions that led serious crimes against human rights, specially crimes of genocide not only through implementation of criminal responsibilities such as positive cooperation with International Criminal Court and hand down those wanted criminals to be persecuted; but by confronting and defending supporting such principle through our political, social, cultural and moral obligations.e.    Confront culture of supremacy and racism by approving laws that criminalize those who use racist labels and also those who deny that the genocide committed is committed by National Congress Regime.f.     Establish systems of transitional justice which would guarantee justice for those survived, help and repatriate and heal them to recover from injuries; establish institutions of confession and apology and ask for forgiveness in accordance with Sudanese culture; similar to the national reconciliation  happened in South Africa and justice in Morocco. However; the mechanism of transitional justice should not be use as exemption from punishment.g.    The crimes of genocide must be embodied as central reality committed by The National Congress Party and implications of these crimes must be part of the curriculum to be studied in national schools, to be broadcasted through media and to be a public discourse that would express Sudanese identity which is multi ethnic, multi religions and multi cultural country; such grievous crimes must be documented by all means such as Sudan national museums.10.                  Technical specialized conferences:The excellence technical specialized conference would be conducted to include political forces, civil society groups and experts from inside and outside of Sudan to discuss political issues that has technical backgrounds; the outcomes programs and recommendation will helpful to execute the projects transitional interim period; however; the issues to be discussed would include education, health, culture, environment, federalism,  finance, nationalization and development of Sudan arm forces , economic plans and development, transitional justice, development of cultural institutions and other important issues.11. The independent civil society unions and youth movements:•      Independent Sudan civil societies and new youth movements are genuine change forces to build the future institutions of the transitional interim period.•      The state would support civil society and new youth social movements to develop its work and remove legal and administrative obstruction that restricts their activities to offer services and develop polices, disseminate awareness of human rights which would give skills for them to employ their capabilities whether to participate on power in transitional interim period or observe and evaluate the period of transitional interim period.•      Dismiss the current union’s laws and replace new democratic laws.12.Those who are politically dismissed before retirement:Those dismissed from their jobs of civil service before the time of their dues to their political lines; would be compensated as well as reconsider those who have appointed on civil services on political base.13.Foreign relations:a.   Follow balanced foreign policies that would serve the higher economic and political interests that could achieve the state national security.b.   End up the current confrontation that exists between Sudan and the international community that resulted on series of sanction against the state.c.    Work to let Sudan be exempted from the debts.d.   Widen chance of cooperation and foreign investments.e.    Respect rules and principles of international laws, good neighborhood and non intervention on internal issues of others.f.     Support and enhance roles of formal institutions such as United Nations, Organization of the African Unity and Arab League to achieve regional and international peace that boost chances of mutual and multiple cooperation.g.    Maintain the national sovereignty.14.Relationship with Republic of South Sudan:Sign agreement between the Sudan and the Republic of South, that bases on mutual interests and historical social relationship as a gate to resolve unresolved issues problems which would help to create economic and social integration, especially in the field of water, pasture, oil and trade;  and commitment to have flexible boarders and address the issues of dual citizenship and ensure the four freedoms and the establishment of joint mechanisms between the two countries at all levels of cooperation and coordination, which will open door in the future to restore unity on  new basis.15.The national constitutional conference:The national constitutional conference would be convene or set up within transitional interim period to discuss the following issues:1.    The governing system.2.   The relationship between the religion and the state.3.   The issue of the nation and the identity.4.   Power sharing and wealth distribution.5.    The economic.6.   The land issues.7.   The document of basic rights.8.   The unsustainable development.9.   The arm forces and security bodies.10.                  The principles and pillars of unity in diversities.11.The acknowledgment of principle of voluntary unity between all regions of Sudan.12.                    The problem of social gender and women rights.13.                  Media.14.                  Education.15.Health.16.                  The foreign policy.17.                  Governing system building and state administration.16. The elections:The transitional interim government would prepare for free and fair elections at the end of transitional interim period which would be preceded by the following preparations:•      Convene transparent national census to be monitored by international experts; where it could also be used for future development plans, rights and organize free and fair elections as well.•      Form democratic election laws agreed by participation of all political parties and civil society groups; free and fair elections in all levels.•      Formation of neutral committee to monitor the elections.•      Execute free and fair elections in all national levels under regional and international monitoring.Third: The tool:The forces signed this document work together to topple the regime of National Congress Party by different means on top the democratic civil peaceful means, and the revolutionary armed struggle was unanimously adopted on this document as a guiding political vision and a guide to prevent a slide toward chaos and collapse; with common agreement and the acceptance that every forces has rights to retain its means.Fourth: Mechanisms of coordination:The forces inked on this document decided to form Sudan coordination transitional council to coordinate mutual efforts between all parties who signed on this document and they on their parts pass it to Sudanese people and regional and international community as an alternative for the ruling National Congress Party.Closing:The national and revolutionary forces inked on this document call upon women and men of Sudan inside and outside of Sudan to be united together for justice peace freedom and democracy; to build Sudan where peace , security and stability prevails and Sudan that expands for all as well.Signatures:Sudan Revolutionary Front1.  Malik Agar Eyre: Chairman of Sudan Revolutionary Front; Chairman of Sudan Peoples’ Liberation Movement.2.  Abdoul Wahid Mohamed Ahmed Al- Nour: Chairman of Sudan Liberation Movement.3.  Mini Arku Minawi; Chairman of Sudan Liberation Movement.4.  Dr. Jibril Ibrahim Mohamed: Chairman of Justice and Equality Movement.5.  Nasr Eldeen Al-hadi Al-Mahdi: Umma National Party6.  Al-Toum Al- Sheikh Haju; Unionist Democratic PartyNational Consensus Force:1.  Sedig Yousif Ibrahim Al- Nour2.   Salah Mana3.  Tarig Mahgoub4.  Dr. Abul Hassan Farah5.  Hala Mohamed Abdul Haleem1.  Mr. Mubarak Al Fadel Al- MahdiYouth Movements:1.  Girifna2.  Change NowWomen Groups:1.  Nagla Saied Ahmed Al- Sheikh: Initiative against oppression for women.Civil Society:1.  Abdul Munim Al- JackNational Figures1.  Shams Al- Ameen Daw Al- BeetParties and bodies of National Consensus Force:1.  Sudan Communists Party2.  Unionist Party3.  Sudan National Coalition4.  Sudan National Party5.  Arabic Al-Baath Party6.  Sudan Al-Baath Party7.  Al-Baath Communists Original Party8.  Al- Baath Communists Arabic Party9.  Al- Nasiri Unionists Party10.               Sudan Front for Change11.               Coalition of Women Politicians12.                Trade Union Solidarity13.               Preparatory Committee for Dismissed.14.               Executive Committee for Dismissed15.               Sudan Change Movement
1.  Farouk Abu Eissa: Chairman of National Consensus Force
Translated by: Abdul Izzadine
