The Sudanese Popular Uprising against Starvation and Oppression is Inevitably Victorious
By Mahmoud A Suleiman
The uprising of the people of Sudan this time has coincided with the events of the declaration of independence of Sudan from within the parliament and the annualMartyrs’ Day Celebration.
The uprising of the people of Sudan was accompanied by two great festivals, Eid al-Shuhada (Martyrs’ Day) and the day of the declaration of independence of Sudan from within the parliament. The latter represents a historicSudanese nationalevent whenAbdul Rahman Dabaka, a parliamentary deputy from the DarfurProvince,suggested a Proposalfor theDeclarationof theIndependence of the Sudan from within the Parliament onMonday the19thDecember1955, when the unity of the will of the Sudanese people behind one word which was independence for everyone in accordance with a prior agreement and hencethey were the will to announce and declare it. It is one of the days of the Eternal Sudan, which preserves its history and its splendor, but repeats its memory every yearbecause of its insistence on reaching the chandelier that was planned.https://mod.gov.sd/index.php/%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A3%D8%AE%D8%A8%D8%A7%D8%B1-%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%85%D8%AD%D9%84%D9%8A%D8%A9/%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B3%D9%8A%D8%A7%D8%B3%D8%A9/18718-%D8%A5%D8%B9%D9%84%D8%A7%D9%86-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A7%D8%B3%D8%AA%D9%82%D9%84%D8%A7%D9%84-%D9%85%D9%86-%D8%AF%D8%A7%D8%AE%D9%84-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A8%D8%B1%D9%84%D9%85%D8%A7%D9%86-19-%D8%AF%D9%8A%D8%B3%D9%85%D8%A8%D8%B1-1955%D9%85.html
On that immortal day in the history of the Sudan, at that historic session, Mr. Abdulrahman Mohamed Ibrahim Dabaka presented the proposal for the declaration of the independence of the Sudan from within the Parliament. It is noteworthy that the Deputy who presented the foregoing Proposal was a representative of the South Baggara DepartmentConstituency inthe DarfurProvince andhis origins descendfrom theLocality of “Idaelghanam”Translated  literallyinto thesheep well, nowit has been renamed by the National Islamic Front (NIF) Arabised Fundamentalists into “Iddalfursan”the Well of the Knights!On thatDay, theNames of those who are among the first patriotic system have beenshining wereAbd al-Rahman Dabaka, Mirghani Husain Zaki al-Din and MushawarJumaaSahl. Hammad AbuSadrand others.
Thus, onMonday the Nineteenthof December 1955, theIndependence of the SudanFrom the clutches of Anglo-Egyptian colonialism better known as the Condominiumwas declared from within the Parliament and the Sudan Martyrs’ Day,hasalsobeenCelebrated by the Sudan Justice and Equality Movement(JEM) whichis observed each year, boththe datesoftheevents havecoincided with the uprising of the people of Sudan against the tyranny of the rulingregime ofNational Congress Party(NCP)led by thegenocidal criminal and thefugitive International Justice Omer Hassan Ahmed al – Bashir and his criminal,corruptand incompetententourage.It is ironic that the uprising of the people of Sudan also coincided with the return of Omer al-Bashir and his team ofentourage fromhis visit to Russia, the Belarus, Syria on aboard the Russian plane, accompanied by hislarge beggingTeam of (NCP) regimeclose insiderspartlyonTourism shuttles at the expense of the Sudanese people suffering from hunger, disease and lack of fuel and medicines.
It is also pertinent to recall that the uprising of the people of Sudan against the (NCP) autocratic regime coinciding with that National Occasions on the return of Sudan’s criminal dictator Omer al-Bashir from his shuttle trips at the expense of poor people’s money on a Russian plane after passing through Damascus in Syria to meet his ilk fellow Dictator Bashar al-Assad.After returning from his visit to Bashar al-Assad Omer al-Bashir met the consequences ofhis inhumane crimes and heinous reactions he has perpetrated through his lean years of arbitrary oppression against the Sudanese people, who today rose up in an Intifada all over the country to get out of the grip of repression, starvation, disease, poverty and genocide. Bashir and his criminal corrupt entourage have not expected this happening because the tyrants do not think they will ever leave their seat of power. They believe that their rule will be forever. Dictators like Bashir and others of his kind hey neither take lessons from the history nor from the events that took place around them and led to the demise of their counterparts in neighbouring countries; the so-called Arab Spring in late 2010 which remains as a living example.
The people of Sudan have overthrown military regimes twice before, in 1964 and 1985, and in September 2013 the NISS and the Janjaweed militias killed more than 200 protestors in the manner described as “Shoot to kill”. It seemed that Bashir’s moment of reckoning had come with the current popularuprising ofextreme discontent for the Poverty, lack of potential and lack of basic daily living commodities such as a loaf of bread while the associates of the (NCP) regime enjoyLife of luxury and spending of people’s wealth lavishly.
How did the protests begin, according to the BBC report?
They started in the eastern town of Atbara, where demonstrators burned the offices of Mr. Bashir’s National Congress Party (NCP). Witnesses said that in some areas the military wasnotintervening and even appeared to besidingwith the demonstrators.
But in a statement on Sunday 23rdof December 2018 indicated that the military has pledged loyalty to Mr. Bashir and said it would safeguard the “nation’s security, safety along with its blood, honour and assets”. On the other hand, a presidential adviser, Faisal Hassan Ibrahim, has been quoted as saying that the protests were being directed by “organised entities”, without giving further details.
On Saturday 22 December 2018 AFP quoted witnesses in Wad Madani, south-east of Khartoum, as saying police used tear gas and beat protesters calling for Mr. Bashir to step down.
In El Rahad, south-west of Khartoum, the National Congress Party (NCP) office and other administrative offices were set ablaze and protesters chanting “no to hunger” were tear-gassed, another witness said.
It seems that the spark of the uprising that swept all the cities of Sudan recently began in the city of Atbara. Atbarais the national seat of labour Movements and nicknamed the cityof iron and fire as itis the Sudaneseworking-classCitythat is the headquarters of the Sudan railways – it remains a major site of labour activism and radical politics.But the spark of the diversion extended to Dongola in the far north and the city of al-Obeid inKordofan and in Port Sudan and the city of Nyala and El Geneina and El Fasher in the Darfur region in western Sudan and of course in the Capital Khartoum with its three Towns at the junction of the two Nile Riversof WhiteNile and Blue Nile toform theRiverNile.
It is noteworthy to mention that the Sudanese people’s uprising inside the Mother Land was attended by all Sudanese outside the country, whether they in the United States of America or in Europe, especially in London and in Manchester in the United Kingdom, in Europe in France especially in Paris, along with Sudanese people staging protests in front of the International Criminal Court (ICC)) at The Hague in the Netherlands and of course in Germany.
The cheers in all these demonstrations in different locations were echoedsayingthepeoplewant to overthrow the regime.” Cheers chanted in the streets, but quickly moved to the football stadiums during the match between Mars and Al Ahli, Khartoum after at least 20 people were killed and dozens arrested duringprotests againsthigh prices.
Mass media outlets reported that the National Intelligence and Security Services (NISS) have arrested Opposition leaders as protests continued all over the Sudan.Meanwhile, protests have continued on Saturday in a number of towns across Sudan. Eyewitnesses said students protesting in the town of al-Rahad, North Kordofan State, set fire to the ruling National Congress Party’s (NCP) headquarters and other official buildings. Also, there were unconfirmed reports that the house of the notorious Génocidaire the Governor of North KordofanAhmed Mohammed Haroun who is one of four Sudanese men wanted by the International Criminal Court (ICC) for war crimes and crimes against humanity in the Darfur Regionwas set on fire on Saturday evening.
Darfur Conflict and Ahmed Mohammed Haroun
However, it was in his role as the holder of theDarfursecurity dossier at theInterior Ministryin 2003 that he attracted most notoriety. In between 2003 and 2004 Haroun is believed to have organized and mobilized the’Janjaweed’militias that have been held responsible for numerous war crimes since the outbreak of conflict in the region. It was on account of his actions during this period that in April 2007 the ICC prosecutorLouis Moreno-Ocampodecided to issue an arrest warrant for Haroun, accusing him of overseeing the numerous acts of rape, murder, plunder and destruction committed by pro-government militias in the region. The warrant observed that Haroun had contributed personally to the perpetration of these abuses by exhorting the militias to commit these acts in public speeches.
Protesters also gathered in several neighbourhoods of the capital, Khartoum and in the city of Madani, Gezira State.http://www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?article66811
Demonstrations in Sudan and Protests continue with calls for a strike.
Anti-government protests in Sudan continue for the Seventh day, and analysts say it is the biggest popular challenge to the regime of Omer al-Bashir who took power through a military coup d’état on June the 30th1989.
The Sudanese armed forces(SAF)issued a statement pledging their support for the president, at a time when doctors’ strike is due to begin, followed by a strike on Tuesday25th2018, Christmas Day.It is noteworthy that the Coptic Community in Sudan hinted saying that they will rather postpone the Festive Celebrations on the Day declared for the strike.
On Sunday,the Sudanese regime’s National Intelligence and SecurityServices (NISS) forcesused teargas to disperse soccer fansthathad gathered on one of the roads and blocked it, shouting slogans calling for freedom.
Furthermore, it was reported that thePolice prevented the demonstratorswho were coming out of the Football Stadiumfrom crossing the bridge to the heart of Khartoum and thePresidentialPalace.Moreover, theSecurityelementscordoned off the stadium and the roads leading to it, as soon as the protesters left for Al-Arba’een– TheForty’sStreet, chanting slogans against the governmentof Omer al-Bashir; thePolice dispersedthe angry protestorsin the surrounding areas.Police in Sudan have fired tear gas at football fans demanding an end to President Omar al-Bashir’s rule as protests spread across the country.
Hundreds of demonstrators blocked a road near a football stadium in the capital, Khartoum, on Sunday 23 December 2018 before clashing with riot police.
So far, the Opposition figures say 22 protesters have been killed since Wednesday, but officials say the figure is much lower. The protests erupted after bread and fuel price rises were announced. But they have escalated into calls for an end to Omer al- Bashir’s 29-year rule. Over the past year, the cost of some goods has got more than doubled, while overall inflation has risen to nearly 70%, the value of the Sudanese pound has fallen sharply and shortages have been reported in cities including Khartoum.Earlier, footage on social media appeared to show continuing protests in a number of areas.The Central Sudanese Committee of Doctors said its members had seen protesters in hospitals with gunshot wounds and said there had been a number of deaths and injuries. “The people want the downfall of the regime” is one of the people’s chants!
.https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-africa-46666237
It is important to refer to the troika Countries statement over the Sudanese Protest which says the following:
“The Troika (the United States, Norway and the United Kingdom and Canada) are concerned about the violence occurring during recent protests in Sudan, including reliable reports of the use of live fire by the Government of Sudan and of multiple deaths during several protests. We reaffirm the right of the Sudanese people to peacefully protest to express their legitimate grievances.
We urge all to avoid the use of violence or destruction of property. We also urge the Government of Sudan to respond to statements appropriately, through uniformed police acting in accordance with Sudanese and international human rights law, including the right to freedoms of peaceful assembly, association, and expression – and to avoid the use of live fire on protestors, arbitrary detention, and censorship of the media.
We expect the Government of Sudan to implement measures to investigate cases in which abuse of force has occurred, and welcome the assurances provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this regard.
The Troika countries (the United States, Norway, the United Kingdom and Canada) are concerned about the violence that occurred during recent protests in Sudan, including credible reports of the use of live ammunition by the Government of the Sudan and multiple deaths during several protests. We reaffirm the right of the Sudanese people to peaceful protest to express their legitimate grievances.
We urge everyone to avoid using violence or destroying property. We also urge the Government of the Sudan to respond appropriately to the demonstrations, through regular police and in accordance with Sudanese and international human rights law, including the right to freedom of peaceful assembly, association and expression – and to avoid the use of live ammunition on protesters, arbitrary detention and media censorship.
We expect the Government of the Sudan to implement measures to investigate cases of abuse of force, and we welcome the assurances provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this regard.”
Howard Zinn the American historian, playwright, and social activist and a chairperson of the history and social sciences department at Spelman College as well as a political science professor at Boston University has been quoted as saying:“Protest beyond the law is not a departure from democracy; it is absolutely essential to it.”
Moreover,Martin Luther King Jr. has been quoted as has said:“One has a moral responsibility to disobey unjust laws.” “The duty of youth is to challenge corruption.” “To sin by silence, when they should protest, makes cowards of men.” “Silence becomes cowardice when occasion demands speaking out the whole truth and acting accordingly.”
TheTunisian Poet Abu al – Qasim Shabi has said in his Poem: “If people ever wanted life, then fate must respond and theconstraint must be broken.And those who did not embrace the longing for life * Evaporated in the atmosphere and dispersed”!
Thus, the people of Sudan had the right to rise up against tyranny, starvation and the futile wars imposed on it by theDictator, theGenocidalcriminalwho remains fugitive from theinternational justice, OmerHassan Ahmedal-Bashir and his criminal entourage sought by the International Criminal Court(ICC) atThe HagueintheNetherlandsfor apprehension andto bring themforfairtrial and punishment.
Dr. Mahmoud A. Suleiman is an author, columnist and a blogger. His blog ishttp://thussudan.wordpress.com/
