The Sudanese Marginalized Forum Conference“UNITED WE STAND”The indigenous marginalized people of the Republic of Sudan, represented in the Sudanese Marginalized Forum of North America, will gather for a conference to be convened in Richmond, Virginia in support of ongoing efforts to bring about a positive fundamental change to their beloved homeland. The conference will focus on the Sudanese National Congress’ conflict with the marginalized people of Sudan, along with NCP’s conflict with the recently independent state of The Republic of South Sudan.Where:  The St. James Episcopal Church1205 Franklin StreetRichmond, VirginiaWhen: Saturday May 26, 2012.    10AM-6 PM (With an Open Evening Session)Contacts: Abdelgadir Kurba (347) 981-9392[email protected], William Deng (804) 218-6360.[email protected]Alameldin Adam (206) 602-5505[email protected],  Lily Morobe (804) 300-0993. Noureldin Menan (301)345-3408([email protected])The racist extremist regime in Sudan has been waging wars, carrying out Genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity, and religious persecution against the indigenous African people in the marginalized regions of Darfur, Nuba Mountains/South Kordofan and Blue Nile.                     The regime has also committed atrocities against the Nubians of the River Nile in the far north and the Beja communities of eastern Sudan. The Khartoum regime is now threatening the newly independent Republic of South Sudan with violence to undermine its independence in a war over resources including oil. It has repeatedly ravaged the oil-rich region of Abyei.As indigenous  marginalized people, we are firmly united, regardless of ethnicity, culture, religion or political affiliation, to end the brutal, corrupt and racist government of Omar Al-Bashir who is now wanted by the International Criminal Court, thus paving the way for a free democratic Sudan in which all citizens will be respected and protected from Genocide.We invite all of the Sudanese stakeholders, activists, civil society organizations, and friends of Sudan to attend a one day conference to support our struggle for freedom, justice and equality. The event will feature keynote speakers and speeches together with cultural activities such as folk music and dancing, as well as Sudanese delicacies served to the public.This event is a perfect opportunity to learn about the conflict in Sudan and to hear speeches from some of the leading activists from Sudan. All are welcome and encouraged to attend.
