The SPLM-N Position on the National Consensus Forces Democratic Alternative Charter
The National Consensus Forces, in an important step, announced its agreement on an alternative program to the Salvation Totalitarian Rule and its agreement came at a very critical and precise time.  Many questions have been directed to us on our position on this agreement and we would like to point out the following:
The Positives of the Agreement:
1. The agreement is a step in the right direction to bring down the regime and to crystallize a democratic alternative. The agreement also came in a difficult situation under which these political forces are functioning and we welcome this step.
2. The agreement will support the peaceful mass movement and augment the Intifada to overthrow the regime through peaceful mass movement.
3. The agreement came in a time of an aggressive attack and an extensive plot by the regime’s security forces against the opposition and hence it is a victory of the mass movement in the face of the reluctant forces which are presumed to be in the opposition,
4. The agreement must be used to expand the circle of mass action to overthrow the National Congress Party regime.
The Negatives of the Agreement:
1. The agreement repeats the experience of the past and the reproduction of the historical crises by adopting the same concepts, approaches and methods of the past, that there are certain groups within the nation-state who determine the destiny while alienating other groups and this was exactly what had happened at the eve of the Independence of Sudan and the promises given to the South Sudan Parliamentarians in December 19, 1955.  It also repeats the failures of October 1964 and April 1985 to bring to an end the war with the South and to institute a sustainable democracy through a national comprehensive approach.
2. The movements of youth, women and students, which play a key role in this uprising and possibly to develop it into a revolution, did not find its rightful place in this agreement.
3. The Sudan Revolutionary Front is an effective major force in the opposition and indispensable in reaching a comprehensive national democratic alternative and the optimal option is to coordinate to reach and sign a joint agreement between all the parties. The SRF have strived to achieve this ideal coordination through a number of contacts with the NCF.
4. The key issue that still requires an agreement is how to rule Sudan before who is to rule the Sudan
The Way Forward:
1. We should welcome and celebrate the unity of the National Consensus Forces.
2. Now, there is the SRF agreement and the Kauda Declaration on one hand, and the agreement of the NCF and the Khartoum declaration, which are two very important steps that need to complement, rather than contradict each other, and support the mass movements in their aspiration for democracy and equal citizenship.  These aspirations require persistent and consistent efforts to reach an agreed upon comprehensive final document between the SRF, the NCF, the youth, the women and the students, which will lead to a real democratic alternative that addresses the root causes of the crisis and groups all these forces into a singular direction to realize the complex and intertwined change.
3. The unity of the opposition must not delay or impede the continuation of the daily protests and uprising.  The escalation of mass protest and uprising is conducive action for the opposition forces to unite and expand the circle of the national alignment.
4. The SRF, the NCF, the youth, the women and the students have similar objectives and share common goals and their battle is with the National Congress Party regime and not with each other.  They all have an obligation to work together with patience and wisdom to reach a joint comprehensive document that could only be attained with joint action to support the mass movement and to help develop it into a full revolt and to overcome the reluctance and conspiracy instigated by the NCP and not to allow it to divide the NCF on a racial, religious or political basis that impedes the cause of change and serves the interests of the regime.  It is a rare opportunity on the horizon for historic change that our people paid for with their blood, tears and grief.
Yasir ArmanSecretary-General of the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement -North7/7/2012
