Together for Self Determination for Darfur or Many More Genocides!
By: Joljol Mohamed Yayha.
Obviously, and this is a known fact that Darfur was in peace with itself prior to its annexations to the present Sudan by its colony master, “the Britain”. However and sadly,when the sovereignty, the integrity and dignity of Darfur and its people had been violated by the then Britain emperor, and annexing it to Sudan by force without consulting the population of Darfur. The riverine sons and daughters started killing Darfur people. Since 1916 to present date, Darfur people of all works of life have never enjoyed peace and security.
Darfur with its population have been denied their legitimate rights not only by the current regime, but also all successive governments that governed Sudan from the time Sudan was emancipated its independence. As there is no sign or hope for genuine peace in Darfur with the current genocidal regime slaughtering the remaining people of Darfur? Time is right for the people of Darfur to demand for the self-determination for themselves and the region as a whole. The idea of unity with Sudan had completely failed. Darfur people have been in unity with Sudan almost a century now; their needs for peace and security have not been met or were denied. The region, instead of being rendered the services and the development of infrastructure, the whole region was marginalized and is being marginalized by the various regimes in Khartoum. Darfur people have been killed more than enough, women and girls have been raped enough, villages and property have been destroyed enough.
The year 2014, marks a decade and two years when the bloody war against the people Darfur begun. Over 500 hundred thousand innocent civilians were killed on the account of their ethnicity, and all of whom have been slaughtered, and many more are still to be killed by the by Arab Janjaweed militias, renamed as rapid support forces (RSF) and the Sudan armed forces. Today people of Darfur are either refugee externally, and or are displaced internally. All of this suffering is because of the unity that they were compelled to exercise it with Sudan.
Whatever peace agreements signed by the Darfur revolutionary forces and the genocidal government in Khartoum without stipulating the right of self-determination in the agreement, the agreement is doomed to fail. Now is the time for the people in Darfur to end the genocide by demanding self-determination as the unity with Sudan brought trouble to them?
Joljol Mohamed Yayha is a Darfuri Genocide survivor, who has been forced by the current regime to live outside the country of his nationality, and can be reached at[email protected]
Joljol Mohamed Yayha is a Darfuri Genocide survivor, who has been forced by the current regime to live outside the country of his nationality, and can be reached at[email protected]
