Toppling Khartoum regime is the only alternative for Sudan, Darfur rebels tell US diplomat
March 3, 2012 (KHARTOUM) — Jibril Ibrahim, leader of Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) reiterated to the US Senior Adviser on Darfur Dan Smith that toppling the Sudanese regime represents the solution for the political crisis in the country.
Jibril who is also the deputy chairman of the Sudan Revolutionary Front (SRF) for foreign relations Friday held a telephone conversation with Smith, according to JEM spokesperson Gibreel Adam Bilal. He briefed the US diplomat about the objectives of the coalition of rebel groups and the humanitarian situation in Darfur.
Established in November 2011, the SRF includes JEM, SPLM-N and two factions of Sudan Liberations Movements (SLM) led by Abdel Wahid Al-Nur and Minni Minnawi. The alliance carried out its first joint attack on the Sudanese army in Jau, South Kordofan last Sunday.
Jibril “assured (Dan Smith) that the Front is seeking to overthrow the (Sudanese) regime by all available means, and will be a responsible alternative to rule the Sudan after the defeat of genocidaire regime,” JEM spokesperson said.
“Sudan will be more stable after the demise of the National Congress (Party’s) regime from power,” JEM leader stressed.
The US envoy said in the past that his country support the Doha Document for Peace in Darfur (DDPD) signed between the Sudanese government and the former rebel Liberation and Justice Movement (LJM) last July.
The US also seeks to bring JEM and other rebel groups to resume talks with the government within the framework of the DDPD. But JEM which was part of the Doha process refuses this perspective and proposes to open the peace document for talks, a matter that Khartoum rejects.
JEM and its allies in Darfur, South Kordofan and Blue Nile say the government refuses to make the needed concession for a permanent peace in terms of democratic rule, public freedoms and regional autonomy.
The rebels say the alliance they signed on 11 November allows the other political forces to work with them for the removal of the regime of President Omer Bashir, stressing that his demise is now the only valid option for them.
However, Khartoum accuses the rebel alliance of being sponsored by Juba adding that the newly independent state of South Sudan seeks to use them to achieve its own agendas and ambitions particularly over the disputed area of Abyei.
Washington is considered by analysts as being overwhelmed by events in Sudan. Khartoum accuses the US officials of supporting the South Sudan and rebel groups. But on the other hand, they failed to achieve any progress with Juba also.
