Tribal clashes displace over 100.000 families to N. Darfur town
(Radio Dabanga) More than 100.000 displaced families have arrived in the capital of al-Sref Beni Hussein locality, North Darfur, following clashes between the Arab tribes of Abbala and Beni Hussein that began one week ago at the gold mining area of Jebel ‘Amer.  Commissioner Haroun Hussein declared on Monday, 14 January, that a committee has been working continuouslyfor the last three consecutive days to count the exact number of displaced.  A dispute between Abbala and Benni Hussein tribesmen led to the spark of hostilities in the gold mining area of Jebel ‘Amer, North Darfur, on 6 January. Initial reports suggested that at least 60.000 workers fled the region in the first two days of clashes.
Read More: http://www.radiodabanga.org/
NCP: US, EU Involved in Rebels’ Kampala Document
(Sudan Vision) The US and EU Embassies in Kampala (Uganda) are involved in supporting the New Dawn Charter (NDC) signed by the Sudanese opposition parties and the Sudan Revolutionary Front (SRF), revealed Dr. Nafie Ali Nafie, presidential assistant and deputy chairman of the ruling National Congress Party (NCP).  The objective of the document is to control Sudan, ruin its identity and make it a home for the marginalized, to use the words of secularists and rebels, Nafie said. The document is the first open call for fragmenting the country and changing its identity, he added.
Read More: http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/
EU allocates €80m in aid for Sudan and S. Sudan
(Sudan Tribune) The European Commission has allocated up to €80m to cater for this year’s humanitarian needs in Sudan and South Sudan, it announced in a statement.  The fund, the Commission said, as part of the recently adopted plan for the allocation of over €661m in humanitarian aid funding for 2013, under what it calls the “World-Wide Decision on Humanitarian Aid”.  This aid, according to the commission, is allocated based on an annual Global Needs Assessment (GNA), where the European Commission categorizes 140 developing countries in terms of their vulnerability and the recent occurrence of a crisis.  Sudan and South Sudan currently face a number of humanitarian challenges. Last year, over 200,000 people fled the conflict in Sudan’s South Kordofan and Blue Nile states into neighboring South Sudan and Ethiopia. The conflict, according to the United Nations, has displaced over 500,000 people.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
EU Senior Official in Visit Khartoum, ‘Deepen Relations’ With Sudan
(Radio Dabanga) A European Union (EU) official is scheduled to travel to Khartoum, Sudan, for a two-day visit to the country’s capital. The purpose of this trip is to discuss the possible ways to deepen the Euro-Sudanese relations.  Mr. Koen Vervaeke is the European Union’s Director General of Horn of Africa, East, Southern Africa and the Indian Ocean.  Ambassador Tomas Ulicny, Head of Delegation of the European Union to Sudan, expects the visit to bring a closer understanding of the EU to the situation in Sudan. This would help improve their relations “in the short and long terms”.
Read More: http://allafrica.com/stories/
US tells Kiir to alternatively transport oil by trucks
(Sudan Tribune) A delegation of US Senators have urged President Salva Kiir Mayardit of South Sudan to alternatively begin to truck his country’s oil to the international market through Ethiopia instead of ever waiting for Khartoum to honour its agreements on oil transport.  The Senators who visited Juba this week include Senator Steve Pearce of New Mexico carrying the message which urged Kiir to immediately transport its oil by trucks, saying Khartoum’s act of stopping the flow of oil “doesn’t make sense.”
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
