(Sudan Tribune) The leader of the opposition Popular Congress Party (PCP), Hassan Al-Turabi, has said they agreed to engage in an unconditional dialogue with the ruling National Congress Party (NCP) in order to unify Islamic forces and maintain cohesion of the country. In an interview with Ajazeera TV broadcasted on Friday, Turabi said that most of the Sudanese political parties accepted the government’s call for dialogue because they realised that arms proliferationrepresents a real danger to Sudan’s unity and threatens to further divide it. The Islamist leader said his decision to join the dialogue was driven by the desire to discuss urgent issues. Turabi stressed the aim of his party’s participation in the National Dialogue is to “restore cohesion among Sudanese people and between the Islamic forces and other political forces, adding that pressing regional and international circumstances dictated rapprochement with the regime”.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
Rebel demands international mediator at Sudan’s national dialogue
(Radio Dabanga) Minni Arko Minawi, the head of the rebel Sudan Liberation Movement (SLM-MM) and the Deputy President of the Sudan Revolutionary Front (SRF) has described President Omar Al Bashir’s invitation to the rebel movements to come to Khartoum and offering them guarantees to attend the national dialogue as “illogical”. Minawi told Radio Dabanga that they demand the National Congress Party government to sit with the SRF in a neutral platform outside Sudan, in the presence of an international mediator, and under international auspices. “
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
EU urges Sudan to open humanitarian access to Darfur IDPs
(Sudan Tribune) The European Union has called on the Sudanese government to allow humanitarian access to affected civilians in the Darfur region following the recent wave of violence caused by fighting between the army and rebels, as well as tribal clashes over land and resources. “We are profoundly disturbed by the ongoing escalation of fighting and widespread displacement of civilians in Darfur,” said a statement released in Brussels by EU foreign affairs representativeCatherine Ashton, international cooperation and humanitarian commissioner Kristalina Georgieva and development commissioner Andris Piebalgs.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
UNAMID Chief indicates reduction Darfur peace mission
(Radio Dabanga) The United Nations-African Union peacekeeping mission in Darfur (Unamid) will have to become more effective with less resources, the Joint Special Representative stated. It is the first indication that the mission might have to scale down in August, after reports indicating lack of results. Dr Mohamed Ibn Chambas added in an interview with UN Radio on 4 April that the mission needs to be more effective “in ensuring that we are there when civilians are in danger”. The Special Representative, who is also the main mediator between the Sudanese government and the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement-North (SPLM-N), said: “As a mission, we understand that we need to be more effective. We need to do more with less because resources are scarce and new missions are coming up”. The mandate of the mission finishes 31 August 2014. The new budget and mandate of the mission are currently under discussion.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
World Bank Delegation to Visit Sudan by the End of April, 2014(Sudan Vision) Sudan ranks the world’s fourth nation among the non-oil exporting countries in terms of growth expectations, according to IMF report. The report says Sudan is expected to realize a growth of 2.7 for the current year and 4.6 for the year 2015. Heitham Fathi, an economic expert, has revealed a great improvement in the Sudanese economy during the year 2013. The actual expenditures performance reached 111% of the total budget adding that an increase in general growth reached 38% compared to 2012. Hashim revealed a visit by IMF team by the end of the month to assess the Sudanese economy, adding that the economic reforms currently ongoing will have a positive impact on traditional production sectors. Haitham made the remarks in statements to a Radio programme yesterday.
Read More: http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/
