EUROPEAN UNION NEWS DIGESTUN asks Khartoum for better access to displaced S.Sudanese
(Global Post) The United Nations on Monday asked Khartoum to improve access to South Sudanese who have fled fighting in their country and who face deteriorating humanitarian conditions in Sudan. It is the latest alert raised by aid agencies about access to the needy in Sudan, where unrest had already uprooted people in the Darfur and Kordofan regions and Blue Nile state.A UN statement expressed concern “about reports of rapidly deteriorating humanitarian conditions in the sites where newly arriving South Sudanese reside and to which UNHCR and other UN agencies have had limited access so far”. More than 4,100 South Sudanese, nomads and Sudanese have been registered as entering Sudan by the International Organization for Migration (IOM) and Sudan’s Humanitarian Aid Commission.
Read More:http://www.globalpost.com/
UNICEF: Malnutrition reaches 40% among Darfur Children
(Radio Dabanga) Half of the children in Darfur do not go to school, and 40 percent of them suffer from chronic malnutrition, the Representative of the UN Children’s Fund (Unicef) in Sudan revealed on Monday. Unicef Representative Geert Cappelaere briefed the press about the conclusions of a study carried by UN agencies in Sudan. He also pointed to the standard of malnourishment. If malnourishment reaches 20 percent, a state of emergency should be declared.
Read More:https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Bashir refuses to grant the US special envoy a visa to Sudan: Carter
(Sudan Tribune) The former United States president Jimmy Carter has revealed that the Sudanese president Omer Hassan Al-Bashir rejected his personal appeal to grant the US special envoy for the Sudans Donald Booth a visa to meet with officials in his government. Bashir recalled to Carter Washington’s refusal to issue him a visa to travel to New York for the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) meetings and pointed that US officials would not deal with him directly among other grievances. According to a report issued by Carter on his trip to Dubai and Khartoum between January 11-25, the ex-president had received assurances from Bashir that he will conduct a genuine national dialogue and seek peaceful solutions for internal conflicts and with neighboring countries as well as encouraging all opposition force to engage in this dialogue.
Read More:http://www.sudantribune.com/
No Rule of Law in North Darfur’s Kutum
(Radio Dabanga) Several displaced residents of Fata Borno camp in Kutum locality, North Darfur, were assaulted by gunmen on Sunday. Kutum has had no police for two years. The source noted that the abuses by “these Janjaweed” have extended. “They now grind their grains in the mills without paying; they assault butchers, stealing their meat and money; they release their camels and livestock by force on the farmlands, and steal the belongings of the farmers, even their clothes.”
Read More:https://www.radiodabanga.org/
