University of Khartoum students start sit-in Sudan’s capital
(Radio Dabanga) The students of the University of Khartoum began an open-ended sit-in on Thursday. The students decided on the sit-in because they did not receive a response from the Dean of the University on their letter submitted on Wednesday, one of the students told Radio Dabanga. They had given the Dean an ultimatum of 24 hours to respond to their requests. The students also request from the University administration to withdraw the security forces stationed inside the campus and in front of the University gates.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
SRF rebels say new Chadian troops arrive in Darfur
(Sudan Tribune) The rebel alliance the Sudanese Revolutionary Front (SRF) claimed that Chadian troops have been recently deployed in the troubled state of North Darfur and urged to withdraw it. Since last year, rebels groups in Darfur accuse the neighbouring country of militarily backing the regime of president Omer Al-Bashir. But officials in the two countries speak about a joint force to protect the border. “The Chadian regime once again dispatched significant troops exceeding hundred vehicles, heavy artillery and armoured vehicles to Sudan’s North Darfur targeting resistance forces and unarmed civilians,” said SRF deputy president and head of media department, El-Tom Hajo in a statement extended to Sudan Tribune on Saturday. Hajo further warned that such intervention makes Chadian troops a “willing participant” in the “heinous crimes” committed in the region and could be held accountable under the international criminal law.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
Rebels expelled, areas bombed in Kutum, North Darfur
(Radio Dabanga) The Governor of North Darfur announced the expulsion of rebel elements from Kutum locality on Sunday. On the same morning, the Sudanese Air Force bombed the area of Amarei in the locality. North Darfur State Governor Osman Kibir told the pro-government Ashorooq TV this afternoon (Sunday) that the areas of Bir Mazza and Birdik in Kutum locality have been “liberated”. “The insurgents have been expelled from these areas, which were their last strongholds in North Darfur for a long time.”
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Sudan’s inflation continues its downward trend in March
(Sudan Tribune) The Central Bureau of Statistics (CBoS) in Sudan reported that the inflation rate dropped in March to 35.7% from 37.0% in March. The bulletin also reported that the general level of prices for high-weighted food and beverages component increased slightly to 382.3 points from 380.1 in the previous month. The overall price average of consumer goods and services increased by 1.1%. Last September the government slashed subsidies on fuel and cooking gas and also devalued the currency which triggered violent protests across the country.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
