EUROPEAN UNION NEWS DIGEST
U.N.: Sudan behind 2013 attacks on peacekeeping forces
(UPI) The Sudanese government was behind attacks by Janjaweed fighters who killed or wounded more than two dozen U.N. peacekeepers last year, a report charges. The report, commissioned by the U.N. Security Council, said an investigation of the attacks concluded “it is highly probable” Khartoum continues to support many Janjaweed groups, the Sudan Tribune reported Sunday.Attacks by fighters in April and July against a coalition of African Union and U.N. peacekeeping troops known as UNAMID “fit the profile of well-known Janjaweed elements,” the report said.
Read more: http://www.upi.com/
Two dead, 24 injured in demonstrators in Central Darfur
(Radio Dabanga) Two men were killed and 24 injured when security forces fired live bullets at a demonstration of displaced people in Zalingei in Central Darfur on Monday morning. They went to the streets to protest against the Social Peace Conference in Central Darfur’s capital, organised by the Darfur Regional Authority (DRA). The three-day Social Peace Conference convened in Zalingei held its closing session on Monday in a tent on a distance of half a kilometre east of El Hamidia camp. The coordinator of the Zalingei camps for the displaced explained to Radio Dabanga that residents of El Hamidia, Khamsa Degaig, Hasaheesa, and El Salam camps went out on Monday at 8am to demonstrate against the Social Peace Conference and the “falsification of the will of the displaced”.
Source: https://www.radiodabanga.org/node/66964
Turabi says differences with opposition alliance over dialogue settled
(Sudan Tribune) The secretary general of the opposition Popular Congress Party (PCP), Hassan Al-Turabi, announced that differences with the opposition alliance known as the National Consensus Forces (NCF) have been settled saying he is ready to engage in an unconditional dialogue with the ruling National Congress Party (NCP). He revealed that all NCF parties accepted to engage in the national dialogue except two parties which he didn’t identify. Turabi, who met with European Union (EU) ambassadors at his house on Monday, told reporters following the meeting that he explained to his NCF allies the motives behind his party’s decision to accept the NCP call for dialogue, affirming differences with the NCF have been settled. Turabi told EU ambassadors that although the president’s speech was ambiguous it contained a call for dialogue and pointed they refuse to engage in a bilateral dialogue with the NCP, saying they only accept dialogue in the frame work of the national issues. The PCP secretary general said he told EU ambassadors that he prefers holding the dialogue conference inside Sudan and stressed his meeting with them cannot be seen as foreign intervention in Sudan’s internal affairs.
Read More: http://www.sudantribune.com/
Sudan rebels not interested in peace: Defense minister
Rebels in Sudan’s Kordofan region are not interested in peace, Khartoum’s defence minister said Tuesday, adding to accusations hurled by the two sides during peace talks in Ethiopia. “We hoped that the negotiations in Addis Ababa would be a road to peace in the two areas” of South Kordofan and Blue Nile, Defence Minister Abdelrahim Mohammed Hussein told more than 1,000 uniformed troops who shouted back, “Allahu Akbar (God is greatest) during a conference. “We are keen for peace”, said Hussein, but “they didn’t want peace and security in the two areas”.
Read More: http://english.ahram.org.eg/
Police beat Sudanese lawyer in El Gezira
(Radio Dabanga) A large group of women lawyers in Wad Madani in El GeziraState went to the streets on Sunday to demonstrate against the violent behaviour of police officers towards a colleague. A lawyer from Wad Madani told Radio Dabanga that on Thursday a police colonel named Amin Saeed assaulted, beat and cursed lawyer Ilham Abdel Aziz. Lieutenant Ibrahim Salama assisted beating her until blood flowed from her nose and mouth. Abdel Aziz had filed an application at the police station for the release of one of her clients. A heated discussion flared up, prompting the officers to beat and verbally abuse her.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
