Pagan Amum: We Came to Activate All Nine Agreements(Sudan Vision) South Sudan’s Chief Negotiator Pagan Amum arrived this morning in Khartoum airport and was received by his counterpart, Sudan’s Chief Negotiator Idris Mohammed Abdel-Qadir.  “We came to Khartoum to activate all the nine agreements signed and to work for transforming it into reality on the ground;besides, we are taking the relations between the two countries towards the cooperation square and jointly endeavouring to achieve the interests of both nations,” Amum told reporters at Khartoum airport.  He said the joint security and military committee will meet next Monday to implement the security arrangements and agreements.   Sudan’s Chief Negotiator Idris Mohammed Abdel-Qadir said it was in the interest of both countries to break the deadlock.  “We welcome the visit of our brother Pagan in Khartoum and, as our brother Pagan said, the aim of his visit is to implement the cooperation agreements,” he said.Further Reading:http://news.sudanvisiondaily.com/details.html?rsnpid=216703
Sudan: Pakistani warship arrived in Sudan
(Afrique Actualite) A Pakistani Navy warship arrived in Port Sudan Thursday within the context of the cooperation between the two nations’ military, Sudan Armed Forces (SAF) Spokesman Col. Sawarmy Khalid Saad said. Col. Saad was quoted by the official Sudanese News Agency (SUNA) as saying ‘this move comes in the framework of the military naval cooperation with the naval forces of all countries of the world in the diplomatic, social and political spheres which comprise the most important mission of the Naval Forces, both locally and internationally.”The arrival of the Pakistani warship was given a big play in the local media, because it came after the highly controversial visit of two Iranian warships.Further Reading:http://www.afriquejet.com/index.php?option=com
US Envoy: Conflict with Sudanese rebels hampers security
(Sudan Tribune) U.S. special envoy to Sudan and South Sudan said that the conflict between Khartoum and Sudanese rebels hampers the improvement of bilateral relations between the two countries and to implementation of security arrangements.  “Without stopping the conflict there it’s hard to get that full trust and understanding and security along the border that both countries want,” Princeton Lyman said before to leave Sudan after talks in Khartoum.  Presidents of Sudan and South Sudan signed a cooperation agreement including a security agreement including to stop support to rebel groups from both sides, and to work together to secure their common border from rebel attacks. South Sudan’s Ambassador to the United Nations held Wednesday similar statements before the Security Council when he underlined that the continuation of South Kordofan and Blue Nile conflict makes difficult the implementation of the security arrangements.Further Reading:http://www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?iframe&page=imprimable&id_article=44690
Abyei referendum: S. Sudan now seeks AU intervention
(Sudan Tribune) South Sudan on Friday said the African Union should be fully involved in the conduct of a referendum to determine the final status of the disputed oil-producing region of Abyei.  The African Union Peace and Security Council decided on 24 October to give a six-week delay to Khartoum and Juba to strike a deal on Abyei on the basis of a proposal made by an African panel mediating between the two countries.  Luka Biong Deng, Co-Chair of the Abyei Oversight Committee for South Sudan (AOCSS) said it is important to involve the AU, if Sudan rejects proposals made by the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) on the status on Abyei.  South Sudan, he said, has made “painful decisions” and “rational steps” towards the full implementation of the 2005 peace accord, further accusing its ex-foes, Sudan of “wasting” resources, instead of accepting the previous proposals aimed at determining the future of the contested region.  Foreign minister Ali Karti has juste returned from an African tour including Kenya, Tanzania, Zimbabwe and Lesotho to explain Khartoum’s position over the conflict.Further Reading:http://www.sudantribune.com/spip.php?iframe&page=imprimable&id_article=44697
