Why the people of Sudan Continue Uprising Unabatedly despite Suppression since Last December?
By Mahmoud A. Suleiman
The simple answer for the foregoing loaded question centres on: (Legitimate Citizenship Rights have been denied)and thus the uprising continued for 46 days as of the fifth of February 2019as follows:
Before we begin counting the heinous crimes perpetrated by the current regime of OmerHassan  Ahmedal-Bashir, it is worthwhiletogo back to the emergence of the Islamic Movement in Sudan that dates back to the 1940s, which emerged from the Muslim Brotherhood Movement (MBM)in Egypt led by its leader Hassan al-Banna.Hassan al-Banna founded theMuslim Brotherhoodin the city of Ismailia in March 1928 along with six workers of the Suez Canal Company, as a Pan-Islamic, religious, political, and socialmovement.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Muslim_Brotherhood
The Movement played asignificantrole in the Revolution of October 21, 1964, which overthrew the military regime ofGeneralIbrahim Abboud. The movement worked to achieve its social and political objectives by adopting an organized process under various names such as, the Islamic Constitution Front (ICF), the Islamic Charter Front (ICF),theNational Islamic Front (NIF) and last not the least, theNational Congress Party (NCP) which came to power after a military coup on June 30, 1089. In 1999, a split occurred amongst the Islamist regime in a political strife nicknamed “Mufasala”meaning separation into two Islamist factions of the National Congress Party (NCP) led by al-Bashir and the Popular Congress Party (PCP) led byDr.Hassan Abdalla al-Turabi. The MBM regimeover the years has been characterized by their quest to create a social base through the construction of parasitic capitalism for empowerment and their of pursuit violence to achieve their goals.Some analysts believe that the reasons that led to the obsession of the (MBM) with empowerment is the fact that it began  to decay from within since it began to distance from the core objectives that initiated its birth. Of those factors, financial corruption, hypocrisy, lying, permissibility of killingof opponents, racismand lust for achieving wealth by all means.
The MBM) in Sudan committedmass  murderof scores of military officers in the early days of the coupd’ statand buried them in unidentified graves yards. This followed by the mass dismissal of Sudanese workforce thee regime considered them as persona non grata. The crimes against humanity, war crimes and of genocide began in the Darfur region when the people asked for rights of sharing in the country’s power and wealth, when Omer al-Bashir stated to them: ‘We came through the barrel of the gun to rule and if you want to share you need to take up arms. The regime continuedfighting the rebels in South of Sudanuntil the year 2005 when the Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) signed in 2005 under the pressure of the Western Powers. Nevertheless, Bashir’s hostility and racism forced the people of the south Sudan to undergo through a referendum and seceded to form their other failed state of South Sudan.
ItIsnoteworthy that the Muslim Brotherhood Movement in Sudan hadbeen very much influenced by the ideas of the Egyptian MuslimBrotherhood members.They were deeply carried away by thephilosophy  ofSayyed Gutub in his Book “Maalim Fi al-Tareeg, which can be translated into “Milestones in theRoad”. Moreover, they have also been mesmerized bythe other Book authored by Mohammed Gutub under the title:”IGNORANCE of the TWENTIETH CENTURY”.
Since the beginning of their military coup rule in Sudan, the Muslim Brotherhood Movement (MBM), they opened the door widely to welcome groups of International (MBM) members from various countries, among them Osama Ben Laden who stayed in Khartoum as a businessman but his plans beyond that. He eventuallyleft Sudan to setup his Organization, al-Qaeda.On September 11, 2001 – better known as 9/11, series of coordinated attacks took place carried out by alleged terrorist Islamistsbelonging to al-Qaeda, targeting the United States of America on the morning of Tuesday, September 11, 2001. They werethe famousseries of coordinated attacks that hit World Trade CenterTwin Towers. Accordingly,  theformer US President Bill Clintonin 1997 imposed comprehensive trade sanctionsagaistSudan and blocked assets for the Sudanese regime’s sponsoring international terrorism. In 1998, Osama Ben Laden agents blew up the US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, killing a reported more than 200 people. In retaliation, the former US President Clinton ordered a Cruise missile strike against a pharmaceutical factory, al-Shifa, in Khartoum.And repression as it is against the Sudanese citizens who peacefully demonstrateto express their grievances of deprivation of fundamental freedoms.
Thus, the ruling regime of the Muslim Brotherhood Movement in Sudanis still practicing its favorite hobby ofterrorismboth abroad and inside Sudan.The proof of this is the brutality that imposed against the peaceful Sudanese public demonstrators calling for:Freedom, Peace and Justiceand thatRevolution is the Choice ofthe People!As it is attributed to the late Sudanese writer and scholar El-Tayeb Saleh to have said: “From where these blokes have come?!
Khalil Gibran, the Lebanese – Americanwriter,poet, visual artist has been quoted as saying: “Rebellionwithout truth is like spring in a bleak, arid desert”.http://quodid.com/quotes/8437/kahlil-gibran/when-you-are-sorrowful-look-again-in-your
Thucydides the Athenian historian and general and warier of the Peloponnesianwar in the Fifth Century BC between Sparta and Athens until 411 BC has been quoted as saying: “The Secret  of Happiness is Freedom. And the Secret to Freedom is Courage”.
LONG LIVE THE STRUGGLE OF THE SUDANESE PEOPLE AND GLORY FOR THE MARTYRS AND REVOLUTION UNTIL VICTORY OVER THE OPPRESSOR!
Dr. Mahmoud Suleiman is an Author, Columnist anda blogger.  Hisblog ishttps://thussudan.wordpress.com
