EUROPEAN UNION NEWS DIGEST
(Radio Dabanga) During the September demonstrations against the lifting of fuel subsidies and the ensuing price hikes, 30 children were arrested by the security forces and the police in Khartoum. The children have recently been brought before criminal court judges on charges of rioting. They are detained in “extremely difficult circumstances,” Nafeesa Hajar, a lawyer told Radio Dabanga.  The Hajar reported that 22 of them were brought to trial in Omdurman. Four children have to appear before the Judge in El Kalakla Court in Khartoum,and four others in the Halfaya Court in Khartoum North. “They are treated in a way that violates their rights as children. Eight of them have to miss school because of the trials.”  Hajar noted that the children’s treatment is a violation of the Sudanese Children’s Act of 2010, which prohibits the trial of children in criminal courts, detention in prisons other than juvenile detention centers, or taking children to trial without the presence of the parents, all of which have occurred with the 30 juvenile protesters.  The Umbadda Court in Omdurman a few days ago issued prison sentences for five of the children, ranging between three and five years, in addition to a fine, on charges of torching and looting a police post and shops.
Read more: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
Sudanese in London Demonstrate Against ‘Khartoum Regime’
(All Africa) The Sudanese living in Great Britain organized a sit-in in London against the “Khartoum regime”. They handed a memorandum to British Prime Minister David Cameron, demanding the formation of an independent inquiry on the role of British companies in supplying Sudan with arms and trainings of the Sudanese security forces.  One of the demonstrators told Radio Dabanga that the Sudanese protested against the abuses and crimes committed by Al Bashir’s regime, the mass murders, rapes, and arrests of unarmed civilians in Darfur, the Nuba Mountains in South Kordofan, and the Angasana in the Blue Nile, as well as the targeting of Sudanese women and insulting their dignity in “ridiculous by-laws”.
Read More: http://allafrica.com/
British Tearfund office plundered in Central Darfur
(Radio Dabanga) Militiamen robbed the British Tearfund organization working in the field of nutrition and health care in Nierteti, Central Darfur on Tuesday morning, an eyewitness told Radio Dabanga.  The thieves took SDG123 million, two computers, four laptops, three mobile phones, cameras, a television, and other items of value from the Tearfund office.  The eyewitness said that the militiamen stormed the office at 2am stormed the office of the organisation, located at about 20m from the Nierteti Unamid compound. They beat the financial officer, Hatim Khatim, and Ali Eisa Abdallah, a logistician, and they ordered Khatim and Abdallah to carry the safe to a place outside the town. There, another group of gunmen was waiting for them with vehicles.
Read More: https://www.radiodabanga.org/
