COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Message of the Central Committee: 

Let us defeat the third phase of the Operation Green Hunt and defeat the plans like Bastar 

Mission-2016 and Saranda Action Plan which are an integral part of the operation! 

Let us celebrate the 12th anniversary of the Party throughout the country with 

revolutionary zeal and fervor! 

Let us advance by consolidating the Party, the PLGA, Revolutionary Mass Organizations and the 

Revolutionary People’s committees! 

Dear Comrades and the People, 

We are  going  to celebrate the 12th anniversary  of  the formation of our party with great zeal and 
fervor. 21st September holds great importance for our party and the revolutionary people. 12 years 
back,  on  21st  September  two  revolutionary  streams  merged  and  the  CPI(Maoist)  emerged.  Our 
central  committee  extends  heartfelt  revolutionary  greetings  to  all  the  ranks  of  the  party,  the 
commanders and soldiers of the Peoples Liberation Guerilla Army, the leadership and members of 
the  people’s  new  democratic  government  organs,  the  revolutionary  mass  organizations,  party 
sympathizers and the revolutionary masses.Our CC also extends its heartfelt revolutionary greetings 
to  the  Maoist  parties  and  other  organizations  of  various  countries  which  have  been  building 
movements to build worldwide solidarity to the people’s war going on in our country. 

More than a hundred and fifty of our dear comrades and people have laid down their precious lives 
in  the  revolutionary  movement  during  the  past  one  year  since  the  11th  anniversary  of  our  party. 
Among them, there are comrades belonging to state level leadership as well as the ordinary party 
members;  Platoon  commanders  as  well  as  people’s  militia  members;  Leaders  of  revolutionary 
people’s governments and mass organisations to the ordinary masses. Com. Chirag (East-Bihar and 
North-East  JharkhandSpecial  Area),Vasanth  (Odisha)  andLachchanna  (SZC  alternate  member,  DK) 
belong to state/special zonal level leadership  and com. Ravi (Secretary, East Divisional Committee, 
AOB), com. Satish (South Zone, BJ), Rama (Seendri Lingo, Kalinganagar Division, Odisha), Sunil (Maad 
Division,  DK),  Rajitha  (North  Gadichiroli  Division,  DK)  andSoni  (South  Bastar,  DK)  belong  to 
Zonal/Dvisional committee leadership. Let us remember the  thousands of brave  martyrs who laid 
down their lives since the days of Naxalbari armed peasant revolutionary movement and let us pay 
our humble homage to each and every comrade who was martyred during the past one year while 
fighting shoulder to shoulder alongside us against the enemy in this people’s war to achieve the lofty 
goals of the revolution. 

Our  CC  also  pays  its  homage  to  the  brave  comrades  who  have  laid  down  their  lives  in  the 
movements going on in various countries under the leadership of Maoist parties, organisations and 
groups with the aim of making the world socialist revolution a success. It also pays homage to the 

true  democrats  like  BD  Sharma,  who  remained  a  steadfast  friend  of  our  party  and  the  new 
democratic revolution going on in the country and wished for its success. 

In the past ten months since the 11th anniversary of our party formation, party cadres, PLGA soldiers, 
revolutionary people’s committees and revolutionary and democratic organisations, the  masses  of 
our country and  especially those  in the movement areas, under the leadership of our party,  have 
been  valiantly  fighting  against  the  anti-people  and  pro-imperialist  social,  economic,  political, 
military, cultural and environmental policies and especially against the Operation Green Hunt that 
the fascist ruling classes have been implementing most cruelly with the aid of the imperialists. The 
sacrifices of those martyred in this resistance war are most valuable, ideal and to be emulated. They 
have laid down their lives for a new, justified and equitable  society where there is no  inequality, 
discrimination and exploitation of a human by another human. On the occasion of the 12th formation 
day of our party, let us pledge with clenched fists that we shall march forward steadfastly and with 
determination in the path illuminated by them and fulfill their dream of achieving a new world. We 
extend our deep condolences to all the family members, relatives and friends of these martyrs and 
promise that the CC shall stand in firm support of them. 

The  CC  hopes  that  our  co-fighters  who  were  injured  in  the  battle  will  recover  soon  and  become 
active participants again in the revolutionary movement.  Let us put before  the party ranks, PLGA 
forces and the broad masses the victories achieved by our party due to the sacrifices made by the 
martyrs and strive to increase their active and militant participation in the people’s war. 

Our victories: 

PLGA  has  been  fighting  the  mercenary  police  and  paramilitary  forces  of  the  exploitative  ruling 
classes under the leadership of the party to complete the central task of developing the PLGA into 
PLA and Guerilla Warfare into Mobile Warfare so as to develop DK and BJ into liberated areas. It is 
also fighting to protect the party, movement, people and people’s revolutionary government organs 
and  to  achieve  more  victories.  On  the  other  hand,  the  enemy  forces  have  been  unleashing  state 
violence  and  white  terror  in  various  forms  with  its  Low  Intensity  Conflict  (LIC)  policies.  They  are 
attacking the villages and the people in a big way and killing people, assaulting women sexually, and 
destroying  the  property  and  the  crops  of  the  people.  They  are  trying  to  create  rifts  among  the 
people. They are suppressing the people with iron boots to smother the aspirations of the people for 
new  democracy,  for  socialist  society  and  to  scuttle  their  collective  spirit.  Independent  journalists 
who have been trying to bring out the facts about the state terrorism and the police atrocities are 
branded  as  Maoists  and  implicated  in  false  cases  and/or  forced  out  of  conflict  areas.  The  PLGA, 
under the guidance of the party and with the help of the revolutionary masses, has taken up various 
Tactical  Counter  Offensive  Campaigns  to  confront  this  counter  revolutionary  war  that  the  enemy 
forces are conducting as a part of the Operation Green Hunt. At Kala Pahad (Palamu, Jharkhand), 
Dabbakunta  (Sukma,  Chattisgarh),  Malewada  (Dantewada,  Chattisgarh)  and  ChakkarBandha 
(Aurangabad,  Bihar)  considerable  damage  was  done  to  the  enemy  forces.  PLGA  soldiers  are 
continuing  their  resistance  in  Chattisgarh,  Odisha,  Maharastra,  Telangana,  AOB,  Jharkhand,  West 
Bengal and Western Ghats by conducting various small and middle level tactical offensive actions. 
More  than  60  police  personnel  were  killed  and  nearly  140  police  were  injured  in  various guerilla 
zones and red resistance areas throughout the country. 

The  party  plena  at  various  levels  have  reviewed  and  drawn  conclusions  that  two  year  task  of 
Bolshevization  (Study  and  Application)  have  been  yielding  some  positive  results  in  the  expected 
ways.  In  some  areas they have  taken  decisions  to  conduct  the  campaign  for  one  more  year.  The 
leadership  at  the  higher  level  has  resolved  to  enhance  their  theoretical  and  political  level  and  to 
bolshevize themselves as per the rapidly changing circumstances. We have decided to conduct social 
survey  as  part  of  this.  We  have  taken  up  field  level  studies  about  the  relative  changes  that  have 
taken  place  in  the  past  one  decade  in  production  relations.  The  leadership  of  various  levels  has 
discussed  the  class  analysis  reports  collectively.  They  have  come  to  a  conclusion  that  the  living 
standards of the people in the revolutionary movement areas has improved. 

From  2011  onwards,  a  co-operation  movement  is  going  on  for  ‘land  leveling-plot  making  and 
increasing  production  by  providing  irrigation’  under  the  leadership  of  Revolutionary  People’s 
Committees (KrantikariJanatanaSarkar) that our party is building at various levels. This campaign is 
going on every year for 15-20 days. This is being done on class basis wherever the JanatanaSarkars 
are working and has turned this practice into a revolutionary tradition. This is winning the hearts of 
the  people.  Police  and  the  paramilitary  forces  have  resorted  to  severe  attacks  in  the  months  of 
January and February of 2016 to disrupt this campaign. Police fired upon the people at the place of 
work and killed two villagers and injured two. In spite of this, revolutionary masses completed this 
campaign by the People’s Power Day (February 10) and achieved their targets. In the midst of severe 
attacks also, on an average, about 1,50,000 women and men participated in this campaign daily. This 
denotes its mass character. This campaign is taken up in the movement areas of AOB and Odisha 
also. 

JanatanaSarkars  have  concentrated  on  agriculture,  people’s  education  and  health  services,  the 
defense of JanatanaSarkars and small industries. JanatanaSarkars have to also look after the tasks of 
getting  the  arrested comrades released, rendering  economic help to  their families, protecting the 
forests and growing them further etc. In the light of severe drought conditions in our struggle areas 
revolutionary mass organizations and RPCs have taken up drought relief measures to provide relief 
to  the  people.  We  have  also  collected  donations  from  various  sections  of  people  like  employees, 
democrats, sympathizers of the revolutionary movement in various forms and distributed. 

In the revolutionary movement areas, and especially in Eastern and Central India, central and state 
governments have signed MOUs with MNCs and CBBs like Tatas, Essar, Mittal, Jindal, Neco, Vedanta, 
Posco for various projects like mining projects, huge dams, reserved forests and parks, mega steel 
plants,  thermal  power  plants,  open  cast  mines,  railroads  etc.  Powerful  people’s  resistance 
movements are going on against these MOUs and against the thousands of police forces deployed 
for enforcing the MOUs. With the result, many MOUs were stopped from being implemented. In the 
border  areas of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala anti-displacement  movements are taking birth. 
The displacement problem in the country is an issue of the very existence question of the people, 
especially of the moolvasis. Ultimately it is the land question. That is the reason why the people in 
the whole country agitated against the anti-people land acquisition policy brought forward by the 
Modi government. The Odisha government and its mercenary forces are cruelly killing the people to 
suppress the anti-displacement movements. Our party is leading these people’s movements uniting 
with pro-people forces and organizations on a broad basis. 

Democratic organisations, religious minorities and dalit and adivasi people in our movement areas 
are  coming  forward  to  unitedly  fight  against  the  Brahminical  Hindu  Fascism.  The  people in  these 
areas are not taking lying down the practice of hegemonic and murderous politics by the saffron 
terrorists (Sangh Parivar), who, with the help and aid of the state, are acting above any law and the 
constitution. On the other hand, students, workers, women, revolutionary and progressive writers, 
artists and singers and progressive journalists are striving to arouse people’s consciousness against 
the Brahminical Hindu Fascism. Our party has stood in solidarity with them. We have been putting in 
our efforts to build them into united movements. 

The ruling classes have announced about a decade back that the Maoists are the biggest threat to 
the  internal  security  of the  country.  They  have  declared  a  war  on  the  people  in  the  areas  of  the 
Maoist movement. They have deployed nearly five lakh police and paramilitary forces. Drones and 
half a dozen helicopters of the air force are guarding from the skies. By the end of 2015, the Indian 
government permitted to conduct aerial attacks. This has to be seen as a turning point in the Indian 
revolutionary movement. Garuda Commandos of the air force are conducting rehearsals for aerial 
attacks, thus terrorizing the people. The fake encounter killings of the struggling people by the police 
have increased. The police are virtually immune to any atrocities on women also. Mercenary police 
are resorting to cruel torture of the people. They are rubbing chilli powder and salt on people. They 
are  tying  rope  to  the  hands  and  then  dragging  the  people  on  road  by  tying  them  to  vehicles. 
Women’s breasts are squeezed by the police. In ChinnaGelluru, PeddaGelluru, Budigin, Pegadapalli, 
Kunna and other villages, they resorted to inhuman assaults on women. Under the leadership of SRP 
Kalluri, the IG, Bastar,Chattisgarh, the central and state police and commando forces are resorting to 
barbaric atrocities on people. Even though the Amnesty International has faulted the police for not 
informing about the arrest of the people to their kith and kin,the central and state governments are 
not caring. Democratic people are raising their voice against these fascist atrocities, both nationally 
and internationally. Intellectuals, democratic forces, civil rights and human rights activists, adivasi 
well-wishers, journalists,lawyers, women’s organizations and various parliamentary parties that are 
working locally other than the BJP are coming forward to conduct fact finding about these atrocities 
and condemn them. Raman Singh and Modi and their police are unable to bear this. Police goondas 
have resorted to physical attacks on SoniSori, the leader of the AamAadmiParty.D.M.Avasthi, the DG, 
Naxals  is  dismissing  all  this  as  mere  false  propaganda  to  defame  the  police  and  branding  all  the 
forces that stand on the side of the people as Maoists.Sukma district sessions judgePrabhakarGwal 
was dismissed from service by the government as he was not delivering  judgments in the Maoist 
cases as per the diktats of the district collector of the Sukma district. He came out with the allegation 
that there is a threat to his life. 

State  violence  and  the  white  terror  are  going  on  in  an  unprecedented  level  in  all  the  movement 
areas  in  the  states  of  Chhattisgarh,  Maharashtra,  Bihar,  Jharkhand,  West  Bengal,  Asom,  Odisha, 
Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamilnadu, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. 

The  third phase of  Operation Green Hunt is creating an objective basis for the unification of pro-
people  forces.  Basing  on  this,  the  party  has  been  striving  for  the  past  one  year  to  build  people’s 
movements and people’s resistance  movements against operation  green hunt by uniting workers, 
peasants, students, women, revolutionary intellectuals, democratic, patriotic and pro-people forces 
and the well-wishers of the adivasis. 

Dear Comrades and Friends! 

Indian ruling classes and especially the Brahminical Hindu communal forces that are in power in the 
garb of parliamentary democracy or in other words, the state terrorism and the ‘saffron terrorism’ 
are carrying out a very cruel attack on the revolutionary movement with the help of the imperialists. 

The enemy no.1 of the people of the world, America, is facing severe problems within and without. 
This  country  is  mired  in  a  debt  of  20  trillion  dollars,  as  the  most  indebted  country.  In  order  to 
continue  its  hegemony  as  the  world  police,  the  US  is  expending  hundred  billion  dollars  a  year  to 
maintain hundreds of military bases, in strategic areas in 70 countries. This is triggering anger in the 
people of those countries. It is sparing no efforts to counter China which is emerging as a competitor 
worldwide. It has taken up many military actions to continue the tensions in the South China Sea. 
The  competition is growing between the US, China, Russia and the other imperialist countries, to 
plunder the oil riches in 20 Arab countries of North Africa and West Asia. In the name of defending 
the people, deposing the dictators and decimating the terrorist groups, the US, France and the NATO 
armies are destroying these countries inblazes of war. As per the estimates of the UNO, more than 
three  hundred  thousand  people  have  been  killed  so  far  in  the  war  of  Syria.  Because  of  this  war, 
hundreds of thousands of people are forced to flee to Europe as immigrants. They are encountering 
untold miseries. Scores of people are losing their lives while attempting to cross the Mediterranean 
Sea. Hundreds of civilians are losing their lives in the drone attacks carried out by the US and other 
imperialist  countries  in  Pakistan,  Afghanistan,  Palestine,  Yemen,  Iraq,  Libya,  Somalia,  Syria  and 
Philippines. With such policies, the US is increasingly incurring the wrath of the people of the world. 

The  US  is  also  suffering  from  many  internal  problems.  It  is  forced  to  cut  down  on  the  welfare 
expenditure.  All  sections  of  the  people  are  resorting  to  strikes  on  their  issues.  About  40  million 
people (nearly 12%) are living on food coupons. The government is forced to take new loans to pay 
the salaries of the employees. The African-Americans who are living there for centuries are facing a 
lot of discrimination. In 2015 alone, nearly 600 black people have been killed. The black people are 
raging  with  vengeance.  They  are  also  resorting  to  armed  attacks  on  the  police  officers  there. 
Thousands of people in scores of cities took out rallies to condemn this. Thus the unrest is increasing 
among the American people. 

The situation of the other imperialist and industrial countries is no better than that of the US. Greece 
is unable to overcome the debt crisis which it is mired in. In France, workers’ strikes on the one hand 
and the attacks of ISIS on the other are continuing and the policies of the government are losing the 
confidence of the people. People are suffering from unemployment, cut in the pension funds and 
welfare  funds  etc.  It is  true  that  the  exit of  Britain  from  the  EU  is  an  expression  of  the  people’s 
aspirations,  but  it  is  also  a  reflection  of  the  growth  of  the  rightist  forces.  The  mobilization  and 
struggle of the people on their issues is growing in Europe also. 

With  the  result,  the  crisis of  the  world imperialist  system  is  bound  to  increase  and  lead  a severe 
conflict  among  the  imperialist  forces  and  exacerbate  the  competition  to  divide  the  world  market 
among them. 

Comrades, 

The economic and financial crisis that is continuing in the imperialist countries since 2008 is creating 
a turmoil in the all the countries of the world and creating a huge social crisis. This is giving rise to 
many  movements  of  workers,  oppressed  people  and  oppressed  nationalities.  Imperialists  are 
instigating a cocktail of fascism, religion and jingoism to suppress these movements, people and the 
people’s politics. The communal forces which are in power at the center are,on one hand, instigating 
cultural jingoism and resorting to fascist attacks and on the other, implementing vision-2020 to fulfill 
the interests of the corporate forces and thus destroying the economic system of the country. 

When the NDA-I, under the leadership of BJP, was in power earlier, it had come out with Shining 
India. Now it has unleashed a propaganda blitzkrieg with the slogan ‘Make in India’. Modi and co. 
has brought forward various schemes like smart cities, start-up India, stand-up India, MUDRA yojana, 
digital  India,  skill  India,  RURBAN  etc.  as  part  of  vision-2020.  To  implement  these  pet  projects,  to 
restructure the whole Indian economy to serve the interests of the imperialists and big comprador 
bourgeoisie and landlords, Modi has established NITI (National Institute for Transformation of India) 
in  the  place  of  planning  commission.  With  the  funds  provided  by  these  plans,  they  have  devised 
plans to get rid of the Maoists. They are using these funds to suppress the revolutionary movement 
going on under our leadership.Modi has toured more than 40 countries and has signed hundreds of 
MOUs with corporate big shots to pillage the wealth of our countries. Indian economy is being tied 
up strongly with the American economy, ever since Modi has come to power. 

Hindutva forces are acting as per their whim, ever since the BJP has assumed power at the center. 
They  are  forcing  the  people  of  other  religions  to  accept  that  ‘Hindu  traditions  and  customs  are 
national heritage’. Saffronising education is going on in the BJP ruled states for quite a long time. In 
Modi ruled Gujarat schools, they are teaching the 5th class students the theory of Savarkar that, the 
’Vedic Hindutva is at the roots of Indian civilization’. The tenth students are being taught that the 
Varnashrama Dharma is the biggest boon given by the Aryans. Vidya Bharati, belonging to the Sangh 
Parivar  is  striving  hard  to  propagate  the  Hindutva  ideology.  Hindutva  forces  are  immersed  in  the 
saffronisation  of  the  education  by  using  the  state  power,  various  organizations  and  forums.  The 
young impressionable minds are taught history with wrong interpretations and commentaries and 
the future generation is being filled with Brahminical ideology. This danger is increasing by the day in 
the adivasi areas. 

Saffron  forces  are  resorting  to  deadly  attacks  on Dalits,  Adivasis  and  religious  minorities  to  force 
them  into  accepting  Brahminism.  Murderous  attacks  are  on  the  rise  under  the  protection  of  the 
state. They are trying to reconvert the people who have changed their religion by ‘GharVapsi’. Many 
organizations are working towards this end under the patronage of the Sangh Parivar. New ones are 
mushrooming. They are also resorting to a façade of social harmony. Since Modi at the centre and 
DevendraFadnavis in Maharastra have come to power, BR Ambedkar is being hailed a lot and they 
are trying to project themselves as the messiahs of Dalits. Dalits are up in arms against attacks on 
them by the upper castes in Gujarat and are building statewide agitation for social justice and self-
respect. People from all the sections from all over the country are condemning these  attacks and 
protesting. In Gujarat many Dalit writers have returned their awards. 

Hinduisation of Adivasis in the country is going on for a long time. Steps are afoot to evacuate them 
from forests. Like it is putting everything on sale, the Modi government is also trying to put forests 
on sale. The schedules of the constitution to protect the rights of the adivasis and the various laws 

made by various governments like the Prevention of Atrocities on SCs and STs Act, PESA, new forest 
policy,  Chota  Nagpur  tenancy  Act  etc.  are  thrown  into  the  dustbin  and  are  making  new  laws  like 
Domicile Act in Jharkhand where non-tribals who are settled there for the past 30 years are being 
given  rights  on  par  with  tribals  with  respect  to  land,  thus  paving  way  for  displacing  adivasis  and 
plundering  the  forest  wealth.  Hindutva  forces  have  intensified  their  cultural  attack  to  co-opt  the 
adivasis into them. Chowdaries, Bhils and Gamiths, who were adivasis before the Modi regime, have 
been hinduized and Ram has been added as a surname for adivasi names. In the Aashram schools 
being established in the adivasi area, one is compelled to take meals only after saying Hindu prayers. 
They are establishing Vanavasiinstitutionswith the aim of inclusion of adivasis in to the fold of their 
Parivar. A section of the adivasis was used extensively in the pogrom of 2002 in Gujarat and in the 
attack carried out on the adivasi Christians in Kandhamal in 2008. Adivasis are recruited into Sendra, 
Salva Judum and commando forces and are put in the forefront while carrying out attacks on the 
revolutionary  movement.  NDA  government  has  taken  a  decision  to  form  special  battalions  with 
adivasis. Adivasi masses throughout the country are  opposing this act  of the  government.  Adivasi 
intellectuals,  well-wishers,  democrats  and  true  secularists  are  siding  with  the  adivasis  and  are 
standing in solidarity with them. 

Hindutva  forces  are  carrying  out  attacks  on  the  Muslims  in  the  country  since  the  division  of  the 
country.  Hindu  communal  forces  are  the  main  reason  for  the  many  communal  disturbances  that 
erupted at many places in the country in the past two years.  

After Modi came to power, erstwhile Hindu communalist convicts are coming out of jails with their 
chests thumping. People have clearly understood that the ‘State’ is clearly defending and protecting 
the Hindu communal forces when the  murderers and criminals right from SadhviPragna Thakur to 
the murderers like those involved in the Gulbarg society massacre walked free. 

Many  state  governments  have  banned  beef.  On  this  pretext,  the  Hindu  communal  forces  are 
resorting to severe attacks on the Muslims with false allegations. Many Muslim youth are accused of 
being terrorists, separatists and ISI agents and are being sent behind bars by fabricating false cases. 
People  are  in  fact  realizing  that  ‘saffron  terrorism’  is  increasingly  becoming  an  internal  security 
threat to the country. 

State  terrorism  is  resorting  to  cruel  attacks  in  the  revolutionary  movement  areas  in  the  East  and 
Central India to wipe out any traces of democracy. The aim of this police state under the leadership 
of this BJP government under Fascist leadership is to eliminate political opponents by accusing them 
of being Maoists and Maoist sympathisers. We can establish real democracy when the revolutionary 
movement emerges as a political alternative by destroying state violence. 

Dear comrades and Friends, 

When one talks of international terrorists, people raise their accusing finger towards war mongers 
Bush,  Blair  and  Obama.  Likewise  it  is  becoming  increasingly  clear  to  the  people  that  the  real 
terrorists in our country are Modi, Amit Shah, Mohan Bhagawat and their ilk of the saffron brigade. 
These forces are unable to bear any progressive and rational thoughts. BJP governments are taking 
up big campaigns and special missions by the security forces to eliminate the revolutionary forces. 
The youth in Kashmir is being killed brutally for raising their voice for ‘Azad Kashmir’. The number of 
the  dead  has  increased  to  more  than  60.  Curfew  was  imposed  on  the  whole  of  Kashmir  valley 

consecutively for forty days in an unprecedented way. Students, intellectuals, artists and writers are 
coming out in protest in various forms against the intolerance of the Hindu communal forces. 

Common  people  are  encountering  unprecedented  hardships  because  of  the  neo-liberal  economic 
policies that the  governments have  been adopting for the past two decades. People are suffering 
from the high prices of commodities. Unemployment is growing. Lakhs of workers are losing jobs as 
the Modi government is privatizing many public sector industries including the defense sector. The 
hard won rights of the workers are being trampled from the time of Indira Gandhi to Modi,  even 
while  reciting  the  mantra  of  ‘ShramayevaJayathe’.  The  increase  of  financial  burden  on  essential 
services like health and food, abrogation and/or cutting down on the welfare measures is having a 
severe impact on the workers and peasants. 

Heaping  praise  on  the  peasantry,  Modi  is  promising  that  he  will  double  their  income  by  2022. 
Marathwada peasantry has responded that their income at present is zero and it would double to 
two zeroes by 2022. Agricultural scientists have come up with the statistics that the annual income 
of the peasants at present is Rs.20000 and even if it doubles to Rs.40000, it would be still less than 
two month salary of a fourth grade employee. Lawyers, doctors, students, government employees, 
workers, anganwadi workers, farmers, women, workers and people of all other sections are fighting 
against the neo-liberal economic policies. 

The central government has celebrated its two years in office with pomp. On this occasion, central 
home minister Mr. Rajnath Singh has given a call in Bilaspur for the Maoists to shun the weapons 
and  come  for  talks.  He  also  warned  that  the  government  would  not  remain  a  mute  spectator. 
Another minister Venkayya Naidu announced that there wouldn’t be any talks with those who don’t 
have faith in the constitution. This is the attitude of the government towards the talks. Our party 
never hesitated to go for talks when it served the interests of the revolution. Our party has already 
announced that we would definitely consider going for talks if the armed forces stop repression, ban 
on our party is lifted and the comrades in jails are released and we are invited for talks. Recently, 
when FARC in Columbia relinquished its fifty year old armed struggle and signed an agreement with 
the government, some forces in our country have urged us also to emulate them. Revisionists, Indian 
government  and  some  liberal  intellectuals  argued  in  2006  that  the  Indian  Maoists  also  should 
emulate the Nepal Maoists when they left the path of armed struggle and plunged into the quagmire 
of parliamentary politics. It was projected as an ideal path to be followed. But what has the history 
proven to us? What gains have the Nepalese people made? We also have the negative experience of 
the organizations in the North-East which are immersed in futile talks with the Indian government 
for many, many years. Recently, IromSharmila also ended her 16 years long hunger strike after losing 
faith in the peaceful, non-violent method. Of course she forgot the interests of her Manipuri people. 
In fact, the people of our country have lost faith in any bourgeoisie or revisionist party and are taking 
the path of struggle for the resolution of their issues.The crisis is intensifying in the world imperialist-
capitalist  system  and  the  semi-feudal  and  semi-colonial  system  in  our  country.  The  objective 
conditions are becoming favorable for revolution. We are confident that we will be achieving more 
victories in the future. Let us fight with determination. 

Dear Comrades, 

The  basic  policy  of  the  Indian  ruling  classes,  serving  the  interests  of  the  imperialists  and  the 
comprador  big  bourgeoisie  and  big  landlords,  in  the  repression  unleashed  on  the  revolutionary 

movement and the people, the encirclement and mopping up operation, and the white terror is that 
it is not limited to some normal repressive measures. Carrying out political and ideological attacks is 
the  most  important  element  that  constitutes  this  policy.  They  cannot  achieve  their  aim  by  only 
resorting  to  the  repressive  campaign  without  at  the  same  time  carrying  out  ideological  and 
psychological war. 

The aim of all the repressive measures and the ideological pressure that the imperialists and their 
lackeys, the Indian ruling classes bring upon the revolutionaries and the people is very clear and that 
is to hold on to their power and repress the people’s struggle that challenges their hegemony, to put 
an  end  to  the  people’s  struggles  and  to  make  the  people  accept  their  semi-colonial,  semi-feudal 
system  or  to  make  them  bow  down  to  their  system.  This  is  the  essence  of  the  LIC  policy.  They 
implement  various  policies  towards  this  end.  Without  going  into  whether  they  will  be  able  to 
implement their policies effectively or if those will yield the desired results, we can say for sure that 
these policies cannot have a decisive say in the outcome. In contrast, the ideological and political 
strength, and the policies of the very revolutionaries that they want to wipe out will play a decisive 
role.  It  is  quite  obvious  through  their  practice  and  outlook.  Therefore,  the  policies  of  the 
revolutionaries and not those of the enemy are the decisive factor. 

Class enemies are not really very strong, because this is class war. Yes, this is a class war between 
the oppressors and the oppressed; between the exploiters and the exploited; the haves and have-
nots; the hungry people and hoarders: between the imperialists, landlords and the comprador big 
bourgeoisie and the oppressed people like workers and peasants. This is a war between justice and 
injustice.  This  war  has  started  because  of  the  private  property,  exploitation  and  as  the  society  is 
divided  into  classes.  This  will  come  to  an  end  only  with  the  abolition  of  the  private  property, 
exploitation and  the classes.  Class struggle is an objective reality irrespective of the wishes of the 
classes. Classes cannot put an end to these wars. Only those who understand this fact can fight for 
the  classless  communist  society  which  will  put  an  end  to  all  the  wars.  Only  they  can  mold  their 
ideology, politics and practice in accordance with that. This is what class consciousness is. Exploiting 
ruling classes, oppressors of the people and their mercenary forces will shout from roof tops that 
they will wipe out the  mountains, the forests and make the statenaxal-free  etc. etc. and that  the 
maoists would never succeed. In contrast to this, defeat or victory is dependent on the aims and the 
decisiveness  of  the  people  fighting  in  the  forests,  plains,  villages  and  the  towns.  The  ideology  of 
Marxism-Leninism-Maoism is stating that this is the age of revolutions. Even the ruling classes are 
saying that the 21st century is the century of revolts and are gearing up to take preventive steps to 
suppress revolutions. That is because they have left only hunger, poverty and injustice to the people. 
Their exploitative economic system is at its root. Ruling classes know pretty well that the people will 
revolt  against this. In the present  modern society, their ‘democratic’ governments can  only divert 
the people from the issues, but cannot solve the problems faced by them.Their goal is to maintain 
the  status-quo  of  the  exploitative  system  and  to  suppress  the  anger  of  the  people  and  the 
revolutionary  violence  that  they  adopt.  So,  they  constantly  try  to  study  the  weaknesses  of  the 
movement  and  to  strike  blows to  the  movement  based  on  those  weaknesses.  Ruling  classes  also 
know their weaknesses and they also try to overcome them. But, they will never succeed in  their 
endeavor.  This  is  because  their  interestslie  in  exploitation  only.  We  know  our  strengths  and 
weaknesses  and  also  whom  we  are  fighting  against.  We  can  definitely  overcome  our 
weaknesses.That is the reason we announce that they can never defeat us and the broad masses, 
that  they  cannot  defeat  the  people’s  war  and  that  we  shall  definitely  achieve  victory.  Only  the 

people’s war has the ability and capacity to face and counter the multi-pronged attack in ideological, 
political,  military,  social  and  cultural  fields  that  the  imperialists  and  their  lackeys,  the  comprador 
bureaucratic  big  bourgeoisie  and  the  big  landlords,  are  unleashing  on  the  oppressed  people 
belonging to workers, peasants and the middle classes. The class enemies may impose a very harsh 
war,  but  the  people’s  war  will  not  rest  until  they  are  wiped  out,  beaten  back  and  the  oppressed 
people achieve success. 

Quoting Lenin, Mao gave a call to ‘Dare to fight! And Dare to Win’. He elaborated these calls thus – it 
is not enough to dare to fight but you have to dare to win also. To win, we have to have decisiveness 
and  bravery.  A  special  desire  is  needed  for  this.  Until  the  revolution  is  successful,  we  have  to 
thoroughly analyze the things that are initially beyond comprehension and advance until the new 
democratic  society  emerges  from  the  ashes  of  this  exploitative  system  and  further  advances  to 
socialist and communist societies. Decisiveness and daring should be such that it should be able to 
visualize the whole path that makes the revolution victorious and to wipe out the semi-colonial and 
semi-feudal system in countries like India and the imperialist system, that is not only destroying the 
lives of billions of people but has become a serious threat to the very survival of the mankind. 

Let us take up the following tasks in the coming year to overcome the difficult situation we are facing 
to  better  utilize  the  excellent  revolutionary  situation  that  is  becoming  favourable  for  revolution 
within the country and worldwide. 

Tasks: 

 

 
 

 

Let us defeat the third phase of the Operation green hunt and the Bastar Mission-2016 and 
Saranda Action Plan which are a part of it! Let us advance to achieve more victories in the 
people’s war in order to fulfill the central task. 
We should analyze the experiences of the people’s war we have been waging for the past 
one year against the third phase of the Operation green hunt and the Bastar Mission-2016 
and Saranda Action Plan which are a part of it. We have to take positive and negative lessons 
from it after analyzing and synthesizing  it.  We have  to formulate appropriate plans, tasks 
and suitable tactics to achieve more victories. We have to also devise suitable methods of 
mass line to unify the will and capabilities of our people’s war.  
Let us consolidate the party committees at all levels by the Bolshevization campaign. 
Let us celebrate the 50th anniversaries of the Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution and the 
Naxalbari  revolt,  centenary  of  the  world  shaking  socialist  revolution  of  Russia  and  the  bi-
centenary  of  the  Marxist  international  proletarian  teacher  Karl  Marx  with  a  lot  of 
revolutionary zeal and fervor! 
Let  us  concentrate  on  the  revolutionary  land  reforms  that  are  at  the  core  of  the  new 
democratic revolution. 
Revolutionary land reforms will be the core essence of the new democratic revolution. They 
will liberate the peasant masses, who are the majority among the population, economically, 
politically and culturally. This is the way to win the firm support of the peasant masses and 
make success the new democratic revolution through protracted people’s war. The drama of 
land reforms of the reactionary ruling classes is no longer working and hence they are trying 
to act as though they are providing the landless agricultural labourers, who cannot afford to 

buy  any  land,  some  relief through  their  liberal  economic  policies.  In  this  background,  our 
revolutionary land reforms will create favourable conditions for revolution. 
Let us mobilize the people in a big way like in Lalgarh andNarayanapatna movements against 
imperialist neo-liberal policies, displacement and other political, economic and social issues! 
Let  the  revolutionary  and  democratic  organizations,  forces  and  individuals  build  a  strong 
people’s movement on a broad basis by mobilizing vast masses! 
Let us build  a strong and militant  movement by unifying revolutionary forces, democratic 
and progressive forces, organizations, minorities and secular forces against the Brahminical 
Hindu fascism. 
Let us build a broad people’s movement by unifying people in united fronts on the issues of 
adivasis, Dalits, women and religious minorities! 

 

 

 

  Save  democracy!  Fight  against  the  enemy  forces  in  the  uniform  and  the  counter 

 

 

revolutionary reactionary gangs that are trampling the human rights! 
Our party upholds, defends and encourages democracy, human rights. It respects all kinds of 
basic rights and freedoms like  freedom of expression, right to assemble, right  to organize 
etc. 
Let us stand in solidarity with the struggles of Kashmiris, Nagas, Manipuris, Asoms, Bodos 
and other nationalities who are fighting for the right to self-determination including the right 
to secede! 
Let  us  stand  in  support  of  the  anti-imperialist  movement  going  on  worldwide!  Let  us 
mobilize in solidarity with them in India! 
 
With Revolutionary Greetings, 
 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist)  

Date: 28-07-2016 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

