 

[Note: This document is taken from a ruling class web site and its validity and correctness 
is therefore quite uncertain. –Ed., BannedThought.net] 

Resolutions of 4th PB meeting  

 

 

(for PMs)  

 

(Held from 1-4-06 to 9-4-06) 

 

1.  Resolution on Martyrs: (all PMs) 

In this first meeting of the PB being held after the martyrdom of our PB member, comrade 
Shamsher Singh Sheri (KS), on 28th of October’2005, PB pays its red revolutionary homage to 
this senior leader of our Party and vows to carry on the struggle to fulfill his cherished dreams of a 
new classless society. It calls upon the entire Party to undertake extensive propaganda on the 
exemplary life and contributions of our beloved leader during the Martyr’s Week this year. PB will 
bring out a booklet regarding com K.S. 

In the past six months since the last CC meeting totally 227 of our comrades became martyrs 
throughout the country. Of these, 63 comrades belong to the three zones of AP, 34 are from BJ, 
115 from DK of which 90-95 are members of RPCs, mass organizations, jan militia, and masses 
in the areas of our struggle, who were killed by salwa judum-police combine, 5 comrades in North 
CG, and one comrade each in West Bengal, MR and UP. 

The martyrs include PB member, comrade KS; Com Mymuddin (Ravi), secretary of 3U Com 
Bhaskar, DCM of Adilabad; Commanders and Area Committee comrades such as Nagarjuna, 
Sunil, Vijaya, Rammohan Reddy, Sreedhar, Sudhakar of AP Com Devnath Singh of UP, com 
Mulla of West Bengal, Com Vasudev, Paramjit Yadav of Jharkhand, and several Party members, 
leaders, activists and members of our mass organizations, jan militia unitsm and revolutionary 
masses in various parts of the country. 

Several comrades died while waging heroic battle with the central para-military and special police 
forces. Two comrades became martyrs during the Operation Jailbreak in Jehnabad on 13 
November. Com Ashok died on the spot in enemy fire while com Indal Paswan was injured and 
died in hospital two days later. One comrade died in the raid on Dumaria police camp on March 
5th. Two comrades of the Platoon were killed in AP. Many of our comrades like Sreedhar, Indal 
Paswan, Eeswaramma and others, stood steadfast during the tortures in police custody, guarded 
Party secrets, and thus rendered great service to the Party and people’s war until their last 
breath. They stand out as shining examples for the Party and the people of our country. We have 
to highlight the heroic and courageous resistance of these comrades and propagate their life-
histories among Party cadres and people in a big way. 

We should bring out a booklet describing the exemplary lives of the comrades and take up 
extensive campaign during the Martyr’s Week this year.  

2.  Resolution on sentences given to Barunda and others: (all PMs) 

On 17th March’2005, the fasttrack court in Jhargram had given five years sentence to PBM comrade 
Barunda and life sentence to comrades. Tapas, CCM of our Party, and com Pratul. PB sees these 
sentences as the result of the political conspiracy hatched by the so-called Left Front government of West 

 

1 

 

Bengal led by the neo-revisionist CPI (M) to incarcerate Maoist political prisoners. It is a reflection of the 
counter-revolutionary brutal onslaught of the reactionary ruling classes of India, and exposes the social 
fascist face of the ruling classes of India, and exposes the social fascist face of the ruling revisionists in 
the State. 

PB calls upon the entire Party rank and file, PLGA fighters, the activists of revolutionary mass 
organizations and the entire masses of our country to build a wide mass movement and take up 
campaign countrywide. We must also strive to mobilize support abroad. Other revolutionary 
organizations, democratic organizations and individuals should be approached and mobilized to condemn 
and oppose these sentences. Leaflets, posters, booklets should be brought out in various languages. Hall 
and street corner meetings, rallies and other forms of protest should be organized. Signature campaign 
must be taken up throughout the country. We must expose how the real criminals are roaming scot-free 
while revolutionaries are sentenced. This should be used as an opportunity for carrying out revolutionary 
political propaganda. Barunda’s speeches court statements, etc., should also be widely propagated. 

While the above campaign should be the main aspect, we should be the main aspect, we should also 
explore the possibilities of fighting in higher courts by appealing the HC and SC. Able advocates should 
be appointed for building the arguments. We must build up our arguments showing how the sentences 
are a result of political vengeance, cite health condition of Barunda, and assert how it is a conspiracy to 
finish off com Barunda by such heinous methods as not giving proper treatment, inflicting mental torture, 
and so on. 

A booklet will be prepared on the sentences by the first week of May.  

4. On the Economical Blockade of May 25-27 (upto PMs)  

The PB is ratifying the decision of the ERB to declare a three day economical blockade in the name of the 
CC against the CBB and MNC installations in Jh, Bh, NCG, DK and Orissa states on May 25-27. Raw 
materials from these areas are being supplied to CBB and imperialist projects in our country and abroad. 
Apart from the existing loot and plunder of the lives of indigenous people of these areas some more new 
MoUs were signed by the different state and central governments, which are affecting seriously people, 
forests and natural resources. The forceful eviction drive taken by the ruling classes should be resisted 
and a call to stop the loot of the CBB, MNCs and imperialists should be fought. We have to expose the 
so-called development theories of the bourgeoisie. 

At the time of blockade people should be rallied in a big way in different forms of resistance. People and 
guerillas should be engaged to disrupt rail and road lines in our areas, which are the nerve centres to 
carry the raw materials to factories and ports. Destruction of these will be taken widely. We should take 
care not to damage main routes of public transportation. 

Propaganda material should be prepared by the SuCoMO in four languages.  

5.  Problems in achieving oneness in the Party: - 

In the past 18 months since the formation of the unified Party, there has been a positive development of 
relations between the cadres of the two erstwhile parties at all levels. Overall, the spirit of unity has 
pervaded the entire party upto grassroots level. However, there still exist some problems in achieving 
oneness due to several historical, conceptual, practice-related, behavioral and other factors.Though they 
are not a big hurdle, PB has identified the following factors that are creating some problems for achieving 
oneness in some areas:  

1. 

Influence of separate existence for a long period of time; 

 

2 

 

2. 

3. 

4. 

Influence of black chapter is still there in various forms though spirit of unity mainly exists. 
A tendency to go back to the period of strained relations and to search for causes could 
be observed among some comrades. 
Influence of some decisions taken by the erstwhile parties prior to merger in accordance 
with their need at that time; 
lack of knowledge of the historical development of the struggle and the objective 
conditions in the various states, and old misconceptions, impressions and prejudices 
regarding respective movements; 

5.  Lack of proper education to the cadres of two erstwhile parties about what each had 

learnt from the other which creates some doubts and hesitancy in receiving new ideas 
such as the agreement on KKC. 

6.  Problem of grasping the spirit of the new docs of the unified party; 
7. 

Influence of still-prevalent old weaknesses on present relations that are creating 
problems; 

8.  Shortcomings on the part of the leadership in dealing with problems objectively; 
9.  Problems in functioning such as maintaining relations with old comrades of one’s 

erstwhile party; same old style of functioning in changed conditions instead of adjusting to 
the methods required in the new Party; lack of conscious attempts to understand the 
problems of the comrades; 

10.  Influence of enemy propaganda that creates doubts and prevents one from seeing facts 

objectively; 

11.  Influence of the past remnants and differences in each of the erstwhile parties that had 

accrued and entered the unified Party; 

12.  Influence of some problems dating back to the period of AICCCR and the formation of the 

two Parties, Com CM, etc., 

13.  There are also some real problems such as different standards in the selection, gradation 
and promotion of cadres basing on different levels of the movement, problems arising out 
of composition of some committees, and so on. 

Although PB has identified the above reasons that have some negative influence in achieving oneness in 
the Party, most of these are not of significance in the immediate context. The main thing that can promote 
or impede oneness is the attitude, trends, dealings of the leadership, or, to say in one word, the 
conscious role of the leadership. As long as the leadership of the unified Party, but retains, consciously or 
unconsciously, some affinity to the erstwhile party and reflected in its dealings and attitudes, it will be 
difficult to achieve oneness completely. 

Hence, it is necessary to conduct an education campaign to get rid of the non-proletarian trends, while 
the leadership is dealing with the problems that are acting as hurdles in the way of achieving oneness. A 
thorough education on the basic documents, concepts, historical development of the movements of the 
erstwhile parties is necessary and the PB expects that this would be completed in the course of 
conducting the conferences and the Congress. It calls upon the Party rank and file, the leadership in 
particular, to consciously concentrate on achieving this great objective while showing flexibility and proper 
balance in dealing with the problems. 

Today, the utmost need of the hour is to unite our forces like an iron fist to defeat the ever growing all-
round enemy offensive. For this, the entire rank and file of the unified Party must place the interests of the 
Party, the oppressed people of our country and the lofty aims of achieving a new classless society above 
everything else and stand as exemplar revolutionary models.  

9. On DK:  

PB has discussed the developments in DK. It hails the tough resistance given by the Party, PLGA, MO 
and people under the leadership of the DKSZC and the CCMs who are guiding the programme directly. 
This heroic resistance of our PLGA fighters and the revolutionary masses of Bastar, the series of blows 

 

3 

 

they inflicted upon the cruel enemies of the people and the para-military, Naga Force and special police 
forces has become an inspiration to the entire revolutionary camp in the country.  

The scale and magnitude of the enemy’s military onslaught unleashed in the name of Salwa Judum is 
unprecedented in the history of the Indian revolution after the setback of 1972. This cruel, divisive 
campaign should be defeated in order to advance the task of transforming PLGA into PLA and 
establishing Base Area.  

The PB noted with grave concern that we have not taken up the propaganda and solidarity campaigns in 
the various states to the extent possible corresponding to our subjective strength. At this critical juncture 
when the Central and state governments, with the full backing of the imperialists, CBB and feudal forces, 
have unleashed a brutal encirclement and suppression campaign in Bastar region of Chhattisgarh, and 
are quite determined to ruthlessly carry out their heinous plans of destroying the Party, PLGA, RPCs, 
revolutionary mass organizations, and terrorise the masses through gory bloodbaths, the main focus of 
our entire Party should be to build strong support to the ongoing armed resistance in DK in all possible 
ways. The PB discussed and decided to intiate the following steps in DK and also in the various states in 
order to defeat the enemy offensive unitedly and build countrywide solidarity movement in support of the 
people’s armed resistance under our Party’s leadership in DK:  

i. 

ii. 

Central and State governments will intensify their brutal attack further in this summer. 
Salwa Judum-para military’s combined ongoing offensive is a springboard to facilitate the 
deployment of the Indian Army to capture our GBs particularly Maad. Already in this 
direction coordination has been increased by the concerned officials. 
Eviction of hundreds of villages and shifting them to new settlements is another plan 
intiated by the Chhattisgarh State government for which Rs. 500 crores is sought from 
the Centre. Already 70-80 villages were burnt, hundreds of villages were forcibly 
evacuated, around 50,000 people had been shifted to government organized camps. 

SJ leadership put forward alternative slogans to all out slogans reflecting the sharp 
polarization into two camps-revolutionary and counter-revolutionary. Day by day offensive 
of these forces and counter offensive of our people and forces is increasing and a civil 
war situation now prevails in entire Bastar, which has now become the focal point of the 
bitter class conflict.The offensive was led by the Congress-BJP combine at state and all 
India level. Initially, the reactionary ruling succeeded to some extent in projecting the 
savage Salwa Judum as a spontaneous uprising of the adivasis against the Maoists. 
However, the consistent heroic resistance by our forces and the people has transformed 
the debate on Salwa Judum at AI level in a qualitative manner with a significant section of 
the people questioning the unjustness of the state-sponsored campaign and 
understanding the justness of our counter-offensive. A polarization of forces at all India 
level is also taking place. We have to utilize the situation and exploit the contradictions 
among the enemies to isolate the main enemy. We must strive to rally our friendly forces 
to intensify our resistance.  

iii.  We have to take the utmost caution to ensure that common people do not become 

victims and innocent lives are not lost in the course of our counteroffensive against the 
enemy. Education should be given to the party cadres that all precautions should be 
taken to ensure that Pakhanjur-type of incidents do not recur. We must make serious 
effort to win over or neutralize the people in the neighboring areas who are being 
organized against us by the ruling classes. 

iv.  We have to concentrate on isolating the enemy further at CG level and at all India too. 

v. 

Further blows should be given on main enemy and its armed forces. All possible means 
should be explored to carry out this task. Resistance in CGSC should be developed. 
The PB is appreciating the formation of 3rd Coy and Koya Bhumkal Sena to resist the SJ 
offensive campaign and as part of strengthening the people’s Army. The PB is further 
suggesting to the DKSZC and the CCMs concerned to further consolidate and strengthen 

 

4 

 

the PLGA, defend and expand the RPCs, resist and defeat the ever-intensifying state 
armed offensive.  
(a) A fresh booklet updating the earlier one should be brought out. Our resistance should 
also be focused in the booklet. 

vi. 

(c) June 14-15 two days Chakka Jam programme will be taken to counter the "Smash all 
Campaign" of the enemy in Bastar. All the state committees should be instructed to 
initiate Rail and Road blockade by mobilizing masses, burning the enemy infrastructure, 
blocking the roads by felling trees, putting of banners, posters and all other possible 
ways. A caution should be given to all not to blast the rail tracks on this occasion. Mass 
mobilization for road and rail Jam Programmes can be taken in nights particularly in 
repression areas. SuCoMO will release leaflet, posters by the end of April. 

(d) We must be selective in hitting the targets and should ensure that innocent civilians 
do not become victims; 

(e) 25 years Souvenir of the DK will be published. 

(f) A website should be opened for propaganda on behalf of the committee which will be 
formed. Propaganda material should be sent to fraternal parties and individuals abroad. 

(g) Mass collections for money should be made at all levels. 

(viii) International teams for Fact Finding Committees and Medical assistance should be 
called as early as possible. 

Medicine will be collected in all centres and money for this purpose. 

*****************  

 
 
 

 

5 

