COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

DANDAKARANYA SPECIAL ZONAL MILITARY COMMISSION 

Press Release 

                                                                               November 23, 2010 
 

LET US INTENSIFY PEOPLE’S WAR WITH THE AIM 

TO DEFEAT OPERATION GREEN HUNT! 

LET US WAGE STRUGGLES UNITEDLY RAISING THE SLOGAN 'FULL RIGHTS TO PEOPLE 

OVER JAL-JUNGLE-ZAMEEN’, 

AGAINST CORPORATE PLUNDER OF NATURAL RESOURCES! 

LET US CELEBRATE 10TH ANNIVERSARY OF PLGA 

WITH REVOLUTIONARY ENTHUSIASM FROM DECEMBER 2! 

Dear comrades and friends, 

Fulfilling the cherished dreams of Comrades Charu Mazumdar and Kanhai Chatterji, the fore-founders of our 
Party - Communist Party of India (Maoist), on the day 2nd December 2000, the first anniversary of the martyrdom 
of  comrades  Shyam,  Mahesh  and  Murali,  for  the  first  time  in  our  country  an  Army,  the  Army  of  downtrodden 
people,  came  into  existence.  The  name  of  this  army  is  People’s  Liberation  Guerilla  Army  (PLGA)  which  fights 
under the leadership of CPI (Maoist). Since ages in our country, various communities and sections of people fought 
many a rebellions, against colonialists first and after 1947, against feudal and comprador bourgeoisie ruling classes. 
Thousands  of  brave  fighters  laid  down  their  lives.  This  People’s  Army  of  ours  took  birth  in  the  process  of 
continuation of the legacy of all those struggles. Now it’s the 10th anniversary of this Army. 

In Dandakaranya, the revolutionary movement in the  leadership of our Party  has also completed 30 years by 
this  year.  Prior  to  the  formation  of  PLGA,  guerilla  squads  and  organizers  used  to  fulfill  both  organizational  and 
military  tasks  here.  After  the  formation  of  PLGA,  many  a  commissions,  commands  and  guerilla  formations  have 
been  formed.  By  developing  the  Revolutionary  People’s  War  in  a  systematic  way  and  by  taking  up  numerous 
tactical counter-offensive campaigns, many suppressive campaigns of the enemy were beaten back. After 2000, in 
the  pace  with  which  the  Maoist  People’s  war  in  Dandakaranya  advanced  and  in  the  development  of  the  People’s 
Political Power in the form of Janatana Sarkar, the PLGA’s role was crucial. 

It’s the Army of those people, who despite of producing entire wealth  from the food grains to all other things 
with  their  sweat  and  blood,  won’t  get  bread,  proper  clothing  and  shelter  to  live.  When  this  Army  is  going  to 
celebrate  its  10th  anniversary,  certainly,  it  would  be  the  moment  of  great  pleasure  for  the  toiling  people  and  their 
well-wishers who consist 90% of our population. What’s the reasonability of this Army of workers  and peasants? 
To  find  answer  for  this  question,  one  needs  to  look  into  the  history  of  at  least  past  63  years.  Our  beloved 
motherland  India  was  subjected  to  ruthless  plunder  during  the  British  rule  for  nearly  200  years,  which  is  now 
masked with an absurd and fake democracy  for the past 63 years.  In the  name of independence, as Bhagat Singh 
had warned us long ago, power  was  transferred from the hands of British  exploiters to those of our own country. 
Congress  party,  which  represents  the  comprador  bourgeoisies  like  Tatas  and  Birlas,  and  feudal  classes,  in 
collaboration  with  imperialism,  came  to  the  power.  No  change  brought  in  exploitation,  oppression,  atrocities  and 
injustice.  Only  the  form  was  changed.  The  direct  rule  of  imperialism  ended,  but  indirect  rule,  exploitation  and 
control  reached  to  high  levels.  In  politics,  economy,  social  life,  agriculture,  culture  and  Jal-Jungle-Zameen,  in 
every aspect of our country the role of imperialism increased. The landlord and comprador bourgeois rulers of our 
country,  dancing  to  the  tunes  of  imperialism,  pushed  the  vast  majority  of  the  population  into  the  sea  of  endless 
problems  like  poverty,  destitution,  hunger,  malnutrition,  disease,  unemployment,  price  rise,  discrimination, 
corruption, oppression, so on. During the past 63 years, these rulers, who used to boast the ‘development’ with high 
figures,  are  only  responsible  for  the  situation  of  77%  population  forced  to  live  with  the  minimal  earning  of  20 
rupees  per  day.  On  the  other  hand  the  assets  of  100  top  billionaires  like  Tatas,  Jindals,  Essars,  Ambanis,  have 
accumulated so much wealth which is equivalent to the 25% of the GDP. In the name of development, big dams, 
mines, big industries and sanctuaries displaced more than 40 million people from their habitats. More than 40% of 
such  people  are  adivasis  who  constitute  only  8  percent  of  the  total  population.  Thus,  the  brunt  of  the  so-called 
‘development’  is  being  faced  by  adivasis,  dalits  and  other  poor  sections.  The  condition  of  the  working  class  in 
urban areas is worse. They are forced to work in 18th century-like-conditions today. Toiling for 10 to 16 hours per 

day is becoming more  and more  common now. Minimum wages act is being  kept only  in the papers. Because of 
continuous  attacks  of  Hindu  fascists’  on  Muslims  and  Christians,  latter  are  forced  to  live  with  insecurity.  In 
Kashmir and North-East regions, armed forces of the Indian expansionist rulers have been suppressing the people 
in most inhuman ways. 

Where  ever  a  protest  is  registered  to  this  situation  or  whenever  a  voice  of  opposition  is  raised,  state  always 
countered with its brute force of bullets and guns. Entire repressive tools of the state, i.e. police, paramilitary and 
army dealt this opposition with violence, terror and barbarity. In this backdrop, the famous Maoist saying – ‘people 
have nothing without a people’s army’, converted into reality, not only in words but in practice too. In the process 
of  continuation  of  the  New  Democratic  Revolution  of  India  which  was  initiated  with  the  First  Struggle  of 
Independence  in  1857,  and  particularly  the  ongoing  Agrarian  Revolutionary  Guerilla  War  which  was  initiated 
along with the Great Naxalbari Armed Peasant Uprising, this People’s Army  – People’s Liberation Guerilla Army 
was  formed  which  is  now  celebrating  its  10  years.  Smashing  feudalism,  comprador  bureaucratic  bourgeoisie  and 
imperialism; and establishing the rule of the  United Front which consists of worker-peasant unity as its basis and 
small and middle bourgeoisie as its allied forces, is the political aim of this People’s Army. 

Now, let us have a glance at the achievements of the Dandakaranya people with the help of this Army – 

1.  In  village  and  area  levels,  the  power  of  the  exploiting  classes  has  been  smashed  and  the  People’s  Power  has 
been established. Organs of the Janatana Sarkar, though in primary level, are working taking initiative with the 
aim of achieving all-round development of the people. 

2.  Over three lakh acres of land has been confiscated from the government forest department and landlord classes. 

Thus there is no landless peasant in the areas of struggle, here in Dandakaranya. 

3.  All  kinds  of  atrocities,  exploitation  and  sexual  exploitation  of  women  by  police,  forest  department,  revenue 
department,  mining  maphiya,  timber  smugglers,  usurers,  tendu  leaves  contractors,  paper  mills  management 
have been stopped. 

4.  The  attempts  of  plundering  the  huge  natural  wealth  of  Dandakaranya  by  both  ‘indigenous’  and  foreign 
corporate  companies  like  Tatas,  Essars,  Jindals,  Mittals,  Texas  Power  Generation,  Vedanta  etc.  have  been 
thwarted. 

5.  The  bogus  policies  of  the  government  under  the  garb  of  ‘development’  which  would  have  been  displaced 
adivasis  in  big  numbers  were  opposed  and  resisted.  Hence  the  mining  maphiya  has  been  forced  to  flee  from 
various places from Pallamad to Surjagarh. 

6.  The  suppressive  and  rapist  police  and  paramilitary  forces  that  were  deployed  to  ensure  the  exploitation  of 
people and plunder of resources were wiped out in big numbers. Over 575 modern weapons were seized from 
them by the people and people’s forces to arm themselves. Murkinar, Urpalmetta, Ranibodili, Korkotti, Laheri, 
Kongera, and particularly the historic Tadimetla ambush, all these attacks show the development process of the 
guerilla  war.  Many  a  brave  daughters  and  sons  of  the  people  attained  an  important  place  in  the  history  with 
their martyrdom. 

7.  In  2005,  with  directives  of  the  central  government,  BJP  government  of  Chhattisgarh  had  launched  a  brutal 
counter-revolutionary  campaign  with  the  name  of  Salwa  Judum.  During  that  campaign  police,  paramilitary 
forces  and  SPOs  had  killed  more  than  one  thousand  adivasis  and  raped  hundreds  of  women.  More  than  600 
villages  were  burnt  down  and  thousands  of  people  were  forced  to  live  in  so-called  ‘relief’  camps.  In  spite  of 
this,  entire  people  stood  straight  and  firmly.  Raising  the  flag  of  resistance  everywhere,  the  people  of  Bastar 
defeated Salwa Judum in the leadership of this Army and thus added a new chapter in the annals of history. 

But the challenges are there… 

With  the  aim  of  wiping  out  the  Maoist  movement,  which  has  become  a  big  hindrance  in  the  road  of 
indiscriminate  corporate  plunder  of  natural  wealth,  with  the  guidance  of  imperialists,  exploitative  ruling  classes 
have launched an inhuman, massive and countrywide onslaught in the name of Operation Green Hunt, which is, in 
fact,  ‘war  against  the  people’.  This  must  be  fight  back.  For  this,  PLGA  should  become  strong  in  all  aspects. 
Refuting all illusionary and fake developmental schemes firmly, People’s Economy has to be developed basing on 
the  principle  of  ‘self-reliance’.  To  defend  this  and  to  ensure  its  smooth  conduct,  youth  should  join  PLGA  in  big 
numbers.  Big  and  foreign  corporate  companies  are  itching  to  plunder  the  mineral  and  other  natural  wealth  of 
Dandakaranya. This  would lead to  the displacement of entire local populace.  In the  struggle of resistance  to this, 
PLGA should lead from the front so as to protect the existence of the people. 

On  the  occasion  of  10th  anniversary  of  PLGA,  we  appeal  to  all  democratic  intellectuals,  writers,  journalists, 
mediapersons, students, youth, teachers, workers and peasants to stand firmly in support of the just struggle of the 
people of Dandakaranya and to oppose the fascist onslaught of exploiters – Operation Green Hunt. 

PLGA 10th anniversary celebrations would start from 2nd December and continue till the end of the month. During 
this  period,  revolutionary  propaganda,  processions,  meetings,  rallies  would  be  conducted  in  every  village  and 
everywhere. We also want to make one point clear that there would be no bandh or shutdown on this occasion. We 
are in no way responsible for the rumors that there is going to be a shutdown for three weeks. 

 

 

 
 
 

(Sudhakar)  
In charge 
 
DKSZ Military Commission 
CPI (Maoist) 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
    
   
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

     
 
      (Gudsa Usendi) 
 
 
         Spokesperson 
            DKSZ Committee 
 
          CPI (Maoist) 

(This was translated from Hindi Original) 

