COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL MILITARY COMMISION 

Press Release

 

November 30, 2012 

Oppose the brutal offensives of the Indian Ruling Classes! 

Intensify People’s War & Defeat  

the ‘Operation Green Hunt’ – ‘War on People’! 

Oppose and fight back the deployment of Indian Army 
in Bastar in the guise of establishing training camp for 

suppression of the revolutionary movement! 

Call of the Central Military Commission – CPI (Maoist)  
On the occasion of the PLGA 12th anniversary celebrations 

Dear comrades, beloved people! 

People’s Liberation Guerilla Army (PLGA) was formed on December 2, 2000 for the victory of Indian 
New Democratic Revolution as part of the World Socialist Revolution and as a detachment of the International 
Army of the Proletariat in the path shown by the great revolutionary teachers of the Indian revolution Comrades 
Charu Mazumdar and Kanhai Chatterjee. By December 2, 2012 it would complete 12 years of its formation. The 
Central Military Commission (CMC) is giving a call on this occasion to conduct 12th PLGA anniversary weekly 
celebrations  in all  the  guerilla  zones  and red  resistance  areas and  to expand by  intensifying  guerilla  warfare  to 
defeat through People’s War - ‘Operation Green Hunt’ (OGH) (War on People) carried on by the exploiting ruling 
classes. 

In  the past one  year nearly  hundred beloved daughters and  sons of  the  oppressed  masses and  common 
people  laid  down  their  most  invaluable  lives.  The  leader  of  the  Indian  revolutionary  movement,  General  of 
People’s  War,  our  Politburo  member  and  the  beloved  son  of  the  oppressed  masses  –  Comrade  Mallojual 
Koteswarlu  alias  Kishenji  lost  his  life  in  a  fake  encounter  in  the  conspiracy  of  the  Central  and  Bengal  state 
governments  and  the  central  intelligence  agencies  including  the  Bengal  SIB.  Dandakaranya  Special  Zone 
Committee  member  Comrade  Harak  (Srikant)  was  martyred  due  to  ill-health,  North  Telangana  Special  Zone 
Committee member Comrade Gundeti Sankar (Seshanna) was martyred due to snake bite and Bihar-Jharkhand-
North Chhattisgarh Special Area leader Comrade Ajay Ganju was martyred in the hands of the enemy in Kunda 
forests  of  Chhatra  district  of  Jharkhand.  Comrade  Siddharth  Burgohain,  leading  team  member  (Regional 
Committee  level)  of  Asom  was  martyred  in  a  fake  encounter  along  with  three  comrades.  In  Dandakaranya 
Comrade  Vijay  (South  Regional  Committee  member)  was  martyred  in  an  accident  and  senior  party  activist 
comrade Swaroopa (Sunita) was martyred due to ill-health. Comrade BSA Satyanarayana, leader of working class 
movements and people’s lawyer, Comrade Goru Madhava Rao, veteran of Srikakulam Struggle and epitome of 
staunch communist commitment, Comrade Penduru Bhim Rao, Adivasi leader breathed their last this year. Nearly 
60 common  people  and  activists  of  mass  organizations and  Revolutionary  People’s  Committees  lost  their  lives 
due to police brutality. 19 unarmed people were killed in cold blood in the Sarkinguda massacre in the Basaguda 
area of Bijapur district in Dandakaranya. Let us pay red homage to each one of these martyrs and vow to fulfill 
their dreams.  

The Indian ruling classes are implementing in a structured manner the counter-revolutionary LIC strategy 
under the guidance of the U.S. imperialists with the aim of wiping out the Indian revolutionary  movement. The 
various tactical counter offensive campaigns and military actions taken up as part of resistance by the PLGA in 
the past one year in various guerilla zones to resist this had a good political impact. A total of 114 police died and 

 

1 

more  than  191  were  injured  in  several  single  actions,  operations  and  ambushes  such  as  –  the  ambush  near 
Gorgonda (Sukma) on the vehicle of Koya Commando commanders Kartam Surya and Kicha Nanda, the massive 
brave ambush conducted on the convoy of CRPF and CoBRA forces near Pusutola (Gadchiroli), Irpugutta ambush 
(Kanker),  Kirandul  night  ambush  (Dantewada),  the  ambush  on  butcher  Mahendra  Karma,  the  leader  of  Salwa 
Judum  (Dantewada)  –  all  in  Dandakaranya;  the  valiant  ambush  on  mine-proof  vehicle  near  Bargarh  (Garhwa), 
Kharanji Tungi ambush (Latehar), the brave attack on the enemy helicopter in Labhar forest area (Latehar), the 
ambush on NH-2 (Latehar), the attack on the escort vehicle in Giridih town & release of eight Maoist prisoners  – 
all  in  Jharkhand;  the  battles  waged  by  PLGA  on  the  CRPF  and  CoBRA  forces  on  the  same  day  in  Baltor  and 
Dumaria  forests  in  Gaya  district  of  Bihar,  the  ambush  on  mine-proof  vehicle  near  Sakarbandha;  the  Janniguda 
(Dyke 3) ambush (Chitrakonda-Balimela road), the single action in Sileru – in AOB; the Badarpanga ambush in 
Odisha  (Kandhamal),  the night ambush  in North Telangana and the  Gaoltor ambush in West Bengal  (Lalgarh). 
PLGA seized 29 weapons from them. Due to the guerilla actions of the PLGA the ruling classes were forced to 
deploy more forces in our areas and to decentralize forces in vast areas. As a result, PLGA forces were successful 
in fighting back the enemy offensive.  

From mid-2011 the ruling classes increased their offensives on the movement areas. These operations are 
being carried out with the aim of damaging our movement areas and damaging our coordination by cutting up our 
areas  into  parts.  Massacres  like  the  one  at  Sarkinguda  on  the  people  and  murders  of  activists  are  increasing. 
Reactionary gangs like Salwa Judum, Nagrik Suraksha Samity, TPC, SPM, Harmad Bahini, Bhairav Sena, Santi 
Committee  and  Santi  Sangam,  secret  vigilante  gangs,  police,  paramilitary  and  commando  forces  are  together 
resorting to such massacres. The National Counter-Terrorism Center (NCTC) to be newly formed by the central 
government to fight back Maoists and ‘terrorists’ would turn out to be the ‘biggest threat even to the namesake 
sovereignty, peace, security, freedom, democracy and right to live of the people’.  

The  Indian  government  is  deploying  Army  to  wipe  out  the  revolutionary  movement.  They  are 
constructing all the infra structure needed for the offensives to be conducted by the Army and the Air Force. Air 
Bases are being built in several areas in Chhattisgarh (CG), Vidarbha, Andhra Pradesh (AP), Bihar, Jharkhand and 
Odisha for conducting Air Force attacks in support of the Army offensives. There are building 400 fortified police 
stations in the four tri-junctions – AP-CG-Maharashtra; AP-CG-Odisha; CG-Jharkhand-Odisha and Odisha-West 
Bengal-Jharkhand  and  strengthening  carpet  security.  They  are  giving  training,  weapons  and  equipment  to  their 
forces to fight back any kind of attacks by our PLGA forces. They are speeding up their preparations for drone 
(UAV) attacks and are concentrating on annihilating the leadership in the field. The central government decided to 
build  2200  communication  towers  in  areas  of  Naxalite  influence.  With  the  aim  of  keeping  surveillance  on  the 
movements of guerillas in thick forests they launched  Resat-1 satellite in end April 2012. They are intensifying 
reforms with the aim of splitting the revolutionary camp and increasing the social base of the exploiting classes. 
They  are  economically  benefiting  a section  of  people amongst  the  political  leaders,  officials, contractors,  tribal 
elders/bad gentry, rich and middle peasants and are utilizing them as their social base. They are waging incessant 
psychological  warfare  by  propagating  on  one  hand  that  socialism-communism  are  outdated  and  that  they  can 
never emerge victorious and on the other hand are urging those inside revolutionary camp to join the police or as 
informers  by  deserting  the  revolutionary  movement  as  they  would  be  wiping  it  within  5-10  years  and  as  they 
could never win. They are encouraging liquidators like Savyasachi Panda and trying to fizzle out the movement.  

Resorting to heinous, cruel and inhuman offensives on the revolutionaries and the oppressed masses to 
hand  over  billions  of  dollars  worth  riches  to  the  imperialist  corporations,  loot  of  resources  and  wiping  out  the 
alternative  people’s  political  power  that  is  budding  under  the  leadership  of  the  Maoist  party  is  the  aim  of  the 
Indian ruling classes and their imperialist masters. CMC is calling upon the oppressed masses and all well-wishers 
of  the  people  to  defeat  the  offensive  of  the  Indian  State  by  intensifying  the  People’s  War  and  democratic  and 
political agitations all over the country.  

Dear Comrades, beloved people! 

The  financial  crisis  of  world  capitalism  is  deepening  and  expanding  further.  The  imperialists  are 
contending  with  each  to  loot  all  kinds  of  sources  (human,  material)  in  the  backward  countries  apart  from 
increasing  exploitation  on  the  workers  and  middle  classes  in  their  countries  in  order  to  overcome  this  crisis. 
Attacks  on  Sikhs,  East  Asians,  South  Asians,  Muslims  and  Arabs  increased  a  lot  as  racism  is  increasing 
outrageously  in  the  imperialist  countries.  Workers,  youth,  women  and  middle  classes  are  agitating  in  several 
European  countries  against  these  neo-liberal  economic  policies.  Proletarian  parties  and  progressive  people’s 
organizations  are  gaining  strength  again.  Anti-imperialist  struggles  are  intensifying  in  various  forms  in  all  the 
backward countries. As pro-U.S. rulers had again come to power after the Arab Spring in another guise, people 
are inevitably realizing the need to choose the revolutionary path. Resistance struggles of oppressed nationalities 
are continuing in several countries. Muslim people rose like a storm all over the world against the U.S. film that 
insulted  Islam.  Advancement  of  People’s  Wars  in  Philippines  and  India,  revolutionary  forces  separating 

 

2 

themselves from the UCPN (M) in Nepal by opposing its revisionist line, Maoist forces being active in countries 
such  as  Turkey,  Peru  and  Bangladesh  etc,  Maoist  organizations  and  anti-imperialist  organizations  in  several 
European countries taking up several programs in solidarity to the ongoing People’s War in our country  - are all 
favorable phenomena.  

All  the  fundamental  contradictions  in  our  country  are  intensifying  due  to  the  neo-liberal  economic 
policies implemented by the governments. The rich are becoming super rich while the poor are turning paupers. 
77 percent of the country’s population is not even in a position to spend 20 rupees a day and suffering from utter 
poverty. Scams that came to light recently exposed the  likes of Rahul Gandhi, Robert Vadhra, central ministers 
Sarad  Pawar,  Salman  Khurshid  and  BJP  president  Nitin  Gadkari  thoroughly.  These  economic  disparities  and 
corruption are leading to social unrest and are turning into a source for revolution. Adivasis and other peasantry 
are  fighting  for  Jal-Jungle-Zameen  and  against  displacement.  Peasantry  is  fighting  against  cut  in  agrarian 
subsidies,  for  fair  prices, against adulteration in  fertilizers and pesticides,  for electricity  and  for preservation of 
seeds.  People  are  fighting  against  price  rises,  unemployment,  famine  and  starvation  deaths.  Retail  traders  are 
fighting  against  foreign  direct  investments.  Indian  Airlines-Air  India  pilots,  bank  and  insurance  employees, 
workers and students are fighting against privatization in their sectors. Thousands of workers who were on roads 
due  to  lock  out  of  Maruti  Suzuki  in  Gurgaon waged  militant struggles.  Artisans,  fishing  communities,  women, 
Dalits, Adivasis – all sections of people are fighting against loss of livelihood and against the exploitation of land 
lords,  comprador  bureaucratic  bourgeoisie  (CBB)  and  imperialists.  In  spite  of  severe  repression  nationality 
struggles of the Kashmir and North East for national liberation and independence are rising repeatedly. CMC is 
calling upon the Indian oppressed masses, patriotic and democratic forces to intensify the People’s War which is 
decisive  and  democratic  and  political  agitations  with  the  slogan  ‘Let  us  seize  political  power  through  People’s 
War’.  

The  reason  behind  the  utter  poverty,  unemployment,  illiteracy  and  malaises  is  the  exploitation  and 
oppression of Indian big land lords and CBB who are both lackeys of the imperialists. PLGA is fighting with the 
political aim of establishing a new democratic society where such exploitation and oppression end and a socialist 
system where there are no economic and social inequalities. We are carrying on armed struggle in the inevitable 
conditions  where  this  political  aim  cannot  be  achieved  through  peaceful  means  or  in  the  path  of  bourgeois 
parliamentary elections. Several struggles failed in achieving this aim using the above methods during the British 
colonial rule and in the post-colonial days. Our struggle is neither extremism nor terrorism. This is solely the foul 
propaganda of the central and state governments. They are propagating that our People’s War is extremism and 
terrorism with the aim of gaining legitimacy for their fascist offensive on the revolutionary movement. All these 
exploiters who are mortgaging our country to the imperialists and resorting to scams worth billions of rupees are 
all betrayers of our country. We are calling upon the people to overthrow these exploiting classes and betrayers of 
the country and participate in the People’s War ongoing for seizure of political power of the oppressed masses and 
join the PLGA that is waging this People’s War. Anna Hazare and Arvind Kejriwal who are claiming that they 
would end corruption are all apologists of the exploiting system in our country. They would be able to bring only 
some  namesake  reforms  like  the  Lokpal.  Believing  them  would  be  deceitful.  We  are  calling  upon  workers, 
peasants,  students,  intellectuals,  doctors,  lawyers,  journalists,  artisans,  Dalits,  Adivasis,  women,  various 
minorities, various nationalities, patriots and democrats to participate in the People’s War ongoing for sovereign, 
independent,  democratic  India  based on  freedom,  independence and equality  and  join  the PLGA  that is  leading 
this People’s War.  

Conduct meetings, rallies, demonstrations on a huge scale in each and every village, nook and corner to 

propagate the political aim of the People’s War waged by the PLGA and to defeat the Operation Green Hunt! 

Note : On this occasion we would not observe 'Bandh'. Using this call police creating that type of 'Bandh' 

atmosphere. Don't believe it.  

 

(Deoji) 

For Central Military Commission  

CPI (Maoist) 

 

3 

