 

Communist Party of India (Maoist) 

Central Committee 

Central Military Commission 

 

 

 

Press Release: July 1, 2008 

 
 

Hail the historic attack by the PLGA warriors in Andhra-Orissa  

Border on the anti-people blood-thirsty Greyhound forces  

that had unleashed a reign of terror in Andhra Pradesh! 

 

Our PLGA and revolutionary masses will punish the Congress leaders 

and the police officials if they indulge in attacks on innocent  

people and revolutionary sympathizers in the name of retaliation!! 

 
 
 
June  29,  2008  shall  remain  a  historic  red-letter  day  in  the  annals  of  the  revolutionary  movement  of 
Andhra Pradesh and India as a whole. It marks a leap in the growing armed resistance of the masses and 
tactical counter-offensives of the People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army. The daring day-light attack on two 
platoons  of  anti-Naxal  specially-trained  Greyhounds  by  a  Company  of  our  PLGA  near  Alempaka  on 
Sileru river in Andhra-Orissa border wiping out three dozen commandos fulfills the long-cherished desire 
of the revolutionary people all over the country, particularly the people of Andhra Pradesh, to deal severe 
blows  on  this  fascist,  terrorist,  cunning  force  that  had  transformed  the  state  into  a  veritable  hell  for  the 
vast oppressed masses. The CC and CMC of CPI(Maoist) send their revolutionary greetings to the heroic 
fighters of PLGA who had carried out this daring day-light lightning counter-offensive and calls upon the 
PLGA  forces  all  over  the  country  to  emulate  the  heroism,  meticulous  planning  and  daring  execution 
displayed by our forces in this counter-offensive that will remain a glorious example to all fighters in our 
ever-advancing people’s war. 
 
  YSReddy  and  Janareddy—the  two  big  terrorist  bandits  who  are  running  a  virtual  police  raj  in  AP 
since  end  of  2004  after  they  had  conspiratorially  broke  off  the  talks—have  been  crying  hoarse  that 
violence  has  no  place  in  democracy.  Like  the  devil  himself  citing  scriptures!  These  hypocrites  and 
imperialist  stooges  had  overseen  the  cold-blooded  murder  of  several  hundred  Maoist  revolutionaries, 
sympathizers and people at large. And today they are citing scriptures like the devil. And the Greyhounds, 
along with its twin, the notorious, lawless and sadistic APSIB, had committed indescribable atrocities and 
cold-blooded massacres of the revolutionaries and their well-wishers ever since these were set up during 
the 1980s. The catalogue of crimes committed by these lawless goons on the people and revolutionaries in 
the past two decades sends shivers down one’s spine and brings into one’s memory the brutalities of the 
Nazis  under Hitler. The PLGA, on behalf of the  vast majority of the people whom it  represents,  carried 
out  this  retaliatory  action  on  this  bunch  of  thugs  in  accordance  with  its  pledge  to  the  people  of  Andhra 
Pradesh and the country as a whole. 
 

  After  suffering  the  most  serious  loss  to  its  mercenary  elite  force  YS-Jana  clique  along  with  the  top 
police brass have been crying for revenge and have openly declared that they will draw blood. Janareddy, 
who  is  supposed  to  oversee  law  &  order  had  himself  declared  like  a  street  ruffian  that  his  government 
would kill ten times the number suffered by the Greyhounds. We warn the fascist YS-Jana regime and the 
police officials that if they indulge in killing the innocent people and revolutionary sympathizers they will 
have  to pay  a  heavy price.  All Congress leaders will be held responsible and punished in  due course of 
time if the YSR police raj unleashes attacks on people. 
 
  Our  Party  and  PLGA  will  never  indulge  in  violence  on  the  people  and  we  resort  to  revolutionary 
counterviolence  only  to  stop  the  brutal  state  terrorist  violence  on  the  struggling  masses  and  the 
revolutionaries  who  lead  them.  Some  are  mistakenly  interpreting  our  attacks  against  the  greyhounds, 
police  forces  and  informers  as  a  deviation  from  the  goal  of  fighting  for  people’s  demands.  Our 
revolutionary violence is only meant to advance the struggle of the people for achieving their basic socio-
economic demands, to liberate  them from all types of exploitation and to lead a life of dignity and self-
respect. And undemocratic fascist forces like the APSIB and Greyhounds have become the biggest hurdle 
to the people’s struggles  and have become cold-blooded murderers. They had murdered great  leaders of 
the Indian revolution like comrades Shyam, Mahesh, Murali, Vadkapur Chandramouli, Sande Rajamouli, 
Madhav, Matta Ravi Kumar, Pamula Venkatesh, Raghavulu and uncountable comrades. Of late they have 
unleashed  brutal  terror  on  the  adivasis  of  Andhra-Orissa  border  region,  raped  11  adivasi  women  in 
Vakapalli  and murdered  comrades Komma, Sudheer, Ranadheer, Santosh, Jhansi  and others.  They have 
been  conducting  joint  operations  with  their  counterparts  in  Orissa  and  Chattisgarh  and  terrorizing  the 
adivasis in all the three states. Hence we appeal to all sections of the people to understand the justness of 
our  revolutionary  counter-violence  and  call  upon  them  to  extend  support  to  the  selfless  efforts  of  the 
Maoist  revolutionaries.  We  warn  the  Greyhounds  that  if  they  venture  into  neighbouring  Orissa  and 
Chattisgarh again to conduct joint terror campaigns the same fate awaits them. Our PLGA forces too will 
carry out joint counter-campaigns and deal effective blows to these khaki-clad terrorists. 
 
 
                           Azad,                                                                       Basavaraj, 
                Central Committee,                                   Spokesperson, Central Military Commission 
                     CPI(Maoist).                                                                 CPI(Maoist). 
 
 
 

[From: CPI(Maoist) Information Bulletin, #3, July 20, 2008.] 

 

