CPI (Maoist) Spokesperson Comrade Abhay Interview  

on General Elections – 2014 

Some media persons asked for an interview with Comrade Abhay, Spokes Person of CPI (Maoist) on 
some recent phenomena concerning our movement and our country. We are enclosing here the written answers 
of Comrade Abhay that were also given keeping in view the announcement of the schedule of 16th Loksabha 
elections by the Election Commission. This interview was released to the media on 24-03-2014. 

Q: The Election Commission has announced the schedule for the 16th Loksabha elections and doing all 
preparations on  war  footing  to  conduct  these  elections  and  every  electoral  party  and  alliance  is  completely 
engaged in deciding on whom to send into the ring. What is your party’s stand on various parties and alliances 
contesting in these elections? Do you welcome the NOTA option?  

A:  As  five  years  have  been  completed  since  the  15th  Loksabha  has  been  formed,  these  elections  are 
being conducted as a routine exercise to form the 16th Loksabha. The schedule for these elections is the longest 
in the parliamentary history of India. This is the first time that the general elections are being conducted in nine 
phases too. These general elections are also seeing the largest deployment of polling personnel and the largest 
deployment of state forces to conduct ‘free and fair’ elections. 

In the history of the Indian Parliament the clashes between the various parties on various issues in the 
15th Loksabha broke the previous records. Though ostensibly they clashed repeatedly on various issues, in fact, 
a  large  number  of  bills  were  passed  in  the  least  amount  of  time,  without  any  discussion  and  without  an 
opportunity for the people to ponder on them and with the collusion of the ruling and the opposition parties. The 
UPA never had a majority in the parliament and it did not even get the majority share of votes during previous 
elections. The bills passed in the 15th Loksabha would have a long lasting grave effect on the society, economy 
and  polity  of  our  country.  The  16th  Loksabha  would  be  formed  by  continuing  the  legacy  of  the  previous 
Loksabha. The previous policies would be implemented to serve the interests of the imperialists and the Indian 
ruling classes subservient to them. Those who can hoodwink the people about this would be sitting in the next 
parliament on the excuse of getting the ‘mandate’ of the people. The UPA led by the Congress and the NDA led 
by the BJP, the Third Front and the newly formed AAP have entered the elections arena to capture power by 
gaining a majority in the 16th Loksabha.  

Our party’s political assessment regarding these alliances and the parties is as follows.  
The  Congress  that  was  in  power  continuously  for  ten  years  followed  pro-imperialist,  pro-comprador 
bureaucratic  bourgeoisie  (CBB)  and  pro  landlord  policies  and  was  responsible  for  the  agonizing  living 
conditions  of  the  people,  the  disastrous  economy  of  our  country,  the  massacres  of  thousands  of  activists  of 
various democratic and revolutionary movements and people and for persecution of religious minorities in the 
name of ‘terrorists.’ It won the dubious distinction of being the originator of the biggest and highest number of 
corruption scams in the parliamentary history of our country. As a result it won the severe hatred of the people. 
To escape this and hoodwink the people the Congress is bringing to the fore its main slogan of ‘Bharat Nirman’ 
pointing  towards  the  ‘development’  it  achieved  in  its  ten-year  rule  and  towards  the  anti-corruption,  land 
acquisition, food security and Nirbhaya acts etc and the welfare schemes that it formulated. The Congress has 
been in power at the centre and in most of the states for the maximum number of years after 1947. By being in 
power for such a long period of time it was mainly responsible for the anti-people policies that were formulated 
and  implemented  in  this period.  The  massacres  of  religious  minorities,  particularly  the  massacre  of  Sikhs  in 
1984 and the highest number of pogroms and persecutions of the religious minorities happened under Congress 
rule. Though Sangh Parivar was directly responsible for the destruction of Babri Masjid, it was the Congress 
that  was  behind  the  high  drama  from  the  centre.  It  was  mainly  responsible  for  suppressing  the  just  national 
liberation struggles of the Kashmir and North East by massacring tens of thousand of youth through its military 
brute force. It implemented all these anti-people policies by taking the help of other parliamentary parties when 
in  power  and  also  by  colluding  with  other  ruling  alliances  when  not  in  power.  Who  else  would  be  mainly 
responsible than the Congress for the insufferable conditions of the workers, peasants, petty bourgeois sections, 
oppressed nationalities, Dalits, Adivasis, religious minorities, women and the small and medium capitalists in 
our country? The people are not so gullible as to believe its ‘Bharat Nirman’, its so-called welfare schemes and 
its deceptive anti-corruption pose. 

BJP’s main attack is on the corrupt rule of the Congress. It is clear that it does not have any basically 
different policies than Congress on any of the main issues confronting the people and the country and has the 
same corrupt, treacherous and dictatorial policies in any sphere. With the directive of the RSS, BJP announced 

the  Hindu  bigot  and  mass  murderer  Narendra  Modi  as  its prime  ministerial  candidate.  It  is  hiding  its Hindu 
chauvinist agenda behind the ‘Gujarat Vikas’ model and is concentrating its entire machinery around Modi to 
capture power at the centre one more time. ‘Gujarat Vikas’ model means terrorizing the Muslim and Christian 
minorities,  seizing  their  properties,  chasing  them  away  from  their  abodes  or  making  them  servile  through 
massacres of Muslim religious minorities and subjecting them to innumerable atrocities along with atrocities on 
Christian religious minorities; making the entire state as the hub for the investments of MNCs, big bourgeoisie 
and opening doors to their endless exploitation and oppression. The Sangh Parivar and the BJP are aiming to 
establish this Hitlerite model in the guise of ‘Vikas’ in the entire country by coming to power in these elections. 
Congress came to power the previous two terms and won the severe wrath of the people. So the ruling classes 
and the US imperialists are openly supporting the candidature of Modi for the PM post as he would implement 
their agenda ruthlessly. Accordingly the corporate media is propagating Modi on a huge scale. Its attempt to 
win in the Delhi elections by bringing a religious divide through religious riots in Muzaffarnagar indicates only 
its  fascist  face.  Rajnath  Singh’s  statement  a  few  days  before  the  election  dates  were  announced  that  he  was 
apologizing  to  the  Muslims  ‘if  at  any  place  any  wrong  was  done  to  them’  is  nothing but  a  ploy  to  hide  the 
massacre  of  Muslims  carried  on  by  Modi  in  Gujarat  and  gain  their  votes.  But  how  would  the  Muslim  and 
Christian  religious  minorities  forget  the  massacres,  discrimination,  suppression  and  chauvinism  that  they 
suffered in the hands of the Sangh Parivar right from 1947 to the recent Muzaffarnagar killings? The pogrom 
and persecution of religious minorities in Gujarat under Modi met with unprecedented opposition and protest 
not only in Gujarat but all over our country.  Even if they come to power, the Hindu fascists will have to face 
the countrywide active resistance of the Muslim and Christian minorities, revolutionary and democratic forces. 
This would be the foremost task of these forces then.  

The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) entered the electoral arena with the aim of benefiting from submerging 
the people in illusions about parliamentary democracy one more time. It is trying to catch the attention of the 
people  with  revolutionary  rhetoric  sheltered  in  ideological  eclecticism  consisting  of  Gandhian  ‘Ahimsa’  and 
‘Swaraj’,  ‘Socialist’  politics  of  Jayaprakash  Narain  and  ‘direct  participatory  democracy’  of  the  NGOs.  The 
AAP that was born and brought up with a NGO background and on imperialist and NRI funds and support, is 
not going into the roots of this system and into the basic problems of the people and is resorting to Gandhian 
feats  for  solving  people’s  problems.  It  does  not  have  any  solution  for  the  basic  problems  of  the  oppressed 
classes, people and social sections.  It is serving as a safety valve to divert the erupting people’s anger into 
peaceful and parliamentary solutions and trying to cash in on it. 

Despite Left Front’s humiliating defeat in West Bengal and the failure of its experiments in alliance 
with the Congress in the name of supporting the so-called secular and anti-communal forces and the failure of 
the previous attempts to form a Third Front, the left parties led by CPI (M) are retaining ridiculous hopes of 
winning  and  took  the  main  initiative  for  the  formation  of  the  Third  Front  once  again.  Thus  the  Third  Front 
consisting of eleven parties that came together on the basis of being anti-Congress and anti-BJP came to the 
fore with much fanfare. As expected, it is still immersed in fist fights regarding sharing of seats. The agreement 
between the CPI (M) and the AIADMK in the Third Front became invalid even before the ink had dried on 
alliance signatures due to differences in seat-sharing. The left parties including CPI (M) had not yet recovered 
from the humiliating defeat they had suffered in the West Bengal elections. Parties like the SP, BSP, DMK, 
AIADMK, Biju Janata Dal, Janata Dal (U), Trinamool, AGP, TDP, TRS, YSRCP etc are fearing defeat to join 
either the UPA or the NDA and so have either joined the Third Front or going it alone with so-called slogans of 
social  justice,  emancipation  of  Dalits  and  Bahujans,  regional  development  etc.  The  Third  Front  parties  are 
mostly regional parties but all of them belong to the ruling classes. They had all implemented pro-imperialist, 
pro-ruling class and anti-people policies. Whenever in state power either in alliance with the UPA or the NDA 
or  independently  they  played  a  reactionary  role  in  suppressing  people’s  movements.  Both  the  Third  Front 
parties and those parties contesting on their own are following a ‘wait and see’ policy to join whichever alliance 
comes to power. While the Lok Jansakti Dal joined the NDA as it felt defeat was certain if it remains in UPA, 
the RJD is continuing in the UPA to somehow keep its lantern lit. The politicians belonging to various parties 
who came to the fore overnight with new flags and new agendas after leaving their parties fearing defeat due to 
people’s wrath or because they did not get a seat in their parties are flinging as much mud as possible over each 
other in the fight for seats. They are breaking all the previous records during these elections. They had come to 
power throwing to winds all electoral norms with the sole aim of coming to power and amassing wealth. Once 
in power they violated all their election promises and had exploited and oppressed the people without respite 
and lost the confidence of the people. So now they are resorting to such blatant opportunist methods having lost 
any hope of winning in these elections.  

The actual issues of the people never come up for discussion in the parliament and the assemblies. They 
are  under  the  control  of  the  CBB  and  the  landlords  who  are  subservient  to  imperialists,  particularly  the  US 
 

2

imperialists. Where is the place for genuine democracy in this system where votes could be bought with money, 
liquor,  religious  and  casteist  sentiments  or  rigging?  It  is ridiculous  to  call  this  a  democracy  when  criminals, 
bandits  and  notoriously  corrupt  politicians  win  in  elections.  In  fact,  when  we  look  into  history  we  find  that 
people’s problems have always been solved basically and real transformation of the society was possible only 
through people’s struggles and protracted people’s war (PPW) and not through parliamentary forums. 

As elections are being conducted like a farce each time, the Election Commission of India vowed to 
‘strengthen democracy’ during these elections and is trying to bring in several reforms along with  including 
guidelines according to the Supreme Court order. At an unprecedented scale it involved several persons, right 
from  school  children  to  NGOs  and  celebrities  to  propagate  about  the  inviolability  of  the  vote.  The  SC  had 
issued orders to give the voters the right to ‘reject.’ As a result, the NOTA button was introduced in the EVMs 
for the first time during the assembly elections in five states in 2013. Now during these Loksabha elections this 
is  being  introduced  all  over  the  country.  In  fact,  this  NOTA  option  distracts  the  ‘right  to  recall’  the  elected 
representatives that the people should rightfully possess. If they really intend to give the ‘right to reject’, why 
are they deploying lakhs of state armed forces in the name of conducting ‘free and fair’ elections in areas where 
our  party  had  given  the  call  to  boycott  the  polls  and  carrying  on  attacks,  search  operations,  arrests,  fake 
encounters and massacres? 

Q: Is there any change in your boycott policy during these general elections? How do you justify your 

policy? 

A: There is basically no change in our boycott policy. However, depending on the concrete conditions, 
our tactics may vary to some extent according to the changing political formations at the all-India level and in 
the states, according to our strength and people’s preparedness. Though tactics may vary, the main aim of our 
boycott policy is to expose the pseudo-parliamentary system and increase the consciousness of the people on 
building a real alternative of people’s democracy in its place. 

In  these  general  and  assembly  elections  the  main  focus  of  our  political  exposure  in  the  boycott  call 
would be against the retrogressive, treacherous and fascist Congress and the BJP all over the country. One of 
the main aspects in the exposure of BJP would be exposing the Hindu fascist danger coming to the fore in the 
guise of ‘Gujarat Vikas’ model. Our main ideological exposure would be against the revisionist CPI (M) and 
CPI.  In  the  states,  along  with  the  Congress  and  the  BJP  the  main  focus  of  our  political  exposure  would  be 
against the various regional ruling class parties that have been/are in power like the CPI (M) and Trinamool in 
West  Bengal;  the  Biju  Janata  Dal  in  Odisha;  TDP,  YSRCP  and  TRS  in  Andhra  Pradesh  and  Telangana; 
Samajwadi  Party  and  the  BSP  in  Uttar  Pradesh;  DMK  and  AIADMK  in  Tamil  Nadu  etc.  We  would 
ideologically  and  politically  expose  the  Aam  Aadmi  Party  all  over  country  on  its  futile  Gandhian  program. 
Regarding all other parties, we  would politically expose them locally. As part of our boycott call we would 
mobilize the people to question these parties on their stand and past practice regarding major issues such as 
state repression on our movement and all other democratic movements and deployment of state forces in our 
movement areas; land reforms; treachery and servility to the imperialists in all matters relating to our country’s 
sovereignty; selling our country’s riches to the MNCs; disinvestment and privatization of public sector units; 
Hindu  chauvinism;  education,  health  and  drinking  water;  displacement  and  civil  rights  and  send  them  back. 
Where the state forces use brute force to make the people vote, our PLGA would resist.  

Regarding your second question, firstly our policy towards the bourgeois parliamentary elections is not 
just  boycott.  That  is  just  one  aspect  of  it.  It  has  two  aspects  –  one  is  boycott  of  the  present  bourgeois 
parliamentary elections and another is the call to build a new people’s parliament. There is no change in this 
two-prong policy of ours during the 16th Loksabha polls. 

The reason we are asking the people to boycott these elections is – the present parliament is in fact a 
dictatorship of the CBB and landlords who are subservient to imperialism. The parliamentary democracy is just 
a mask to deceive the people about the true nature of this dictatorship. In our opinion, the so-called democracies 
functioning  in  all  the  capitalist  countries  in  the  present  day  world,  including  the  US,  are  nothing  but  such 
dictatorships  of  the  monopoly  capitalists;  and  in  the  semi-colonial  and  semi-feudal  countries  it  is  the  joint 
dictatorship of the CBB and the landlord classes. So, though 65 years have passed since so-called independence, 
the  overwhelming  majority  of  the  people  are  still  poor  in  our  country.  None  of  their basic  issues  have  been 
solved. None of the parliamentary parties have an independent path for the development of the country. All of 
these parties are saying that they would develop our country through neo-liberal policies and by bringing in 
more FDI into our country. The economy, polity and culture of our country have been restructured according to 
the needs of the world financial capital and formal independence and formal sovereignty have also been sold 
out by UPA, NDA, Left Front and other parliamentary parties to the imperialists. On the other hand, they are 
 

3

blatantly violating all the rights won by countless struggles waged by the people of our country by flouting their 
own laws and several universally acknowledged international laws and statutes. They are depending only on 
their armed forces, sham propaganda and eyewash reforms.  

The nature of the parties and the politicians who are contesting in this elections need not be explained 
in detail by us. We are not alone in making accusations against them. Any citizen who follows the media and 
the accusations they themselves make against each other would know how corrupt, criminal, casteist, jingoist, 
religious  chauvinistic,  comprador  and  culturally  degenerated  they  are  and  how  nepotism  reached  its  peak  in 
these parties. The huge amounts of election expenses of all major all-India and regional parties beg a query as to 
where they are getting such gigantic amounts of funds. How could every candidate for a parliament seat spend 
10 crores of rupees and every candidate for an assembly seat spend 2 crores of rupees on an average? Will an 
aam aadmi who wants to serve the people genuinely be able to spend that much of amount for getting elected? 
Don’t you think it is atrocious that one has to spend so much of money to ‘serve the people?’ How many of 
these candidates are free of corruption and criminal records? How much is the role played by caste, religion, 
region, money and muscle power in candidates getting elected? Is there a single party that is beyond all these? 
Why are the ruling classes trying to satisfy the electorate with Nota button without giving the people the right to 
recall?  Why  are  they  deploying  state  forces  ranging  from  a  few  thousands  to  more  than  one  lakh  for  every 
district and why are they not able to conduct elections without such huge deployments even in areas where there 
are no Maoists?  

In  our  opinion  and  in  the  opinion  of  every  common  citizen  of  our  country,  achieving  genuine  land 
reforms, independent & self-reliant economic development, democracy and sovereignty is the foremost issue 
before us and these four points are a must for solving the basic problems of the ninety percent of our population 
and for the all-round development of our people and our country. The parliamentary parties are quite contrary to 
this and the present pseudo-democracy is exactly suitable for such a rule.  

Hence the second aspect of our call – No to the continuation of this semi-colonial, semi-feudal pseudo-
parliamentary  dictatorial  system,  Yes  to  genuine  parliamentary  system  of  the  People’s  Democratic  Federal 
Republic which serves the people and the country. It would be elected and run by the vast masses of the people 
for their interests.  

There is no remedy, no solution, no shortcut method to resolve the present day basic problems of the 
people and the country. The system has become a great hindrance to their progress. Yes, there is a great solution 
outside this system, i.e., wage PPW by rallying the vast masses led by the vanguard party of the proletariat, the 
CPI  (Maoist)  to  smash  the  rotten  system  and  make  success  the  New  Democratic  Revolution  (NDR)  with 
agrarian revolution as its axis.  

Briefly, our party’s basic program states - India is a semi-colonial semi-feudal country; the targets of our 
revolution are imperialism, the comprador bureaucratic capitalism and feudalism exploiting and oppressing the 
people of our country and are to be overthrown through the NDR to establish a People’s Democratic Federal 
Republic. Contradiction between feudalism and broad masses is the principal contradiction at present. During 
the process of resolving this contradiction through the armed agrarian revolution, which is the axis of the NDR, 
through PPW, the resolution of other contradictions will be facilitated. The semi-colonial semi-feudal character 
of Indian society determines that the Indian revolution would have to pass through two stages. The task of first 
stage is to change the semi –colonial, semi -feudal society into an independent new democratic society through 
the resolution of the two fundamental contradictions of the present Indian society, i.e. the contradiction of the 
Indian  people  with  imperialism  and  the  contradiction  of  the  broad  masses  with  feudalism.  Again,  in  its 
continuity, the task of second stage is to establish the socialist system and continuing the revolution advancing 
towards communism on the world scale. This new democratic state will be the people’s democratic dictatorship 
exercised  by  the  united  front  comprising  the  proletariat,  peasantry,  petty-bourgeoisie  and  the  national 
bourgeoisie class under the leadership of the proletariat based upon the worker-peasant alliance. The state will 
guarantee real democracy for the vast majority of the people while exercising dictatorship over the tiny minority 
of the exploiters. This NDR will bring national independence uprooting the imperialist exploitation, oppression 
and control, and will establish the people’s democracy uprooting the feudal autocracy.  

Workers, peasants and urban poor who form the overwhelming majority of the population in our country 
are living in utter poverty as victims of hunger, disease, inhuman imperialist, feudal exploitation and oppression 
and  they  would  be  liberated  from  all  these  through  NDR.  It  uproots  the  Brahminical  feudal  hierarchical 
inhuman caste system that kept crores of Dalits and other oppressed castes in suppression since centuries and 
the  imperialist  and  feudal,  patriarchal  social  system  that  had  been  exploiting  and  oppressing  half  of  the 
population  i.e.,  women.  It  destroys  the  Hindu  chauvinist  domination  that  had  been  oppressing  the  religious 
minorities in our country, particularly Muslims and Christians. Vast majority of the Adivasis have long been 
 

4

deprived of their land and other traditional means of livelihood without providing any alternative and have been 
the  major  victims  of  ‘development’  and  displacement.  They  would  live  a  life  of  dignity,  freedom  and  self-
reliance in a new democratic society.  Present day India is a prison-house of nationalities. The New Democratic 
state would unequivocally recognize the right to self-determination of the nationalities including the right to 
secession and the New Democratic India would be formed only with those states that voluntarily stay within it. 
The  rotten,  decaying,  anti-democratic,  anti-people,  obnoxious,  reactionary  semi-colonial  and  semi-feudal 
culture  that  is  dominating  all  the  spheres  of  our  life  would  be  destroyed.  Hatred  for  labor,  patriarchy, 
superstition,  autocracy,  imperialist  slavery,  national  chauvinism,  communalism,  casteism,  blind  greed,  self-
centredness,  consumerist  culture,  and  perverted  sex-centered  ideology  and  culture  would  be  ended.  Feudal 
culture which is primarily the Brahminical caste-based culture of engrained superiority would be extinguished.  
This state will try its best to peacefully and fairly settle border, water and other disputes with neighboring 
countries and will develop friendly relations with them. This state will never exert any expansionist behavior 
with  the  neighboring  countries.  This  People’s  Democratic  State  will  establish  unity  with  the  international 
proletariat and the oppressed nations of the world; opposes imperialist war and aggression, bullying, subversion 
and interference etc. It will support and help by all means the revolutionary struggles and revolutionary war, 
especially the ongoing struggles under the leadership of various Maoist revolutionary forces against capitalism, 
imperialism and reaction the world over. s 

Thus  a  new  people’s  electoral  system,  a  new  people’s  parliament  of  the  four  class  alliance,  a  new 
people’s  constitution,  a  new  people’s  state  and  a  new  people’s  administration  and  a  new  people’s  judicial 
system  will  replace  the  present  ones.  Thus  the  present  system  would  be  replaced  by  a  new  system  and  the 
present rulers will become the ruled.  

I reiterate the appeal of our party to the great masses of our country to boycott the pseudo-parliamentary 

elections and unite to advance the NDR to build a genuine people’s federal democratic republic of India.  

Q:  With the approach of General Elections the UPA-2 intensified its propaganda of ‘Bharat Nirman’ 

as its model for development. What is your take on it? 

A: The NDA had on a huge scale all over the country propagated about India Shining during the 2004 
general elections and similarly now UPA had taken up this propaganda about Bharat Nirman. Bharat Nirman is 
not  concerned  with  the  Indian  people  but  with  the  development  of  the  Indian  ruling  classes  i.e.,  of  CBB, 
landlords and the MNCs to which both are subservient. The then propaganda by NDA was also not about the 
Indian people’s shining but about the shining of corporate sharks - both domestic and foreign and landlords. 
The  condition  of  the  Indian  economy  and  subsequently  of  the  people  is  actually  very  pathetic.  The  Indian 
economy is not self-reliant and is completely dependent on imperialism. It is useful only to them. The model for 
development of India advocated by Manmohan-Chidambaram-Ahluwalia-Rangarajan-Raghuram Rajan was not 
given  shape  in  our  country.  This  was  prepared  by the  imperialists  and  they have  adopted  it.  This  is  not  our 
accusation. They themselves had claimed so. This model was implemented by the NDA too previously. The 
Bills passed in the parliament by considering foreign investments as the panacea for the development of our 
country are living example of this approach. Depending on the entry of FII and FDI into stock markets and into 
all sectors of our economy, they are juggling with the growth rate numbers. The ruling classes are bringing in 
foreign investments into defense, banking, insurance, railway, ports, power sector, mining, education, health, 
transport, trade and commerce, agriculture, retail sector, oil and natural gas and what not, even into small and 
medium industries and service sector and are making our economy completely dependent on imperialist capital. 
This is what is being shown as ‘development.’ The financial crisis that started in the US from end 2008 and that 
went on to shake the world had shaken our economy too. Manmohan and Chidambarm blatantly lied that Indian 
economy was sound and announced about the ill-effects of the world economic crisis on Indian economy only 
when they could no longer hide behind this falsehood.  

The  Indian  big  corporations  collaborated  with  the  MNCs  to  attract  foreign  investments.  To  ensure 
guarantee to their investments and profits, the central and state governments went out of their way to facilitate 
infrastructure and other basic facilities (land, electricity, water, market etc), gave them tax holidays and tax cuts. 
Tax cuts and tax holidays to Indian big bourgeoisie amounts to almost 6 to 8 lakh crores of rupees per annum in 
recent  years.  And  this  is  the  direct  package,  the  indirect  packages  given  in  various  forms  are  countless. 
Countless and large amounts of financial exemptions were given to the MNCs by the consecutive governments.  
On the contrary, the indirect taxes on innumerable daily goods consumed by the poor and the middle classes are 
ever increasing. The money squeezed through taxes from the common people is directly turned into tax holidays 
and  tax  cuts  for  the  foreign  and  domestic  corporate  sharks.  That  is  why  the  profits  of  the  tiny  minority  are 
increasing in leaps and bounds. Billions of dollars are plundered by the MNCs every year in the form of profits 
from our country. Whatever maybe their gimmicks regarding GDP growth, the gap between the rich and the 
 

5

poor in our country has widened to an unprecedented level in the history of our ‘glorious independence’ and it 
is increasing by the day. This is the reason for basic necessities like food, clothing, shelter, water, education, 
health, transport etc becoming scarce for the common people.  

The ruling classes are shouting from rooftops that they are developing all sectors, implementing various 
welfare  schemes  and  so  the  number  of  poor  people  has  decreased  due  to  plans  implemented  by  them  to 
eliminate poverty. Though they are talking tall about these, they are not able to hide the fact that the condition 
of the people is becoming unbearable day by day.  

If the economy is sound and the country is on the development path as the ruling elite is claiming, then 
why  did  the  exchange  value  of  rupee  plunge  to  such  depths?  Why  did  exercises  to  stop  inflation  with  their 
monetary measures fail? How can they develop the country through cuts in welfare schemes and subsidies for 
the  people?  How  can  they  fill  budget  deficits  by  cuts  in  planned  expenditure  and  increase  in  unplanned 
expenditure? How could Jala Yagnams, linking of rivers and other major irrigation projects prevent suicides 
and  bankruptcy  of  millions  of  farmers?  Will  they  decrease  or  increase  the  migration  of  farmers  from  the 
unprofitable  agricultural  sector?  How  would  they  solve  the  ever  increasing  unemployment  problem  in  our 
country through dependence on foreign investments, through mainly concentrating on building infrastructure 
and by neglecting the manufacturing and agricultural sectors? How can corruption be controlled when MoUs 
guaranteeing monopoly profits are being signed as part of implementing LPG policies? 

After ruining the employment opportunities of millions of our workforce and consequently their income 
and their purchasing power, how will economic development be possible? Without measures to increasing the 
employment generating capacity and purchasing power of the masses, if further liberalization is carried on and 
foreign capital is brought in further, how will economic development be possible? According to the WTO trade 
facilitation agreement signed in Bali the customs process would be liberalized and made transparent and this is 
being flouted as a favorable measure to India by the central government. In fact, this would be profitable to the 
MNCs and detrimental to India’s interests. The entire exports and import policy of the Indian government is 
geared towards fulfilling the needs of the imperialist capital and a handful of the rich and has nothing to do with 
the needs of the poor and the middle classes.   

The prices of daily commodities are skyrocketing – the previous year the prices of food items increased 
by 157 percent. The price of onions increased five times over, price of vegetables increased from three to five 
times, price of pulses increased by 123 percent, rice by 137 percent, wheat by 117 percent, milk by 119 percent, 
sugar by 106 percent and salt by 85 percent. While millions are becoming pauperized and increasingly being 
denied  food  and  drinking  water,  the  super-rich  are  enjoying  criminally  disproportionate  share  of  these  apart 
from  an  immoral,  superfluous  level  of  luxuries.  The  increase  in  population  living  on  pavements  is  directly 
proportional to the increase in the number of mansions of the super-rich. Water and electricity have become the 
private property of the comprador capitalists and the MNCs while agriculture is thrown into further crisis for the 
lack  of  the  same  and  the  migration  of  millions  of  farmers  from  this  sector  is  leading  to  further  crisis  in  the 
society. Some communities like the fishing community, Adivasis, peasantry and the urban slum population are 
specifically  targeted  for  displacement/evictions  and  the  super-rich  are  occupying  their  rightful  places.  Our 
country has become a horrific place where 77 percent of the people live on less than 20 rupees a day and 100 
people have wealth equivalent to 25 per cent of the GDP. 

Now the time has come for repayment of loans to the imperialists. How will they repay without putting 
more  burden  on  the  people  in  the  form  of  taxes?  What  is  the  magic  potion  available  with  the  ruling  and 
opposition  parties  for  solving  the  current  account  deficit  problem?  The  only  solution  available  with  them  is 
further liberalization, deregulation, privatization and restructuring; further bending down to the dictates of IMF, 
WB  and  the MNCs;  further  sell-out  of natural  resources;  further  destruction of  ecology;  further  internal  and 
other displacement of huge number of people; further liquidation of labor laws, implementation of colonial and 
draconian laws and formulating new fascist laws – further fascization of state machinery and judicial system; 
further  spurt  in  a  series  of  popular  welfare  schemes  to  divert  the  people  who  are  increasingly  becoming 
frustrated  with  the  various  governments  to  partially  satisfy  their  demands  and  increasing  further  the  role  of 
corporate media in distorting facts. Last but not least, a deluge of psychological operations on the people to 
keep them from knowing the actual reality about our economy. 

As  long  as  the  Congress,  BJP,  Third  Front  or  other  parliamentary  parties  follow  or  want  to  follow 
economic policies that are favorable to imperialists and their compradors, our economy is bound to be further 
ruined and our country is bound to become more and more dependent. Our nominal sovereignty also is bound to 
get more compromised. These parties and their policies are bound to become a heavy burden for the people of 
our country. The home ministry has recently stated in an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court that the Maoists 
 

6

are a threat to ‘rastra nirman’ (nation-building process). We declare that it is the Congress, BJP, Third Front 
and other parliamentary parties that are really pernicious to ‘rastra nirman’.  We are stating very clearly that 
economic policies that help imperialists and (their) compradors should not be tolerated.  So, our party is giving 
a call to the people that these policies should not be allowed. The various treacherous parties that have become 
harmful to the people and our country should be overthrown from political power structures. The only way to 
follow self-reliant, progressive, independent, sovereign policies is to win the NDR in our country.  

Q: What is your comment on the reform schemes for people’s welfare brought forth during the rule of 

UPA-1 and UPA-2 in the past ten years? 

A: First of all, even in the past, right from Nehru to Vajpayee, different governments had been bringing 
forth various schemes relating to people’s welfare. Out of all these, the slogan ‘Garibi Hatao’ and the 20-point 
program  brought  forth  by  Indira  Gandhi  were  the  most  popular.  The  ruling  class  parties  always  formulate 
popular welfare programs when people come into streets or take up guns and also when elections are due. This 
increased as never before during the past fifteen years. In different states freebies like TVs, fans, cookers, saris, 
grinders, bicycles, computers, rice for one or two rupees per kilo etc are being promised and inferior quality 
goods are even distributed to some extent. When there is no genuine agenda for the development of the people 
the ruling classes bring forth such welfare schemes. On the one hand the ruling classes are carrying on policies 
that intensify exploitation of the laboring masses, squeezing their incomes through ever increasing number of 
taxes and looting through skyrocketing prices. This is leading to severe discontent among the people and they 
are getting organized and fighting against this. So we can say that such reforms and schemes are a direct result 
of the struggles of the people. So such welfare measures are also brought forth by the ruling classes to meet 
their demands partially just enough to diffuse their anger, to prevent the fighting people from advancing their 
struggles or even getting organized with a higher aim of ending exploitation altogether. This can be seen in all 
the countries including the imperialist countries. All these are a part of the ‘globalization with a human face’ 
policy brought forth by IMF. This policy of IMF is being implemented all over the world.  

Bills  regarding  right  to  information,  right  to  work  (MNREGA),  food  security,  forest  rights,  land 
acquisition and rehabilitation, company bill, hawkers rights etc were brought by the UPA during its ten years of 
rule.   

After the Second World War, several  changes occurred in the world imperialist market according to 
neo-colonial  economic  and  political  policies  and  in  semi-colonial  and  semi-feudal  countries  too  changes 
occurred  accordingly.  All  the  bills  passed  during  the  UPA  rule  should  also  be  seen  and  understood  in  this 
background.  

After 1947 land reforms were brought forth by the ruling classes for the first time due to the impact of 
long-drawn struggles of tenants and poor peasants against feudal lords and due to the Telangana armed agrarian 
revolution against the Nizam feudal state and the so-called independent Nehru government. Later land reforms 
were brought forth due to the Naxalbari and Srikakulam peasant armed revolutionary movements and the NDR 
led by the Maoist party with agrarian revolution as its axis since the past thirty five years. The land reforms and 
the Forest Rights Act (FRA) brought forth by the ruling classes could not in fact damage the feudal base in our 
country. One of the main aims of the land reforms and the forest rights act is to prevent the vast peasantry and 
the Adivasis from joining the agrarian revolutionary war, to divert them from the land issue and hand over their 
lands  to  the  MNCs  and  big  bourgeoisie  in  accordance  with  the  liberalization  process.  Both  of  these  are  a 
strategic offensive over the agrarian revolution. Jairam Ramesh and Manmohan Singh are trying to deceive the 
people by saying that these two are for the interests of the peasantry and the Adivasis. But actually they are 
aimed  at  displacing  millions  of  peasantry  and  Adivasis,  rendering  them  homeless  and  helpless.  With  Land 
Acquisition Act, all Adivasi rights such as 5th schedule, PESA, 1/70 etc will be destroyed.  

 Even after 65 years of so-called independence poverty alleviation being the main election slogan of all 
ruling class parties is in itself a shameless thing. On the one hand the livelihood of millions of our population is 
being  snatched  away  due  to  the  pro-imperialist,  pro-CBB,  pro-landlord  economic  policies  of  subsequent 
governments  at  the  centre  and  the  states  and  on  the  other  they  are  promising  a  semblance  of  employment 
through MNREGA which was never intended to give decent employment. With thousands of crores of rupees 
of  funds  allotted  for  MNREGA,  worst  forms  of  corruption  came  to  the  fore.  Moreover  machines  are  being 
brought in place of human labor which in turn snatch away the employment opportunities of the people. The 
rural  development  minister  and  other  politicians  themselves  have  been  shedding  crocodile  tears  about  the 
corruption  in  MNREGA  in  the  states.  Rahul  Gandhi,  Ahluwalia  and  Jairam  Ramesh  are  whipping  up  hype 
about how millions were lifted out of poverty due to MNREGA and other reforms while the facts point out to 
the opposite.  
 

7

 
Rahul Gandhi was seen describing the RTI act brought by the UPA as the biggest weapon in the hands 
of the people to fight corruption. None of the big scams were exposed due to this act. Leave aside his hype, is 
there a single instance where the higher ups had been convicted for corruption in spite of clear evidence? What 
about  Manmohan,  Chidambaram  and  Robert  Vadra?  Were  they  being  spared  just  because  of  lack  of 
information?  

Whatever  may  be  the  merits  of  these  reforms,  one  should  realize  that  all  these  are  a  result  of  the 
struggles of the masses. Even partial implementation of these reforms is possible only through a united struggle 
of  the  masses.  On  the  occasion  of  the  16th  Loksabha  elections,  all  political  parties  would  come  forth  with 
several popular slogans and promises. The people should never believe their lies and rely only on their unity 
and struggle. If they believe their lies, poverty would not be alleviated in our country even after another century. 
Only  a  united  struggle  of  the  people  and  the  People’s  War  are  the  real  way  for  poverty  alleviation  in  our 
country. 

Q: During the rule of UPA-2 corruption scams got exposed as never before. What do you think is the 

reason for this? How do you think these scams which are worrying the people of our country be prevented?  

A: Just like British colonialists had domesticated the feudal kings and zamindars in India to establish 
their rule all over our country, the MNCs of today are also bribing the comprador rulers of our country and 
carrying  on  their  neo-colonial  exploitation,  oppression  and  control  of  our  people  and  resources.  After  LPG 
policies were adopted, the MoUs signed with the MNCs and their investments increased beyond imagination 
and consequently corruption also increased in an unparalleled manner. Black money getting deposited in Swiss 
bank accounts increased from tens of crores to hundreds of crores of rupees after LPG policies. True to political 
parties’ accusations on each other, lakhs of crores of rupees of black money is now deposited in Swiss and other 
banks. Global Financial Integrity declared that in just in one year – in 2011 – 4 lakh crores of rupees of black 
money crossed our borders and that India ranks among the most corrupt nations in the world.  

The  yesteryear  scams  like  Bofors  and  fodder  scam  pale  in  the  face  of  recent  scams  pertaining  to 
Commonwealth  games,  2G  spectrum,  Adarsh  housing  society,  coal  block  allotments,  VVIP  choppers,  Tetra 
truck scam, illegal mining of Gali brothers, YSR-Jagan Reddy, Sarada Chit Fund scam in West Bengal etc. The 
list is actually endless as these are a tip of only those scams that got exposed due to contradictions between the 
ruling classes. Just as Marcos and his wife Imelda had amassed huge wealth when they were in state power by 
sucking the blood of the Filippino people, in our country too politicians such as Jayalalita, Chandrababu Naidu, 
YSR, Madhu Koda, Mayavathi, Mulayam Singh Yadav, Raman Singh, Naveen Patnaik, Yedyurappa, Prithviraj 
Chauhan, Lalu Prasad Yadav, Jagannath Misra etc vied with each other in amassing huge wealth. All of them 
either  belong  to  all-India  political  parties  or  are  regional  political  party  leaders.  Only  when  political  rivalry 
became serious, some among these like Jayalalita, Koda, Yedyurappa, Mayavathi, Mulayam Singh Yadav etc 
were booked under cases. Bangaru Laxman and Nitin Gadkari had to resign their president posts in BJP due to 
corruption  charges.  Rajiv  Gandhi  was  the  main  accused  in  Bofors  scam,  Suresh  Kalmadi  in  Commonwealth 
Games scam, A. Raja in 2G scam, Manmohan Singh and Chidambaram in coal gate scam – several names of 
the leaders of ruling and opposition parties can be reeled off. That is why our party says that our country is 
ruled by scamsters and gangsters.  

The economic, political and social system of our country is rife with corruption and scams. This disease 
is  rampant  everywhere  -  right  from  getting  a  driving  license  to  getting  a  job  in  military  or  a  visa.  This  has 
become an integral part of our system and culture. The people of our country are rising against this. In order to 
prevent this opposition from taking an organized form and to divert it Anna Hazare and Arvind Kejriwal had 
taken  up  the  satyagraha  form  of  protest.  Kejriwal  had  even  formed  the  Aam  Aadmi  Party  to  ‘reform’  this 
corrupt system. He could cash upon this in the recently held Delhi assembly polls. The Lokpal Bill was passed 
by the parliament as the ruling classes feared the increasing discontent among the people and their agitations 
against corruption in our political system. The joke is it has been prepared and passed by the very scamsters 
who  are  the  gods  of  corruption.  This  bill  would  never  touch  these  sharks  but  would  be  used  in  a  draconian 
manner  on  the  smaller  fish.  This  was  described  as  being  toothless  by  Kejriwal  and  Hazare  and  they  are 
proposing  the  Janlok  Bill  which  vests  powers  in  some  individuals.  The  very  idea  that  corruption  which  is 
endemic to the parliamentary democracy, particularly in the LPG era could be fought by honest individuals is 
being naive at best and deceptive at worst.  

As long as means of production and thousands of crores of rupees of wealth are concentrated in the 
hands of a few, as long as political power rests in their hands, as long as the state machinery and the judiciary 
that protects them is in their hands and as long as their collaboration with the imperialists and their dependence 
on them continues, it is impossible to wipe out corruption from our society. There is a need for a countrywide 
 

8

organized militant people’s movement against corruption, a need to fight in a united manner against it. In order 
to overthrow the system that is the root cause for corruption, it is necessary to wage NDR in India. Millions of 
people should get rallied into the PPW for this revolution to be successful. Only then could a radical change 
occur  regarding  corruption.  Even  in  the  new  society  there  would  be  a  need  for  the  people  to  fight  against 
corruption.  

Q: A separate Telangana is being formed. What is your party’s program for the Telangana and the 

Seemandhra states?  

A: Ultimately the Telangana state has been formed after a prolonged struggle by the Telangana people. 
It is a victory of the Telangana people. It is a good thing. The struggle for statehood for Telangana started when 
the Andhra Pradesh state was formed constituting Telangana and Seemandhra areas. It gradually consolidated 
and finally culminated in the formation of the Telangana state.  

From the very beginning two kinds of forces fought for a separate statehood for Telangana. One was 
represented by the democratic and Maoist forces that truly represented the aspirations of the Telangana people. 
But the petty bourgeois forces particularly the students, employees and youth that participated in the first phase 
soon got influenced by the Congress party leadership and most of the leaders joined it. Some more joined the 
then  Jan  Sangh.  However,  a  section  of  ranks  that  participated  in  the  movement  gradually  consolidated  into 
Maoist  parties  and  their  mass  organizations  and  into  various  democratic  organizations.  In  the  second  phase 
different  democratic  forces  and  our  party  played  the  leadership  role.  These  forces  further  consolidated  to 
develop this movement. In the third phase, they were the backbone of the movement. And different sections of 
the  petty  bourgeoisie  –  students,  lawyers,  employees,  teachers,  youth,  intellecstuals;  different  social  sections 
like  women,  Dalits,  Adivasis  and  Muslims  rallied  on  a  wide  scale  and  played  a  crucial  role.  Workers  and 
peasantry  played  an  important  role  in  this  phase  unlike  in  the  previous  two  phases.  In  spite  of  the  Maoist 
movement  suffering  a  setback  and  getting  weakened,  it  strove  hard  to  work  with  limited  forces  in  the  third 
phase of the movement for statehood. It is necessary that the Maoist forces strive to develop their strength and 
be in the forefront in the rebuilding of Telangana. On the other hand, most of the democratic forces who came 
forward were from the new generation. Later in the course of the movement many of these became part of the 
various political streams. On the whole, these democratic forces belonged to the various political streams. Due 
to the petty-bourgeoisie class nature of these forces they could not lead the movement more militantly and in a 
more  united  manner.  Consequently,  they  were  subjected  to  several  limitations  in  achieving  their  democratic 
demands. Only through putting serious efforts to overcome these limitations, it is possible to play a better role 
in transforming the present Telangana into a democratic Telangana and advance further.     

The  other  was  represented  by  the  ruling  class  cliques  belonging  to  different  political  parties  which 
strove for a Separate Telangana and simultaneously fought with each other internally. These forces had fought 
with the Seemandhra rulers but had also compromised with them frequently. When we look at the history of the 
movements for bifurcation of states, none of them was as long-drawn as the movement for a Telangana state. 

There are six main reasons for it getting so prolonged and ultimately for the formation of the Telangana 
state with many limitations. 1. The political forces represented by the Telangana bourgeois and landlord classes 
were not consolidated enough during the first phase. In the second and third phases they gradually consolidated 
and strengthened and it got politically manifested in their role during these phases. 2. As most of these forces 
were related to the Congress, the BJP and the TDP, at different phases of the movement, it got manifested in 
their indecisive role, almost till the end. The TRS that was formed with the aim of formation of the Telangana 
state  never  led  the  movement  by  mobilizing  the  people  militantly.  It  always  gave  importance  to  lobbying, 
parliamentary gimmicks, compromises and peaceful forms of protest. The role of the Congress and the BJP is 
more  weaker  and  they  played  pressure  tactics  on  their  high  commands  only  when  the  formation  of  the 
Telangana  state  was  on  the  threshold.  However  they  never  dared  to  mobilize  the  people.  TDP  from  the 
beginning till the end talked with a forked tongue and weakened to a large extent in Telangana, turning into a 
party that is limited mainly to Seemandhra. As YSRCP opposed the bifurcation of the state it got wiped out in 
Telangana. The CPI (M) worked completely against the aspirations of the Telangana people due to its wrong 
policies. Though CPI supported the statehood movement in the last phase in unavoidable conditions, it never 
rallied the people actively. 3. The ruling classes representing Telangana feared the role of the CPI (Maoist) and 
the  democratic  forces,  the  militant  mobilization  of  the  masses,  an  increase  in  their  role  and  the  movement 
having a significant influence with its democratic demands. 4. The Seemandhra and Telangana regional and all-
India  ruling  classes  realized  with  the  prominent  role  of  the  CPI  (Maoist)  and  the  democratic  forces  that  the 
movement would turn more militant with clear-cut democratic programme and not remain in their hands and the 
political instability in the state would turn dangerous if they do not agree for a separate state of Telangana. 5. 
For electoral gains the Congress at the centre was forced to agree for the formation of the Telangana state.  6. 
 

9

From  the  beginning,  the  regional  ruling  classes  representing  Seemandhra  were  relatively  consolidated  and 
stronger. So, they could influence the centre for a long period in delaying the formation. When they could no 
longer  stall  its  formation  they  could  influence  the  centre  in  taking  pro-Seemandhra  decisions  regarding 
Hyderabad and the Polavaram project.  

Telangana  state  came  into  existence.  But  what  kind  of  a  Telangana  is  it?  This  is  a  Telangana  with 
Hyderabad as the common capital for the next ten years. Congress did not solve several issues and left lot of 
scope for further disputes to divide the people of the  two states. The people of Telangana had aspired for  a 
Telangana with their exclusive capital city and with several of the disputed issues regarding jobs, water and 
other resources, reimbursement of state loans, employees, etc resolved in a just manner. They did not get it. 
Now  they  have  to  fight  for  these  just  demands.  Deciding  Hyderabad  as  the  common  capital  for  ten  years, 
construction of Polavaram dam and keeping in pending other major issues unresolved is part of the Chanakya 
Neeti of the Congress to stoke the fires in both the states and tighten its grip on them. This is even against the 
formal federal spirit of the constitution. 

The ruling classes succeeded in creating a contentment among the Telangana people that somehow a 
state has been formed, whatever maybe its limitations. Now the Telangana parties are all engaged in electoral 
parleys and compromises.  The CBB and imperialist corporations are making their moves behind curtains since 
a long time as to whom to bring to power to fulfill their agenda and interests in the two new states of Telangana 
and  Andhra  Pradesh.  KCR  talked  of  inviting  financial  capital  from  MNCs  and  CBB  for  development  of 
Telangana  and  building  satellite  cities  etc.  He  doesn’t  have  any  qualms  in  inviting  investments  from 
Seemandhra bourgeoisie.  So also Seemandhra politicians are falling heads over heels to invite foreign and CBB 
capital for bigger projects than these. 

Since the centre’s announcement about the formation of Telangana state, our party’s Central Regional 
Bureau and North Telangana Special Zonal Committee had been stating our stand consistently. During the first 
phase of the Separate Telangana movement in 1969, our party had formulated a clear political stand on this 
issue  and  worked  for  it.  In  the  second  and  third  phases  our  party  played  a  major  role  in  it.  Right  from  the 
beginning,  our  party  worked  for  the  formation  of  a  Telangana  state  by  representing  the  interests  of  the  vast 
masses - working class, peasantry, middle class, small and medium capitalists and the various oppressed social 
sections like Dalits, Adivasis, religious minorities and women by mobilizing them. Our party united with all the 
forces  working  for  statehood  for  Telangana  and  at  the  same  time  has  exposed  the  compromising  forces  and 
strove  to  lead  the  movement  in  a  militant  manner.  Those  in  power  in  the  centre  and  the  states  to  whatever 
parties or region they may have belonged, unleashed repression in a fascist manner this movement waged under 
the leadership of various democratic forces and our party. In the course of this struggle hundreds of students and 
youth have laid down their lives. In this entire period the state and the central governments launched offensives 
on  us  to  suppress  the  armed  agrarian  revolution.  Through  this  they  also  wanted  to  render  the  statehood 
movement  for  Telangana  leaderless  and  prevent  the  development  of  this  as  a  mighty  mass  movement  with 
democratic demands. This caused severe loss to the statehood movement for Telangana.   

The  ruling  classes  are  ignoring  the  demands  brought  forth  by  the  democratic  forces  now  with  the 
formation  of  the  state  and  are  completely  immersed  in  electoral  politics.  Even  the  Seemandhra  leaders  are 
concentrating on special packages, projects like Polavaram and on Hyderabad and are not putting forward any 
demands or program for the backward regions in that state. Central government announced a special package 
for five years for Seemandhra. BJP demanded that it be given for ten years for electoral gains and promised to 
approve the package if it is voted to power. The Congress and the BJP that are vying with each other for giving 
special packages for Seemandhra are not recognizing the need for such packages for the backward Telangana 
state. In Telangana too there is a need for special packages for the most backward Adivasi areas, drought hit 
areas like the backward Mahboobnagar district and specific measures to fulfill the socio-economic and political 
demands of the religious minorities and Dalits.  

When  we  look  at  the  nature  of  the  Separate  Telangana  movement  and  the  composition  of  leading 
political forces in it, the formation of Telangana state would be mainly useful to the ruling classes in Telangana. 
When  we  keep  in  view  the  history  and  class  interests  of  the  parliamentary  parties  that  would  be  coming  to 
power  in  Telangana,  their  development  models  are  nothing  but  obsolete.  In  these  models,  there  is  no  basic 
difference  from  the  previous  regimes  in  not  representing  the  interests  of  the  vast  masses.  Though  the  future 
governments  may  bring  in  some  eyewash  reforms,  people  should  not  be  satisfied.  They  should  prepare 
themselves for a long drawn struggle with a clear program and strategy. Depending on the extent to which the 
people would go in fighting for their demands, they would be able to utilize the favorable conditions that would 
prevail with the formation of Telangana.  

 

10

Regarding Seemandhra, our party opines that the democratic forces and organizations and the people 
there  should  agitate  on  clear  democratic  demands  on  socio-economic  issues  according  to  the  democratic 
aspirations of the people.  

The actual danger faced by the people of these two states now is – further opening of doors for the 
corporations – both domestic and foreign – for the loot of the resources and market in these two states. This 
danger  is  present  due  to  the  pro-imperialist,  pro-CBB,  pro-landlord  policies  of  the  ruling  classes  in  the  two 
states.  So  unless  the  people  of  both  the  states  realize  this  danger  and  fight  against  the  state  and  central 
governments on socio, economic and political demands they would not be able to fulfill even their minimum 
demands.  And  it  would  even  be  difficult  to  turn  these  struggles  into  a  movement  to  establish  a  genuine 
democratic, self-reliant, independent economic and political system.  

Our  party  is  giving  a  general  call  to  the  people  of  the  two  states  to  boycott  the  sham  assembly  and 
parliamentary  elections  as  one  of  the  steps  towards  realization  of  a  democratic  Telangana  and  a  democratic 
Andhra Pradesh (Seemandhra). At the same time the people should put forward and agitate on their specific 
socio-economic,  political  demands  including  lifting  ban  on  the  CPI  (Maoist)  and  revolutionary,  democratic 
mass organizations in both the states. Our party is calling upon the people of both states to support each other 
and  unitedly  fight  for  a  new  democratic  state  in  our  country  that  would  guarantee  the  fulfillment  of  their 
interests in the true sense.  

The Telangana people should not lose their alert in achieving their goals by losing themselves in the 
celebrations over winning the demand for a state. However, even in this state the political power would not lie 
with the people and would lie in the hands of parties like Congress, TDP, TRS and BJP that are the parties of 
the CBB and the landlords. With the formation of a separate Telangana state, there would be benefit to some 
extent regarding demands like end to discrimination, water and jobs. However the basic problems of the people 
would remain unsolved. These problems could be solved only when political power lies with the people. That is 
why, the people of Telangana should fight for their democratic demands. Some of the important among these 
demands should be: 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

Bitter struggle should be put up against making Hyderabad as the common capital, against 
construction of Polavaram project and against giving all the areas that would be submerged 
due to Polavaram project construction to Coastal Andhra. Both these are a Great Conspiracy 
of the central and the Seemandhra bourgeoisie that should be fought back by all the agitating 
forces of Telangana in a united manner. 
Withdrawal  of  all  cases  on  Telangana  agitators;  support  to  Telangana  Martyrs’  families; 
lifting  of  ban  on  the  CPI  (Maoist)  and  revolutionary  and  democratic  mass  organization, 
restoration of democratic rights and putting a stop to fake encounters; unconditional release 
of all political prisoners; withdrawal of all false cases on religious minorities; withdrawal of 
police  camps  in  educational  institutions;  punishing  the  killers  who  murdered  Telangana 
agitators and annulling of APSIB and greyhounds.  
Implementation of genuine land reforms; the rights over lands occupied by the people as part 
of  anti-feudal,  anti-imperialist  struggles  should  be  handed  over  to  the  people;  the 
government and assigned lands that were forcibly occupied by the bourgeoisie, landlords and 
political leaders should be seized and distributed to the urban poor. 
The entry to imperialist  and MNCs should be stopped. Polavaram, Pulichintala, open cast 
mines,  Bayyaram  mines,  Kavval  Tiger  Project  and  SEZs  that  are  displacing  the  people 
should be scrapped. All the MoUs signed with the CBB and MNCs regarding these projects 
should be scrapped. Along with public sector, small and medium scale industries should be 
encouraged. The rights of workers should be protected. Plans should be taken up for the self-
development of the state.  
The just share of water belonging to Telangana should be allotted and irrigation to peasantry 
and drinking water to the people should be provided. 
Allotments for agricultural sector should be increased in the budget. Seeds, fertilizers  and 
pesticides should be distributed free of cost to the peasants. Minimum support prices should 
be  ensured.  Electricity  cuts  should  be  done  away  with.  Loans  should  be  annulled.  Loans 
without interest should be provided.  

 

11

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

Lands should be distributed to all the landless Dalits. Dalits should be given protection from 
all kinds of attacks on them.  
Religious minorities should be provided with reservations. Land should be distributed to the 
landless. Urdu should be given the status of second official language. 
The 5th schedule of the constitution, PESA and 1/70 Act should be strictly implemented and 
Adivasis  should  be  given  rights  to  their  Jal,  Jungle  and  Zameen.  The  autonomy  rights  of 
Adivasis should be given recognition.  
50 percent reservation should be given to women in legislatives, education and employment. 
Women should be provided protection.  

The  Telangana  people  should  continue  the  spirit  of  unity  and  determination  that  they  displayed  in  the 
agitation for a separate state and should carry on the movement for the democratic aspirations of the people to 
be  fulfilled  in  the  rebuilding  of  the  state  of  Telangana.  They  should  coordinate  this  movement  with  the 
movements for solving their basic issues. Thus they should march forward determinedly in fulfilling the aims of 
the NDR. With agrarian revolution as the axis and the slogan of ‘Land to the tiller’, they should march forward 
in the liberation movement. The entire people should come forward to make the NDR successful. This is a great 
opportunity for us. The bourgeois parties and their lackeys would attempt to take the people along the bourgeois 
parliamentary path, destroy their unity and continue their power and exploitation. Our party is giving a call to 
the entire people that they should march forward with their unity as the basis, fight back the conspiracies of 
Congress,  TDP,  BJP,  TRS,  YSR  Congress  party  and  also  of  the  revisionist  parties  CPI  and  CPI  (M)  and 
advance the NDR. The Telangana agitators and organizations should preserve the successes of the people and 
carry on struggles on democratic demands in the new state of Telangana in a united manner. They should unite 
with  the  people  of  Andhra  Pradesh  and  fight  against  their  common  enemies  –  imperialists,  CBB  and  the 
landlord classes.  

Q: The central government and some of the state governments had in the past proposed to conduct talks 
with your party. In the recent past too some Congress party leaders were seen proposing about Peace Talks on 
various  forums  either  directly  or  indirectly.  What  is  your  party’s  stand  regarding  Peace  Talks  with  the 
government? 

A: We are not against Peace Talks with the government. The aim of Peace Talks should be genuine 
peace, and it should be a fruitful one. Peace Talks  are an integral part of the political struggle between two 
conflicting camps. It is another form of political struggle, i.e., a peaceful one.  But in reality, the ruling classes 
and their central and state governments are not for it. They are completely against it. They are playing a ploy as 
before. Their words do not match with their deeds in practice. They do not have any belief regarding political 
talks or political dialogues. The only thing they believe in is their military, paramilitary and police forces. The 
only thing they believe in is using their brute force and establishing graveyard peace in the society. But due to 
their erroneous policy in dealing with the civil war, the situation is becoming much more complex against their 
wishes. Whenever the people fight for their just rights and liberation and whenever the people intensify their 
struggle the ruling classes bring to the fore Peace Talks so that they can utilize it as a means to suppress the 
movement.  In  the  name  of  Peace  Talks  they  try  to  create  confusions  and  illusions  within  the  ranks  and  the 
people and make us lose our vigil or if we avoid talks then they try to put a stamp on us that we are against 
peace. They try to isolate us from the people or utilize the talks to try to bring us “to our senses” by hook or 
crook. Our party is absolutely against such deceptive, insincere, aggressive Peace Talks proposals.  

On the contrary, our party wishes to achieve genuine peace. Our party and the people ever since the 
Naxalbari peasant armed agrarian revolutionary movement to this day, for decades together had fought for the 
resolution  of  fundamental  issues  of  the  people  and  the  country,  i.e.,  genuine  land  reforms,  democracy,  self-
reliant  development  model  of  economy-agriculture-industry  and  services,  sovereignty  and  long-lasting  peace 
for  the  progress  and  prosperity  of  our  country.  So,  to  conduct  Peace  Talks  with  a  political  movement 
successfully  and  with  positive  results,  the  governments  should  firstly  recognize  our  movement  as  a  political 
movement. It is necessary that they recognize this movement as a movement by the people of our country, as an 
internal movement and as a civil war. Then only there would be a possibility to at least conduct talks to solve 
issues that would help in resolving the fundamental issues in order to resolve this civil war. Any mention of 
Peace Talks in any other manner amounts only to wrong intentions and nothing else.  

If one has to take a correct stand on the present proposal for talks from the ruling elite, we have to 
examine similar proposals put by the ruling classes to the communists in our country in the past. We have to see 
historically  with  what  agenda  they  came  forward  with  the  proposal  for  talks  and  how  they  dealt  with  any 

 

12

political  movement  in  the  past  led  by  the  communist  revolutionaries  or  national  liberation  organizations  of 
Kashmir and the North East. What happened as a result of Talks with nationality movements? The experience 
of  most  of  the  nationality movements  is  negative  due  to  the  expansionist  and fascist  approach  of  the  Indian 
ruling classes and the capitulation of the leadership who that led those movements. The talks did not resolve any 
issues raised by these movements. To this date these movements are still continuing in one form or the other.   

What  was  the  stand  taken  by  the  communist  revolutionaries  when  the  proposals  for  talks  were  put 

before them? 

The first such instance was during the glorious Telangana armed peasant revolutionary movement. The 
CBB  and  the  landlord  classes  came  to  power  in  place  of  the  British  colonialists,  and  a  fascist  suppression 
campaign was being carried on by the Nehru-Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel army and thousands of peasants and 
peasant guerilla fighters were being butchered brutally when talks were held between the revolutionaries and 
the government. The aim of the government in these talks was to destroy the Telangana armed revolutionary 
movement  by  bending  the  revolutionaries.  However  as  basic  issues  like  genuine  land  reforms,  people’s 
democracy and issues brought forth by the Telangana armed struggle remained unsolved, the glorious Naxalbari 
peasantry took up arms and fought to resolve the same. A glorious armed peasant rebellion erupted and it spread 
like prairie fire to all the corners of our country with a correct perspective, program and strategy etc in the light 
of Marxism-Leninism-Maoism (MLM).  

After Indira’s fascist rule ended, leaders of various rightist ML groups milled around the Janata Party 
that came to power with the slogan of restitution of democratic rights, for talks. The Talks of those days paved 
the  way  for  these  groups  to  enter  electoral  politics  and  were  used  to  get  some  of  their  leaders  and  cadres 
released  but  only  after  they  gave  shameful  undertakings.  Our  party  had  openly  opposed  and  criticized  such 
capitulationist policy and getting bogged down in electoral politics. At that time, the functioning of Bhargava 
Commission that was formed by the Janata party government for enquiring into false encounter killings was 
stopped midway by the ruling classes, putting into the dustbin the slogans on which it came to power. And it 
was on such a government that these groups had such illusions. They did not understand the class nature of the 
ruling classes and also failed in assessing the concrete political condition at that time. Such groups gradually 
disappeared from the scene of revolution. Again the revolutionary movement erupted in an upsurge in Andhra 
Pradesh and Bihar with its basic program, all the while fighting back state repression. The movement extended 
to some more areas in our country. 

In  AP,  once  in  1990  immediately  after  Chenna  Reddy  came  to  power,  once  in  1996  during 
Chandrababu  Naidu’s  rule  when  repression  was  intensified  to  unprecedented  levels  and  later  on  certain 
occasions  proposals  for  Talks  came  to  the  fore  either  from  the  governments  intellectuals  or  other  quarters. 
However,  the  then  state  governments  intensified  repression  and  did  not  show  any  inclination  for  talks. 
Rajasekhar Reddy came to power in 2004 with the agenda of conducting Talks with the Maoists. He came forth 
for Talks after making all preparations for launching an offensive campaign on us in fascist methods and with a 
plan for an unprecedented intensification of repression. After one round of talks the government shamelessly 
stopped  the  Talks  process  midway.  It  did  not  even  let  its  delegation  to  officially  sign  on  behalf  of  the  state 
government  on  the  agenda  decided  between  the  delegations  of  both  sides.  The  YSR  government  feared  the 
interest shown by the vast masses towards our party and ideology and the rallying of people towards the agenda 
brought forth by our party and immediately resorted to an offensive on our party. Along with fake encounters 
severe  repression  was  unleashed  all  over  the  state.  Thus  it  sabotaged  the  Talks  process.  Seeing  the  positive 
response  among  the  various  sections  of  people  towards  the  Talks  the  government  brought  forth  the  demand 
midway that Maoists should abandon arms and it did not implement the ceasefire even for a single day in the 
period decided by both sides. The government did not have the aim of discussing on the agenda put forward by 
our party. Its aim was to disarm the party and make it surrender. Soon after the crooked ploy ended, the AP 
police  brutally  killed  comrade  Riaz,  a  member  of  the  Maoist  parties’  delegation.  This  was  the  first  bitter 
experience  for  our  party  in  conducting  Peace  Talks.  This  is  an  example  of  the  real  intentions  of  the  ruling 
classes and their imperialist masters in Peace Talks.  

The UPA led by the Congress came to power for the second time and launched the first phase of the 
War on People – the Operation Green Hunt. Simultaneously it brought forth the proposal for Peace Talks at 
central level through its Home Ministry and Congress senior leaders directly and indirectly. People like Swami 
Agnivesh  directly  entered  the  arena  for  facilitating  Talks.  On  the  one  hand,  the  central  government  brought 
forth the proposal for Talks with Maoist leadership and on the other hand it either killed the top leadership of 
our party in fake encounters or arrested them and put them in jails. Our CC was to discuss and reach a final 
decision  on  Talks  but  before  that  comrade  Azad,  our  Politburo  member  was  caught  and  killed  in  a  fake 

 

13

encounter in July 2010. This murder exposed the conspiracy of the ruling classes behind the proposal for Peace 
Talks. It became clear as daylight that Manmohan Singh government was not ready for Talks except to deceive.  
Even while the OGH was being further intensified, some ministers like the home minister and some 
Congress top leaders parroted about Peace Talks some times. Apart from brutally killing another PBM of our 
party comrade Kishenji, several of our top leaders were arrested and put in jails. In Bengal too, Mamta Banerji 
talked about peace before she came to power. Once in power, it did not take many days for her real face to get 
exposed. Massacres of common people, fake encounters, loot, destruction and all kinds of atrocities on women 
became the daily routine of the state forces in Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, 
Odisha and Maharashtra. When Chidambaram was the home minister and after Shinde took over, both of them 
and the home secretaries had been declaring openly that there was no question for Peace Talks unless Maoists 
abandon arms and that the Maoists would not come for talks unless their backbone is broken that is, unless their 
top leadership is wiped out. They declared that only the government forces have the right to carry arms and 
even said that the law does not allow conduct of Talks with a banned organization.  

From the beginning, the aim of the ruling classes in conducting Peace Talks is either disarming Maoists 
as a precondition for talks or disarming the Maoists as a result of Talks. The government has been asking the 
Maoists to come into mainstream and that it would rehabilitate them. It declared that if the Maoists put forward 
the grievances of the people, it would consider and solve those that are possible to be solved. To be precise, all 
proposals for Peace Talks from the ruling classes are nothing but humbug.   

Now once again direct and indirect proposals for Peace Talks are coming from the Congress leaders. 
On the other hand, every kind of preparation for another big offensive-OGH-3rd phase is being concluded that 
includes further involvement of army and Air Force apart from deployment of paramilitary and Special Forces 
numbering  around  4  lakhs  all  over  the  country  at  present  (they  have  already  built  up  carpet  security  like  in 
Kashmir  in  every  stronghold  of  our  movement  and  at  every  strategic  point  of  movement  of  our  forces). 
Consolidation  and  expansion  of  carpet  security  and  construction  of  hundreds  of  attack-proof  police 
stations/camps and dozens of aerodromes and helipads is being done at a rapid pace all over the country in our 
movement areas. Expanding intelligence network in rural areas, expanding communication network, setting up 
several dozens of training centres for Special Forces, importing most advanced weaponry and weapon systems, 
intensifying psychological operations utilizing corporate media and increase in the strategic role of paramilitary, 
Air Force and Army is being done at an unprecedented level. Vast tracts of rural areas have been transformed 
into  big  concentration  camps.  In  all  of  these  areas,  there  is  no  civil  administration  on  ground.  It  is  only  a 
police/paramilitary dictated administration. Repression on mass organizations and mass movements including 
murders of its leaders is on. Large number of our central leaders and several hundreds of party cadres up to the 
lower  levels  were  put  in  jails.  They  are  languishing  since  several  years  in  prisons  without  any  justice.  The 
government forces are intensifying and expanding cordon and search operations in our movement areas on a 
daily basis.  Their  model  for  dealing with  Maoists  is  the  Saranda  model.  This  is  a  model  that  follows  in  the 
footsteps of Hitler’s Nazi Germany.  

The central and state governments had been making all the above preparations on the one hand and on 
the other hand, some Congress leaders and some chief ministers have been putting forward proposals for Peace 
Talks even while doing all this at the ground level. In such a backdrop, at present our stand towards Peace Talks 
would be as follows:  

1. 

The government should accept that ours is a political movement of this country. Its program 
concerns  our  people  and  our  country.  Our  party  is  the  vanguard  of  this  just  movement.  We  are  leading  a 
national democratic revolution to resolve the fundamental problems before the people and the country which are 
the reason for the origin and continuation of our movement. Hence, our main agenda is genuine land reforms, 
democracy, self-reliant development model of economy-agriculture-industry and services and sovereignty and 
long-lasting  peace  to  develop  the  country.  So  they  have  to  understand  and  recognize  the  root  cause  for  this 
movement and if they wish to fulfill the interests of the people they would have to accept that our movement is 
an internal conflict and a civil war according to international laws also. Only then can Peace Talks be conducted 
in  a  genuine  manner  and  be  productive.  Democratic  organizations,  progressive  intellectuals  and  the  people 
should understand this clearly and strive for peace.  

2. 

Ban on the CPI (Maoist) and revolutionary, democratic mass organizations in our country 

should be lifted and attacks on their leaders and activists should stop.  

3. 

Judicial enquiry should be conducted on Comrade Riaz’s murder and the culprits should be 
punished. The killers who murdered comrade Azad who was involved in the Talks process should be arrested 
and punished.  
 

14

4. 

Government forces that are carrying on loot, destruction, mayhem, atrocities on women and 
massacres in rural areas and killing of mass organization leaders in urban areas flouting international, national 
laws  and  agreements  should  be  stopped  from  doing  so.  Judicial  enquiry  should  be  conducted  on  all  these 
incidents.  
5. 

In order to preserve our leadership from the conspiracies of the ruling classes to decimate 
our party leadership one more time in the name of Talks, all veteran comrades in prisons should be released by 
lifting all false cases on them or on bails. They should be allowed to meet our CC to facilitate deciding on a 
team to participate in the dialogue with the government.  

I appeal to all the democratic organizations and individuals to understand our party’s stand regarding 
Talks for establishment of genuine peace. If a conducive atmosphere as we propose for conduct of Peace Talks 
is established from the government, we would participate in it.  

On this occasion, I appeal to the democratic organizations and individuals to build a movement to force 
the government to stop the unjust state offensive on revolutionary and democratic organizations, to demand that 
they be allowed to function and to demand a stop to all extra-judicial killings, fake encounters, destruction, loot, 
sexual atrocities on women etc in the rural areas and killings of mass organization leaders in urban areas.  

Q: Your party comrades had recently killed two journalists Nemichand Jain and Sai Reddy in Bastar. 
This is in contradiction with your party’s stand on journalists. Similarly, in Jharkhand your party comrades 
planted an IED as a booby trap in the body of a CRPF jawan who died in your PLGA attack. Do these not 
deserve a clear explanation from your Central Committee? 

A: The incident of Nemichand Jain (a stringer of Haribhoomi, Nayi Duniya and Dainik Bhaskar) on 12 
February,  2013  is  worrying.  Our  CC  also  expresses  its  sincere  regret  on  this.  Our  party’s  South  Regional 
Committee (SRC) of Dandakaranya had given a statement explaining the reasons behind it and expressing its 
regret.  DKSZC  secretary  comrade  Ramanna  had  responded  on  this  once  again  in  an  interview  he  gave  on 
October 10, 2013 and expressed his regret. He stated, “This was a result of wrong assessment and sectarian 
approach of the concerned Area Committee of our party. I express my deep regrets regarding this. On behalf of 
our SZC I send my deep condolences to Nemichand Jain’s family and his friends. Our party had already openly 
apologized for this.” 

On December 6, 2013 correspondent Sai Reddy of Hindi daily Deshbandhu and a resident of Bijapur 
was  killed  by  our  comrades.  Our  party’s  South  Regional  Committee  (SRC)  of  Dandakaranya  had  given  a 
statement on December 10 defending the killing. Immediately after this, local media and the media in Raipur 
condemned this killing and had decided to impose a ban on publishing any statements from our party. National 
and  international  journalists  and  media  organizations  also  condemned  the  killing.  On  December  27,  PUDR 
condemned this incident citing Article 79 of Protocol I of Geneva Convention (1949). A 16-member team of 
journalists took protest rally in our movement areas of Bastar from 26th to 31st January, 2014 and on the last day 
held a press meet in Bijapur.  

Recently our Dandakaranya SZC had reviewed the Sai Reddy incident and all these developments. For 
about two decades Sai Reddy had been taking up anti-people and anti-movement activities even while being a 
journalist. So the party’s South Bastar Divisional Committee (DVC) decided to punish him and accordingly a 
PLGA unit attacked his house once. But he escaped in that attack. In 2008 he was arrested by the Chhattisgarh 
police under Chhattisgarh Special Public Security Act on a false accusation that he was a Maoist supporter and 
put him in jail for one year. However  there were other reasons for his arrest. But with this arrest his image 
turned into one who opposed the government. In this backdrop the DVC stalled the decision to punish him. 
However this decision was not passed on to the lower ranks properly. As a result, this happened. The DKSZC 
reviewed that the SRC should have responded without delay in the Nemichand Jain incident and that the SRC 
defending the killing of Sai Reddy is not correct.  

Regarding military actions and particularly regarding journalists, employees and professionals etc when 
any of them gets involved in anti-people activities or turns into an enemy of the movement and the people, the 
policy and guidelines formulated by the CC dictate that every unit of our party and the PLGA must adhere to 
them and follow class line and mass line in such instances. The DKSZC decided to release a letter to the PUDR 
and the media giving explanation on the Sai Reddy incident. In the past, when our South Bastar DVC decided to 
punish him, we should have informed the media organizations, journalists and the media houses he worked for, 
about his anti-people activities. 

Even though our policy is correct, rarely some errors are occurring in practice. However, our CC feels 
that the local media and the media in Raipur deciding to impose a ban on publishing any statements from our 
 

15

party is not correct. We feel that democratic organizations should give attention to this undemocratic attitude of 
the media too. 

The incident on January 8, 2013 in Latehar where an IED was placed in the body of a slain CRPF jawan 
is also worrying. After the launch of OGH the ruling classes have resorted to every kind of brutality against the 
people in the most heinous manner. When the state forces use their superior strength and inflict serious damages 
to  the  revolutionary  movement,  the  people  and  the  people’s  guerillas  are  forced  to  function  under  intense 
conditions. Every opportunity to resist the state forces should be utilized by them. In this course, due to lack of 
experience, due to lack of knowledge about the norms, rules and regulations regarding war/s that are prevalent 
in  the  world,  our  people  and  our  fighters  are  taking  up  some  actions  which  are  not  acceptable  even  to  our 
supporters. Such instances are paining the well-wishers of the revolution and pro-people forces and they are 
asking that such incidents be avoided. On the other hand, such mistakes are not only being used by the state to 
intensify its psychological war but also by it’s apologists to make mountains out of mole hills and to attack the 
Maoist movement as a whole.  

Whatever maybe the arguments of the ruling classes, the ongoing war in our country is nothing but a 
civil war. The party which is leading it for building a new society and the people’s army, how much ever maybe 
the pressure under which we are working in the midst of war, should choose the appropriate forms of struggle to 
fight against the enemy. When seen from such a point of view, though such mistakes are occurring rarely, it is 
very much necessary to avoid them. When weapons like IEDs are planted with the aim of inflicting damages to 
the enemy forces, any methods that have the possibility of causing damage to the people and those who are not 
directly participating in the war like employees in civil administration, medical personnel and civilians should 
be avoided.  

In general, according to our party’s policy, we should not behave in an abusive manner with the enemy 
forces who surrender to us or are arrested by us. The Latehar instance did not happen as part of treating the dead 
bodies  of  enemy  soldiers  in  a  disrespectful  manner.  However  we  should  not  let  such  incidents  repeat.  The 
enemy forces are behaving in the most inhuman, callous and disrespectful manner towards the dead bodies of 
our comrades and the people as their general norm. In all societies all over world dead bodies are treated with 
certain respect. So we instruct our cadres that they should treat the bodies of slain enemy soldiers keeping this 
in view. On behalf of our CC, I appeal to our party and our PLGA comrades that this incident should be taken 
as a lesson and our party policy should be implemented.  

Q:  The  spokesperson  of  your  party’s  Dandakaranya  Special  Zonal  Committee  GVK  Prasad  (Gudsa 

Usendi) surrendered to the police recently. How would you explain this? 

A: DKSZC member GVK Prasad along with a DVC level cadre Santoshi Markam @ Jaini left DK and 
surrendered before the AP police on January 8, 2014. He is familiar as Gudsa Usendi, the spokesperson of the 
DKSZC not only to our party but also to all supporters of our movement and to several others who follow in the 
media about our party. The AP, DK cadre and people and the cadre and people of our various movement areas 
of  the  country know  why  such  degenerated  elements  surrender.  Their  surrender  was  strictly  condemned  and 
severely hated by them. Even though it is a loss to our movement, this would not last long. The number of those 
who worked in our party central and state committees and later surrendered to the enemy is limited. However, 
there is no doubt that his surrender has done damage to the party as he was in the state level leadership position. 
After  they  surrendered  to  the  enemy,  our  party’s  DKSZC  Secretary  Comrade  Ramanna  gave  a  statement 
condemning it and explaining the reasons for his surrender. This was covered extensively in the media. The 
politically  degenerated  Prasad  responded  to  this  statement  with  utter  lies.  All  his  arguments  are  completely 
wrong. The reasons he showed for their surrender are unpardonable not only in their case but in case of any 
leadership of that rank.  

Since  2010  the  countrywide  counter-revolutionary  offensive  of  the  enemy  and  armed  suppression 
campaign  intensified  on  our  movement.  In  this  offensive,  the  party  leadership  and  the  movement  suffered 
serious  losses.  Particularly,  the  DK  movement  which  was  advancing  became  the  focal  point  of  the  enemy 
offensive and it was facing a tough situation. Under such circumstances, he was directly responsible for guiding 
the  Manpur Division  movement  that  was  facing  a  more  complex  situation. Due  to  this, his  old  weakness  of 
political  vacillation  arose  again.  He  over-estimated  the  enemy’s  supremacy,  felt  fear  and  lost  his  self-
confidence. In fact, though he surrendered before the enemy in January, his political degeneration took a shape 
since the end of 2012. The recognition he got as the spokesperson of DKSZC was due to the significance of DK 
movement but he thought it was due to his own talent and became arrogant and egoistic. Due to this, he was 
scathing while criticizing others and was liberal towards his own mistakes and weaknesses.  

 

16

He failed to look at phemomena in a dialectical manner. So he looked only at the intensity of the enemy 
offensive  and  the  temporary  upper  hand  of  the  enemy  and  ignored  the  laws  of  social  development  and  the 
revolutionary  role  of  the  oppressed  people  in  this.  He  refused  to  look  at  the  present  favorable  revolutionary 
situation in our country and the world and the strong points of the revolutionary movement, lost self-confidence 
and ultimately lost confidence on the movement itself. He degenerated ideologically and politically, was not 
ready for sacrifice, left the party and bent his knees before the enemy. This is treachery towards the revolution.  
 Our party examines every aspect in the society, in the party and inside every member in the party and 
likewise it also examines those individuals who had worked in the party and degenerated – all from a Marxist 
point  of  view.  In  every  comrade  working  in  the  party,  including  the  leaders,  there  is  always  present  some 
positive  and  negative  aspects  -  revolutionary  ones,  strengths  and  good  qualities  and  non-revolutionary  ones, 
along with weaknesses, shortcomings and limitations. Nobody is exception to these. The positive aspects serve 
the revolution and the negative ones harm it. However, these maybe present relatively in varying degrees in 
different  comrades.  As  long  as  the  good-strong  aspects  are  principal  inside  an  individual  he/she  continue  to 
work  in  the  party.  If  in  an  individual negative  aspects  become  principal  he/she  does  not  last  for  long  in  the 
party. In every person, a continuous internal struggle goes on between the positive and negative aspects. Every 
person should fight consciously to get rid of the negative aspects and thus strengthen the positive aspects. Only 
then they would be able to serve the revolution and the people further. This struggle should be carried on inside 
every individual, in every party unit and in the entire party continuously. Failure, neglect, delay and lack of 
vigilance  in  this  internal  struggle  would  weaken  the  party,  the  party  units  and  the  individuals  in  the  party. 
According to the level and degree of this weakness the party and the movement would be negatively affected in 
proportion.  

To  be  precise,  every  party  member,  particularly  every  member  of  all  leading  committees  inside  the 
party  should  fight  against  their  non-proletarian  ideological  and  political  trends,  weaknesses,  mistakes  and 
shortcomings. When they are not able to overcome these when they are present at a lesser degree, there is every 
possibility for these to aggravate. If anyone fails to rectify serious shortcomings, there is always a danger of 
political  degeneration.  Then  they  will  either  run  away  or  be  thrown  away.  Our  party  opines  that  this  is  an 
integral part of the ongoing class struggle inside the society.  

Though Prasad worked in the movement as a professional revolutionary since 1985, he had two main 
weaknesses in his long revolutionary life. First, he vacillated politically during some critical junctures when the 
enemy repression intensified on the movement and it faced new dangers and challenges; second, he had petty-
bourgeois  anarchic  notions  regarding  man-woman  relations.  The  party  helped  him  in  overcoming  these  two 
weaknesses inside him and he too accepted and had tried to overcome them. In that course he could serve the 
revolution too. However, he failed in correcting the past weaknesses continuing in him. In the new conditions 
too he failed in continuing more severe internal struggle on himself to overcome his weaknesses and ultimately 
degenerated and surrendered before the enemy.  

Q: Recently the central government filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court that Maoist ideologues are 
more dangerous than Maoist guerillas and that those intellectuals who support them and build support for them 
are more dangerous. How do you respond to this? 

A: This was done with the sole aim of suppressing every just dissent and movement against the ruling 
class policies. This is to suppress the aspirations and demands of vast masses, to damage all opportunities to 
express them, to prevent the spread of revolutionary and democratic ideas by curtailing fundamental rights such 
as freedom of expression, freedom of association, freedom of movement and freedom to agitate. This is done to 
isolate the people’s struggles in rural areas to crush them. This is to prevent the protest that is increasing against 
their evil rule in society from taking a consolidated form. This is to prevent the spread of revolutionary and 
democratic ideas in the name of suppressing Maoist ideology. On the other hand they want to spread imperialist 
and  feudal  ideas  such  as  autocracy,  selfishness,  deception,  consumerism,  sexism/patriarchy,  Brahminical 
casteism, religious jingoism and treachery. All these serve retrogressive class interests. This is an excuse for 
implementing the existing draconian laws and to formulate new ones. This is part of the psy-war carried on by 
the  ruling  classes  on  the  revolutionary  and  democratic  movements.  This  is  also  to  dent  the  solidarity  and 
support movement of the revolutionary, anti-imperialist and democratic organizations and individuals all over 
the world for the PPW led by our party. The ruling classes are terrified by the great support we are getting from 
the parties, organizations and the oppressed people and intellectuals of our country and other countries. So the 
ruling classes have done this to prevent the revolutionary movement from getting such support from the world 
people. This was done to isolate the Maoist movement from other democratic and progressive movements and 
elements in our country and world over.  

 

17

Our  party  condemns  this  strongly  and  appeals  to  one  and  all  to  condemn  this  fascist  attitude  of  the 
government. We appeal to all democratic organizations, intellectuals, journalists, media persons, lawyers and 
judges to condemn this in no uncertain terms and unite to fight this back. This is a question of fundamental 
rights and not just something concerned with Maoist guerillas or their ideologues. Our party opines that this is a 
question of whether we should agitate for a genuine democracy in our country or accept autocracy.  

Q:  The  UPA-2  government  led  by  Manmohan  Singh  as  soon  as  it  came  to  power  launched  the 
Operation Green Hunt by labeling your movement as the gravest threat to internal security of our country. It 
has been five years since. What do you think is the reason for this offensive? How do you plan to fight this 
back?  

A: Firstly, Manmohan labeling us as ‘the gravest threat’ is rubbish. In fact, neither we nor our PLGA 
have descended from the skies. This is a people’s war waged by millions of people of our country and their 
army- the PLGA, under the leadership of the CPI(Maoist) against the ruling classes and their state to build a 
new democratic society. We reiterate that ours is a national democratic revolution. The unjust war imposed on 
us, on our people is the war which is being waged for the interests of a few. We are not at all a threat to our 
people.  In  fact,  the  ruling  classes  are  the  ‘gravest  threat’  to  the  people  of  our  country.  That  is  why,  all  the 
democratic, civil rights organizations in our country and the world are describing OGH as a ‘War on People’ 
and demanding its immediate withdrawal. 

Though there are several reasons for the Indian ruling classes to impose this war on us, we feel there are 
two  main  reasons  for  this.  The  national  democratic  revolutionary  program  proposed  by  us  to  the  people  is 
gaining countrywide recognition as the alternative to their pro-imperialist, pro-CBB, pro-big landlord policies. 
That is why, our party, our PLGA and our Revolutionary People’s Committees (RPCs) are gaining recognition 
among revolutionary and democratic forces and the oppressed masses.  The vast masses who are fed up with the 
anti-people, regressive policies of the governments are severely opposing them. Their anger and discontent are 
developing  to  the  extent  of  submerging  the  ruling  classes.  In  such  circumstances,  they  are  afraid  that  our 
revolutionary movement is developing and that it would shake their very foundations. That is why, the ruling 
classes  have  shamelessly  violated  all  domestic  and  international  laws  and  intensified  fascist  repression.  The 
second reason is - the Indian ruling classes collaborated with the imperialists and are selling out our country to 
them.  Joining  hands  with  them,  they  are  looting  the  natural  riches  and  labor power  of  our people.  After  the 
economy of our country has been completely transformed to the needs of the world market in the name of so-
called  development,  the  economy  of  our  country  is  retrogressing.  Along  with  the  needs  of  the  imperialist 
capital,  its  crisis  is  also  increasing.  As  the  pressure  of  the  MNCs  is  increasing  on  the  comprador  rulers  to 
implement  the  MoUs  they  signed  to  loot  our  natural  resources  and  markets  of  our  country,  the  repressive 
offensives are also intensifying. 

When the Indian ruling classes launched OGH, they carried on the offensive saying that they would 
wipe  out  our  movement  within  five  to  seven  years.  It  is  true  that  they  could  inflict  serious  losses  on  our 
movement. But they had to face the bitter resistance of our people and our PLGA in this period. It has been 
exposed as never before that the government is deploying on its own people even the Army that should be on 
the borders, that it is carrying on an unjust war and that this is a war being carried on for the interests of the 
comprador and imperialist bandits. In a people’s war, it is very crucial that it becomes clear as to which side 
represents which classes and whose interests. How many ever maybe our difficulties in this war, as far as this 
war is concerned, we give utmost importance to this aspect becoming clear, i.e., the class interests represented 
by our people’s war and those represented by the counter-revolutionary war. The fact that they could not wipe 
out the movement in the past five years in itself is a proof that the nature of this war does not allow them to 
conclude it as they wish.  

Since the days of the Telangana armed peasant rebellion where PPW began to take a shape, we learnt 
many  lessons  and  later  developed  our  strategy  and  tactics.  Depending  on  it  we  made  our  PPW  wider  and 
deeper.  Along  with  losses  and  setbacks  we  have  also  witnessed  the  movement  learning  several  lessons  and 
developing. Brute force, unjust war and fascist rule can never win forever. Our party is not only learning from 
our own mistakes, failures and defeats but also from the revolutionary experiences of the oppressed masses of 
the world, particularly of the successful and failed revolutions of the world and is trying to make the NDR in 
our country successful. By utilizing favorable conditions for the revolution to mobilize the vast masses into the 
revolutionary  war  and  by  carrying  on  active  resistance  against  the  enemy  forces  by  creatively  applying  our 
general political line and the strategy and tactics of PPW, we can march forward successfully. That is why, we, 
meaning  the  party,  PLGA  and  the  vast  oppressed  masses  would  face  the  enemy  in  spite  of  having  to  face 
immense difficulties and having to make huge sacrifices, would fight resolutely and emerge victorious in this 
war. However long drawn it may be, how many ever may be the twists and turns it goes through and how many 
 

18

ever maybe the thorns in its path, the PPW is invincible. We are very confident that our glorious people are 
ready for this long drawn battle to crush the treacherous Indian ruling classes and their imperialist masters on 
this very soil of our great country.  

*** 

 

19

