 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

DANDAKARANYA SPECIAL ZONAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release
 

 

28 November, 2015 

Against Proposed Aerial attacks on Adivasi areas 

In Bastar's Bijapur area, under the direct supervision of the top Police officials and officers of Air 
Force, aerial attack mock drills have been carried out, using 3 helicopters on 13th of October last. Modi's 

brahmanical hindutva fascist BJP government prepared an action plan "Mission 2016" to wipe out 

Dandakaranya revolutionary struggle by the end of 2016 and part of it are these drills. These mock drills are 
part of the process to cruelly suppress maoist struggle and anti displacement mass struggles and to hand over 
natural wealth and resources to domestic and international Corporate Houses as early as possible. Our Party 
strongly condemns it and appeals to the people to oppose and raise voice against the proposed aerial attacks.  
 
In Dandakaranya, at present, near about 1,20,000 (one lakh twenty thousand) paramilitary, police and 
commando  forces  are  deployed.  Carpet  security  is  being  strengthened  continuously.  Battalions  of  CRPF, 
CAF, CoBRA,  Indo Tibetan Border Police, Border Security Force are being brought in and the process of 
setting up new camps in and around the proposed big mining projects, mega industrial plants, big dams, rail-
lines is continuing. Thousands of billions rupees of MOU's are being signed in Chattisgarh's Rajnandgaon, 
Bastar  division's  7  districts  and  Maharashtra's  Gadchirolli  adivasi  majority  areas  with  the  aim  to  benefit 
Tata, Jindal, Essar, Neco Jaiswal, Lloyd, Adani, TPG-Texas Power Generation, etc Comprador Bureaucratic 
Bourgeoisie  and  Multi  National  Companies  and  also  with  the  intention  to  benefit  the  above,  MOU's  are 
signed with NMDC-National Mineral Development Corporation and SAIL-Steel Authority of India Limited. 
To facilitate transportation of raw materials and goods of these companies and for the easy deployment of 
armed forces, Dalli-Raoghat-Jagdalpur rail-line is being laid under the strict vigil of forces. It is Proposed to 
build an army training school in the midst of  "Abuj Maad's" two thirds of the land which is the habitat of 
Maadia Adivasis- who are one of the ancient tribes. Air force bases, airports, helipads, fortified camps are 
being  built  with  the  armed  forces'  gun  point.  Efforts  are  on  to  snatch  lakhs  of  acres  of  land  for  the 
implimentation of these MOU's. Conspiracy to  chase away lakhs of people and rob their lands of Maadia, 
Muria, Halba, Batra, Durva adivasis, in addition to Mahar, Marar, Kalad, Yadav, Gando  non-adivasis. Due 
to anti displacement mass struggles, people's resistance and people's war under the leadership of our party, 
Bodhghat,  Mendki  dam  projects,  Raoghat,  Chargaon,  Amdai,  Tulad,  Surjagad,  Damkodi,  etc  projects;  big 
industries  stopped.  Few  among  them  could  not  be  started  for  the  last  25  years.  In    Lohandiguda  area  of 
Bastar district, local masses with their 10 years of relentless resistance, compelled Tata to shut the proposed 
steel plant project. This is a great victory of heroic public. 

Imperialist economic and financial crisis is intensifying continuously. In this situation, Central-State 
governments  have  given  top  priority  in  their  agenda  to  annihilate  Maoist  struggle  at  the  earliest,  newly 
shaping  people's  political  power  organs-Krantikari  Janatana  Sarkar  (Revolutionary  People's  Committees) 
and  to  plunder  country's  natural  wealth  at  a  speedy  pace  at  any  cost.  Modi,  who  is  the  prime  servant  of 
domestic  and  foreign  Corporate  Houses,  not  only  initiated  but  also  aggressively  implementing  the  third 
phase of Operation Green Hunt, which is an unjust war on people, which is continuing since 2009, to wipe 
out countrywide revolutionary struggle. Aerial attacks can well be understood in this context. 
 
National  Security  Adviser  Ajit  Dobhal  and  internal  security  affairs  adviser  Vijay  Kumar  visited 
Bastar in the first and second weeks of October. Later, in a meeting at Raipur of top police officials and Air 
Force officers, the decision of aerial attacks was taken. It is appropriate to note that Modi visited Dantewada 
on 9th May, with the sole motives of Capital investment and Salwa Judum-2. It is well known that, in the 
name  of  "War  on  Terror"  by  the  imperialists,  especially  by  America  and  for  their  mean  selfish  interests, 
more of innocent people lost their lives than the agitators. in the Drone and Air strikes carried out in  Iraq, 
Afghanistan,  Pakistan,  Syria  and  other  countries  and  Israeli  attacks  on  Palestine.  This  is  continuing  even 
today. There is no need to mention separately that in Dandakaranya too, innocent adivasis and non-adivasi 

population will be victims of these air strikes. Well before itself, eight MI-17 helicopters, eight  drones are 
hovering day and nights on the heads of the people of Chattisgarh. Air force's 5 helicopters from Nagpur are 
also taking part in anti Naxal Operations. Talk is on to purchase much more of such drones and helicopters 
in  the  coming  days.  There  is  a  need  to  raise  voice  from  all  corners  against  the  use  of  army  and  air  force, 
which  were  formed  to  tackle  threats  to  country  from  abroad  than  for  the  war  on  people.  Steps  should  be 
taken from  all sides to  safeguard self respect  and very self existence of adivasis.  All  patriots should  come 
forward to protect country's natural wealth and resources for our future generations. 
 
Our  Party  appeals  to  all  Maoist  parties  the  world  over,  revolutionary  organizations,  international 
human rights organizations, trade unions, renowned democratic-progressive intellectuals, all the progressive, 
democratic  intellectuals  of  the  country,  human  rights  organizations,  activists,  various  adivasi  and  non-
adivasi social organizations, workers-peasants, students, youth, artists, writers, scientists, environmentalists, 
teachers,  employees,  patriotic  citizens  to  raise  their  voice  against  the  decision  of  aerial  attacks  on 
Dandakaranya,  i.e.  Rajnandgaon,  Bastar  and  Gadchirolli's  adivasi  majority  areas  and  to  take  to  streets  in 
protest. 

                                                                                                                              

 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           

                                                                                                                  (Vikalp) 

                                                                                               Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee, 

                                                                                                     CPI (Maoist). 

Spokesperson, 

 

 

 
 

