 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 
DANDAKARANYA SPECIAL ZONAL COMMITTEE 

19 June , 2015 
The closure of three thousand schools and ashrams by the CG government is 

a symbol of the economic and academic bankruptcy and its anti people 

Press Release

 

character   

                                                                                                         
 
The Chathisgarh government started the present academic year of 2015-16 
with the closure of three thousand schools and ashrams (residential schools). It 
closed all these ashrams in the name of lack of admission. The teachers in these 
schools  were  transferred  to  the  near  by  schools.  Most  of  these  are  primary  and 
middle schools and happen to be in the adivasi area, especially in Bastar division. 
This not only reveals the anti people and anti adivasi character and history of the 
BJP government but also exposes its economic and academic bankruptcy. 

Of  late,  due  to  the  shameful  conditions  of  the  imperialist  financial 
institutions  like  the  International  Monetary  Fund  and  the  World  Bank,  the 
government  adopted  anti  people  policy  and  brought  down  people's  welfare 
schemes. Education is being more and more privatized. This is a step towards the 
conspiracy  to  deprive  the  poor  adivasis,  dalits  and  backward  sections  of 
education and development.  

it 

In  the  name  of  bringing  down  the  expenditure  on  establishment,  the 
appointment  of  teachers  and  the  third  and  fourth  class  government  employees 
were withheld long back. In the name of appointment of siksha karmi, contract 
teachers,  daily  wage,  and  casual  employees  and  on  contract,  temporary 
appointments are being made with low wages. Now thousands of ashrams in the 
state were closed. The adivasi area that has been facing the problems of lack of 
schools,  teachers,  and  illiteracy  has  now  been  much  deprived  of  children's 
education. The appointment in the vacancies of tens of thousands of teachers was 
permanently  brought  to  a  stop.  The  unemployed  in  the  backward  adivasi  areas 
have  been  deprived  of  employment.  Due  to  the  financial  bankruptcy  of  the  CG 
government 
library, 
laboratory, uniforms, note books, and text books, mid day meals, recruitment of 
new teachers, their wages and other facilities. 

implemented  cuts 

infrastructure 

in  providing 

The  actual  meaning  of  the  constant  fake  propaganda  in  the  TV  and  Radio 
'bachho,  padho-likho,  aage  bado'  (children,  read-write,  go  forward)  and  that 
Maoists  are  against  tribals'  education  has  been  nakedly  revealed  to  the  people. 
For children, especially girls who cannot afford to go to school even in their own 
villages;  it  would  be  almost  difficult  to  go  to  schools  far  away.  The  inevitable 
situation in which the girls and boys of the family are forced to do domestic work, 
labor, and farming is itself a curse. This is depriving them of education. Instead of 
bettering  the  situation  of  such  kind  of  families  and  educating  the  children,  the 
government  is  closing  the  ashrams  in  the  name  of  lack  of  admission.  This  is 
nothing  but  worse  conspiratorial  and  negligent  attitude  of  the  government 

like 

towards  the  education  of  the  oppressed  sections.  This  would  affect  women's 
literacy  and  the  literacy  of  adivasi  women  would  fall  under  the  dark.  Narendra 
Modi's  reiterating  slogan,  'beti  bachao,  beti  padhao'  (meaning  'protect  girls, 
educate girls') is clearly revealed to the people. These kinds of slogans are given 
only to mislead and mystify the people. On one hand thousands of ashrams are 
being  closed  and  on  the  other  the  Minister  of  education  of  Chathisgarh,  Kedar 
Kashyap  announces  that  in  the  present  academic  year  six  and  a  half  lakhs  of 
children would join the ashrams. This is not only ridiculous but also misgiving. 
Backward classes, dalits and adivsis, especially the women in these sections are 
deprived  of  education  which  proves  the  anti  adivasi,  anti  education  and  anti 
development. 

The  Raman  singh  government  that  is  depriving  the  backward  sections, 
Dalits,  adivasis  of  education  is  in  fact  anti  development.  The  real  meaning  of 
Raman singh's development is that of the domestic and foreign corporate giants 
and is giving away the jal jungle and zameen of the people to them. The meaning 
of  development  is  the  absolute  deprivation  of  the  poor,  backward,  dalits  and 
adivasis of basic amenities like food, shelter, clothing, education, health, drinking 
water  etc.  Raman  Singh  is  afraid  that  if  the  adivasis  are  educated,  they  would 
become  elite  and  would  raise  their  voice  much  more  strongly  against  their 
exploitation and repression and that they would intensify armed struggle for their 
genuine development and self rule.  

Many of the schools in Bastar Division even now happen to be the shelters 
of  the  police  and  para  military  forces.  In  spite  of  the  direction  of  the  Supreme 
Court  of  the  country  this  situation  exists  as  and  how  the  forces  wish.  On  the 
other  side  the  schools  that  are  being  run  by  the  Revolutionary  Janathana 
Sarkar(RPC)  that  has  been  formed  under  the  leadership  of  our  Party  are  being 
targeted  by  the  armed  forces  of  the  government.  The  dozens  of  schools  of  the 
janathana  sarkar  (people's  government)  that  are  being  run  in  Narayanapur, 
Kanker, Bastar, Bijapur, Dantewada and Sukma districts were attacked and the 
notebooks, textbooks, clothes and other such essential articles have been burnt. 
This  clearly  reveals  the  fakeness  of  the  Raman  singh  government  regarding  the 
education of the adivasis.  

Our  party  calls  upon  all  the  students,  teachers,  parents  and  guardians, 
progressive and democratic intellectuals, human rights organisations, adivasi and 
non  adivasi  social  organisations  to  strongly  protest  the  anti  education  policy  of 
the Chathisgarh government and to take up programs to demand the withdrawal 
of the decision of closing the ashrams. We call upon the people and teachers of 
the affected villages to come forward and demand the retaining of the ashrams in 
their original places.                                                                                                                              

 

                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                   (Gudsa Usendi) 

            

               Spokesperson, 
Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee,  
CPI (Maoist). 

 

 
 

