 

 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

 

 

 

Press Release: April 24, 2009 

 
Condemn the genocide of the Tamil people by the Sinhala chauvinist, 

neo-Nazi fascist rulers of Sri Lanka! Let us unite to fight against 

UPA government’s support to Rajapakse’s genocidal war 

on Tamil nation!! 

 
 
 
The situation in the LTTE-controlled areas in northern Sri Lanka has become extremely delicate and 
dangerous  with an average of almost 500 Tamils being butchered every  week by the Sinhala  chauvinist 
army since the past  three months and the  number increasing with every passing day. The virtual  silence 
by the so-called International community is criminal to say the least, and its feeble calls for a pause in the 
fighting, a cruel joke. In fact, it is precisely based on the active support and military aid provided by the 
various  imperialist  powers  as  well  as  by  the  Indian  government  that  the  racist  and  fascist  Rajapakse 
government  had  embarked  upon  the  current  all-out  brutal  assault  on  the  Tamil  areas  in  July  2006  by 
unilaterally breaching the 2002 cease-fire it had entered into with the LTTE. 
 
 
The  brutal  onslaught  by  the  Sinhala  military  had  resulted  in  acute  humanitarian  crisis  in  the  Tamil 
areas pushing hundreds of thousands of Tamil people into a state of starvation and misery. The incessant 
and indiscriminate bombing of entire areas had left thousands of civilians dead or wounded with no scope 
for medical treatment.  These sadists have not permitted any independent observer into the conflict  zone 
from outside,  denied  permission  to  UN  and  other  international  aid  agencies  and  observers,  even  to  Red 
Cross  workers  and  media  personnel.  There  has  been  a  total  news  blackout.  It  is  obvious  that  the  fascist 
Sinhala  rulers  do  not  want  their  genocidal  war  and  their  crimes  against  humanity  to  be  known  to  the 
outside world. 
 
 
people,  the  neo-Nazi  rulers  are  putting  forth  cynical  claims  that  they  are  “freeing”  the  Tamil  civilians 
from LTTE’s clutches, that their aim is to crush the LTTE and not to harm the ordinary Tamils, and that 
declaring cease-fire  would  not be of any help to the civilian population and would only  help the  LTTE, 
and so on. They shamelessly describe their genocidal war as a “rescue operation” and give out figures of 
those “rescued”. Having gained a series of victories over the LTTE with the active  aid and guidance of 
various  imperialist  powers  and  the  Indian  expansionists,  these  bloodthirsty  hounds  do  not  want  to  give 
any breathing space even if that meant the decimation of a significant proportion of the Tamil population 
in  the  LTTE-held  areas.  The  Sri  Lankan  army  has  entered  the  no-fire  zone—a  small  piece  of  territory 
covering  around  17  sq  km—and  is  resorting  to  heavy  bombardment  leading  to  huge  civilian  casualties. 
Even  those  who  are  fleeing  are  shot  dead  by  the  Sinhala  chauvinist  soldiers  in  sharp  contrast  to  the 

Even as they go about butchering, maiming and evicting tens of thousands of 

photographs aired in TV channels showing how the Sinhala soldiers are helping the Tamil civilians. The 
reality  is  that  every  refugee  coming  out  from  the  so-called  no-fire  zone  is  treated  as  an  enemy,  as  a 
probable  LTTE  “terrorist”,  and  is  subjected  to  intense  interrogation  and  even  eliminated  under  the 
slightest  suspicion.  Tamil  women  are  being  sterilized  forcibly  to  check  the  growth  in  Tamil  population. 
Hospitals, orphanages and refugee shelters are bombed and the trucks carrying relief supplies are blocked 
by the Lankan army. The aim of the Sri Lankan rulers is to drive out the Tamil population from the area 
and herd them into concentration camps so that they do not again unite to wage war for a separate Tamil 
Eelam. It is with this crooked aim that they have been exerting continuous pressure through uninterrupted 
bombing of the areas held by LTTE. 
 
 
The Indian ruling classes had always backed the Sri Lankan state in its war against the Tamil nation. 
In fact, it had even sent the Indian army in the name of peacekeeping force in 1987 but had to turn back 
after three years when it lost a few thousand soldiers in the hands of the LTTE. The ruling Congress party 
even had to pay the price by losing its leader, Rajiv Gandhi. The Indian state has been giving all sorts of 
aid to the  Sri  Lankan government  in  crushing the  LTTE. The  shifting of some of the defence personnel 
injured in the fighting in Tamil areas to Chennai for treatment reveals the extent of involvement of India 
in the war aimed at the extermination of the Tamil nation in Sri Lanka. 
 
  While  these  are  the  facts,  the  spokespersons  for  the  Indian  government,  and  the  various  political 
parties in Tamil Nadu have been claiming that they fully sympathise and stand by the Tamil people, that 
they support their demand for a separate Eelam, and that they are exerting pressure on the government of 
Sri Lanka to resolve the humanitarian crisis arising out of the war. 
 
  With  an  eye  on  the  impending  elections  in  Tamil  Nadu,  every  political  party  is  pretending  to  be 
sympathetic  to  the  cause  of  Tamil  Eelam  and  putting  up  postures  opposing  the  attacks  by  the  Lankan 
army.  All  this  is  mere  eye-wash.  Parties  like  Jayalalitha’s  AIADMK  and  Congress  had  all  along  been 
bitter  opponents  of  the  struggle  of  the  Tamils  in  Sri  Lanka.  Karunanidhi’s  DMK  has  always  pursued  a 
dubious  stand,  on  the  one  hand  posing  to  be  supporting  the  Tamil  cause,  while  on  the  other,  extending 
support  to  the  UPA  govt  which  has  been  assisting  the  Sri  Lankan  govt  in  the  genocidal  war  against 
Tamils. Moreover, the DMK has crushed people’s protests against the Sri Lankan govt. All these parties 
wish to see the LTTE decimated as they know how strong is the influence of the Eelam struggle for self-
determination on  the people of Tamil Nadu.  At the same time they  know  they  would be isolated if they 
did not support the right of the Tamil nation in Sri Lanka for self-determination and condemn the war of 
genocide unleashed by Rajapakse’s Sinhala racist regime in Sri Lanka. 
 
 
The CC, CPI(Maoist), calls upon the people of India to wage a united struggle demanding immediate 
halt to the aid given by the Indian government to the Sri Lanka rulers, to sever all diplomatic relations by 
India with the Sri Lankan government if it does not stop its war of genocide immediately, and to allow all 
the refugees from the war-ravaged areas into Tamil Nadu without any harassment. 
 
 
The people of Sri Lanka should realize that the current war against the Tamil nation is an unjust war 
waged by an oppressor nation over an oppressed nation. Besides, it is a ploy of the Sri Lankan rulers to 
divert  the  people’s  attention  from  the  deep  crisis  afflicting  the  country.  Giving  legitimacy  to  the  war 
would mean lending legitimacy to the further strengthening of the Sri Lankan fascist state machine that is 
going to be increasingly directed against the vast toiling masses of Sri Lanka who dare to wage struggle 
against oppression and exploitation. It is the duty of the working class and oppressed people of Sri Lanka 
to  unequivocally  oppose  the  war  of  genocide  and  force  the  government  to  immediately  halt  its  brutal 
crimes  against  the  Tamil  nation.  The  aspirations  of  the  Tamil  nation  cannot  be  crushed  through  brutal 
fascist  means.  Even  if  the  LTTE  suffers  a  setback  today,  the  unfulfilled  aspirations  of  the  Tamil  nation 
will give rise to a more militant national liberation movement. 
 

*An immediate declaration of cease-fire by the Sri Lankan Army and end to the genocidal war 

*An end to all aid and support by the Indian government to the terrorist regime in Colombo! 

*An impartial enquiry into the war crimes committed by the Sri Lankan military such as mass 

*Recognition of an independent, sovereign Eelam which is a legitimate inalienable right of the 

The central committee, CPI(Maoist), demands: 

 
 
 
it had unleashed on the Tamil nation! 
 
 
 
 
murder, use of cluster bombs and other chemical weapons, bombing of civilian targets etc! 
 
 
Tamil nation in Sri Lanka! 
 
 
sd/- 
Azad, 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI(Maoist) 
 
 

[From: CPI(Maoist) Information Bulletin, #8, May 15, 2009, pp. 46-48.] 

 

