COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

January 12, 2011 
 

Condemn the indiscriminate killings and fake encounters 

by the police and paramilitary forces in Odisha ! 

People would surely defeat the conspiracy of Naveen Patnaik 

to hand over the natural resources of Odisha to the Corporations 

by decimating the Maoist revolutionary movement ! 

 

As part of the massive offensive Operation Green Hunt being conducted in coordination by the central 
and state governments with the avowed aim of decimating the Maoist revolutionary movement completely, 
the special police and paramilitary forces have resorted to indiscriminate killings in the past two months in 
Odisha and  have taken nearly 25 lives in cold-blood in various incidents. Of these most of them were fake 
encounters  while  others  were  incidents  where  hundreds  of  police  and  paramilitary  were  deployed  with 
specific information about the whereabouts of the guerillas and fired indiscriminately on the guerillas and 
the people with them. 

Recently on January 12, 2011, in an ‘encounter’ in a forest area in Keonjhar district two Maoists had 
died  and  on  January  9,  2011  in  an  alleged  encounter  in  Bandhkamali  mountains  which  fall  under  the 
Niyamgiri area of Rayagadha district, nine comrades were martyred. Ravi, one of the martyred comrades, 
is an important leader who has been working among the oppressed people of Odisha for the past few years. 
He  hails  from  East  Godavari  district  in  Andhra  Pradesh.  Just  one  week  back,  on  January  2,  2011  in  the 
encounter which was said to have taken place in the Rayaghati forests under Kalinganagar area in Jajpur 
district,  five  Maoists  including  three  women  comrades  were  martyred.  One among  these  martyrs  was  an 
Area Committee member of the Kalinganagar area. They were in  preparation for some mass activities on 
the occasion of the fifth anniversary of the massacre of Adivasis on January 2 when this incident occurred. 
On  29  December,  2010,  in  an  alleged  encounter  in  Talpada  forest  area  of  Keonjhar  district  one  woman 
comrade  was  martyred.  Before  this  in  the  fourth  week  of  December  the  police  announced  that  three 
Maoists had died in an encounter at Adaba forest area in Gajapati district. In the beginning of January, in 
another alleged encounter  in Bargarh district two persons had died but the people had declared that they 
were ordinary people and that the police had killed them in cold-blood. Some days before this there were 
news items in the media that even the encounter in Gajapati district was also a fake one and that ordinary 
people  had  died  in  this.  Though  huge  scale  protests  were staged by  people  and  democrats on  these  fake 
encounters,  the  Naveen  government  is  not  caring  a  damn  and  is  resorting  to  murders  of  ordinary  people 
and revolutionaries unscrupulously. 

Odisha is a state abundantly rich in mineral, water and forest resources but it has become the abode of 
dire poverty and hunger deaths. Odisha is in the first place in iron reserves and it has many other valuable 
mineral resources. But all this wealth is filling the coffers of the wealthy while the conditions of the poor 
people are deteriorating. In the past 63 years of so-called independence, the oppressed people of Odisha, 
particularly  the  adivasis  are  getting  crushed  under  the  feudal  and  imperialist  exploitation.  The  Odisha 
government  led  by  the  Mining  Mafia  Boss  Naveen  Patnaik  has  turned  Odisha  into  the  paradise  of  the 
mining corporations by signing innumerable MoUs with them. More than 49 MoUs regarding steel plants, 
more  than  20  MoUs  regarding  thermal  power  plants,  some  MoUs  for  alumina  refinery  projects  and  a 
harbor  were signed.    The MoU worth  55,000  crores  of  rupees  signed  with  the  MNC Posco  belonging  to 
South  Korea  is  the  biggest  foreign  direct  investment  in  India.  The  Odisha  government  had  shamelessly 
violated its own laws while granting permissions to Tata in Kalinganagar and Vedanta in Niyamgiri apart 
from  Posco.  All  these  MoUs  lead  to  untold  miseries  for  the  Odisha  people.  These  would  lead  to 
destruction  of  the  forests,  lands,  water,  ecology  and  all  aspects  of  their  lives.  This  could  be  one  of  the 
biggest man-made disasters in the world. That is why the people of Odisha are fighting against this atrocity 
and exploitation. 

In the recent past, Odisha people agitated and are still agitating against the exploitation and atrocities 
of the MNCs and big comprador bourgeoisie companies like Tata, Vedanta, Posco etc. and also against the 
feudal  exploitation  in  the  Narayanapatna  area  of  Koraput  district.  Government  used  brutal  force  against 
these struggles and killed many people. On January 2, 2006, the police fired on the adivasis who refused to 
hand over their cultivable lands to the Tata Steel company in Kalinganagar and killed at least fourteen of 
them. In many other instances, people had become injured or have lost their lives in police firings. People 
launched  agitations  against  bauxite  mines  of  Vedanta  company  in  Niyamgiri  area  and  against  Vedanta 
Alumina  refinery  in  Lanjigarh.  Caving  in  before  the  people’s  agitations,  the  Central  government  had 
cancelled permission to Vedanta with the reason that it had violated rules and regulations. But the people 
are still continuing their agitation as they feel that as long as the Vedanta refinery exists in Lanjigarh it is 
detrimental  to  their  very  existence  and  that  it  would  adversely  affect  their  lands  and  ecology.  People  of 
Odisha  are  fighting  against  such  issues  in  many  places.  The  Maoist  party  is  leading  these  agitations  in 
many  places  and  supporting  them  in  others.  More  important  is  the  fact  that  people  are  welcoming  the 
leadership  of  Maoists  and  are  aspiring  for  it.  The  Odisha  people  have  realized  that  there  is  no  political 
party other than the Maoist party which could put an end to feudal and imperialist exploitation. The Maoist 
movement is expanding to many new areas. The Naveen Patnaik government with the full support of the 
UPA government at the centre is resorting to these massacres precisely because the Maoists constitute the 
main  hurdle  to  their  blanket  loot  of  resources.  Particularly,  it  is  obvious  to  one  and  all  that  the  callous 
murder of nine revolutionaries in Niyamgiri area has happened with the aim of  facilitating the wholesale 
loot of Vedanta and under its aegis. Similarly it is also very clear that the fascist massacres resorted to by 
the government in the Kalinganagar area (in Jajpur and Keonjhar districts) is to facilitate the exploitation 
of corporations like that of Tata and others waiting in the wings to occupy this whole area. Naveen Patnaik 
who is gobbling billions of rupees as the stooge of the corporations and his administrative machinery are 
being  threatened  seriously  by  the  existence  of  the  Maoist  movement.  That  is  why  they  are  resorting  to 
fascist  onslaught  on  the  people  and  the  guerilla  squads spending  billions  of  rupees  on  increasing  police, 
commando forces (SOG), SPO and informer network on a huge scale. 

History  has  proven  many  a  times  that  it  is  impossible  to  suppress  the  people’s  movements  with 
murders, offensives and suppression campaigns. The comprador Naveen Patnaik, Vedanta ex-director and 
the  CEO  of  the  present  Operation  Green  Hunt  Chidambaram,  other  ruling  class  oligarchs  and  their 
imperialist  masters  are  dreaming  that  they  would  be  able  to  put  aside  all  the  hurdles  in  the  path  of 
exploitation  of  the  feudal  classes  and  the  corporations  by  crushing  the  Maoist  revolutionary  movement. 
The people are bound to come to the fore more militantly to intensify their struggles. Though the spate of 
encounters in the past few days indicate the intensity of the offensive on the Maoists this should be seen as 
part of the overall offensive on all the people’s movements fighting against their loot.  We can stop these 
massacres only by taking up arms and fighting in a united manner against the anti-people, pro-imperialist 
policies followed by the blood-thirsty Naveen government and against corporate exploitation. 

The  Central  Committee  of  the  CPI  (Maoist)  is  appealing  to  all  the  people  of  our  country  and 
democrats to condemn in severe terms these atrocious massacres and fake encounters. We are appealing to 
the  people  to  demand  independent  judicial  inquiry  into  all  these  incidents  of  firings  and  to  demand 
punishment for all the police officials involved in them.  We are appealing to all that they should realize 
that these offensives are not carried on exclusively on the Maoist movement and that they are aimed at all 
those who are raising their voice or fighting against this corporate loot. Our Central Committee is calling 
upon  all  the  democratic,  progressive  and  patriotic  forces  to  unite  and  fight  against  the  corporate 
exploitation  and  against  the  massacres  perpetrated  by  the  central  and  state  governments  and  against  the 
Operation Green Hunt carried on  for the incessant loot of our resources. 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

