COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

13 April, 2011 
 

Intensify Mass Struggles To Put An End To Institutionalized 

Corruption! 

 

In recent times, corruption has once again come to the forefront as a main issue with the exposure of 
massive scams like 2G spectrum, Commonwealth games, Adarsh housing society, Karnataka land scams, 
S-Band  spectrum  scam. Workers,  peasants,  adivasis,  dalits,  women,  and  urban  middle  class  -  all  classes 
and  sections  of  the  society  are  expressing  their  deep  discontent  and  anguish.  Recently  we  saw  great 
support to the hunger strike of Anna Hazare, which is the direct consequence of the widespread discontent 
in the people against corruption, corrupt political parties and their leaders. Though the demand for hunger 
strike is Jan Lokpal Bill, the aspiration of the people is to completely wipe out corruption. 

It  would  be  innocence,  if  anyone  feels  that  by  setting  up  a  committee  to  frame  Lokpal  bill  and  by 
selecting  half  of  the  committee  members  from  civil  society  would  itself  finds  a solution.  In  fact,  lack  of 
rules  and  laws  is  not  the  cause  for  endless  and  deep-ridden  corruption.  Way  back  from  jeep  scam, 
Lockheed's airplane deal to late Rajiv Gandhi's Bofors deals, our country has seen many a scams  starting 
from  a  few  million  rupees  to  trillions  of  rupees.  Not  only  main  parliamentary  parties  like  Congress  and 
BJP,  leaders  and  ministers  of  all  other  national  and  regional  parliamentary  parties  like  RJD,  BSP,  SP, 
DMK, AIADMK, TDP and hand in glove bureaucrats have a long history of corrupt practices. By proper 
implementation of the existing laws in the country and by the proper functioning of anti-corruption wings, 
scams  like  these  can  be  prevented  to  a  grate  extent  and  those  responsible  for  these  can  be  severely 
punished. In the last 64 years history of 'independent' India, we don't find a single incidence, where corrupt 
politicians, ministers, heads of corporate houses and bureaucrats have been punished. Due to pressure from 
people or opposition parties, even if arrested in some rare cases, by prolonging  investigation and diluting 
of  the  charges,  they  get  scot-free  without  any  stringent  punishment  or  with  nominal  punishment.  This  is 
because; the judiciary of this country is also an inseparable part of this exploitative state machinery. None 
can be under the illusion to end corruption through these laws and court rooms. 

We  have  to  first  realize  that  corruption  is  not  an  issue  confined  to  a  handful  of  bad  or  greedy 
individuals.  The  root  cause  of  all  these  corruptions  and  scams  lies  in  the  capitalist  system  whose  sole 
motto  is cut-throat profiteering. In spite of  preaching  liberty,  freedom and democratic  values,  in pracitce 
it's based on intense labor exploitation, bribery, commissions, kickbacks etc. Hence ending of corruptions 
and scams is an issue which is linked with the revolutionary transformation of present system. It would be 
illusionary  to  expect  a  complete  solution  to  this  by  bringing  in  few  fine  laws  while  keeping  this  semi-
feudal and semi-colonial system in our country intact. 

In  fact,  the  scams  that  have  not  surfaced  are  many  times  more  compared  to  the  ones  that  have 
surfaced. For example late chief minister of Andhra Pradesh, YS Rajasekhar Reddy, present chhattisgarh 
chief  minister Raman Singh, Odisha chief  minister Naveen Patnaik, chief  ministers of Jharkhand Madhu 
Koda,  Shibu  Soren  and  Arjun  Mundas,  Karnataka  chief  minister  Yediyurappa  and  likes,  by  signing 
agreements with  mining  mafia and big companies have amassed huge commissions amounting to tens of 
billions  of  rupees  is  being  exposed  even  in  the  media.  LPG  policies  being  pursued  by  the  governments 
have opened the floodgates for rampant corruption, huge scams and massive plunder of natural wealth of 
our country. Hence, without  unequivocally  opposing imperialist-dictated anti-people government policies 
and without  focusing  mass struggles against these, just speaking and  hoping to wipe out corruption  is  to 
mislead people. 

Anna Hazare ended his fast with the government's decision to form a committee to frame Lokpal bill. 
But justice is not meted out to the people who are aspiring to put an end to corruption. In fact, government 
accepted this demand not in  fear of Anna  Hazare's fast, but to pacify people's anguish  that came forth  in 
support to his fast. It is noteworthy that ruling classes accepted to this demand only because any  numbers 
of laws like these in no way affect the present system. 

The  Central  Committee  of  the  CPI  (Maoist)  welcomes  countrywide  response  of  the  people  against 
corruption.  Our  Party  believes  that  only  through  the  united,  well-organized  and  militant  mass  struggles, 
corruption can be put to an end. Our Party calls upon the people of our country not to get satisfied by the 
namesake laws and forming new committees to frame such laws by the government and not to end these 
struggles,  but  to  continue  with  firm  conviction.  We  call  upon  workers,  peasants,  students,  intellectuals, 
employees,  pro-people  Gandhians  and  all  other  patriotic  forces  to  come  forward  and  to  form  a  broad 
alliance to fight against corruption which has affected our country. Our Party appeals to raise voice against 
all  these  thieves  and  dacoits  who  are  involved  in  endless  corruption,  scams  and  plunder  and  who  have 
stashed trillions of rupees of black money in Swiss banks, have no right to be in power even for a moment. 

 
 
 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

