COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

August 19, 2011 
Throw into the dust bin all the vicious propaganda carried on 

Press Release

 

by the ruling classes and corporate media 

against the Maoist leadership! 

At present  the  Indian revolutionary movement  is  facing many hard challenges  and advancing 
through  the  process  of  victory-defeat  and  victory.  With  the  aim  of  completely  wiping  out  the 
revolutionary  movement,  the  ruling  classes  are  carrying  on  a  cruel  war  of  suppression  with  the  full 
support of the imperialists. Particularly by following the LIC strategy formulated by the US imperialists, 
these fascists are carrying on this counter-revolutionary war. Particularly from 2009 onwards the UPA 
government in coordination with the state governments is carrying on a countrywide suppressive war in 
the name of OGH. In this unjust war carried on against the people under the leadership of the Sonia-
Manmohan  Singh-Chidambaram-Pranab  Mukherji  gang,  their  strategy  is  said  to  be  ‘suppression  and 
development’ (read suppression of the people and development of the corporate houses). As part of this 
they  are  using  psychological  warfare  as  a  strategic weapon  and  vicious  propaganda  on  revolutionary 
leadership is a key component in this. Media is being used as one of the main instruments in this psy-
war. Media persons who represent corporate sector and pseudo intellectuals who are apologists for the 
ruling classes' ideology are participating actively in this psy-war through foul-mouthed propaganda. 

Counter-revolutionary propaganda is as old as the revolutionary movement. The German fascist 
propaganda minister Goebbels who said that repeating a lie a hundred times would turn it into the truth 
has  found  his  Indian  avatars  in  Sonia,  Manmohan,  Pranab  Mukherji,  Raman  Singh,  Naveen  Patnaik, 
Nitish  Kumar,  Kiran  Kumar  etc  and  their  faithful  spokespersons  like  Arnab  Goswamis  and  Chandan 
Mitras are leading this nasty campaign in various forms in the media. Right from the propaganda that 
Marxism  has  become  outdated  to  the  propaganda  that  bitter  differences  have  cropped  up  among  the 
Maoist leaders, news items against the revolutionary movement and its leadership with utter lies and 
outlandish fabrications, falsehoods and half-truths are being published and relayed day in and day out. 
The  single  and  foremost  aim  of  this  psy-war  is  to  spread  confusion,  disappointment  and  lack  of 
confidence among the people and the revolutionary ranks towards Maoist leadership by creating doubts, 
prejudices  and  illusions  about  our  party  and  its  leadership.  The  ruling  classes  and  their  lackey 
intellectuals  are  dreaming  that  by  deceiving  the  people  they  can  carry  on  their  exploitation  and  pro-
imperialist  economic  policies  without  any  opposition  whatsoever.  Some  of  the  journalists  who  come 
under this category are hand in gloves with the intelligence officials and are propagating crap about the 
Maoist revolutionary movement through corporate media houses. The white lie published under the title 
‘Bitter  differences  crop  up  between  Maoist  PW  and  MCC factions’  in Times  of  India  dated  July  17, 
2011 is undoubtedly part of this Psy-War. 

This news item dictated by the Indian intelligence agencies and written by Rakhi Chakrabarthy 
has not only targeted the Maoist leadership but has also falsely created ‘PW and MCC factions’ and 
‘severe differences of opinions among them’ in the party. The unity of these two revolutionary parties in 
accordance with the much-awaited aspirations of the oppressed peoples of the world and our country 
and  rich  experiences  of  these  two  parties  by  overcoming  the  most  painful  period  named  as  “Black 
chapter” by both of them in their histories has opened a glorious chapter in our country’s revolutionary 
movement.  Only  genuine  and  selfless  revolutionaries  can  so  accept  their  mistakes  publicly  and  seek 
apology  from  the  people  and work with steadfast determination not  to  repeat  them.  That  is  why this 
genuine unity has enthused the oppressed people and revolutionary ranks all over the world as much as 
it had spread anxiety and dread among the Indian ruling classes and their imperialist masters. It is to be 

noted  that  the  faithful  servant  of  the  imperialists  and  the  Prime  Minister  of  India  Manmohan  Singh 
began describing the Maoist movement as the biggest internal security threat after this historic unity. It 
is also an undeniable fact that the ruling classes have intensified their fascist offensive on massive scale 
against the revolutionary movement only after this.  

It is an age-old trick of the ruling classes to create illusionary divisions among the top leaders of 
the revolutionary parties so that people would come to believe that even these parties would not lead 
them  properly  with  such  careerisms  and  divides  among  their  leaders.  Umpteen  numbers  of  such 
instances can be quoted from all over the world and this news item of TOI is one such most vicious 
propaganda against our leaders who in fact have spent decades of their lives in service of the people 
selflessly. Some of them are now languishing in jails facing inhuman treatment from the state without 
the minimum facilities or medical treatment at this old age. The callousness of the state towards our 
leaders  who  have  sacrificed  everything  for  the  liberation  of  the  oppressed  people  of  our  country  is 
reaching unprecedented heights with each day. In a way, this only indicates that the state is scared about 
the increasing influence of revolutionary politics and is resorting to all kinds of tricks to reduce it in 
vain.  Our  Party  is  completely  rejecting  all  these  allegations  leveled  against  our  leadership  and  is 
appealing to the oppressed masses and the revolutionary camp not to believe even a word of it. 

All genuine revolutionary parties have several differences of opinions and shades of differences 
among  their  members  in  ideological,  political,  organizational,  military,  cultural  etc  matters.  Various 
ideas  come  for  discussion  and  they  are  concluded  with  a  majority  after  each  and  every  member  has 
voiced  her/his  opinion  on  them.  This  is  a  democratic  process  followed  by  the  revolutionary  parties 
which can never be seen in or understood by the ruling class parties. Only through such discussions and 
criticism-self-criticism does a party sustain its revolutionary content and not by blindly following any 
one leader like in the bourgeois parties. Revolutionaries steel themselves in the flames of class struggle 
and  by  going  through  many  sessions  of  criticisms  and  self-criticisms.  The  intelligence  agencies  are 
trying to distort this healthy atmosphere inside the party as exactly its opposite and trying to confuse the 
people and the ranks by propagating that there are bitter differences inside the party and that too on the 
lines of PW and MCC. We appeal to the oppressed people of the world and our country, democrats and 
revolutionary ranks to condemn this vicious propaganda, to stay alert to such tricks of the state, to throw 
them into the dust bin and to stand firmly with the revolutionary movement in solidarity. 

Finally,  regarding  the  so-called  differences  on ‘the  lines  of  PW  and  MCC’,  we  feel  it  would 
suffice if we reiterate what our party General Secretary Comrade Ganapathy had said in an interview 
given to the media in October 2010. 

“....The struggle between correct ideas and wrong ideas is a continuous process in the party. We 
would solve our differences of opinion by abiding the principle of democratic centralism and in the light 
of  Marxism-Leninism-Maoism.  This  would  only  lead  to  the  development  of  the  party.  We  achieved 
great unity with the merger of the two parties. Now any discussions or conflict of ideas which takes 
place in the party would be in the form of ideological and political discussions in a united party and not 
in  the  form  of  differences  between  erstwhile  MCCI  and  erstwhile  CPI  (M-L)  (People’s  War).  We 
categorically state that the differences would never ever take the form of conflicts before the merger.” 

 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

