COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

December 24, 2010 

Serving people is not conspiracy! 

Supporting people’s struggles can never be sedition!! 
The Scamsters who amass billions of rupees are the real conspirators! 

The Gangsters who sell-out our country to imperialists are the real traitors!! 

Observe Protest Week from January 2nd to 8th, 2011 against the fascist Chhattisgarh 

government’s court judgments that sentenced Civil Rights activist Doctor Binayak Sen, 

Maoist leader Narayana Sanyal, trader Piyush Guha under sedition for life imprisonment and 

magazine editor Asit Sengupta for eight years imprisonment! 

On December 24, the Raipur district additional sessions court sentenced for life civil rights activist Dr. Binayak 
Sen,  our  party  Politburo  member  Comrade  Narayan  Sanyal,  trader  Piyush  Guha  under  IPC,  Chhattisgarh  Special 
Public Security Act and UAPA implicating them in false cases. The life sentences were pronounced by B.P. Verma 
under  IPC  section  124  (sedition),  120  B  (conspiracy)  and  many  other  kinds  of  sentences  were  pronounced  under 
various sections of CSPCA and UAPA. The eight year sentence for Asit Sengupta was pronounced on the same day 
by  O.P.  Gupta.  Both  these  judgments  are  the  latest  additions  to  the  huge  cache  of  anti-people,  fascist  repressive 
measures of the Indian ruling classes. 

Sentencing  for  life  our  party  Politburo  member  Comrade  Narayan  Sanyal,  Binayak  Sen,  a  doctor  who  had 
dedicated  his  life  as  a  doctor  serving  the  poor  people  selflessly,  a  prominent  civil  rights  activist  and  the  vice-
president of PUCL and Piyush Guha, a trader belonging to Kolkata is the most shameless thing for the rulers to do 
even while boasting that this is the biggest democracy in the whole world. Opposing the repressive policies of the 
government,  the  fascist  Salwa  Judum,  raising  his  voice  for  the  repeal  of  the  black  law  CSPSA  and  standing  in 
support  of  the  just  peoples  movements  are  the  ‘crimes’  committed  by  Dr.  Binayak  Sen  for  which  he  has  been 
punished  with  life  sentence. When he  was  arrested in May  2007  and  kept in jail  for  two  years,  immense  protests 
were held and severe condemnations were issued by democratic sections, medical community, Nobel laureates and 
many others in India and abroad. Pronouncing this sentence ignoring all this can only mean that the fascist rulers are 
without any scruples or embarrassment issuing a threat to all the democratic, progressive and patriotic sections of our 
country. If responding positively towards people’s issues in a legal, democratic manner, serving the people sincerely 
and  criticizing  the  anti-people  policies  of  the  government  is  ‘sedition’,  then  one  can  imagine  what  kind  of 
‘democracy’ is being practiced in this country and how dangerous it is for the people. The eight year sentence for 
Asit Sengupta (editor of the Hindi version of 'A World To Win' which is published in various languages all over the 
world)  who  is  languishing  in  jail  since  three  years  with  the  false  accusation  that  he  was  participating  in  Maoist 
activities  is  nothing  but  stifling  the  Freedom  of  Press.  Recently,  Chhattisgarh  Chief  Minister  Raman  Singh,  DGP 
Viswaranjan, Bastar IG Longkumer and Dantewada SP Kalluri gang had published pamphlets under the name ‘Maa 
Danteswari Adivasi Swabhimani Manch’ and had openly declared that they would kill journalists SRK Pillai, Anil 
Sharma and Yaswant Rai along with democrats Himanshu Kumar and Arundhati Roy and had the audacity to declare 
that it is indeed their own doing! So much for the ‘rule of law’ harped upon by our rulers day in and day out! 

Comrade Narayan Sanyal, a 73-year old  veteran communist who began his revolutionary life in 1968 and has 
dedicated more than four decades of his life for the liberation of the oppressed people, is ailing with various health 
problems and has been languishing in the dark dungeons of the fascist Chhattisgarh government since five years. The 
Sonia-Manmohan-Chidambaram-Raman  Singh  terrorist  gang  is  killing  Maoist  leaders  in  fake  encounters  and 
sentencing many of them to harsh punishments under black laws. They are subjected to physical and mental tortures 
in the inhuman conditions prevailing in jails.  

On  July  29,  2010,  our  party  activist  Comrade  Malati  @  Santi  Priya  and  a  worker  Surendra  Kosaria  were 
sentenced to ten years imprisonment using false witnesses under the case that Maoist propaganda CDs were sent to 
the  MLAs.  Amitabh Bagchi, a Politburo  member of  our  party  and  Comrade  Kartik,  a state committee  member of 
West  Bengal,  incarcerated  in  Ranchi  jail,  were  also  sentenced  to  life  imprisonment  through  fast  track  court  in 
Jharkhand. On October 29, the AP government sentenced Comrade Panduranga Reddy and three others to four years 
imprisonment in the Alipiri case (attack on ex-CM Chandrababu) using false witnesses. Many more revolutionary 
activists  and  ordinary  people  are  being  sentenced  to  very  harsh  punishments  including  capital  punishment  by  the 
reactionary  courts  serving  the  exploiting  ruling  classes.  Comrades  Sushil  Roy  and  Kobad  Gandhi  who  are  senior 
leaders and ailing with various health problems and old age; comrades Shobha, Patitpavan Haldar, Pramod Mishra, 
Vijay, Asutosh, Balraj, Chintan, Biman, Bidhan, Chandi Sarkar, Balganesh, Jharkhand Abhen’s Jeetan Marandi and 
thousands of other comrades are denied bail, being implicated in false cases one after another and made to languish 

in jails for years together. In West Bengal, Comrade Swapan Das arrested under UAPA was denied health care in 
Jail and became the first martyr of this draconian law. 

The UPA government bent on selling our natural and human resources to imperialist MNCs like Vedanta and to 
comprador bourgeoisie like Tata, Essar, Jindal, Mittal etc has declared CPI (Maoist) as the biggest internal security 
threat as it is standing in their way offering stiff resistance to this unlimited loot. As part of this, the government is 
carrying on  vicious  foul  propaganda using its propaganda  machine.  Since  August 2009,  in the name  of  Operation 
Green  Hunt  the  central  and  state  governments  are  resorting  to  brutal  attacks  on  the  revolutionary  movement  and 
particularly  adivasis are  being  massacred by  deploying  millions of  police and paramilitary  forces in  Chhattisgarh, 
Odisha,  Bihar,  Jharkhand,  Andhra  Pradesh,  West  Bengal  and  other  states.  This  offensive  is  carried  on  under  the 
guidance  and  full  support  of  imperialists,  particularly  the  US  imperialists.  The  exploiting  rulers  are  using  every 
means at their disposal to portray our party which is fighting with the lofty aim of establishing people’s government 
of  democratic  classes  basing  on  the  unity  of  worker-peasants  by  overthrowing  the  imperialists,  bureaucratic 
comprador bourgeoisie and the feudal classes, as ‘terrorist’ and ‘traitor’.  Why are the ministers, political leaders, big 
bourgeoisie  and their brokers, the  real  traitors who are  amassing  billions  of rupees  in scams and  stacking them  in 
Swiss  Banks  shamelessly  roaming  in  the  corridors  of  power  not  booked  under  SEDITION?  Why  are  all  those 
criminals who perpetrated and facilitated the Bhopal Gas Tragedy not called CONSPIRATORS? How could striving 
for the liberation of the toiling masses become SEDITION? How could democrats who raised their voices and pens 
in support of people's movements be called CONSPIRATORS? 

These sentences are nothing but a part of the bigger conspiracy of the ruling classes to eliminate all kinds of 
hurdles  to  their  anti-people,  unpatriotic  and  immoral  neo-liberal  economic  policies.  This  is  an  alarm  signal  that 
fascist repression would intensify further in the near future. These judgments are an eye opener for those who believe 
and  get  deceived  innocently  that  there  is  still  some  semblance  of  democracy  in  this  country.  Though  the  overt 
statements of the ruling gang declare that Maoist movement is their prime target, what is happening in reality is a 
fascist onslaught on progressive and democratic forces who wish for the welfare of the people and aspire to protect 
the interests of our country vis-à-vis the imperialists. Our party is appealing to the people to stand united against this 
offensive and defeat it through a determined fight. 

The  comprador  governments  are  resorting  to  suppression  of  people’s  movements  and  nationality  liberation 
struggles  using  black  laws  like  UAPA,  CSPCA,  MCOCA  and  AFSPA  following  in  the  footsteps  of  the  US 
government which promulgated black laws like the Homeland Security Act. The reactionary legal system which had 
never bothered to book or sentence the saffron terrorists who had killed many innocent people in the Mecca Masjid, 
Malegaon and Ajmer Sharif bomb blasts or the scamsters and political gangsters involved in scams like 2G Spectrum 
(worth 1,76,000 crores of rupees), Commonwealth games, Adarsh housing society, Karnataka lands and dozens and 
dozens of other scams are eagerly sentencing revolutionaries, people’s leaders, democrats and activists of national 
liberation movements in Kashmir and North-East.  

The CPI (Maoist) Central Committee is appealing to all democratic, patriotic forces, national liberation activists 
and  to  all  civil  rights  activists,  organizations,  students,  intellectuals,  teachers,  writers,  artistes,  doctors,  lawyers, 
media friends, workers and peasants to come out on the streets condemning and opposing these judgments delivered 
through the reactionary legal system by the collusion of the UPA government at the centre and the BJP government 
in Chhattisgarh. We appeal to all of you to build united and militant agitations demanding the immediate repeal of 
UAPA,  CSPCA,  MCOCA  and  AFSPA.  We  appeal  to  all  the  progressive,  democratic  and  revolutionary 
organizations, communities and individuals of various countries to condemn in severe terms this criminal act of the 
Indian  ruling  classes  and  express  their  vigorous  protest  in  various  democratic  struggle  forms.  In  the  past  the 
international  community  stood  in  strong  solidarity  with  the  Indian  people’s  movements  and  had  condemned  the 
arrest of  Binayak  Sen  and demanded his  immediate  release.  Now  the  time  has come  for  it  to  play  this  role  more 
solidly.  

Our party calls upon the people to observe protest week all over the country from January 2 to 8 against these 
judgments by creatively taking up various protest activities including press conferences, statements, dharnas, rasta 
rokos, meetings, protest rallies, processions, signature campaigns, wearing black badges, waving black flags, burning 
of effigies etc., and to take up legal battles condemning severely the anti-people, traitorous and fascist policies of the 
ruling classes. 

Our party is calling upon all our ranks, PLGA forces and revolutionary mass organizations to take up various 

protest forms on this occasion by mobilizing vast masses. 

Our Central Committee is making it very clear that no call for bandh is being given as part of this protest week 
and is requesting  the people and  media not  to believe the deliberate propaganda of  the police  to portray  this as  a 
bandh call. 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

