A Call To the People of India !

Shatter the shackles of imperialism and
feudalism, Destroy this rotten system !
Build your future and that of the country

with your own hands !

Communist Party of India (Maoist)

A Call To the People of India !

Shatter the shackles of imperialism and feudalism,

Destroy this rotten system !

Build your future and that of the country

with your own hands !

 Dear people,

Warmest greetings to you from the Communist Party of India (Maoist)

on the occasion of its 10th founding anniversary.

Ten years ago, we came before you to announce a joyous event – the
merger of two revolutionary streams. A single Maoist party, the Communist
Party  of  India  (Maoist)  was  formed  on  the  21st  of  September,  2004,  to
shoulder the tasks of revolution. Today we place before you an account of
these momentous years. It has been a decade of heroic struggle and sacrifices
by the best daughters and sons of this land. Nearly two thousand and five
hundred of them, from Dandakaranya (Chattisgarh), Bihar, Jharkhand, Andhra
Pradesh, Telengana, Maharashtra, Odisha, Paschim Banga, Karnataka, Tamil
Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Asom, laid down their precious lives.
They include hundreds of great leaders of the revolution, from the topmost
level of our party to its basic levels. Scores of valiant fighters of the People’s
Liberation Guerrilla Army shed their blood in battle with the oppressor’s
mercenaries. Many among the masses too made the highest sacrifice.

This blood was not shed in vain. It has built on past achievements and
valuable experiences. It fuelled a decade of resolute struggle in the political,
military, economic and cultural spheres. This was a period which saw ever
more militant mobilisation of lakhs of people, people at the bottommost levels
of society, in mighty revolt to destroy the oppression and exploitation weighing
heavy on them for ages. Glorious years when the shoots of new political
power were further nurtured through the destruction of the old power and
more extensive building of a new society in a primary stage. And, in this
process,  the  People’s  Liberation  Guerrilla Army  (PLGA)  was  further
strengthened in its fighting capability. Its base force, the People’s Militia,
now numbers in the thousands. These brave women and men stand firm,
weapons in hand, to defend every achievement of the people — political,

economic, social, cultural and environmental — particularly, the emerging
new society they are building.

Yes, we have striven hard to fulfil the promise given to you and made
advance.  It  is  so,  because  we  are  communists.  Our  words  are  sealed  in
deeds, serving the people. Inheriting the finest traditions of the countless
rebellions waged by the peoples of this land throughout the centuries against
their oppressors, both local and foreign, drawing inspiration from the heroic
struggles of a long line of patriots who fought for true independence from
British colonialism, boldly taking up the banner of armed struggle bequeathed
to  us  by  the  red  fighters  of  the Telengana  armed  struggle, Tebhaga  and
Punnapra-Vayalar, forever holding high the Red flag crimson with the blood
of lakhs martyrs throughout the world, we will fight on — till our beloved
country is liberated from the clutches of imperialism and its lackeys, to make
it a base of the world socialist revolution, to advance through socialism to the
bright future of communism. We will fight as a contingent of the international
proletariat, as comrades-in-arms with all oppressed nations and oppressed
people and broad masses of capitalist countries. It is so, because we are the
children of that mighty Spring Thunder that shook up the whole of India —
the great Naxalbari armed peasant rebellion of 1967. We have been taught
and trained by our great founder leaders, comrades Charu Majumdar and
Kanhai Chatterjee and by several other beloved leaders. We are guided by the
ideology of the international proletariat, Marxism-Leninism-Maoism.

Dear people,

We were led to believe that our country became independent in 1947.
Yes, it is true that the hated colonial rule was ended. But the misery of our
lives forces us to acknowledge a bitter truth — the foreign masters have only
stepped behind a curtain. All the vital controls are still in their hands. We see
their presence in the big multinational companies that come to exploit our
labour and plunder our resources; in the scant value they attach to our lives
as seen in the murderous Bhopal gas incident. We witness it in the control
foreign powers have over our entire country in a thousand ways. We see it in
the aggressive promotion of consumerism and self-indulgent individualism.
We experience it in the invasion of their decadent values and the contempt
they breed for our richly diverse ways of life and cultures. We feel its oppressive
weight in the disastrous economic policies they impose through agencies like
the  IMF, World  Bank  and WTO;  policies  that  uproot  people,  create  new

shackles of dependence and pollute the air, water and earth. We see its sinister
hands in the arming and training of the Indian state in the counter-revolutionary
‘war  on  the  people’  waged  against  the  revolutionary  armed  agrarian
revolutionary war. This is imperialism, one of the big mountains weighing on
us.

There are two more of them.
The rulers tell us we are fast advancing to information highways, bullet
trains, hi-tech cities and what not. They go on and on. But look around you,
look at your lives. Despite all those gadgets, smart phones, cable TVs, motor
cycles and flashy dresses why do the chains of hidebound tradition weigh so
heavy? Why do the landlord, old or new, and the greedy moneylender still
corner  the  major  chunk  of  the  peasants’  surplus?  Why  are  their  wishes
inviolate, their word the law, when all of us are supposed to be equal? Why is
most of the land still in the hands of few, while the vast majority eke out a
meagre living either selling their labour or trudging on scraps of land? Why
are  women  fettered  in  obnoxious  customs?    Why  is  the  dalit  still  preyed
upon?  Why  are  the  adivasis  scorned?  Why  this  ridiculous  spectacle  of
Brahmanic rituals heralding the launch of high tech space vehicles? Why is
the inhuman caste system still alive and strong? There are many changes,
new  things  not  seen  before.  But  the  age-old  structures  and  values  of  the
caste system, of patriarchy, of landlordism still remain. This is feudalism
inextricably bound up with caste, another big mountain crushing us.

Yes, the rulers at times admit, there are still vestiges of the old. But they
would direct our sight to the glitz of fast growing cities, to huge factories, to
big corporates, some of whom have even spread out abroad. Very well, but
do you really need to be reminded? Haven’t you suffered them, living and
slogging in the squalor of slums right in the midst of those glittering cities?
Don’t you already know them for their land grabbing, resource plundering,
greed which drove you from your ancestors lands? Haven’t you known their
rapacious exploitation, experienced their denial of basic rights and witnessed
their murderous attacks on those who demand them? But that is not all. They
are  big  capitalists,  no  doubt. Yet,  for  all  their  pretensions,  they  are  mere
servitors of foreign interests, of the imperialists. Born as commission agents
of the colonial rulers, they have forever depended on them in all aspects of
their existence and growth. They thrive on this dependence. They sell out
our country, its people and resources to the foreign marauders. And in their

4

core  they  conserve  Brahmanic  feudal  values,  no  matter  how  modern  the
technology  they  employ.  From  their  birth  they  have  remained  tied  up  to
feudalism.  They  are  the  comprador-bureaucrat  capitalists,  representing
bureaucrat capitalism, yet another big mountain bearing down on us.

These are the three huge mountains weighing down on us. They squeeze
out our breath, break our backs. They block our country’s development and
progress. To  take  our  destiny  into  our  own  hands,  stand  up  in  freedom,
breathe the fresh air of democracy and equality, enjoy the fruits of our labour,
clean up the air, water and earth, rid society of the evils of caste, patriarchy
and communalism, dynamite Brahmanism that lies at the core of everything
reactionary in India, yes, to live as human beings, we must overthrow them.
This is what we fight for. This is the meaning of the new democratic revolution
we wage. This revolution will bring national independence uprooting imperialist
slavery,  exploitation  and  control,  and  will  establish  people’s  democracy
uprooting  the  feudal  autocracy.  It  will  establish  the  rule  of  the  workers,
peasants, urban petty bourgeoisie and national bourgeoisie under the leadership
of  the  working  class.  The  New  Democratic  state  would  unequivocally
recognize the right to self-determination of the nationalities including the
right to secession.

They say India is a republic, a secular democracy. The Constitution even
lays claims on its being ‘socialist’! Isn’t this an outrageous mockery of the
crores forced to live on 20 rupees per day? And its secularism? Has there
been a single year since 1947 without communal attacks, mainly targeting
the Muslim minority? Who can forget the thousands massacred in the pogroms
against the Sikhs under Congress rule in 1984 and against the Muslims in
2002 under BJP rule? The rulers claim India’s strength lie in its ‘unity in
diversity’. But how are these national and cultural diversities treated? With
arrogant contempt, racist, casteist slurs and attacks. That has been the plight
of not only adivasis and dalits. It is the searing experience of all the national
peoples in the North Eastern States of India. Many nationalities fighting for
their freedom, such as the Kashmiris, Nagas and Manipuris, have been under
the jackboots of the Indian Army for decades together. They are subjected to
the worst atrocities and denied all legal redress by laws that protect the Army
from prosecution. Everything, its murders, rapes, tortures, yes everything is
Constitutionally sanctioned! The plight of thousands of prisoners, locked up
in  unimaginable  conditions,  completes  this  damning  picture  of  Indian
democracy. Their vast majority comes from the bottommost levels of society.
5

Charged with trivial crimes whose punishment would be no more than a year
or two, they languish in jails for years together without bail or trial. As for the
Maoist political prisoners, the torture in police camps is extended to the jails,
by denying them basic rights including medical care, blocking their access to
literature and news, limiting or even preventing family visits and obstructing
legal rights.

Why should we live in this hell?
The  rulers  accuse  us  of  violence,  of  destruction.  But  what  about  the
violence of this society they protect? Isn’t their social system a continuous
assault on human existence? When will they account for the countless lives
destroyed every minute, or the living dead who barely manage to exist? Where
will they answer for the destruction and havoc they create in society and the
environment? Our violence is a just reply to this. What we destroy is this
human-devouring system, its values and culture. But this is not some mindless
act. With the participation and support of the vast masses of the oppressed
people  of  this  country,  the  PLGA  led  by  our  party  destroys  to  create.  Its
violence is purposeful. It is ploughing up the land to clear out anti-people and
obsolete relations, structures and institutions. Together with the masses, it
plants and builds a new political power, a new social order. These now exist
at the primary level as Revolutionary People’s Committees (popularly known
as Krantikari Janatana Sarkars, Krantikari Jan Committees or Viplava Praja
Committees) in the guerrilla bases of Central and Eastern India.

These centres of new political power are as yet mere specs in this vast
land. But they already make possible a meaningful life, vibrant with the strength
of cooperation, collectivity, rich in values of humane care and concern. They
realise the centuries old dream of the exploited to be their own masters. They
ensure land to the peasantry. They allow the adivasis to foster the new while
nurturing their distinctiveness. They enable the dalits to live a life of dignity.
They  create  space  for  women  by  supporting  their  struggle  for  liberation.
This is the promise of a future for India — a democratic, sovereign, federal,
people’s republic; self-reliant, just and equitable. This is what is possible if
we dare to fight and reach for the heights.

What is this new society?  What has it already achieved?
In these villages the Indian state has been destroyed. The outdated authority
of feudals and those tribal elders, who lorded over people, has come to an
end. The bondage of caste has been smashed and ground prepared for its
6

annihilation. Organs of people’s political power were established. This new
democratic  power  is  the  biggest  success  achieved  by  the  people  through
people’s war. The Revolutionary People’s Committee at village level, with 9
to 11 members, is directly elected every two/three years by all adults, except
a few who oppose people and stand in support of the reactionary state and
their armed forces and gangs. The voters have the ‘Right to recall’. Women
have right over half of the political power through equal representation. The
people have the all fundamental democratic rights — - Right to meet, Right
to form organization, Right to conduct strikes and demonstrations, Right to
live according to one’s wish, Right to primary education, Right to primary
medical treatment, Right to gain minimum employment, etc.

The RPC addresses all aspects of the people’s lives through its defence,
finance, agriculture, trade and industry, judicial, education and culture, health
and social welfare, forest protection and public relations departments.

On the basis of ‘Land to the Tiller’ forest lands were distributed by the
RPC to all those who have no land or have scant land. Where people are well
organised, women own half of the proprietary right over land. “Equal wages
for equal work” is being implemented. Bazaar committees are working to
end  the  indiscriminate  exploitation  in  weekly  bazaars.  Mass  struggles
demanding fair wage rates were successfully waged and there was an increase
in fund collection to fulfil the needs of the people. All kinds of restrictions
and taxes on collection of forest produce were annulled. Forest produce can
be freely collected and consumed. The slogan of “All rights to the Adivasis/
local people over Forests” has been realised. There is a ban on taking away
any kind of resources from the forest without permission from the RPCs.
New entry of imperialist multinational companies (MNCs) and comprador
companies has been blocked.

Apart from creating irrigation facilities for crops to increase the average
yield and encouraging the usage of organic manure and high-quality local
seeds, the RPCs assist the poor peasantry in all possible ways to cultivate
their  lands.  Where  conditions  permit,  with  the  purpose  of  raising  living
standards, fulfilling the masses food needs and those of the PLGA, all efforts
are made to develop agricultural production and thus ease dependence on the
market. The RPCs are themselves establishing agricultural farms. Mutual
aid/ work teams are formed to fulfil various productive tasks and services.
Grain Cooperative Associations are formed. The effort to provide nutritious

7

food to people through planting orchards and growing vegetables and greens
has begun. Encouragement is given to fish rearing in ponds. The party and
PLGA participate in productive labour as a responsibility.

The  development  of  class  struggle  and  building  of  RPCs  has  opened
doors for new developments in people’s cultural life. As the free labour done
for the tribal elders came to an end, people fulfilling their needs through
mutual aid / work teams has increased. In adivasi areas, collective hunting
which used to go on for weeks together was gradually discouraged. Instead,
expending labour power on land levelling and creating irrigation facilities
which promise growth in yield of agricultural products is increasing.

As  the  customs  and  rituals  observed  with  blind  faith  are  proving  a
hindrance to production and productive forces in the changing conditions,
meetings are being held with traditional healers and priests and necessary
changes  are  brought  about  through  discussions. Apart  from  discouraging
consumerism, RPCs are opposing forceful religious conversion of adivasis
into Hinduism and Christianity. They also inculcate scientific thinking and
atheism. Overspending in marriage ceremonies and death rituals has been
reduced.

Women are more respected now. With the development of class struggle
and the building of women’s organisations, sexual exploitation of feudal lords
and demeaning practices have been eliminated. Forced marriages and the
Gotul system (practiced in some adivasi areas) have come down considerably.
This  liberated  women  and  young  women  from  social  and  psychological
pressures.

Schools are opened as part of fulfilling the basic needs of the people. For
the first time in history, in Dandakaranya, education is imparted in ‘Koya’,
the majority people’s mother tongue.  Syllabi were prepared in the light of
democratic-socialist ideas. In Bihar-Jharkhand too, special emphasis is laid
on reaching education to the adivasis, dalits and other sections deprived of it.
Health care is provided as part of fulfilling the basic needs of the people.
Sanitation  work  and  providing  safe  drinking  water  facilities  are  taken  up
actively by training up people’s doctors in villages. Construction of houses
with the mutual cooperation is taken up for people who do not have proper
houses.

Indiscriminate felling of forests and the robbing of valuable timber by the

8

government and the timber mafia was stopped. Instead of people felling trees
according to their will and wish for their agricultural and domestic needs,
RPCs are striving to fulfil the needs of the people and are regularising the
felling of trees. Ban was imposed on pouring poison in river water to catch
fish and catching birds which come to water sources in summer. Ban was
imposed on hunting which is carried for commercial purposes to sell the
meat. Thus preservation of wildlife is encouraged.

Delegates elected from village level RPCs have constituted Area RPCs.
Similarly elected delegates from the Area level form the Divisional (District
level)  RPCs.  This  represents  an  extension  of  territory  over  which  people
exercise political power and create the new. It strengthens the advance towards
building liberated areas and establishing a People’s Government, confronting
the Indian state.

Such are the fruits of the protracted people’s war. More than three decades
of hard sacrifice had already made significant advance in the war zones of
Dandakaranya, Bihar-Jharkhand. Given the different situation in these two
regions  this  advance  took  different  forms,  but  was  always  guided  by  the
politics of new democratic revolution. In Bihar-Jharkhand a stubborn struggle,
backed by arms, to break the bonds of caste-feudalism, defeat upper casteist
private armies, seize and distribute land, paving the way for the development
of Krantikari Kisan Committees as leading centres. In Dandakaranya, the
grounds  were  laid  through  struggles  in  which  the  adivasi  peasantry  was
mobilised, arms in hand, to smash the authority of the forest department,
private contractors and, in some areas, feudal lords or feudalistic tribal elders
and  end  their  exploitation.      Party  and  mass  organisations  were  built.
Revolutionary  armed  forces,  the  People’s  Guerrilla Army  and  People’s
Liberation Guerrilla Army, were formed step by step. Thus embryonic forms
of people’s power emerged. The merger of the two revolutionary streams in
2004 made these gains, its experiences and lessons, the solid foundation for
a bold, powerful, push forward. Its results are before you.

The growth of powerful mass struggles led by our party directed against
anti-people projects and state repression is another significant development.
Among them the struggles in Nandigram, Lalgarh, Narayanpatna and Kalinga
Nagar  stand  out  for  the  new  forms  of  struggle  they  brought  out  and  the
broad unity they achieved. Forces led by our party have contributed much to
the success of the long drawn struggle for separate Telengana. It has also

9

provided strong support to many other mass struggles. This has helped them
withstand state repression and attempts to divide them. Through all these
struggles  the  right  of  the  people  over  water,  land  and  forests  (jal-jangal-
zameen), their right to lead a life of dignity has been asserted.

On this occasion, we must specially mention the unparalleled role played
by the people in the main guerilla zones of the revolutionary movement. It is
they who bore the brunt of the repression. It is they who gave us confidence.
Without their immense sacrifices and unbound enthusiasm this protracted
people’s  war  would  have  been  impossible.  Run  down  and  scorned  as
‘backward’, and in the process they are becoming the advanced, the path
breakers. We  hold  them  up,  these  makers  of  history,  as  glowing  models
before the whole country. We greet them and salute them!

The formation of the CPI (Maoist) as the single directing centre of the
Indian revolution was acclaimed by the people in India and throughout the
world. Where the people were inspired, their enemies despaired. True to the
nature  of  all  dying  forces,  they  gathered  their  forces  for  more  and  more
murderous  attacks  on  the  revolutionary  forces.  This  was  a  total  assault.
Brute military force was combined with targeted capture and murder of CPI
(Maoist) leaders. False talk of peace was coupled with filthy lies and canards.
Killer gangs and vigilante forces were armed and set loose in a bid to pit the
people against the people. Even then, braving heavy attacks and overcoming
major  losses  the  party,  PLGA,  RPCs  and  the  revolutionary  masses  stood
firm. Heavy blows were given, such as the heroic storming of the Jehanabad
jail  to  liberate  imprisoned  revolutionaries  and  the  historic  seizure  of  the
Nayagarh  armoury  to  arm  the  PLGA.    The  historic  Unity  Congress-9th
Congress  (country-level  gathering  of  party  delegates)  of  the  united  party
was  successfully  held.  Ideological,  political  unity  was  deepened  and
strengthened. Its unified thinking was raised to a higher level. Its fighting
capacity sharpened.

Rebuffed in their counter-revolutionary plans the Indian ruling classes
launched ‘Operation Green Hunt’ in mid 2009 and are intensifying it day by
day. They were backed and guided by imperialism, particularly US imperialism.
This is a deadly ‘war on the people’. It is not green, but red. Red with the
blood of adivasis and other masses gunned down by the mercenary troops of
the Indian state. Red with blood of the sons and daughters of the people who
bravely fought till their death, however poorly armed and outnumbered they

10

were.  This is a manhunt. Party, PLGA members are poisoned and murdered
by  coverts  and  counter-revolutionary  gangs  like  the  Trithiya  Prasthuthi
Samithi. It is a frenzied spree of attacks on people — murder, rape, razing
down houses, loot, destruction of harvests and granaries, looting and slaughter
of poultry and livestock by counter-revolutionary gangs, police and para-
military forces. In Bihar, Jharkhand and Paschim Banga, relying on the worst
traditions of British colonial suppression known as ‘kurki japthi’, the houses
and property of those associated with the Maoist movement are seized by
court orders. The hideous attack in Chintalnar area of Bijapur District, where
they razed down four villages, killed and raped is a recent hideous example of
state repression. The firing on a gathering of villagers, massacring 17, mostly
women and children, at Sarkeguda, Bijapur District is another one. The Indian
ruling classes and their political parties often cite lack of funds for not providing
even basic amenities to the masses. But they think nothing of pouring in
crores of rupees in order to deploy the latest technology in their war on the
people. Already 500,000 Central and State mercenary troops have been thrown
into this war. Another fifty thousand is on its way. The Air Force provides
drones. It is now preparing for aerial attacks. The Army is engaged at brigade
level in command and training. With great haste it is raising a special force
within the Army for deployment against the Maoist led revolution.

The Indian state is getting ever more desperate and ferocious in its attacks.
There is logic to this madness of waging ‘war on the people’, of ‘pitting the
people against the people’. Day by day the true condition of the country is
being revealed. With 70 per cent of the population scrapping on at Rs. 20 per
day, the rulers’ tall claim about India entering the league of world powers is
seen as a cruel spin story. In opposition to this stands the new armed force,
new people’s movements, new political power and society emerging in Central
and Eastern India. This is beginning to attract wider attention, not only among
the deprived but also among a broad section of patriots and progressives. It
is increasingly seen as a real alternative to the destruction of human and
natural resources by the rapacious exploitation and loot and oppression carried
out in the name of development by the imperialist and Indian corporates. It
holds  up  a  democratic  model  where  the  oppressed  classes  and  social
sections— workers, peasantry, urban petty bourgeois, women, adivasis, dalits,
national and religious minorities — will be freed from the domination of
Brahminical caste-feudalism and all the reactionary values it promotes, serving
as the social base of imperialism and colluding with the comprador-bureaucrat
11

bourgeoisie. It shows what is possible — how the landless and poor peasants
will  get  land,  how  the  tremendous  energies  of  collective  labour  can  be
unleashed,  how  traditional  knowledge  can  be  harnessed  in  service  of  the
new, how it is possible to preserve the environment keeping people’s interests
at heart and achieve a truly sustainable development. It shows in embryonic
form the immense potential for a new India. An India that can only arise on
the ashes of the existing one, after destroying the Indian state. Yes, there is
every  reason  for  the  desperation  of  the  Indian  rulers.  Everyday  this  new
power and society exists, it drives in another nail into their coffins. They see
their death in it. Therefore they madly hasten to destroy it.

There is something more. The Central and State governments in these
regions had already signed a huge number of agreements, selling out the
resources to foreign and Indian corporates. But the advance and expansion
of the people’s, with the involvement of the people, and the establishment of
the people’s power over land, water and forests spoilt their plans. Now they
are  under  greater  pressure.  The  imperialist  system  is  in  the  grip  of  the
worldwide economic crises. This is severely impacting the Indian economy.
This crisis situation makes the enemies of the people, the imperialist MNCs
and Indian compradors, ever more desperate to plunder the resources of our
country and exploit the labouring classes to the hilt. Therefore the added
haste to crush the struggling people, no matter how much blood is shed.

The boots of the mercenary troops trample the people. They beat them
up and shoot them. But that is not all. They also come with ‘gifts’. They
shower all sorts of gadgets, hand out clothes and food, and insist on giving
adivasi children lodging and free tuition. They take them from the remotest
villages on “India tours”. This is the ‘soft touch’ complementing the boots
and bayonets. This is the sinister plan of US imperialism and their lackeys to
lure a section of people and make them the base for building an informant
network. They come with promises of reform and development, but only to
divide the people. The aim is to isolate the Maoists and hasten the suppression
of the revolutionary movement, destruction of the new political power and
blocking the expansion of the people’s war. And once that is realised it is
back to business as usual, the business of denying basic rights and amenities
to  the  people,  the  sell  out  of  resources.  If  you  want  proof  take  a  look  at
Saranda in Jharkhand. First, a sudden and all-out brutal attack with more
than 10,000 troops to destroy the revolutionary organisations and drive out
the PLGA. Then the establishment of a Special Saranda Development Authority
12

with the promise to take basic amenities to all. And finally the real thing — a
wholesale sell out of thousands of hectares of pristine forest land to Tata for
its mining of iron ore and the entry of around 100 imperialist and comprador
corporations into resource rich area; the return of the hated rule of the police
station,  bureaucrats  and  local  exploiters.  This  is  the  actual  course  of  the
counter-revolutionary campaigns waged by the Indian state.

In  India  armed  revolution  is  confronting  armed  counter-revolution.
Combating the superior forces of the Indian state with guerrilla tactics of
people’s war the PLGA fights back. Unlike the aggressor, its strength lies in
close ties with the masses, in its creativity and steely determination. The
annihilation of whole company of the CRPF at Mukkaram (Dandakaranya)
by  the  PLGA  was  a  resounding  rebuff    to  the  Indian  state’s  ‘war  on  the
people’. In a protracted people’s war, it is not the control of territory but the
preservation of the revolutionary military force that is decisive. Grasping this
principle, the PLGA has evaded efforts of the Indian state to pin it down and
destroy it. It has broken out of heavy encirclements by attacking small units
of the enemy and breaching its circle. Withdrawing in the face of massive
forces it circles around to hit back with all force when an opportunity arises.
The Tongpal ambush (Dandakarnya) in which 15 mercenaries were annihilated,
and 20 weapons and a large quantity of ammunition were seized and the
Farsagaon (Jharkhand) ambush where 5 mercenaries were wiped out and 5
weapons seized testify to the strengths of a protracted people’s war, a war
that is led by a Maoist party and draws in the masses in their thousands. It is
significant that these ambushes came in an area claimed to be ‘cleared’ by
the  Indian  state.  From  January  till  June  of  this  year,  in  the  midst  of  two
intense country-level suppression campaigns, covering 9 States, carried out
during December-January 2013-2014 and in March, 39 actions were carried
out by the PLGA.

The resistance to the Indian state’s aggression against the new political
force,  new  movement, power  and  new  society  is  not  just  a  matter  of  the
PLGA. The masses are involved in it greatly. They participate in actions and
in their preparations, provide food, shelter and information, help in maintaining
supplies, and refuse to cooperate with the enemy. The People’s Militia is a
very important component of the PLGA. Apart from its role in actions, it has
played an exceptional role in defeating the Salwa Judum and the attacks of
Sendra  and  other  counter-revolutionary  vigilante  gangs  in  various  States.
There are many instances where the masses have braved repression to seize
13

back  the  bodies  of  martyrs  and  give  them  a  befitting  funeral.  On  some
occasions they have collected all the goods distributed by the enemy forces
and burnt them in bonfires. In Minpa the people joined with the PLGA and
waged continuous struggle for more than a week forcing the enemy to close
down its military camp. In Herrakoder masses mobilised from surrounding
villages and forced the closure of a newly established camp through peaceful,
but resolute, agitations. Women played an exemplary role in this. Broad sections
of  intellectuals,  progressives  and  democrats  have  also  come  out  in  large
numbers, in India and abroad, to protest the Indian state’s ‘war on the people’
and expose its atrocities.

Dear people,

Our livelihoods, dignity and very existence are under multiple attacks by
neo-liberal policies that intensify foreign and Indian corporates exploitation.
In the name of mega projects, mines, power plants, dams, ports, airports,
super-highways,  metros,  hi  tech  cities,  tourist  spots/resorts  and  Special
Economic Zones, etc, lakhs and lakhs of our people are being driven out of
their  habitats.  The  destructive  policies  of  the  rulers  are  triggering  of
environmental disasters which take the lives of hundreds and render thousands
homeless and penniless. They are enacting laws to cut down, one after the
other,  the  rights  won  by  workers. They  are  handing  over  more  and  more
sectors of the economy to the control of imperialist multinationals. Agriculture
is being shaped for deeper penetration of foreign capital and technology like
genetic engineered plants. Land concentration is taking place in new forms
as real estate ‘land banks’ and SEZs. Corporate farming is being promoted.
Existing laws are being amended to assure that the chiefs of MNCs cannot
be prosecuted here, no matter what crime they commit.

While they grab land for their projects, nothing is being done to address
the cry for land from the deprived sections of the peasantry. Big landlords
continue to monopolise this precious resource. They have branched out into
sellers  of  chemical  fertilisers  and  other  modern  inputs  and  buyers  of
agricultural produce. They either function directly as usurers or control co-
operative societies. They are also MLAs, MPs and ministers of ruling class
political parties, control the local bodies and wield influence over the police
forces.  Thus  they  exercise  total  control  in  alliance  with  the  comprador-
bureaucrat  bourgeoisie  over  the  peasants  and  rural  poor  and  are  a  big
obstruction  for  country’s  progress.

14

Wherever  the  people  protest  they  are  met  with  brute  force  and  black
laws. While the farce of democracy is enacted with elections, the ground
reality is one of increasing fascicisation. With the genocidal Modi, this tool of
the fascistic RSS, in the Prime Minister’s chair, Brahmanical Hindu fascism
is consciously promoted by the ruling classes and their imperialist masters.
The most reactionary religious fanaticism is fanned up to instigate sectarian
violence,  specially  targeting  the  Muslim  minority.  Narrow  chauvinism  is
whipped up to foster illusions of becoming a world power and thus cover up
the abject dependence of the country. National cultures and religious diversities
and even the formal federal structure of the country are sought to be effaced
by sinister moves to impose a ‘Hindi-Hindu’ mould as supreme.

 The rulers know very well that the people’s anger is boiling over. Every
one of their political parties has been in government at the Central or State
level or is now in power. All of them are exposed as equally anti-people, anti-
corrupt and corrupt. From time to time they parade one or the other reform.
Through such reforms they hope to pacify the masses and breed inactivity
and hope to continue and further intensify their exploitation and oppression.
Thus the horrendous penetration of imperialism in the form of globalisation,
privatisation and liberalisation is now window dressed as “globalisation with
a human face”. Yes, they will be smiling while they kick you out of your
houses, or throw you out of your jobs, or bury you alive in your ancestral
lands. It is like in the tactics of their ‘war on the people’. First they brutalise
you and then give you presents!

Dear people,

Our country is at a critical juncture. Which road should it take? Onwards,
to spread the flames of the people’s war all over the country and achieve real
liberation? Or backwards, to more deprivation, more dependence and more
devastation? We await your decision, confident that you will recognise your
destiny too in the fight we wage. Meanwhile, we hasten by throwing ourselves
and all we have into battle against the Indian state and its foreign mentors.
Starting from the martyrs of the historic Naxalbari armed peasant rebellion
till today more than twelve thousand have laid down their lives for the great
cause of destroying the three mountains bearing down on us. We well know
that many more will have to bear that supreme sacrifice as we fight on. We
communists  will  never  shirk  from  sacrifice,  for  serving  the  people,  for
liberating the country. But we hasten. We hasten to quicken the advent of

15

that day when the enemies of our people and the country are finally destroyed,
when the imperialists are driven out, and we can begin building a future of
self-reliance, of all-round and equitable development of our country, of all
our national and ethnic peoples. Let us celebrate the 10th anniversary of the
formation of our glorious party in every guerrilla zone and red resistance
area, in the villages and the cities, in the country and abroad with revolutionary
fervour  and  spirit;  spread  the  message  of  people's  war  far  and  wide;  and
carry the revolutionary movement forward with redoubled determination.

* Celebrate the 10th anniversary of the formation of CPI (Maoist)

with revolutionary fervour!

* Join us in this great endeavour to build a New Democratic India!
* Join the CPI (Maoist) and PLGA, they are yours!
* Take up the people’s war in India, expand and carry it forward!
* Spread the flames of armed agrarian revolution!
* Oppose, resist and defeat ‘Operation Green Hunt’, the Indian

state’s ‘war on the people’!

*  Rise  up  in  the  crores,  Get  organised,  fight  back  against  the

anti-people, country- selling policies of the Indian state.

* Unite in struggle against the Brahmanical Hindu Fascist Modi

government!

* Dare to Fight! Dare to win!
* Dare to Take Your Destiny in Your Own Hands!

Central Committee,

Communist Party of India (Maoist)

September 1, 2014

16

