Express Buzz 

Anand: ‘An extension of struggle for self-respect’ 

 

January 3, 2010 

 

VISAKHAPATNAM: The CPI (Maoist) has said that the Centre should first take a political decision on 

the creation of a Telangana state and then engage all the stakeholders, including political parties, in talks 

to sort out issues relating to separation in an amicable manner. The party is of the view that the „doubts of 

a few people in the Andhra region‟ are being exploited by vested interests of that region to prevent 

formation of Telangana. 

 

“There is no need for any concern among the people since they could go anywhere in the country for 

education or living and the same holds good even in respect of Telangana,” the party said. In an interview 

to Express, Anand, a member of the CPI-Maoist politburo and secretary of the central regional committee, 

spoke at length on the Telangana issue as well as other statehood agitations.  Anand is one of the top 

ranking leaders of the outlawed group and has worked in the Telangana region before moving to the 

central committee. 

According to him, the ongoing Telangana movement is an extension of the prolonged struggle of the 

people of the region for a separate identity and self-respect. Cautioning the people of Telangana that 

neither the Congress nor the Telugu Desam Party has genuine interest in the formation of Telangana state 

nor in addressing the grievances of the region, Anand said students and others should continue the 

agitation till the goal is achieved.“The Maoist way of „militant praja udyamam‟ (militant people‟s 

movement) is the only way through which this can be achieved,” he asserted. 

On Union Home Minister P Chidambaram‟s December 23 statement calling for wide-ranging 

consultations, Anand argued that they were mere tactics to delay the process of bifurcation. Pointing out 

that the Centre does not require concurrence from the state Assembly, he felt it was also futile to try for a 

consensus among all parties on issues such as division of a state. Anand said the Maoist party, in general, 

is in favour of smaller states, whenever just and real demands come up from the people. His comments on 

other aspects linked to division of the state: 

Status of Hyderabad 

Hyderabad has been geographically, politically and historically a part of Telangana and is a part of the 

distinct identity of Telangana and there can be no compromise. 

Concerns of the people of Andhra region 

There will not be any denial of opportunities to the people of the region, if and when a Telangana state is 

formed. If people can go to Mumbai or Delhi for education or living, why can‟t those from Andhra come 

to Hyderabad for the same? 

The way forward 

The present movement has come from the people and politicians can no more hijack it for their personal 

interests, like Marri Chenna Reddy did in the late 60s. It is refreshing that students are playing an active 

role, which is very important for any struggle, whether it be the French Revolution or the Telangana 

movement. The students should be involved in any talks relating to the separation of the state. But, they 

should be cautious of the Centre‟s coercive methods which is why it has brought ESL Narasimhan, who 

was involved in the military offensive in Chhattisgarh, as the Governor of Andhra Pradesh. 

Irrigation 

When we are giving Krishna water to the people of Tamil Nadu on humanitarian grounds, we (people of 

Telangana and Andhra regions) would certainly be able to settle the issue of sharing river waters across 

the table. Although Telangana and Rayalaseema happen to be the upper riparian regions of Krishna, they 

have been denied their due share. A harmonious formula could be evolved by which neither Andhra nor 

other regions would suffer. 

Vision for Telangana 

The Telangana state, whenever it is formed, should be one which would guarantee its people their basic 

rights such as „jal, jungle aur jameen‟ (water, forests and land) and be a state where aspirations of all the 

sections of the people are kept in mind while framing policies. 

 

http://www.expressbuzz.com/edition/story.aspx?Title=%E2%80%98An+extension+of+struggle+for+self-
respect%E2%80%99&artid=nTwh27yD1|A=&SectionID=e7uPP4|pSiw=&MainSectionID=fyV9T2jIa4A=&SectionNam
e=EH8HilNJ2uYAot5nzqumeA==&SEO= 

 

 

