COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

December 4, 2010 

OBSERVE ‘BLACK DAY’ ON DECEMBER 6 OPPOSING HINDU COMMUNALISM! 

REBUILD BABRI MASJID AT THE SAME SITE! 

ISOLATE AND DEFEAT HINDU FASCIST FORCES!! 

PUNISH SEVERELY SAFFRON TERRORISTS RESPONSIBLE FOR MALEGAON, 

MECCA MASJID, AJMER SHERIEF AND 
SAMJHOUTA EXPRESS BOMB BLASTS! 

Exactly 18 years ago, on 6th December, 1992, Hindu religious fundamentalist goondas in connivance with the then 
Congress government at the centre, demolished Babri Masjid at Ayodhya. Firstly, these Hindu fundamentalists made 500 
year-old Babri Masjid a controversial site by claiming it as the birth place of Lord Rama and on that pretext many a time 
instigated  communal  disturbances  in  the  country  killing  thousands  of  Muslims.  Demolition  of  Babri  Masjid  was  the 
biggest attack by Hindu fascists in the history of our country. The likes of LK Advani, Ashok Singhal, Murali Manohar 
Joshi, Praveen Togadiya, Uma Bharati, Sadhvi Ritambara, who were directly involved in it were not punished by any 
court even till today. On 30th September, giving its verdict on the ownership rights of the controversial site, pending for 
61 years, the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court with its Brahminical Hindu religious ideology did injustice to 
Muslims. Without any historical evidence and archeological proof it stated the controversial place to be the birth place of 
Lord Rama. First occupying Masjid, then demolishing, now by giving verdict to build temple, that too to handover the 
very forces involved in demolition, clarifies Indian state’s Hindu fascist mindset. By this verdict, once again it has been 
proved  that  the  Houses  of  justice  in  this  country  favour  only  exploitative  classes  and  Brahminical  Hindu  religious 
fanatics, but not peasants, workers, dalits, women and religious minorities. By court verdicts a solution to this cannot be 
found, only by smashing the present system and by establishing New Democratic State, a solution to this can be found. 

In the recent past, many evidences surfaced proving the involvement of saffron terrorist groups of the Sagh Parivar in 
bomb blasts at Malegaon, Ajmer Sherief, Hyderabad’s Mecca Masjid, Samjhouta express.  The leaders of VHP, RSS, 
Bajarang Dal and other organizations on the proxy name of ‘Abhinav Bharat’ conspired bomb blasts and killed many 
innocent people. It has become a norm for the police and intelligence agencies to blame Muslims as culprits, wherever 
and whenever bomb blasts take place, even if at Masjids. Arresting hundreds of youth without any reason and severely 
torturing, killing in fake encounters, implicate false cases, accusing of having links with ISI and thus playing with the 
lives is part of the Hindu communal and fascist policies of the governments. By projecting every Muslim as a terrorist 
through media, governments are trying to suppress them by all means. Those who demand to hang Ajmal Kasab who is 
involved in Mumbai attacks, at the same time keeping mum or not raising their voice loudly against Hindu fascist killers 
of Sangh gang is a dangerous sign. Governments are not arresting these saffron terrorists, even if they arrest a few on 
some occasions, are setting them free declaring innocent by not conducting thorough probe. On the other hand, those 
intellectuals, journalists, media organizations, newspapers and activists who dare to raise their voice against these Hindu 
fundamentalist forces are being attacked by Sangh gang at several places. On the whole, the communal fascistic trends of 
the Indian state are taking a severe form day by day. 

Secular forces of all religions, democrats and progressive thinkers should come forward and fight unitedly against 
Hindu communal fascism. All of us must condemn the attacks of Hindu fascist forces on Muslims, Christians and all 
other religious minorities. At the same time all other kinds of religious fundamentalism should be opposed. 

Our Party has been maintaining that the place of Babri Masjid belonged to Muslims; it should be given to Muslims 
and  has  been  demanding  that  Babri  Masjid  should  be  rebuilt  at  the  same  site  and  those  fascist  leaders  who  had 
demolished it  must  be  punished  severely.  Our  Central Committee  calls  upon  all  democratic,  secular,  progressive  and 
revolutionary forces, organizations and parties to support this demand. Our CC also calls upon entire people to observe 
‘BLACK DAY’ on December 6, by conducting meetings and processions and wearing black badges in protest of Hindu 
communalism. 

 
 (Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

