Appeal to rights’ activists 

 

It is well known that state violence, arrests, tortures, foisting false cases on the people are intensifying 
day by day and that there is an increasing implementation of cruel laws, police atrocities on women, 
killing the people in fake encounters, destroying the people’s properties in various forms, state 
sponsored violent actions and formation of state sponsored ‘civil’ organisations. You know that the 
people are facing many difficulties due to Operation Green Hunt unleashed by the ruling classes with 
Dandakaranya and Jharkhand as the centre. The people of our country are unable to live without 
struggle for their lands, forests, for the protection of all their natural properties. In a way they have to 
fight for their mere existence. Especially the tribal people of Dandakaranya and Jharkhand are living on 
the edge of death and struggling to live. That our Party is leading these struggles does not need a 
mention. Our Party has a history of fifty years of armed struggle. It is beyond doubt that people’s civil, 
democratic rights organisations and movements were born against state violence as a part of this 
struggle. You know that rights’ activists starting from Dr. Ramanadham who stood firm in these struggles 
laid their lives. 

As you come forward for the implementation of the rights provided in the Indian Constitution the ‘state’ 
targets you. It considers you as activists of Maoist frontal organisations. You are so much harassed that 
you are unable to work without police hurdles and harassments. This is evident from the incidents of 
Malini Subrahmaniam, Salini Gera and Bela Bhatia. The ex-SP of Sukma, Elisela instigated lumpen 
elements to kill you on the streets by dashing with vehicles. Recently the founder leader of Bhoomkal 
Sena (a state-police sponsored organization) in Gadchiroli of Maharashtra, Arvind Sovni started 
harassing the family of Prakash Amte, the son of well-known well-wisher of the tribal people, late Baba 
Amte that they are Maoist supporters. 

As Operation Green Hunt intensifies the attacks on people’s well-wishers and rights’ activists too is on 
the rise. Our Party severely condemns all these. Though the state is chasing you, torturing and 
instigating, you fearlessly and courageously stand on the behalf of the people and make a sincere and 
just struggle for the ideals you believe. Our Party conveys revolutionary greetings to all of you for this. 
From Salwa Judum to the ‘Agni’ the victimized people in this white terror never forget the role you 
played in defeating those. 

It is known to everyone that immediately after the PLGA guerrillas in the leadership of our Party take up 
actions on the police, on the informer mechanism as per the people’s judgment, the police, political 
leaders and ministers bring severe pressure on you to condemn this. We don’t have any objection to 
receive your response to any such mistakes from our part, or if you feel so, in the ongoing revolutionary 
movement. You know that our Party is transparent and immediately admits our mistake whenever there 
is a loss to the people. Especially when people lose their lives in the land mine accidents arranged by our 
guerrillas we do not hesitate or get into discussions about ‘collateral damage’ and admit our mistake in a 
straight manner and ask excuse from the victim families. All this is one side of what we wish to tell. Now 
we mention what we feel you must think. 

 

1 

There is a lot of importance to the psychological war in the multi-pronged war of the Indian ruling 
classes to suppress the revolutionary movement in the country. Ill propaganda about the revolutionary 
movement and creating severe resentment is part of it. Developing much disbelief about the 
revolutionary movement internally, liquidating it, weakening the revolutionary elements and 
surrendering them too are part of it. In Mission-2016 and Mission-2017 they indulged in many kinds of 
wrong propaganda and made us responsible for many anti-people actions. They also indulged in severe 
conspiracies to create misunderstandings and disbelief about us. Those who believe the police 
propaganda take them to be true and undoubtedly they have their role in spreading them. It might not 
be correct for you responsible individuals and organisations to express your response towards any 
actions, without considering the facts comprehensively. On some occasions it might also lead to 
mistakes and misunderstandings. The police widely utilize the social media and are spreading confusion 
on many occasions. So perhaps we need not mention that it would be inevitable for anyone to know 
facts in a patient manner. Let us see a few examples. 

On the 19th January 2017, the media carried the news that three women died in a land mine blast in 
Ghodagaon in Narayanpur district in Chhattisgarh. The police immediately took up propaganda through 
the media that the Maoists were responsible for this. The then IG of Bastar Kalluri Sivaram Prasad 
organized rallies of victimized people. The police condemned the incident and also warned that there is 
a danger for the rights’ activists from the Maoists. All this happened in light speed. It is unfortunate that 
an organization like PUCL too believed this propaganda and found fault with the Maoists. We are no way 
concerned with the incident. In fact no mine blasted in that place. The propaganda of the police is 
absolutely different from what actually happened. The fact is like this. After a police patrol in the 
surroundings of the village a woman found a mortar shell in the forest. It is an ordinary thing for the 
villagers to pick up the bullets and shells that the police leave on their way. The woman brought the 
shell home and innocent of its effects threw it aside. It blasted and those who were near to it were 
injured. The people held a panchayat (village court) about the incident and solved it. There was a delay 
from the side of our Party and in the meanwhile there was unwanted propaganda. 

In the past two years the police arranged land mines in various places of the areas of the revolutionary 
movement and dug them out themselves. When the people were harmed in such incidents the police 
accused our Party. Let us see another cruel propaganda of the police. 

On the 22nd of January 2017, Hirakund Express met with an accident in Vijayanagaram district of Andhra 
Pradesh bordering Chhattisgarh. Many passengers died and many others were injured. As the news was 
pouring in about the incident, the then IG of Bastar SRP Kalluri immediately came out with statements 
that Maoists had a hand in this! The police of Odisha in fact stated that the Maoists had nothing to do 
with this. There was another incident in Bastar division at the same time. See how IG Kalluri moved the 
vices. 

An ancient statue of Vinayaka that was situated on Dolkal hill in Dantewada district fell on the ground in 
the same month. The believers started making a hue and cry of this and Kalluri once more took the 
chance cashing on people’s sentiments. The statue fell from a height of three thousand feet and broke 
into 16 pieces for which he found fault with the Maoists! Anyhow Archeologists stepped into the arena 

 

2 

and found the actual reason. They informed the people that the archeological assets of the state are in a 
horrible condition and that there are natural reasons for the statue to fall down. They spoke nothing 
about the possibility of Maoist’s hand. One who knows that the Maoists never act blindly with the 
sentiments and beliefs of the people would not mention them. 

In addition to Bastar the police are intensifying such ill propaganda in the revolutionary areas as a part 
of their psychological war. Let us see the police stories of Gadchiroli district of Maharashtra on par with 
Bastar police. 

In the first week of April 2017 there was headline news that there was firing with the Maoists in 
Kolamarka forest in Kamalapur area of Aheri area of the district and that the Maoist’s ambush was 
nipped. They created an incident of firing with Maoists in Thalwargarh hills in Korchi area. The police 
created landmines and blasted them in April in Alapalli of Aheri area in Gadchiroli. The police killed the 
revolutionary activists of Telangana, Comrade Charles and others in the nearby area and this incident 
was a continuation of it. In the recent past the police have been increasingly planting landmines, digging 
them out and blasting them terrorizing the people. When the people are harmed the Maoists are 
blamed shamelessly. 

A few recent incidents have been mentioned here. Our Party is not involved in any of these incidents. 
You can make an enquiry from the people. Our Party appeals to the rights’ activists not to believe the 
false propaganda of the police in such incidents. If the people are harmed in military actions, we appeal 
that you too should not immediately respond without knowing the facts. We admit our mistake if any, in 
cases of even a little damage. So you could know the facts through your sources from all angles and only 
then respond. 

Revolutionary greetings 
Pratap 
Spokesperson 
Central Regional Bureau, Central Committee 
CPI (Maoist) 

 

3 

