Rise against the proposed salva judum-2 with the name
Vikas Sangharsh Samithi (Committee to struggle for

development)!

An appeal to the people, democrats, progressive intellectuals, writers,
teachers, lawyers, media personnel, human rights organisations, adivasi,

non adivasi  social organisations, sarv samaj, sarv adivasi samaj

Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee

Communist Party of India (Maoist)

1

Rise against the proposed salva judum-2 with the name Vikas
Sangharsh Samithi (Committee to struggle for development)!

An appeal to the people, democrats, progressive intellectuals, writers,
teachers, lawyers, media personnel, human rights organisations, adivasi,

non adivasi  social organisations, sarv samaj, sarv adivasi samaj

By now all of you must have known that the son of Mahendra karma, the number one comprador
of the ruling and exploitative classes who died in the hands of PLGA in the Jeeramghati ambush, Chavindra
karma, together with Chaitram Attami, P.Vijay, Sathar Ali and other such goons survived from the PLGA
attacks in thepast salva judum and goons of BJP, announced on the 5th of May that they would start salva
judum-2 for the sake of “peace” and “development” of Bastar with the name Vikas Sangharsh Samithi
(meaning  committee  to  struggle  for  development).  This  so  called  committee  to  struggle  for
development  is  nothing  but  an  organized  killer  goonda  gang  of  the  family  of  Congress  Karma  in  the
protection  of  the  hindutva  fascist  BJP  government,  goondas  of  BJP  and  anti-people  gentry.  This  is  to
help  intensify  the  on-going  cruel,  military,  repressive  campaign  Operation  Greenhunt.

Why one more salva judum?
In  the  name  of  “peace”  and  “development”  the  salva  judum-2  in  essence  is  to  intensify  the
implementation of the fascist military organized repressive campaign green hunt in order to sell off the
natural resources of the state to the domestic and foreign capitalist giants and to eliminate the people’s
power, the janathana sarkar that is blossoming in Dandakaranya for genuine self-reliance and genuine
development.

The actual objective of this campaign is to pave way to the comprador bureaucratic bourgeois Tata,
Essar,  Jindal,  Mithal,  Neco  companies  and  Multinational  companies  like  TPG  in  the  resource  rich
Dandakaranya. MoUs for lakhs of crores of rupees have been signed with these companies. The MoUs in
the field of steel projects with Tata and Essar itself amount to around 17 thousand crores. According to
an estimate, marathon acquisition of nearly one lakh acres of land, which is mostly that of the adivasis
is  underway.  All  this  amounts  to  the  violation  of  the  powers  provided  to  the  adivasis  through  the  5th
schedule of the Constitution and the PESA act. Iron ore mines of Raoghat, Chargaon, Barabaspur, Kuvve,
Budhiyarimad, Amdai, Thulad situated across Bastar sambhag from one corner to the other, more than
two  dozens  of  iron  ore  mines  including  Pallemad  in  Rajnandgaon,  Surjagarh  in  Gadchiroli  and  many
such mines  were given on lease to the domestic and foreign capitalists. In addition to this, MoUs were
signed for ultra-mega steel plants with Tata, Essar and other companies and also NMDC. In order to loot
the resources easily and to facilitate the movement of the armed forces the Dalli Raoghat-Jagadalpur
rail line is being laid forcibly with the help of the police. One fourth of the land of the primitive tribe
Madia gond in Maad in Narayanpur district is proposed to be turned into a military hub with a military
training  school.  All  these  projects  are  facing  stiff  resistance  from  the  people’s  movement.  It  is  for  the
sole  purpose  of  initiating  these  projects,  the  state  police  forces,  central  para  military  forces  like  CRPF,
BSF,  ITBP  are  deployed  in  scores  of  camps  and  police  stations.  This  is  still  going  on.  In  the  pretext  of
patrolling, these forces are unleashing continuous attacks on the villages. Fake encounters, massacres,
fake  arrests  have  become  a  normal  feature  in  this  area.  Protesting  this  repression,  anti-displacement
people’s struggle is intensifying. The people of this area are in the forefront in the struggle against the
land  acquisition  bill  of  the  central  government.  The  announcement  of  salva  judum-2  just  before  the
visit of the main servant of the domestic and foreign corporate giants, Narendra Modi is to be seen in
this  background.

2

What is the meaning of peace and development of the ruling classes?
For  the  exploitative  and  ruling  classes,  the  meaning  of  peace  is  violence,  loot,  atrocity  and
exploitation  of  the  people.  It  is  also  that  people  bear  the  repression  silently.  If  questioned,  peace  is
said  to  be  violated.  Those  who  question,  protest  and  raise  voice  against  the  same  are  branded  to  be
terrorists,  extremists,  naxalites  and  Maoists.  They  can  be  hounded.  Peace  itself  means  violence  for
them.  The  silence  of  the  struggling  masses  is  peace.  Ordinary  masses  are  kept  in  hunger,  poverty,
shame and death for the benefit of the capitalists.

Development  in  terms  of  the  exploitative  governments  is  the  development  of  the  landlords,
comprador  bureaucratic  capitalists  and  the  imperialists  and  that  of  the  leaders  and  the  bureaucrats.
Development means mega industries, big mining projects, big dams, special economic zones, industrial
corridors,  atomic  projects,  air  force  and  army  hubs,  military  training  school,  wide  and  bright  roads,
super  highways,  5  star  hotels,  sky  scrapers,  mobile  towers,  corporate  banks  and  police  stations  and
camps.

Development  means  eating  away  the  jal  jungle  and  zameen  and  the  mineral  resources  of  the
people.  Development  means,  for  them  destruction  of  environment.  The  indiscriminate  extraction  of
resources  by  the  capitalists  is  causing  irrecoverable  loss  to  the  environment.  Take  the  example  of
Raoghat.  Raoghat  is  considered  important  for  monsoon  rain  in  Asia.  Mining  in  this  mountain  range
effects  monsoon  rain  in  Bastar.  It  is  a  known  fact  that  the  Bailadilla  mining  project  created  a  lot  of
destruction  to  the  people  of  Bastar.  It  is  known  to  all  that  the  essar  pipe  line  from  Bailadilla  to
Visakhapatnam  led  to  the  decrease  of  underground  water  level  in  Bastar.  The  pipe  line  facilitated  the
rate of the transport of the iron ore of Bailadilla from 300 rupees per ton through rail to 50 rupees per
ton that benefits essar company. The cleaning of the iron ore of Bailadilla polluted river Malinger due
to which not only human beings but animals and birds too cannot drink the water. The people effected
due to the red water from Bailadilla are in strong resistance to the same. River Mendki too faces the
same wrath due to Raoghat project. So development means displacement and destruction of the people.
Development  of  the  people  means  food,  water,  clothing,  shelter,  land,  education,  health,
employment,  irrigation  and  other  such  facilities.  But  the  exploitative  governments  are  least  bothered
about the basic facilities and problems of the people. The governments are implementing fake reforms
with the aim to distract the people from the revolutionary movement and to attract a small section of
the people. They are spending thousands of crores of rupees from the people’s money to provide basic
infrastructural  facilities  for  the  sake  of  domestic  and  foreign  capitalist  giants  and  for  the  repressive
state machinery like roads, mobile tower, police camps, rail line and dams. A very little amount is being
spent  for  the  infrastructural  facilities  for  the  ordinary  people.  By  the  time  it  reaches  the  village  from
the top of the state machinery it becomes less than one fourth of the allotted budget. According to an
estimate more than 25 lakhs of people are migrating in desperate search of livelihood from Chathisgarh
every  year  leaving  aside  their  kith  and  kin.  In  this  process  they  face  loot  and  atrocities.  The  much
propagated MANREGA or any other project does not seem to be able to stop the migration. Chathisgarh
stands nothing less in the affair of suicides of farmers. All the employees along with the teachers are
frustrated with many problems. The governments take up lathi, jail and guns as an only answer to the
problems of the people. The exploitative governments that stand as the representatives of the ruling
and  exploitative  classes  can  never  expected  to  take  up  real  development  of  the  people.

In order to mask the terrorist face of the armed forces of the government it is taking up Civic action
programs.  The  hands  of  the  armed  forces  drenched  in  the  blood  of  the  people  distribute  articles  to
them. So salva judum is neither a peace campaign nor for development.

3

     This is the meaning of peace of the ruling classes

This is the development of the ruling classes

These are the so called relief  camps

Repression is not new to the people of Dandakaranya
The struggling people of Dandakaranya have been fighting against many repressive campaigns for
the past 35 years of the revolutionary movement. They are equipped with the experience of facing and
fighting back such campaigns.

Jan Jagaran: The first repressive campaign in the name of jan jagaran in 1990-‘91 saw goondas
murdering the leaders and cadre of mass organisations and beating hundreds of them. Tens of women
were  sexually  assaulted.  The  struggling  people  defeated  this  campaign  in  the  leadership  of  our  Party.
Once again in 1997-‘98 another jan jagaran abhiyan was defeated by the armed people in the leadership
of the Party in a short period.

What was the peace and development of salva judum?
Salva judum was neither a peace campaign nor did anything for the development of the people.
Salva  judum  was  a  fascist,  military  and  organized  repressive  campaign  of  the  central  and  the  state
governments  aimed  to  repress  the  people  struggling  for  peace  and  development.  In  addition  to  the
CRPF, Naga and Mijo forces too were deployed in this campaign. The school buildings were turned to be
shelters  of  the  police  forces.  Seven  hundred  villages  were  destroyed  in  the  cruel  attacks  of  the  salva
judum goondas and the government armed forces. More than fifteen hundred adivasis including 2 year
old child to 70 years old, were murdered barbarously. Dozens of massacres were committed. Hundreds
were arrested on false charges and put in jails. Many were put to life imprisonment on false evidences.
Hundreds  of  young  women  were  assaulted  sexually.  Many  were  mass  assaulted  and  later  murdered.
The  breasts  of  women  were  cut,  pregnant  women  were  murdered,  uterus  tore  open  and  the  foetus
suspended  on  the  door.  The  heinous  and  cruel  deeds  of  the  salva  judum  makes  one  feel  ashamed.
Movable  and  immovable  properties  worth  crores  of  rupees  were  either  looted  or  burnt.  The  adivasi
youth were attracted or terrorized to become SPOs. It was like forcing one to pluck their eyes with their
own fingers thus making a social division.

In  the  name  of  relief  camps  concentration camps  were  situated  in  a  bid  to  mop  up  the  people’s
movement.  There  were  relentless  attacks  on  the  villages  and  more  than  80  thousand  people  were
forced into these camps like cows and buffaloes. Life in these camps was worse than that in the jails.
The sexual assault and oppression on the women by the armed forces of the camp became intolerable
and was an ordinary affair. With the continuous efforts from party and democrats most of the people
who were fed up with thetorturous prison life in socalled Salwa Judum relief camps returned to their
villages.  More  than  a  lakh  of  people  migrated  to  Telangana,  Andhrapradesh  and  Orissa  out  of  fear  of
attacks, massacres, fake encounters, atrocities and torture, leaving aside all their belongings. They are
living  a  displaced  life.  Due  to  the  attacks  of  salva  judum  lakhs  of  people  became  homeless  and  were
forced to live in the forest. They were in a life and death situation. It would be fair to quote an intellectual
who said that in the 25 years of the Maoist movement in the state not even a single home of the adivasis
was burnt, but in the 4 years of salva judum tens of thousands of were burnt and lakhs made homeless.
It  is  to  be  noted  that  this  salva  judum  was  said  to  be  a  spontaneous  movement  of  the  people  and  a
peace  campaign.  The  past  and  the  present  proposed  salva  judum  can  be  easily  estimated  whether  it
was and would be, peaceful or not.

Strong people’s movement and people’s war intensified against the campaign. Progressive people,
democrats, social organisations, intellectuals, writers, teachers, lawyers, media personnel of the country
and across the world raised their voice against the fascist repressive salva  judum campaign. They came
on to the roads and took up legal fight too. The government had to inevitably stop salva judum.

Operation Green Hunt: Due to the country wide fascist military repression campaign Operation
Greenhunt that started in August 2009, carpet security was intensified in the areas of struggle. Tens of
battallions  of  Police,  para  military  forces  were  deployed  and  hundreds  of  camps  and  stations  were

5

formed.  Attacks  on  villages  have  been  a  daily  phenomenon.  Liquidative  surrender  policy  is  being
highlighted.  They  are  conspiring  to  terrorise  the  people  through  massacres  like  Edsametta  and
Sarkingudem.

Under  the  leadership  of  the  Party,  the  PLGA,  the  people’s  government  janathana  sarkar,  mass
organisations  and  the  revolutionary  people  are  making  uncountable  sacrifices  in  fighting  back  the
Operation Greenhunt. There is an unprecedented response against the fascist repressive campaign and
war on people and support to the people’s war, from proletariat class organisations, maoist parties and
organisations,  human  rights  organisations,  intellectuals,  progressive  and  democratic  sections,  media
personnel. We not only hope but absolutely believe that this response would go on in the future and
would  strengthen.

Tata and Essar’s sponsorship: It should be noted that tata and essar companies sponsored salva
judum  and  that  both  the  companies  allotted  crores  of  rupees  in  the  name  of  CSR  (corporate  social
responsibility) to run the concentration camps. Mahendra karma, the then leader of the opposition and
Baliram Kashyap the then MP of the ruling party and other such anti people persons who propagated for
the company and tried to forcibly compromise the people have been given big amounts. Undoubtedly
in  the  present  context  too  the  same  companies  are  sponsoring  the  Committee  to  struggle  for
development in order to speedily start their projects. It would not be out of context to quote the daily
papers that a senior IPS officer Giridhari Nayak who is expected to become the DGP of the state in near
future and another senior IAS Durgesh Mishra who is expected to be the industry secretary soon  were
given  lakhs  of  rupees  to  favour  the  company  after  coming  to  their  positions.  This  clearly  shows  the
method of work of the corporate companies. Jal jungle and zameen and resources could be protected
only  by  intensifying  the  anti-displacement  struggle  against  all  the  mining  and  other  projects  and
industries of tata, essar, neco, Jindal, mithal, TPG and other such domestic and foreign corporate giants.
Appeal – Our party appeals to the struggling masses of Dandakaraya to fight back and defeat the
present  salva  judum  with  the  experience  gained  in  the  past  two  jan  jagaran  abhiyans  and  the  salva
judum.

We appeal to adivasi, non adivasi social organisations, sarv adivasi samaj, sarv samaj that since the
proposed campaign is a big danger to the survival of the adivasis and non adivasis of Bastar, it is necessary
to not only stay away from the anti-people campaign but also to take up a strong resistance against the
same.

We also appeal to all the progressive and democrats, human rights organisations, social organisations
intellectuals, writers, artists, teachers, lawyers, media personnel to come on to the roads, raise voice in
protest  to  the  destructive  and  people  repressive  fascist  organized  campaign  and  come  forward  to
protect the jal jungle zameen and resources and the survival and identity of the adivasis.

Once again the terror and oppression of salva judum is going to start. Bastar could be protected
only  if  this  campaign  is  defeated.  People’s  war  and  the  people’s  movement  are  to  be  intensified  and
thus the repressive campaigns could be defeated. Thus the organ of people’s state power, the janathana
sarkar would be strengthened and expanded. Only thus the self-reliance and genuine development of
the  people  of  Dandakaranya  is  possible.

Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee
Communist Party of India (Maoist)

6

