Let us unite to fight back the countrywide brutal offensive by the imperialist-

backed Central-state governments on the revolutionary and democratic 

movements in India! 

 

           ----An Appeal by the Central Committee, CPI(Maoist), to all revolutionary Parties and 
individuals  
 
Dear comrades! 
 
We convey our comradely revolutionary greetings to the rank and file of all the revolutionary 
Parties and organsiations and to the revolutionary masses in the areas of class struggle led by your 
Parties. 
  
As we all know, the reactionary ruling classes of India, with the total support and backing of the 
imperialists, particularly the American imperialists, have been carrying out the most brutal state 
terror on the revolutionaries and struggling people in India, particularly on the armed agrarian 
revolutionary war that is raging in the vast adivasi-inhabited region stretching from Paschim 
Midnapur-Bankura-Purulia in West Bengal to North Andhra Pradesh. The state governments of 
Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Orissa, Maharashtra, West Bengal and others 
are spending huge amounts to strengthen the special police forces to suppress the revolutionary 
war in their respective states. The Centre has deployed 50,000 central forces, set up special anti-
Naxal force called the Cobras, and is planning to raise and deploy several more battalions of para-
military forces for suppressing the revolutionary movement. The state and central governments 
have set up vigilante groups like salwa judum, nagarik suraksha samiti,  shanti sena, hermad 
bahini and the frontal organisations of the social-fascist CPI(M) and other political parties which 
are carrying out cruel state-sponsored terror against the entire population in the areas of armed 
agrarian revolutionary war.  
 
Ever since the UPA returned to power at the Centre for the second time in May last, it has stepped 
up this state terror on an unprecedented scale, imposed an All India ban on the CPI(Maoist), 
declared it as a terrorist organisation, and has declared its intent to brutally suppress the Maoist 
revolutionaries even if it meant carrying out a blood-bath in the entire adivasi-inhabited region. 
The US and other imperialists are actively goading on their Indian comprador agents to unleash 
such a brutal war. As part of this plan the US delegation had visited Chhattisgarh several times 
and Washington is actively overseeing the counter-revolutionary preparations in other states. The 
comprador big business houses of India—the Tatas, Jindals, Mittals, Ruias (Essar), Birlas, 
Ambanis & others—and imperialist MNCs like Vedanta, all of which are itching to lay their 
hands on the abundant forest and mineral wealth of this vast region, are holding secret parleys 
with their representatives in the political establishment to use all means to brutally crush the 
Maoist movement. Sonia-Manmohan-Chidambaram clique has been carrying on hectic 
consultations with the various political parties, top bureaucrats and Army officials to deploy the 
notorious Rashtriya Rifles—the counterinsurgency wing of the Indian Army—against the Maoist 
movement.  
 
A united struggle by all the revolutionary-democratic forces in the country against this 
unprecedented cruel state terrorist offensive on the Maoist movement is the urgent need of the 
hour. The support and solidarity extended by the various revolutionary and democratic forces in 
India and abroad to the Lalgarh mass uprising and their protest against the massive state offensive 
has greatly enthused the adivasi people of the region and the people of the entire country. This 

show of solidarity has opened up a new chapter of unity among the revolutionary and democratic 
forces.  
 
 
Comrades! 
It is a fact that the revolutionary forces in India have been riven by serious differences for a long 
period of time. There is still some bitterness owing to several reasons and sharp differences exist 
in the ideological-political-organisational-military lines. There is need to address these and 
achieve stronger unity among the entire revolutionary camp on a principled basis. 
Notwithstanding these differences prevailing at present, our Party earnestly hopes that all the 
revolutionary parties and organisations in the country will come forward at this critical hour in 
the history of the Indian revolutionary movement and unite in action to form the broadest united 
front against this state terrorist offensive. This revolutionary act will give immense confidence to 
the vast adivasi masses and other sections of the people who are being crushed, displaced and 
even decimated in accordance with a well-hatched conspiracy of the reactionary rulers.  
 
Let us keep aside our ideological-political differences and join hands to fight back this 
imperialist-backed state offensive in order to defend the interests of the oppressed masses. The 
current state terrorist attack by the Sonia-Manmohan-Chidambaram clique is not just on the 
CPI(Maoist) and the people’s war going on in the country but on the entire revolutionary camp 
and the democratic people’s struggles. The aim of this state terrorist offensive is to suppress the 
revolutionary leadership of the people so as to intensify the exploitation and plunder of the 
country’s wealth by the imperialists and the CBB. 
 
There is no time to ponder. LET US ACT NOW.   
 
With Revolutionary Greetings, 
Central committee, 
CPI(Maoist) 
10 September, 2009 

