COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 
DANDAKARANYA SPECIAL ZONAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release 

 

July 7, 2011 

An Appeal from Maoists to SPOs (Special Police Officers) 
Defeat the ploys of the government to divide us and rule! 

Stop fighting for the exploiters and oppressors 

and come back to your villages!! 

 
The  Supreme  Court  delivered  a  judgment  on  the  petition  filed  by  social  activist  Nandini 
Sundar, historian Ramchandra Guha and ex-bureaucrat E.A.S. Sharma on July 4, 2011 and ordered 
the  Chhattisgarh  government  that  appointment  of  Adivasis  as  SPOs  on  the  pretext  of  fighting 
Maoists and arming them with guns should be stopped. The SC opined that the very appointment of 
SPOs  is  unconstitutional.  Previously  too  it  had  commented  several  times  in  the  negative  about 
Salwa Judum, SPO and Koya commandos.  

In fact, since the launch of the fascist repressive campaign in the name of Salwa Judum (SJ) by 
the central and state governments in a planned manner, the process of appointing Adivasi youth as 
SPOs began. Since then in a series of repressive campaigns in the name of SJ and later in the name 
of Operation Green Hunt (OGH) nearly 700 villages were destroyed. Each village was burnt down 
in phases. More than 1200 people were killed. Hundreds of women were gang raped. Many of them 
were murdered too. Granaries were razed to ground. Properties were looted. Hens, pigs and goats 
were whisked away. In all these terrorizing acts SPOs recruited from Adivasis were pushed to the 
forefront.  It  was  the  SPOs  that  were  pushed  to  the  forefront  to  act  as  guides  to  the  paramilitary 
forces  and  to  identify  the  people  and  their  houses  when  they  attack  villages.  Later  due  to  the 
decision  taken  to  recruit  SPOs  on  a  huge  scale  their  numbers  increased  to  nearly  5,000.  Some 
selected SPOs were given training by Greyhounds and Rashtriya Rifles of Indian Army and a new 
force  called  Koya  commando  was  constituted.  As  it  was  not  possible  to  suppress  the  Maoist 
movement even with the repressive methods employed by all these types of armed forces, the state 
has  now  deployed  the  Army  as  its  last  resort.  Though  this  deployment  is  done  in  the  name  of 
‘training’  at  present,  in  fact  the  process  of  directly  using  the  Army  in  the  ‘War  on  People’  has 
started. 

The  ruling  classes  have  launched  this  unjust  war  against  the  people  with  the  evil  design  of 
turning the whole of Dandakaranya which is home to immense natural resources into the grazing 
field  for MNC and big bourgeoisie corporate loot. They took up a policy of displacing people from 
the villages and forests on a huge scale to implement this plan. Local Adivasi youth were appointed 
as SPOs and Koya commandos and countless atrocities were perpetrated through them. 

Our party believes that many of the SPOs had not gone on their own will and that they had 
turned into SPOs due to several kinds of pressures. Several of them were arrested, forcefully shifted 
to ‘relief’ camps, beaten, abused, threatened that they would be killed and thus turned into SPOs. 
Though at first they turned into SPOs fearing state terror, later gradually they became part of the 
force and have participated in all the atrocities perpetrated on the people. Some of the SPOs have 
participated in violence and atrocities on people against their will. They are feeling sorry for that. 
Several of the SPOs are not even aware that they have been used as pawns in the brutal orgy of 
terror and violence unleashed by white and khaki robed compradors like Mahendra Karma, Raman 

Singh,  Viswaranjan,  Nankiram  by  deploying  thousands  of  police,  paramilitary,  Naga-Mizo 
battalions etc. 

Home minister Chidambaram who is acting as the CEO of OGH, the war on people announced 
that he would conduct a meeting with chief ministers of the states where the Maoist movement is 
strong in the light of the above judgment. It is obvious that this meeting is being conducted with the 
conspiracy  of  finding  out  ways  to  continue  this  system  of  SPOs  and  Koya  commandos  under  a 
different  name.  Politicians,  top  police  brass  and  bureaucrats  from  Delhi  and  Raipur  are  now 
cracking their heads to somehow continue this SPO system in this unjust war on the people.  

We want to make it clear to all the SPOs that this war is not between them and us. This war is 
being fought between a small minority of exploiters and the entire toiling masses of this country. 
On one side are the 95 percent of oppressed masses – the workers, peasants, middle classes, dalits, 
Adivasis, petty bourgeoisie and the national bourgeoisie; on the other side are the big landlords and 
the  comprador  bureaucratic  bourgeoisie.  These  enemy  classes  have  the  complete  support  of  the 
imperialists. These exploiting classes are using you as pawns by recruiting you into their repressive 
machinery.  You  are  made  into  guinea  pigs.  As  part  of  their  ‘divide  and  rule’  policy  they  are 
bringing  a  section  of  the  people  to  the  forefront  and  are  trying  to  portray  this  as  a  ‘civil  war’ 
between  the  people.  They  stood  you  against  the  very  people  of  whom  you  were  once  a  part. 
‘Patriotism’ and ‘defence of the country’ are some of the lies used by the ruling classes to incite you 
against the people’s movements that are fought with just demands. In fact, it is these very classes 
which  are  using  you  as  cannon  fodder  that  are  the  biggest  enemies  to  our  country.  They  are 
scamsters who have resorted to scams worth billions of rupees; they have mortgaged not only the 
riches of  our  country  but  also  its sovereignty for the sake  of kickbacks; they have stashed  away 
billions  of  rupees  of  black  money  in  Swiss  banks  by  indiscriminate  loot  of  the  people  of  our 
country. It is due to these scamsters and gangsters that 77 percent of our population is not able to eat 
even  two  times  per  day.  They  have  pushed  us  into  the  quagmire  of  poverty,  price  rises, 
unemployment,  epidemics,  starvation  deaths,  malnutrition  etc.  So  do  identify  your  real  enemies. 
Don’t forget that your barrels are pointing at your very own people at present.  

Dandakaranya Special Zonal committee of CPI (Maoist) calls upon all the SPOs to leave their 
jobs and come back to their villages. We, the party and the people, promise to rehabilitate all those 
SPOs  who  come  back  to  their  villages,  accept  all  the  crimes  they  have  committed  and  seek  the 
mercy  of  the  people  while  severing  all  kinds  of  connections  with  the  government  machinery. 
Janatana  Sarkar,  the  people’s  government,  would  provide  them  lands  and  other  instruments  of 
production. They would be provided a guarantee for livelihood. So, we appeal to all the SPOs to 
come out of the vicious circle and the false propaganda of these exploitative governments. Do not 
crave  for  the  morsels  thrown  by  them,  try  to  stand  on  your  own  feet  and  live  with  raised  heads 
among the people of your villages. Do not live a life of insecurity and restlessness. Stand in support 
of the just struggles of the people of Dandakaranya fought against the absolute corporate loot of 
invaluable natural riches and for right over Jal-Jungle-Zameen. 

 

 
(Gudsa Usendi) 
Spokesperson 
Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee 
CPI (Maoist) 

