Communist Party of (Maoist)  

Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee  

Press Statement 

25 September 2014 

 

 

Dandakaranya  Special  Zonal  Committee  (DKSZC)  of  Communist  Party  of  India  (Maoist) 
strongly  opposes  the  decision  by  the  Centre-State  Governments  to  deploy  Naga  Jawans  in  the 
struggle  areas  of  Dandakaranya.  We  appeal  to  Naga  Jawans  to  oppose  the  implementation  of  this 
decision and not to come to Chhattisgarh as slaves in the service of Exploiters, raise their voices to 
oppose  forceful  deployment  and  express  solidarity  towards  the  Adivasi  people  of  this  region  who 
are fighting  for their  very existence.  We  feel  it  is appropriate to make Naga Jawans  know that the 
India’s exploitative ruling classes and their representative - the Central Government - is the common 
enemy  of  Naga  Nationality  and  India’s  exploited-oppressed  masses.  If  forcefully  sent  to  struggle 
areas  in  spite  of  your  opposition,  perform  your  duties  passively.  Do  not  commit  atrocities  on  the 
people. During battles, lay down your arms. In all possible ways provide us with information.  

We welcome the statements given by  officers of Naga forces and the Naga State  Congress 
unit in opposition to sending Naga forces to Chhattisgarh. It is well known that during the notorious 
militarized, well-organized, repressive fascist operation Salwa Judum too, Naga forces were sent to 
Chattisgarh. Due to strong mass resistance by the struggling people of Dandakaranya and the heroic 
resistance  by  PLGA  under  the  leadership  of  our  party  as  well  as  due  to  the  opposition  by  Naga 
people,  families  of  Naga  Jawans,  Naga  students  and  intellectuals,  Naga  agitators,  civil  rights 
organizations and activists, the Central and Naga State governments were forced to call back Naga 
forces from Chhattisgarh. During that time, many Naga Jawans lost their lives in people’s war and 
also many of them got injured.  

Now Naga forces are once again being used to intensify the Operation Green Hunt, which is 
a  countrywide  unjustified  war  on  people,  launched  in  2009  to  wipe  out  our  Party,  PLGA  and 
people’s democratic power organs – the Revolutionary Peoples’ Committees. It is the conspiracy of 
the exploitative-ruling  classes that  on the  one  hand, since decades military  might  is being used by 
the Indian Government to annihilate Naga  national liberation struggle, and on the other, it is using 
Naga  forces  to  suppress  Dandakaranya  Adivasis  who  are  fighting  for  their  rights  over  Jal-Jungle-
Jameen.  This  policy  of  Divide  and  Rule  of  the  British  colonialists  is  inherited  by  the  Indian 
comprador ruling classes.  

Our Party  from  the beginning  is  in wholehearted support  of the right  of self-determination 
including  secession  of  the  North  Eastern  nationalities.  It  strongly  opposes  Armed  Forces  Special 
Powers  Act  (AFSPA).  After  Modi-led  BJP  government  came  to  power,  it  can  be  seen  that  the 
India’s expansionist policy is being implemented aggressively. The implementation of the agenda of 
Akhand Bharat is going to be speeded-up either by taking suppressive measures or by attempting to 
crush  national  liberation  struggles  in  South  Asia.  The  need  has  arisen  for  all  national  liberation 
struggles of the North East to unite with India’s New Democratic Revolutionary forces.  

In the end, we appeal to the leading organisations of the Naga national liberation struggle 

and all North-Eastern national liberation struggles, civil rights activists, families of Naga Jawans -  
especially their mothers, friends and relatives, students and youth to wage a strong and militant mass 
agitations against the deployment of Naga forces in Chhattisgarh. 

 
 

 Gudsa Usendi  
Spokesperson,  
Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee,  
Communist Party of India (Maoist) 

