COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

  

 

 
                 Press Release:                                                                    September 19, 2008 

Condemn the continuing brutal attacks on the Christian community by the 

saffron terrorists aided by the state! 

 

All secular and democratic forces! Unite to fight back VHP-Bajrang Dal-
RSS-BJP fascist neo-Nazi gangs who are bent upon ethnic cleansing!!  

  

 
The saffron terrorists have unleashed the worst kind of attacks on the Christian community across the 
country  which  have  assumed  gory  savage  forms  in  Orissa,  Karnataka  and  Madhya  Pradesh.  The  police 
and  the  state  machinery  in  these  states  not  only  failed  to  protect  the  lives  and  property  of  the  religious 
minority  but  also  became  direct  accomplices  by  aiding  and  abetting  these  Hindu  fascist  criminals  and 
terrorists.  The  Chief  Minister  of  Karnataka,  Yediyurappa,  has  revealed  his  ugly  Hindu  fascist  nature  by 
saying  that  the  attacks  on  the  Christian  churches  and  houses  in  Mangalore,  Chikmagalore,  Kolar  and 
elsewhere  in  the  state  is  a  natural  reaction  to  the  “forced  conversions”  indulged  in  by  the  Christian 
organizations.  He  had  even  accused  that  Christian  missionaries  get  foreign  funds  for  the  purpose.  The 
Home Minister, Acharya, gave a clean chit to the lumpen goons of Bajrang Dal without even bothering to 
conduct  an  enquiry  in  spite  of  visual  evidence  of  the  Bajrangis  who  had  led  the  attacks.  Worse  still, 
adding  insult  to  the  injury  inflicted  on  the  Christian  community,  Yediyurappa’s  policemen  had  entered 
churches and convents brutally beating up nuns and other Christian women.  

The  CC,  CPI(Maoist)  condemns  the  communal  fascist  terror  unleashed  by  the  neo-Nazi  thugs  of 
 
sangh parivar and calls upon the secular and democratic forces to unite to protect the religious minorities 
and to isolate the Hindu fanatics. Yediyurappa, who has already earned notoriety as Karnataka’s Narendra 
Modi  in  a  span  of  few  months,  should  be  arrested  for  inflaming  communal  passions  and  justifying  the 
brutal  attacks on the Christian minority.  It is  shameful that the so-called judiciary which passes verdicts 
against bandhs and strikes, has chosen to remain silent as Hindu fanatics and police unleash attacks on the 
minorities. 

It is crystal-clear that a conspiracy has been hatched by the saffron terrorists to decimate the religious 
  
minorities and force the Christians to reconvert to Hindu religion. The leaders of the saffron brigade have 
openly declared that they would not rest until all non-Hindus are converted back into Hinduism.  

In  Orissa  the  atrocities  against  Christian  community  continues  unabated  with  the  blessings  of  the 
 
Naveen  Patnaik  government.  The  saffron  fanatic  leaders  like  Ashok  Singhal,  Vinay  Katiyar,  Praveen 
Togadia, Subhash Chouhan and others have been declaring repeatedly that Laxmanananda was killed by 
Christian  missionary  organizations  even  after  our  Party  had  categorically  declared  that  our  PLGA 
guerrillas  had carried out  the punishment on  Laxmanananda  in Jalespet ashram for his brutal  attacks on 
the  Christian  community.  These  Hitlerite  gangs  had  even  put  up  posters  in  the  name  of  our  Party  that 
Maoists were not responsible for the attack in Jalespeta ashram. Like Hitler setting fire to the Reichstag to 
step  up  the  suppression  of  the  social  democrats  and  seize  power  and  enact  fascist  rule,  the  Hitler's 
progeny  in  India—the  saffron  fanatical  terrorists—stage  bomb  blasts  blaming  it  on  the  religious 
minorities. Our CC makes it clear once again that the annihilation of Laxmananda has been carried 
out  by our  squads  for  his  indescribable  misdeeds  and fanatical attacks  on  the  Christian  minority. 
Every Indian citizen has the right to choose his/her religion and to convert to any religion of choice. 
The Hindu fascist forces cannot suppress this freedom by coercion and intimidation of the religious 
minorities. We warn the saffron terrorists that our PLGA will continue to punish their leaders as long as 
they persist in attacks against religious minorities and continue to rake up communal frenzy and hatred.  

   The CC, CPI(Maoist), calls upon all secular and democratic forces to unite and fight back the brutal 
attacks  on  the  religious  minorities  by  the  Hindu  fascist  forces.  The  responsibility  falls  more  on  the 
shoulders of the Hindu majority to protect the rights of the religious minorities and to isolate and 
ostracise  the  terrorists  in  the  guise  of  VHP-Bajrang  Dal-RSS-BJP  who  utilize  Hindu  religion  to 
whip up communal passions and attacks on minorities. 

 
Let us build a broad-based mass movement to isolate the saffron fascists and to bring pressure on the 
government  to  arrest  and  punish  all  those  who  have  committed  atrocities  and  brutal  attacks  on  the 
Christian  community  in  Karnataka,  Orissa  and  elsewhere.  Advanis,  Modis,  Yediyurappas,  Singhals, 
Katiyars,  Togadias  Naveen  Patnaiks  are  enemies  of  the  people.  The  present  system  will  never  punish 
these vultures but they will certainly be punished in the people’s court ultimately. Let us defend the rights 
of the religious minorities and strive to build a secular, truly democratic India assuring religious freedom, 
security and equality of all religions in India. 

 
Signed/ 
Azad, 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee 
CPI(Maoist) 
 
 
 

[From: CPI(Maoist) Information Bulletin, #5, Winter 2008-2009, preliminary MS Word edition.] 

 

