 

 

 

 

Maoists in India: A Rejoinder 

[From: Economic and Political Weekly, October 14, 2006] 

by Azad 

 
 
The  special  issue  (July  22,  2006)  devoted  to  the  Maoists  in  India  reflects  recognition  of  the  growing 
importance that the Maoist-led movement plays in the polity and the economy of the country. However, 
what  was  disconcerting  was  that  an  issue  devoted  to  the  Maoists  did  not  have  a  single  article  by  the 
Maoists themselves. The majority of the  essays appeared preoccupied with the question of violence  and 
not with the horrifying conditions of the masses and finding a way out for them.  
 
Though  the  EPW  has  chosen  a  wide  spectrum  of  views,  it  would  have  been  more  constructive  if  the 
articles  were  linked  more  to  the  question  of  the  alleviation  of  the  horrifying  conditions  of  the  masses, 
particularly in this period of globalisation when the situation has worsened.  
 
The issue of violence should have been seen in this context. In this reply, we will first very briefly present 
our understanding of the Indian social order, then discuss our own goals as the framework from which to 
view  the  points  made  by  the  writers,  and  subsequently  take  up  some  of  the  main  issues  on  which  we 
differ. We  shall  assign  importance  to  those  arguments  that  are  really  disturbing  the  well-wishers  of  the 
movement. 
 
Semi-Colonial, Semi-Feudal Order 
 
Our  beloved  country,  so  rich  in  natural  wealth,  human  power  and  ingenuity,  has  been  reduced  to  a 
condition that is, in some respects, worse than most of the countries of sub-Saharan Africa. In these nearly 
60  years  of  so-called  independence  the  situation  has  not  significantly  improved  compared  to  what 
prevailed in the last years of the British Raj – at least for the general masses. In the Nehruvian period, the 
model  of  development  relied  on  the  “trickle  down  effect”;  now,  in  the  present  phase  of  globalisation, 
there is no pretence of even that.  
 
The  one  lakh  figure  (official)  of  suicide  deaths  in  rural  India  in  the  past  10  years  is  only  the  tip  of  the 
iceberg of misery that none of the writers refer to. Poverty and deprivation of the masses have continued 
apace, more so in the present phase of globalisation.  
 
And, if the masses (not just Naxalites) dare to  even raise their voice for justice,  they face the lathis and 
guns of the state machinery with increasing intolerance. 
 
This  was  evident  not  only  in  the  workers‟  struggle  in  Gurgaon,  the  tribal  people‟s  struggle  of  Kalinga 
Nagar,  the  slum  dwellers‟  resistance  in  Mumbai  and  Delhi,  the  struggles  of  displaced  people  of  the 
Narmada, peasant struggles in Rajasthan, the electricity employees‟ struggles in UP and Punjab, and the 
struggle  of  the  state  government  employees  in  Tamil  Nadu,  but  even  in  the  protests  against  the  recent 
demolitions  in  the  middle  class  localities  of  Delhi.  In  all  these  struggles  the  people  were  ruthlessly 
trampled  upon,  as  they  did  not  have  the  strength  to  withstand  the  state  onslaught.  As  a  result,  their 
conditions  have  gone from bad to worse. What answers do the  writers (in  the EPW special issue on the 
Maoist  movement  in  India)  have  to  put  an  end  to  such  endemic  state  violence  on  different  sections  of 

 

1 

 

struggling  people?  How  should  these  people  organise  to  improve  their  lives?  How  should  they  fight 
back?  
 
To negate the Maoist method, which has at least achieved some degree of success, at least in those areas 
where the Maoists have adopted the path of armed struggle, without providing an alternative, in effect, is 
to  push  people  into  deeper  and  deeper  despair  (and  poverty),  even  as  the  moneybags  strut  around 
flaunting their wealth. 
 
The increasing state violence on the masses and the growing impoverishment are not just an accident or 
some  isolated  instances,  but  endemic  to  the  existing  system,  which  we  Maoists  broadly  characterize  as 
semi-colonial and semi-feudal. 
 
Semi-colonial  because  the  Indian  ruling  classes  (big  business,  top  bureaucrats,  and  leading  politicians 
running the centre and the states) are tied to imperialist interests.  
 
Semi-feudal, as the old feudal relations have not been smashed, only a certain amount of capitalist growth 
has been superimposed on them. So also, the Parliament is no democratic institution (as in countries that 
have  been  through  a  democratic  revolution  –  a  bourgeois  democracy)  but  has  been  instituted  on  the 
existing highly autocratic state and semi-feudal structures as a ruse to dupe the masses. 
 
The  contemporary  Indian  economy  is  unduly  influenced  by  the  activities  of  carpetbaggers,  a  ruthless 
mafia,  rapacious  mining  interests  and  giant  speculators,  all  linked  to  the  politics  of  criminality.  The 
degeneration  is  so  deep,  the  rot  so  acute  that  these  same  moneybags  are  floating  thousands  of  non-
government organizations (NGOs) in order to trivialise the ills of the system so that people are diverted 
from seeing that these are endemic to the very system itself and  not due to just  some bad individuals or 
policies.  
 
The  semi-colonial,  semi-feudal  order  reproduces  social  polarisation  –  a  growing  rich  and  their  vast 
number of hangers-on, and an increasing mass of the impoverished. A small section of the middle class is 
moving  into  the  first  category,  partaking  of  some  crumbs  from  the  opulent  dining  table;  the  bulk  of  the 
people  are  being  pushed  into  squalor,  unemployment,  agrarian  crisis,  business  bankruptcy  and  financial 
ruin.  
 
Even  the local bourgeoisie (small)  and small traders  are being  squeezed out in increasing numbers  with 
the entry of giant companies in all spheres of the economy. 
 
With these extremes of wealth and poverty, in order to protect the enclaves of the rich and powerful, the 
state will be driven to resort to more and more repression of the people and their organisations. 
 
It is only within this framework that one can understand why the home ministry designates the Maoists as 
the  number  one  threat  to  “internal  security”.  We  Maoists  seek  a  just  and  equitable  order.  In  this 
endeavour,  the  key  question  is  how  does  one  confront  the  repressive  Indian  state  that  brutally  tramples 
upon the people, even as it defends and pampers the wealthy. But before that let us get to what we stand 
for. 
 
Maoist Model of Development 
 
We Maoists stand for a people-oriented, self-reliant model of development. In this model, people play the 
central role; their initiative is released to the fullest extent possible. We are of the opinion that all wealth 
generated within the country should stay here and not be allowed to be drained off abroad. India is a very 

2 

 

 

rich country with tremendous human power and ingenuity, together with a vast natural resource base. The 
vast  wealth,  illegally  and  immorally  appropriated  by  the  imperialists,  feudal  elements  and  compradors, 
should  be  seized  and  turned  to  use  in  developing  the  economy,  first  and  foremost  in  agriculture  and  in 
rural areas, where the bulk of our people live. 
 
Our model of development is oriented to vastly enhancing the purchasing power of the masses. This will 
create a huge home market in the country itself, which will act as the main engine for growth. The starting 
point for this is overhauling the rural economy, where 70 per cent of our people live. This will be initiated 
through land reforms, by the redistribution of land on the basis of “land-to-the-tiller”. In his article, Tilak 
D  Gupta  says  that  this  is  not  viable  any  longer  as  there  is  not  enough  surplus  land.  But  has  he  fixed  a 
viable  ceiling  to  determine  how  much  land  will  be  available  for  redistribution?  Has  he  determined  how 
much land is with the government/panchayats; how much land is with religious institutions and mutts; 
how  much  land  is  with  absentee  landowners  (even  most  bureaucrats/army  officials  maintain  land,  and 
many,  in  fact,  purchase  more);  and  how  much  land  is  with  the  private  corporate  sector  and  with  luxury 
resorts, golf clubs, etc? 
 
The land reforms, coupled with large investments in agriculture (to also regenerate the soil destroyed by 
the green  revolution), forestry  and  allied activities (poultry,  goat farming, fishery,  etc),  will enormously 
expand the rural populace‟s purchasing power. This in turn will create a market for the basic necessities 
of life and will help generate local industry,  resulting in  employment generation. With this employment 
generation  the purchasing power will  increase further, leading to more industry,  and it is  this spiral that 
will result in continuous growth. 
 
In this development model, growth (and extension of the home market) will be linked to people‟s welfare 
and will in fact be dependent on it. 
 
In the urban areas too, industrial production will be people-oriented. The opulent expenditure of the super 
rich  will  cease  (as  their  surplus  and  ill-begotten  wealth  will  be  confiscated)  and  the  vast  slums  will  be 
rehabilitated.  
 
Job security will be ensured with a living wage and there will be no necessity to cling to ancestral land as 
a  source  of  security  to  fall  back  upon.  This  will  release  a  further  amount  of  land  for  the  impoverished 
rural populace. 
 
Cultural, sports and recreational activities will involve the masses, while education will be made available 
to all. All forms of caste and patriarchal oppression/discrimination will be fought against and prohibited. 
Untouchability  will  be  abolished  and  severely  punished.  All  degenerate  and  feudal  ideas  will  be  fought 
against  long  after  the  revolution  through  cultural  revolutions.  Healthcare  will  be  freely  available,  and 
more focus will be on preventive care and hygiene. 
 
In  a  nutshell,  this  is  the  model  of  development  that  we  Maoists  stand  for.  It  is  stated  in  the  party 
programme and political resolutions issued from time to time. On this, there is  no ambiguity.  In Bastar, 
before the massive state onslaught in the present Salwa Judum campaign, extensive development projects 
along  the  above  lines  were  taken  up  and  have  been  documented  in  the  booklet  New  People‟s  Power  in 
Dandakaranya (2000).  
 
In  Andhra  Pradesh,  Jharkhand  and  Bihar,  it  was  the  just  struggles  of  the  peasantry  under  Maoist 
leadership that led to the seizure of lands from the big landlords and distribution among the landless and 
poor peasants. What we propose is a model of new democracy built around the axis of land reforms and a 

 

3 

 

self-reliant economy. It is also this new democratic model that we seek to implement (on seizing power) 
in its rudimentary form in the guerrilla bases and later in the base areas.  
 
That  is  why  in  Dandakaranya  the  Maoists  not  only  implemented  people-oriented  projects  (when  the 
military operations  were  not as intense) but also called for the stopping of our rich iron ore being taken 
away  by  Japan  at  the  Bailadilla  mines  and  supported  the  400-odd  indigenous  small-scale  rolling  mills 
facing closure due to government policies. 
 
Is this model violent? Is it undemocratic? It is in fact the most humane and peace-loving model of growth. 
But when we try and implement it, the state comes down heavily on us and on the masses that support us. 
It is not we who seek violence. In fact, for over a decade we were able to build extensive developmental 
projects in Dandakaranya and Jharkhand when the government‟s military actions were at a lower scale.  
 
We seek to implement the model of development just outlined; if this can be done peacefully, so much the 
better.  But  history  has  shown  us  that the  moneybags  and  their  political  representatives  are  unable  to 
accept even the thought of such a transformation. 
 
The Question of Violence 
 
The  question  of  violence  is  the  single  most  important  thread  passing  through  all  the  articles.  No  real 
communist is for violence per se. Communists are for a peaceful social system built around equality and 
justice. But when they seek to work for such a system they are attacked most brutally. This has been the 
case ever since the birth of the communist movement. They have been massacred and exterminated right 
from the days of the Paris Commune.  
 
It would be naïve to think that the Indian ruling classes, who have a lengthy record of violence unleashed 
on the oppressed masses,  are  any better. Besides, it is not just state  violence that people face; in  a class 
society, as in India, violence is endemic to the very system and the oppressed masses are exposed to it in 
the course of their daily lives – by the feudal authority and by factory managements, and also as a result 
of untouchability, patriarchy, etc. 
 
Human society, ever since the origin of private property and classes, has moved forward only through a 
process of prolonged and tortuous struggles, and by countering the violence of the ruling classes. 
 
To  expect  that  the  ruling  classes  will  today  accommodate  those  demanding  a  new  and  more  advanced 
social  system  is  to  deny  the  lessons  learnt  from  history.  For  instance,  K  Balagopal  has  speculated 
regarding  an  alternative  response  that  could  have  been  pursued  by  the  Maoists  even  after  the  encounter 
killings began in Andhra Pradesh. Would the government, as speculated by Balagopal, have allowed the 
Maoists to concentrate on exposing the anti-poor bias of the present development model and extend their 
mass activity to a point that would have given their aspiration for state power a solid mass base?  
 
If  that  possibility  existed,  why  in  the  first  place  did  the  ruling  classes  attack  the  legal  movement  in 
Karimnagar  and  Adilabad?  There  was  then  no  armed  activity  when  the  Disturbed  Areas  Act  was  put  in 
place by the Chenna Reddy government in 1978. 
 
And,  how  does  one  confront  the  attacks  by  the  landlords  and  the  police?  Balagopal  also  asserts  that  a 
positive response from the state would have de-legitimised the argument for revolutionary violence. Such 
speculation only displays the  illusions of our intellectuals with regard to the  nature of the state. What  is 
needed is a realistic appraisal of the situation. 
 

4 

 

 

important  aspect  of 

is 

today‟s  counterinsurgency  operations 

To put so much emphasis on the violence of the Maoists appears to divert the issue, where, in the present 
system  the  masses  have  to  face  violence  everyday  of  their  lives.  Hundreds  die  each  day  of  hunger, 
starvation  and  easily  curable  illnesses.  Semi-feudal  authority  in  the  villages  has  only  force  as  its  major 
instrument of control. 
 
Workers  in  all  but  the  big  industries  (some  time  even  there)  have  to  regularly  face  the  hoodlums 
maintained  by  the  management  and  even  the  police.  The  women  of  our  country  have  to  face  daily 
patriarchal violence and there are many so-called dowry deaths each year. Dalits have to face humiliation 
and abuse on a daily basis. 
 
And,  over  and  above  all  this  is  the  violence  of  the  state,  the  Hindutva  fascists,  the  mafia  linked  to  the 
mainstream political parties, big business, and so on. 
 
The  violence  of  the  Maoists,  which  is  preceded  and  provoked  by  the  violence  of  the  oppressors,  is  not 
really  the  main  issue;  justice  is.  If  Naxalite  violence  is  to  be  discussed,  it  should  be  in  the  context  of 
violence pervading every aspect of our system. If not seen in this framework, one falls prey to the abstract 
bourgeois  concept  that  “violence  breeds  violence”,  without  understanding  the  structural  causes  of 
violence. 
 
One 
the  massive  use  of  an 
informer/espionage network to decimate the movements, not only externally, but also from within. Today, 
this is one of the major weapons in counter-insurgency strategies in the world, including India. Counter-
insurgency operates right from the village level, the mass organization level, to covert operations within 
the party itself.  
 
Massive funds are being secretly allocated  for this purpose. Most of these informers pose as “civilians”, 
and  many  can  be  from  the  poorer  classes.  But,  their  existence  has  lead  to  the  death  of  thousands  of  the 
best  of  revolutionaries  throughout  the  world.  This  has  been  accompanied  by  brutal  torture  to  extract 
information. Earlier, accounts of brutal torture became public; now, the ruling classes make sure that this 
does not happen by killing the tortured victim and by legitimising torture as a necessary component of the 
“war against terror”. 
 
What  the  world  sees  is  only  the  overt  violence  of  the  state,  not  these  covert  operations.  The  only  long-
term  method  of  countering  these  operations  is  through  deepening  the  mass  base  of  the  party  (not  mere 
mass support) and raising its political level.  
 
It is also necessary to deal with the problem in the immediate; otherwise the best of our cadre get killed. If 
all  persons  in  every  village  are  tightly  organised  (into  mass  organisations,  militia,  and  party  units)  it  is 
very  difficult  for  an  informer  to  survive  without  getting  noticed.  But  such  intensive  organisation  takes 
time and is not so easy in the bigger villages and the urban bastis. In between, the informers are recruited. 
Most  of  the  elements  recruited  by  the  state  may  come  from  ordinary  backgrounds,  but  they  are  mostly 
lumpen or degenerate elements. They are recruits in the covert operations of the police and the army. Any 
leniency towards them can mean (and has meant) the death of the best of our comrades.  
 
Actions  against  these  elements  cannot  be  construed  as  violence  on  civilians,  but  on  recruits  to  the 
police/paramilitary  forces,  and  should  be  seen  as  such.  This  is  important  to  understand,  in  the  light  of 
modern-day counter-insurgency in the form of Low Intensity Conflict, originally devised by the MI5 (of 
Britain) and the CIA (of the US), and used throughout the world. 
 
 

 

5 

 

Major Misconception 
 
There  is  yet  another  major  misconception  –  that  “innocent”  people  are  being  caught  in  the  crossfire 
between  the  Naxalites  and  the  police.  First,  this  is  not  a  fact.  Secondly,  the  “people”  are  not  a 
homogeneous  mass;  the  ruling  elite  and  their  hangers-on  are  with  the  state,  while  the  masses  of  the 
oppressed are with the Naxalites. The former support state terror (as in the Salwa Judum), while the latter 
act  together  with  the  Maoists  to  resist  such  terror.  The  misconception  of  a  homogeneous  populace  is 
linked  to  postmodernist  thinking  of  a  so-called  “civil  society”,  which  conceals  class  divisions  within 
society.  All  the  same,  in  conflicts  involving  state  terror  and  the  people‟s  resistance  to  it,  there  will  be 
some sections not allied to either  side, but the majority  are polarised into two camps  – a minority  allied 
with the state, on the one hand, and the masses backing the Naxalites, on the other. 
 
The above-mentioned fallacy of conceptualising the people as a homogeneous mass runs through all the 
articles,  including  that  of  Sumanta  Banerjee  when  he  writes:  “…  the  Maoist  guerrillas  often  betray  an 
immature mindset by intimidating them, instead of patiently politicizing them”.  
 
In our view, at the village level, the masses are divided into three sections: the diehard reactionaries, the 
intermediary sections who may vacillate between the two contending forces, and the masses won over by 
the  Maoists.  Banerjee‟s  statement  would  apply  to  the  intermediary  sections.  The  reality  however  is  that 
the bulk of the actions taken by the Maoists have been against the diehard reactionaries. 
 
There may have been errors, as also different conceptions of who belongs to the first or second category. 
While these can be discussed, the three sections have to be clearly demarcated, for this is fundamental to 
understanding the class struggle at the ground level, which is a struggle for power.  
 
The diehard reactionaries have to be suppressed, while the rest have to be patiently politicised. There are, 
of  course,  problems  of  class  analysis  and  consequently,  incorrect  handling  of  contradictions  among  the 
people due to inexperience of some cadres. Although this is an exception rather than the rule, the state has 
used  these  aberrations  by  magnifying  them  and  many  intellectuals  who  refuse  to  see  the  reality  have 
become a prey to such intrigue of the state, often joining the chorus against revolutionary violence. 
 
Further in the same vein Sumanta Banerjee adds: “Of the two (i e, state and communist revolutionaries), 
the  communist  revolutionaries  who  claim  to  look  after  the  welfare  of  the  poor  and  the  oppressed,  are 
expected  to  be  more  humane  in  their  choice  of  tactics  and  genuinely  democratic  in  getting  popular 
consent for them – particularly when such tactics affect the vast masses of uninvolved citizens.  
 
If  in  their  drive  for  retaliation  they  stoop  to  the  level  of  the  police  or  security  forces  and  indulge  in 
indiscriminate  attacks  on  soft  targets…”  Now,  real  humanity  entails  unconditionally  standing  by  the 
oppressed. But there is no all-encompassing humanity. 
 
In a class society, where the ruling classes fiercely crush the oppressed at every step, real humanity entails 
fierce  hatred for their oppressors. There can  be no love without hate;  there  is no all-encompassing love. 
The  Maoists  may  err  in  certain  actions,  from  which  we  will  learn  certain  lessons,  but  “to  be  more 
humane” cannot be associated with the question of civil behaviour vis-à-vis the enemy and their agents in 
our tactics. Having said this, quite rightly, there should not be any attack on soft targets, but targets have 
to be assessed within the framework of the politico-military aims of the movement – both immediate and 
long-term.  
 
For Sumanta Banerjee, a school building housing the paramilitary, or, communication towers, may be soft 
targets, but for the Maoists it would be part of their longterm aims to counter the enemy forces.  

6 

 

 

 
Sumanta  Banerjee‟s  clubbing  of  Maoist  violence  with  that  of  the  Islamic  fundamentalists  is  unfair,  as 
nowhere have the Maoists consciously attacked civilians. The so-called civilians of the Salwa Judum are 
basically  the  SPOs  and  “lumpen”  elements  mobilised  by  the  state  as  a  vigilante  force  to  kill,  burn,  loot 
and destroy tribal life in countering the Maoists. Though unnecessary losses should be avoided, like the 
two  children  in  the  Errabore  camp,  no  people‟s  war  can  be  so  clinical,  as  to  have  no  civilian  causality. 
The  point  is  whether  the  maximum  care  has  been  taken  not  to  affect  civilians.  The  police/paramilitary 
have been utilising this principled stand of the Maoists in their tactics to counter them.  
 
For  instance,  they  travel  in  public  transport  buses  along  with  civilians  and  use  the  masses  as  human 
shields while entering areas that are Maoist strongholds. 
 
They  know  well  the  Maoists  will  not  attack  if  civilian  lives  are  involved.  They  also  employ  unarmed 
policemen  and  home  guards  to  collect  information  about  the  Maoists  from  villages  in  Naxalite 
strongholds, and even use women as informers as the Maoists do not easily target such people. 
 
Three  thousand  home  guards  were  recruited  recently in  AP  along  with  1,500  SPOs,  as  admitted  by  the 
chief minister  at the  chief ministers‟ meeting on terrorism and left extremism on September 5 this year. 
The home minister and DGP of AP admitted that they had deliberately not given rifles in about 500 or so 
police stations in the state as they were sure Maoists would not attack unarmed policemen. 
 
So, to sum up, violence is endemic in this brutal system. One cannot appreciate the need for revolutionary 
violence  unless  one  understands  the  fascist  nature  of  the  state,  the  cruelty  of  the  state‟s  forces,  tortures 
and  fake  encounters,  bans  on  peaceful  meetings,  and  state  violations  of  the  democratic  rights  of  the 
people. The fascist  nature of the state is exposed when confronted by powerful people‟s  movements, as 
we witness in all those areas of activity of the Maoist movement.  
 
In fact, Maoist violence is only to put an end to all the violence in this rotten system and to bring peace to 
our country and people. There is no other recourse in such a brutal and ruthless system. We sincerely ask 
the writers to please suggest how to end the violence of oppressors and the state that acts on their behalf?  
 
How  can  the  oppressed  masses  gain  justice?  Finally,  we  wish  to  state  that  in  the  course  of  the 
revolutionary movement we do make mistakes on this account; but wherever we have done so, we have 
never  sought  to  hide  it,  but  have  issued  a  public  apology. While  we  will  always  try  and  learn  from  our 
shortcomings, it must also be realised that no class war can be conducted with clinical precision. It is very 
tortuous and painful; just as the daily life of the bulk of our population is no less agonising. 
 
We will now take up some other major arguments and leave the rest for a future discussion. 
 
Comparisons with Nepal Maoists 
 
There  is  a  tendency  to  compare  the  Maoists  movements  of  Nepal  and  India,  pitting  the  Nepal  Maoists‟ 
present tactics as a supposed peaceful alternative to the Indian Maoists‟ violent methods. One should not 
forget that the present victories of the anti-monarchy movement are primarily a result of the success of the 
politico-military battles by the People‟s Liberation Army and their ability to beat back the attacks of the 
king‟s army.  
 
Their  victories  are  built  on  the  backbone  of  a  30,000  strong  PLA  and  one  lakh  militia,  and  the  loss  of 
12,000 lives. This fact is brought out in a recent interview with the Hindi magazine Philal where comrade 

 

7 

 

Prachanda,  the  chairman  of  the  CPN  (Maoist),  said:  “When  we  talk  with  the  leaders  of  these  political 
parties we say that had we not been armed, there would have been no 12-point understanding. Had we not 
been armed, Deuba would never have been able to come out of prison. Had we not been armed, many of 
you  would  have  been  killed  because  of  the  feudal  monarchy,  which  murdered  its  blood  relations  inside 
the Palace… We also told them that our weapons only made the revival of your parliament possible, you 
are not credited with it; the credit goes to the PLA…”.  
 
Besides,  change  of  tactics  depends  on  the  situation  in  the  respective  countries  and  the  strength  of  the 
contending forces.  
 
Sitaram  Yechury  has  particularly  sought  to  pit  the  Nepal  Maoists  against  the  Indian  Maoists. While  the 
CPI  (M)  brutally  suppresses  the  Maoists  in  West  Bengal,  it  is  hypocritically  speaking  in  praise  of  the 
Nepal  Maoists.  Instead  of  pitting  one  revolution  against  the  other,  it  would  be  far  more  constructive  to 
take the positive experiences of other revolutions and see  how best  these  could concretely be applied to 
the Indian revolution to take it forward. This brings us to debates about the revolutionary path. 
 
On the Revolutionary Path 
 
Among the writers, the most forthright in questioning the very path of the revolution was Tilak D Gupta 
who  said:  “…the  case  for  revising  the  ideological-political  line  and  the  strategy  and  tactics  of  the  CPI 
(Maoist) is quite potent by  itself because of the changed international situation  and above  all due to the 
major worldwide setback to socialism”.  
 
Earlier in the article, he also raised doubts on the change to Maoism. He questions some of the very basics 
of  the  CPI  (Maoist).  Sagar  too,  after  raising  questions  on  a  large  number  of  tactical  issues  –  idealizing 
elections, pitting mass action against armed struggle, opposing democratization of tribal culture, negating 
its successes and only focusing on its supposed lack of presence everywhere (as though all over the world 
Marxists are making sweeping gains) – he goes to the  extent of clubbing  the entire “left”, including the 
parliamentary  CPI  and  CPI(M)  with  the  CPI  (Maoist)  in  a  single  category  by  calling  for  a  “genuine 
confederation of the various Left organisations”.  
 
Sagar goes so far as to equate the parliamentarians with those leading the armed struggle by saying: 
“In  the  broad  context  of  Indian  politics  it  would  appear  to  him/her  that  the  Left  in  all  its  diversity  is 
actually  part  of  one  „parivar‟  with  one  component  doing  nothing  but  parliamentary  work  and  the  other 
focusing on armed struggles and the middle consisting of many combinations of these two extremes”.  
 
Mohanty, while even erring on facts (claiming that all the ML groups have equal strength, which not even 
the  enemies  of  the  movement  say),  equates  the  CPI  (Maoist)  with  the  revisionist  Liberation  and  Kanu 
Sanyal groups. 
 
Some  of  the  writers  have  highlighted  certain  lacunae  within  the  movement  to  negate  the  entire  path, 
others negate it in the name of the “changed situation”, and yet others negate it by obfuscating the lines of 
demarcation between Marxism and revisionism. 
 
Let us take some of these arguments.  As  Tilak  says, it is true that there have been  some  changes  in the 
international situation, though the basic essence of imperialism has not changed. But the changes, linked 
with the economic crisis, and the increasing ferocity of imperialism, particularly US imperialism, would 
warrant more extensive and deeper armed resistance than what we have today.  
 

 

8 

 

Witness  what  happened  in  Iraq,  or  the  arrogance  displayed  by  Israel  in  Lebanon  and  Palestine;  or  the 
massacres of communists and even liberal opposition in Latin America; the butchery of hundreds of mass 
leaders  in  the  Philippines,  etc.  The  much  talked  of  “space”  for  the  revolutionaries  and  democrats  is 
shrinking,  not  because  of  the  armed  activities  of  the  Maoists,  but  because  of  the  increasing  fascist 
character that imperialism and its agents throughout the globe are acquiring.  
 
This  is  evident  in  India  where  the  governments  at the  centre  and  the  states  are  enhancing  their  armed 
might on a scale never seen before. They realise that with the aggressive implementation of the policies of 
LPG, mass revolts will have to be dealt with. So, it is not clear in which direction does Tilak pose the case 
for revising the ideological-political line and the strategy and tactics of the CPI  (Maoist). There is  need 
for much greater depth of analysis before making such far-reaching statements. 
 
Today if the movement is weak in many parts of the country, the need is to strengthen it there, not change 
the path to some vague “genuine confederation of the various Left organisations”. What is needed is not 
such an amorphous conglomeration, but a genuine United Front (UF) of the four classes of the workers, 
peasants, middle classes and the national bourgeoisie. An effective UF is the only way to rally all the anti-
imperialist,  anti-feudal forces and  not a confederation of the various  Left organisations,  which blurs the 
basic distinction between the different class forces. 
 
The  history  of  all  revolutions,  particularly  that  of Russia  and  China,  has  clearly  shown  that  victory  was 
only  possible  by  fighting  an  uncompromising  ideological-political  battle  with  all  forms  of  revisionism. 
Where  the  path  of  compromise  was  adopted,  the  socialist  goal  was  lost,  though  there  may  have  been 
military victories, as in Vietnam, Cuba, North Korea, etc. 
 
Tribal and Caste Questions 
 
There is a tendency to focus on identity politics, as in K Balagopal‟s article, and idealise backward tribal 
societies,  as  in  Sagar‟s  and  Nandini  Sunder‟s  articles,  both  of  whose  approach  is  linked  to  a 
postmodernist perspective actively promoted by the NGOs. 
 
K  Balagopal  not  only  talks  of  identity  politics  but  also  believes  that  as  a  result  of  the  revolutionary 
struggle the biggest sufferers are the oppressed themselves – what he calls the “decimation of the organic 
leaders”.  It  is  true  that  our  movement  has  generated  hundreds  of  intellectuals  from  the  most  oppressed; 
yet Balagopal negates the revolutionary process when he ends his piece by saying that “the daily losses of 
such persons is a sacrifice the oppressed cannot be called upon to put up with indefinitely”.  
 
This is an ambiguous end and could have many implications – it seems to imply that the oppressed should 
give  up,  what  to  him  seems  a  futile  path.  If  there  are  excessive  losses,  the  causes  have  to  be found  and 
corrections  made,  but  to  expect  revolution  without  sacrifice  is  illusory.  As  far  as  “identity  politics”  is 
concerned, it divides the masses; what is required is a class approach that unites the masses, including the 
oppressed.  
 
A class approach to the caste question demands an end to upper-caste oppression, brahaminical ideology 
and  abolition  of  the  pernicious  caste  system,  including  „untouchability‟.  But,  “identity  politics”  only 
emphasizes caste and acts to ossify caste divisions further. 
 
As far as preserving tribal culture NGO-style is concerned, it would be good if Sagar and Nandini Sunder 
talk  to  the  women  of  Bastar  who  would  recount  what  that  culture  also  gave  them  –  forced  marriages, 
witchcraft, superstition, forced drudgery, etc.  
 

9 

 

 

Though  not  as  bad  as  the  Hindu  patriarchal  system, tribal  culture  is  far  from  idyllic.  The  Maoists  have 
indeed sought to learn from the adivasi masses and have taken all that is positive in tribal culture, while 
doing  away  with  the  dross.  So,  we  have  not  only  sought  to  preserve  the  Gondi,  Santhali  and  other 
languages,  but  have  also  developed  them;  we  have  preserved  and  adopted  the  folklore  of  the  tribal 
peoples  and  their  dance  forms,  infusing  them  with  social  content.  We  have  encouraged  and  further 
enhanced the elements of community and collective living, which were a natural part of their culture.  
 
We are preserving the forests and taking up reforestation campaigns. In addition, we have taken education 
to the tribal peoples and modern knowledge, which cannot be expected to continue to be the sole preserve 
of the established intellectual elite. 
 
Conclusion 
 
India  is  a  vast  and  highly  complex  society  with  uneven  and  varied  development.  It  has  the  universal 
features  of  any  semi-colonial,  semi-feudal  society  under  the  grip  of  finance  capital;  it  also  has  many  a 
specificity, which requires deep study and analysis.  
 
Revolution  here is no simple task. While focusing on the axis of the armed agrarian revolution it  would 
additionally entail dealing with and solving the varied and numerous diseases afflicting our sociopolitical 
system.  The  new  democratic  revolution  entails  the  total  democratization  of  the  entire  system  and  all 
aspects of life – political, economic, social, cultural, educational, recreational, etc.  
 
The standard of life has to be enhanced, not only materially but also in the sphere of outlook and values. 
A  new  social  being  has  to  emerge  in  the  course  of  the  revolutionary  process.  As  communists  we  are 
always ready to rectify our mistakes and listen to others, as we have the interests of the people at heart.  
 
But the criticisms would help if they were concrete; those that we agree with we will willingly accept and 
try and improve our practice; where we disagree we can freely and openly debate the issue. 
 
[The author is the official spokesperson of the CPI (Maoist). This is an edited and abridged version 
of the original manuscript.] 
 

 

 

10 

