 

 
 

Interview by Comrade Azad, Spokesperson, Central Committee, CPI(Maoist), on the 

current unprecedented military offensive by the Central and various state governments on 

the CPI(Maoist) and the armed agrarian revolutionary movement 

 
[The  following  is  an  Interview  of  Comrade  Azad,  Spokesperson  of  the  Central  Committee, 
CPI(Maoist),  given  to  the  Maoist  Information  Bulletin  (MIB)  on  October  19,  2009.  In  this 
Interview Comrade Azad answers a whole range of questions dealing with the current centrally-
planned massive offensive against the Maoists and the counter plans of the Maoists, the question 
of state violence and revolutionary counter-violence, the issue of Talks with the government, the 
real  meaning  of  Chidambaram’s  campaign  for  recapturing  territory  from  the  Maoists,  and 
several misconceptions regarding: Maoist stand on development, on the charges of extortion, on 
recruitment  of  child  soldiers,  on  the  beheading of  Francis  Induvar,  and  so  on. The  Interview  is 
due to appear in the forthcoming issue of MIB on 25th October] 
 
Q: There is lot of talk about an unprecedented massive military offensive due to begin anytime 
now. How will your Party confront it?  
 
Azad: The fact is, the unprecedented massive offensive has already begun. In the Chintagufa area 
in Dantewada district almost 4000 police and central forces led by around 600 elite commandos 
of the anti-Naxal CoBRA force had carried out their biggest-ever counter-revolutionary operation 
called Operation Green Hunt in the third week of September. Some media reporters described it 
as  Operation  Red  Hunt.  Whatever  is  the  name,  it  was  the  first  major  attempt  by  the  central  and 
state  forces  to  wrest  a  part  of  the  territory  from  the  hands  of  the  oppressed  people  led  by  the 
Maoists. This operation was a  sort of a rehearsal for the forthcoming centrally-planned country-
wide simultaneous offensive on all our guerrilla zones.  
 
When  the  enemy  attack  took  place  near  Singanamadugu  village,  our  forces  present  there  were 
hardly 50 or 60 in number. But they fought heroically, and successfully repulsed the attack by a 
superior  force,  by  totally  relying  on  the  people.  It  was  the  people  who  gave  us  the  information 
regarding each and every movement of the enemy force. Hence our guerrillas could deal the first 
biggest blow to these so-called CoBRAs who were specially trained in jungle warfare and sent to 
wage  an  unjust  war  against  the  Maoist  revolutionaries.  Six  of  their  men  including  two  assistant 
commandants—one  from  Manipur  and  another  from  UP—were  wiped  out  in  the  real  battle. 
These  brave  CoBRAs  demonstrated  their  heroism  and  courage  by  murdering  seven  unarmed 
adivasi villagers, including two aged men and a woman, and burning four villages. Not a single 
Maoist  was  killed  contrary  to  the  false  claims  of  the  police  that  22  Maoists  were  killed.  Our 
forces  chased  them  for  about  10  kilometers.  The  people  of  the  entire  area  stood  with  us  in  this 
counter-attack  on  the  thugs  sent  by  Manmohan-Chidambaram‘s  khadi  gang  at  the  Centre  and 
Raman  Singh‘s  saffron  gang  in  Chhattisgarh.  This  heroic  resistance  by  a  handful  of  Maoist 
guerrillas  underscores  the  superiority  of  the  tactics  of  guerrilla  war  and  the  massive  mass 
support  enjoyed  by  the  Maoists.  It  demonstrates  the  ability  of  our  Maoist  guerrillas  to 
confront  and  defeat  a  numerically  far  superior  enemy  force  equipped  with  all  the 
sophisticated  weaponry,  aerial  support  and  what  not,  by  relying  on  the  sea  of  people  in 
which we swim like fish.    
 
In  the  second  week  of  October  once  again  Chidambaram‘s  men  unleashed  another  massive 
offensive  by  amassing  10,000  men  in  Gadchiroli  district  in  Maharashtra  with  MI  17  choppers 
surveying the area from the skies. It was as if an army from an enemy country was waging war on 
the  Indian  people.  In  the  face  of  it  our  forces  had  successfully  carried  out  a  massive  political 

 

1 

 

campaign  against  the  farce  of  the  Assembly  elections  that  were  held  on  October  13  in 
Maharashtra.  
 
Here  I  shall  not  go  into  the  concrete  details  of  our  precise  tactics  to  confront  and  defeat  the 
unprecedented,  massive,  brazen  offensive  on  the  most  oppressed  people  being  unleashed  by  the 
Indian ruling  classes on behalf of the imperialists  and the  comprador big business  houses.  I can 
only confidently say one thing for the present: All our plans, policies, strategy and tactics will 
be based entirely on the active involvement of the vast masses of people in this war of self-
defence.  The  enemy  class  cannot  decimate  us  without  decimating  the  entire  population  in 
the regions we control. And if it dares to go into an all-out war of extermination of the tribal 
population the entire socio-politico scene in India will undergo a fundamental shift and will 
witness  a  radical  realignment  of  class  forces.  All  peace-loving,  democratic,  patriotic,  secular 
forces,  all  the  downtrodden  sections  of  the  society  will  polarize  into  one  pole  while  the  most 
reactionary,  anti-people,  authoritarian,  traitorous,  jingoist  counter-revolutionary  forces  will  end 
up  at  the  opposite  pole.  Such  a  polarization  is  bound  to  take  place  as  the  war  advances  and  the 
enemy‘s  mercenary  forces  attempt  to  turn  central  and  eastern  India  into  a  graveyard.  The  war-
mongers  will  be  isolated  and  will  face  unprecedented  social  and  political  crises.  However,  on 
behalf of our Party, PLGA, revolutionary mass organisations and organs of people‘s democratic 
power, I can assure the people of our country that with their support, direct as well as indirect, we 
shall  deal  crushing  blows  on  the  enemy‘s  mercenary  forces  and  defeat  their  plans  to  hand  over 
these regions to the international and domestic bandicoots.  
 
Q: But your forces had killed around 20 policemen, most of them C-60 commandos, in Laheri 
in Gadchiroli district on the eve of the elections in Maharashtra. Is it not due to incidents like 
this which is provoking the government to deploy huge forces in these areas?  
 
Azad: No, no. It is the other way round. It is because of the indescribable atrocities perpetrated by 
the specially-trained anti-Naxal forces that we are compelled to carry out such attacks. If they do 
not harass the poor, unarmed adivasi population; if they do not arrest, torture, murder  them, 
and rape their  women; if they do not  engage in destroying the property, burn villages and 
crops  of  the  adivasis,  if  they  do  not  indulge  in  cold-blooded  murders  of  abducted  Maoists 
and  declare  them  dead  in  so-called  encounters,  then  why  will  our  forces  undertake  such 
attacks?  How  can  this  be  a  provocation?  You  know  who  the  C-60  commandos  are?  They  are 
specifically formed as an  elite anti-Naxal force whose one  and only task  is to kill Naxalites and 
Naxal sympathisers. If no Naxalite is found they pounce on hapless adivasi villagers, arrest them, 
torture them, and murder them. And adivasi women have become their objects of rape. You might 
have heard of the heart-chilling story of a 13-year-old girl from Pavarvel village in Dhanora tehsil 
who  was  gang-raped  by  5  or  6  commandos  led  by  the  notorious  Munnasingh  Thakur  in  March 
this  year. Or the case of the gang-rape and murder of  52-year-old Mynabai from Kosimi village 
by  several  policemen  in  Gyarapatti  PS  in  the  same  Danora  tehsil  in  May  last  year.  For  the 
directors  of  this  war  on  adivasis—Manmohan  Singh,  Chidambaram,  GK  Pillai  and  others—the 
gang-rapes of a 13-year-old girl or a 52-year-old woman are only collateral damage in their larger 
war  for  capturing  the  region  to  plunder  its  wealth.  These  rapists  are  immune  from  the  ―rule  of 
law‖  advocated  by  Chidambaram  &  Co.  Even  after  this  poor  little  adivasi  girl  had  identified 
Munna  Singh  Thakur  by  name,  you  know!  Notwithstanding  such  solid  evidence,  the  loud-
speakers  of  the  reactionary  rulers—Arnab  Goswamys,  Chandan  Mitras  and  others—had  never 
bothered to raise  a voice against such  crimes against humanity  perpetrated by these brutes. And 
what is worse, they even venture to describe these rapists as ―brave commandos‖! So what these 
brave  commandos  are  doing  in  Dhanora  tehsil  is  nothing  but  reating  terror  in  the  hearts  of  the 
people. That is why  we  wiped out  around 50 policemen, most of them C-60 commandos, in the 
past eight months since February.  

 

2 

 

 
No  right-thinking  citizen  of  this  country  would  condemn  these  heroic  offensives  by  our  PLGA 
against murderers and rapists in police uniform against whom no criminal case will ever be filed 
under  this  system  and  no  ―rule  of  law‖  applies  to  them  whatever  be  their  inhuman  crimes.  We 
boldly  and  unequivocally  declare  to  the  world,  notwithstanding  the  shrill  cries  of  the 
reactionary  rulers  and  their  henchmen  about  our  blood-thirstiness  and  our  „senseless 
violence‟, that we shall punish these mercenaries if they continue to indulge  in such crimes 
against  the  downtrodden  masses.  Every  act  of  ours  is  in  defence  of  the  poor  adivasis  who 
are oppressed and suppressed by these policemen  who have created extreme insecurity for 
the people residing in large parts of Gadchiroli. Our attack in Laheri should be seen as part 
of our fight  against  state  terrorism.  The  more  such  forces  enter  our  areas,  the  more  they  will 
become  vulnerable  to  such  attacks.  We  will  continue  to  wipe  out  the  C-60  commandos,  the 
CRPF, the BSF and other forces who are sent to the area to unleash terror. 
 
For  your  information,  I  can  confidently  say  that  there  are  hardly  any  violent  incidents  in 
Gadchiroli on the part of the Maoists this year except the attacks on the C-60 commandos and the 
cruel policemen. Unfortunately some civil rights organizations and well-meaning intellectuals too 
had  fallen  into  the  trap  of  the  reactionary  ruling  class  propaganda  that  we  are  killing  innocent 
policemen  some  of  whom  are  even  adivasis.  If  they  really  bother  about  the  escalating  violence 
and  sincerely  wish  to  put  an  end  to  it,  they  should  question  the  government  as  to  why  it  was 
setting  up  more  and  more  special  anti-Naxal  commando  forces  and  spreading  terror  in  the 
adivasi-inhabited  regions;  why  it  is  recruiting  the  local  adivasis  into  the  anti-Naxal  police  force 
and  making  them  into  cannon-fodder  in  the  war  against  their  very  people;  why  it  is  setting  up 
informers  from  the  poor  tribals  by  threatening  them  or  bribing  them  with  huge  sums  of  money. 
They  should  ask  where  is  the  law  &  order  problem  from  the  Maoists  who  had  actually  stopped 
the illegal felling of forest trees, stopped the exploitation by the forest officials, forest contractors, 
timber smugglers, government bureaucrats, police officials, money lenders, non-adivasi landlords 
who had taken over tribal land against the provisions of the Indian constitution. They should ask 
themselves whether Maoists had done good or bad by securing a massive increase in the rate for 
plucking tendu leaves, cutting bamboo, laying roads, selling the minor forest produce and so on. 
And  they  should  expose  and  oppose  the  conspiracy  of  the  government  in  sending  massive 
repressive force armed with the most sophisticated weapons against the Maoists.   
 
We appeal to all peace-loving  citizens of the country to objectively see for themselves  who has 
been creating violence and spreading terror in Gadchiroli and other regions of so-called red terror. 
They  should  play  a  responsible  role  in  reducing  violence  by  demanding  the  withdrawal  of  the 
forces  of  state  terror  who  have  made  the  lives  of  the  people  a  veritable  hell.  They  should 
understand  the  just  nature  of  our  war.  There  need  be  no  doubt  at  all  that  peace  will  certainly 
prevail once these forces of state terror are withdrawn from these regions.            
 
Q:  The  general  opinion  among  people  outside  is  that  the  Maoists  are  resorting  to  senseless 
violence and that many innocent people have become victims in their hands.  For instance, the 
beheading of a Special Branch Inspector recently in Jharkhand. Was it not a cruel act?  
 
Azad:  First  of  all,  it  is  sheer  hypocrisy  and  double-speak  on  the  part  of  those  who  are  making 
such a big fuss about the plight of one Francis  Induvar. They never speak of the thousands who 
had died unsung, unwept, unheard in the secret  torture  chambers maintained by the  Indian state 
flouting every constitutional provision. Not only Maoists and their sympathizers. Every day how 
many  common  people  are  tortured  by  special  branch  officers  like  Induvar  in  these  torture 
chambers is not recorded. And our honourable Chidambaram calls this sadistic, beastly behaviour 
of his mercenary force as the “rule of law‖.  

 

3 

 

 
Do you know how many hundreds of adivasis were beheaded by  the salwa  judum-police-CRPF 
combine  in  Bastar  region?    And  these  sadistic  forces  set  up  by  the  Centre  and  state  had  even 
cruelly cut off the wombs and threw out the  fetuses.  If you just glance through  the pages  of the 
fact-finding  reports  of  several  independent  organizations  like  the  PUDR,  Human  Rights  Forum, 
Human Rights Watch, CAVOW, and several others you  will find an unending list of the crimes 
committed  by  the  security  forces  and  state-sponsored  vigilante  gangs.  Why  are  the  so-called 
analysts who appear on TV  channels  and throw mud on the Maoists  accusing them of mindless 
violence,  completely  silent  when  more  than  a  thousand  unarmed  adivasis  are  murdered  in  cold 
blood by the CRPF and salwa judum gangs in Dantewada and Bijapur districts in a matter of just 
three  years?  Why    does  their  blood  boil  when  one  inspector  is  decapitated  while  keeping  mum 
regarding a thousand other beheadings and mutilations that make the case of Induvar a relatively 
insignificant  thing?  I  once  again  assertively  say  that  the  case  of  Francis  Induvar  is  an 
exception and not the rule. This has to be kept in mind while trying to pass judgements on 
Maoist violence. As for the act itself we do not encourage such beheadings even if the police 
carry out such brutalities.  
 
We will punish the enemy but there is no necessity for using cruel methods. No doubt, the anger 
of  the  victims  of  police  violence  is  too  difficult  to  control.  When  our  guerrillas  capture  a  cruel 
police officer especially one who has been responsible for the murder of several of our comrades 
there  is  bound  to  be  serious  reaction  due  to  pent-up  anger.  However,  cruelty  is  the  trait  of  the 
policeman  who  serves  the  exploiting  classes.  For  the  Maoist  revolutionaries  who  serve  the 
masses of the people and aspire to build a new socialist society free of all class exploitation, 
cruelty is an anathema. We will educate our cadre so that such beheadings do not occur in 
future.   
 
We also appeal to the policemen and intelligence officials  not to engage in activities against the 
Maoists and the people. They should realise how they are being used by the reactionary rulers as 
cannon-fodder  in  unleashing  a  war  of  terror  against  their  own  people,  how  they  have  become 
pawns in the hands of unscrupulous self-seeking politicians who sell the country‘s interests for a 
few crumbs  thrown by the imperialists and the big business houses, and we  assure them  if they 
desist from such activities we have nothing against them. We Maoists are aware that it is the poor 
and the starving people who are forced to join the police force and we do not wish their families 
to  be  left  grief-stricken. We  too  share  the  grief  of  Ms  Sunita  Induvar  and  her  children.  But  the 
rulers have compelled us to take up such actions for our own self-defence.   
 
Our violence is revolutionary counter-violence.  It is neither indiscriminate nor mindless as 
alleged  by  the  reactionary  ruling  class  representatives  who  cite  some  instances  without 
context  in  their  desperation  to  prove  that  Maoists  are  blood-thirsty  monsters.  When  the 
enemy knows he is fighting an unjust war against the overwhelming majority of the people, 
when he knows that Maoists enjoy enormous support of the masses, when it is clear to him 
that he is fighting a losing battle, particularly during periods  when he is losing his  men in 
the war against the Maoists, what would he do except spreading lies and slander to boost up 
the morale of his own forces?  
 
Q: But there are reports in the media that 6000 people were killed in Maoist-related violence in 
six years? How do you explain this?  
 
Azad: This is a part of the propaganda  war and psychological  war  unleashed by  the  reactionary 
rulers. There is as much truth in this as there is in the propaganda of a George Bush  that Saddam 
Hussein  was  in  possession  of  weapons  of mass  destruction.  A  George  Bush  destroyed  an  entire 

 

4 

 

country  with  his  one  big  white  lie.  And  our  Sonia-Manmohan-Chidambaram  gang  wants  to 
destroy  the  entire  adivasi  community  in  the  mineral-rich  areas  under  Maoist  influence  by 
spreading deliberate lies of senseless violence by Maoists. It is really unfortunate that a section of 
the media has become a vehicle for the proliferation of such lies and distortions. 
 
We  challenge  the  TV  channel  which  spoke  of  6000  killings  by  Maoists  to  come  out  with  a 
concrete split-up of the figures. You select any period and analyse the violence on both sides, and 
you  will  find  that  the  total  number  of  unarmed  innocent  civilians  and  Maoist  revolutionaries 
murdered by the police and state-sponsored vigilante gangs has always been far greater than the 
policemen and people‘s enemies punished by the Maoists. More than half of the 6000 deaths you 
are  speaking  of  consists  of  those  killed  by  the  police  and  gangs  like  salwa  judum.  The 
hypocritical  manner  in  which  some  papers  and  tv  channels  report  on  violence  makes  disgusting 
reading. If a hundred Maoists are murdered by the police and 50 policemen killed by the Maoists, 
a paper writes that ―150 people killed in Maoist-related violence‖. This creates an impression in 
the public mind that 150 were killed by Maoists.   
 
Some  of  the  distortions  and  lies  appearing  in  the  media  about  Naxal  violence  are  extremely 
obnoxious.  For  instance,  Chhattisgarh  DGP  Vishwa  Ranjan  spread  a  lie  that  eight  of  a  family, 
including a two-year-old and five women, were burnt alive in the village of Kesikodi in Kanker 
district  in  the  second  week  of  August.  The  entire  media  ran  banner  headlines  condemning  the 
Maoists for their inhuman and sadistic act and calling upon the government to crush the Maoists 
with an iron hand. Within two days it turned out that such an incident had not occurred at all. But 
the  media  lacked  the  honesty  to  admit  its  mistake  and  apologise  to  the Maoists  for  having 
run  a  vicious  campaign  against  them.  What  was  worse,  the  police  gave  the  episode  an  added 
twist by charging  the Maoists  with spreading the lie  so as to trap the policemen and carry out a 
massacre! And once again the media faithfully churned out this police story.  
 
Let me take another instance which occurred just over a fortnight ago. On October 2, there was a 
massacre  of  16  people  belonging  to  Kurmis  and  Koeris  by  Musahirs  over  a  land  dispute  in 
Khagaria  district  in  Bihar.  For  two  days,  the  entire  media  spat  venom  against  the  Maoists 
describing us as murderers and blood-thirsty  monsters but by 4th the chief minister of Bihar and 
the police top brass clarified that Maoists have no connection whatsoever with the said incident. 
However, none of the newspapers or the electronic media bothered to tender an apology for 
their  irresponsible  and  vicious  attack  against  the  Maoists.  Even  worse,  channels  like  the 
Times  Now  had  even  continued  this  vicious  propaganda  a  full  week  after  Nitish  Kumar 
himself ruled out any Maoist link with the incident. But images get implanted in the public 
mind  and  the  media  is  mainly  responsible  for  spreading  such  lies  and  false  propaganda 
against Maoist violence.  
 
In  this  context,  I  would  draw  your  attention  to  one  such  incident  that  happened  five  years  ago. 
Howrah-Delhi  Rajdhani  express  was  derailed  for  reasons  best  known  to  the  railway  authorities 
and several passengers died in the accident. The blame was immediately put on the Maoists. We 
had explained that we had nothing to do with the mishap but the media continues to repeat this lie 
against us and a section of well-wishers too fall prey to this vicious propaganda.  
As for our revolutionary counter-violence, you should note that it has always been selective and 
organized. Our targets are proven die-hard class enemies, leaders and activists of armed vigilante 
gangs,  policemen  and  special  police  officers  who  unleash  attacks  on  the  people  and  our 
revolutionary  forces,  corrupt  officials,  anti-people  political  leaders  who  are  instrumental  in 
policy-making, and proven police informers and covert agents who are sent by the police into the 
ranks of the revolutionaries. Without verifying the incidents, the media is just parroting the police 
version in the most irresponsible and casual manner. I agree there have been some mistakes in the 

 

5 

 

course of our people‘s war which are an exception. However, each and every mistake committed 
by our forces has been frankly and promptly admitted publicly, and the comrades responsible for 
such  incidents  are  warned  or  punished  in  accordance  with  the  seriousness  of  the  mistake.  We 
have  never  hidden  our  mistakes,  lapses,  weaknesses  and  shortcomings.  Our  review  documents 
reveal this very clearly.    
       
Q:  Manmohan  Singh  and  Chidambaram  have  been  repeatedly  appealing  to  the  Maoists  that 
they  are  prepared  to  sit  down  for  talks  if  the  Maoists  lay  down  arms.  How  do  you  respond  to 
this call?  
 
Azad: I can say this is the most absurd proposal which only stupid minds can think of. It shows 
that  these  men  are  either  completely  ignorant  of  the  historical  and  socio-economic  factors 
that  had given  rise  to  the Maoist  movement  or  are  too  intoxicated  by  the  brute  force  that 
they  possess  by  which  they  dream  they  can  stamp  out  a  movement  rooted  in  the  socio-
economic  causes.  With  such  men  at  the  political  helm  of  India  one  can  only  foresee  a  terrible 
tragedy for the vast masses of the Indian people who reject this system and opt for a revolutionary 
alternative.  
 
Manmohan  and  Chidambaram  and  all  the  brains  in  their  think-tank  should  understand  why  a 
significant  section  of  the  people  led  by  the  Maoists  have  taken  up  arms  in  the  first  place.  Can 
anyone  who  has  a  capacity  to  think  imagine  that  Maoists  have  taken  up  arms  only  to  lay  them 
down without arriving  at  a  solution to the  issues confronting the  Indian society?  If Manmohan 
and  Chidambaram  think  they  are  doing  us  a  favour  by  offering  the  proposal  for  talks 
without touching upon the actual issues that serve as the basis for our armed struggle they 
are only living in a fools‟s paradise. It is not that these men who occupy the highest pedestals in 
the government do not know these things. They only want to pretend that they are for peace and 
that it is the Maoists who are intransigent and reluctant to sit down for talks.  
 
If  these  representatives  of  state  terrorism  really  want  to  sit  for  talks  then  they  have  to  fulfill 
several conditions all of which, of course, fall within the ambit of the very Constitution by which 
these gentlemen terrorists swear. 
 
Q: What are those conditions? 
 
Azad: I am just coming to the point. They should stop illegal abductions of Maoists  and people 
suspected to be supporting Maoists. They should put an immediate halt to tortures and murders of 
unarmed  people,  instruct  their  so-called  security  forces  to  desist  from  raping  women  in  Maoist-
dominated  areas,  abandon  their  policy  of  destroying  the  property  of  the  people  and  burning 
adivasi  villages.  They  should  withdraw  the  police  and  para-military  camps  from  the  school 
buildings,  panchayat  community  buildings  and  from  the  interior  areas  so  as  to  instill  a  sense  of 
security  among  the  people.  They  should  disband  the  state-sponsored  armed  vigilante  gangs  like 
salwa  judum,  sendra,  gram  suraksha  samiti,  nagarik  suraksha  samiti,  shanti  sena,  and  various 
types of cobras and tigers since all these blood-thirsty gangs are unconstitutionally established by 
the police top brass and the political leaders. An impartial judicial commission of enquiry should 
be  formed  to  go  into  the  inhuman  atrocities  by  the  police,  CRPF,  other  central  forces  and  the 
vigilante  gangs  on  Maoists  and  the  people  at  large  and  basing  on  the  investigations  the  culprits 
should be punished as per the law. All political prisoners i.e., those arrested for being Maoists or 
on  suspicion  of  aiding  the  Maoists,  should  be  released  unconditionally.  They  should  repeal  all 
draconian  laws  and  Acts  such  as  the  Unlawful  Activities  Prevention  Act  (UAPA),  Chhattisgarh 
Special Powers Act, etc. They should disband the government-organised concentration camps in 
the  name  of  rehabilitation  of  the  adivasis  displaced  from  their  villages,  pay  adequate 

 

6 

 

compensation  to  over  one  lakh  adivasis  who  were  forcibly  displaced  by  the  salwa  judum  gangs 
and  the  CRPF-police  combine.  Likewise,  all  those  who  have  become  victims  of  state  and  state-
sponsored terror, i.e., those who were murdered, maimed, raped and pushed into a state of mental 
trauma  should  receive  adequate  compensation.  Through  all  these  measures  they  should  create  a 
conducive democratic atmosphere in all these regions before placing their proposal for talks.   
As  for  socio-economic  issues,  the  lands  of  the  tribals  should  be  handed  back  to  them  wherever 
they  are  snatched  whether  in  Salboni  (West  Bengal),  Kathikund  (Jharkhand),  Lohandiguda, 
Pallamad,  Bodhghat,  (all  in  Chhattisgarh)  Niyamgiri  (Orissa)  and  elsewhere.  The  mining  and 
other  so-called  development  projects  that  lead  to  displacement  of  the  tribals  and  destruction  of 
their  way  of  life  should  be  immediately  disbanded.  All  the  MOUs  signed  with  the  imperialist 
MNCs like Vedanta and the big business houses like the Tatas, Mittals, Essar, Jindal,  etc should 
be  scrapped.  The  lands  snatched  away  from  the  tribals  by  unscrupulous  landlords,  other  non-
adivasis, and by the government should be restored to their rightful owners. These demands might 
sound  utopian  and  revolutionary  but  there  is  nothing  extraordinary  in  them.  Most  of  these  fall 
within  the  ambit  of  the  Indian  Constitution  while  others  are  needed  for  creating  a  conducive 
atmosphere for talks.   
 
If these are fulfilled, then one can think of talks to discuss on the deeper issues that are blocking 
the real development of our country.  
 
Q:  What  you  say  will  never  be  accepted  by  Manmohan  and  Chidambaram  as  it  would  mean 
betraying  their  own  class  interests.  So  don’t  you  feel  that  by  laying  down  arms  without  such 
pre-conditions you can save your forces from the brutal offensive by the Centre?   
 
Azad: We know that these die-hard agents of the ruling classes whose real social base comprises 
of  hardly  five  per  cent  of  India‘s  population  can  never  think  in  terms  of  the  interests  of  the 
remaining 95 per cent of the population. They will not accept even these Constitutional demands 
unless the people rise up and bring enormous pressure or rebellions break out in their own police 
and other armed forces.  
 
No people‘s force in history has preserved itself through meek submission to the enemy. Maoism 
teaches  us  that  self-preservation  is  possible  only  through  war.  You  cannot  defend  yourself 
against  a  powerful  and  extremely  cruel  enemy  by  submitting  to  him  meekly.  You  have  to 
choose the appropriate method to fight a relatively superior and powerful enemy and only by this 
one  can  ensure  the  preservation  of  one‘s  forces.  Whoever  had  surrendered  to  the  enemy  or  had 
laid down arms had gone over to the enemy camp. For instance, the leadership of the communist 
party had betrayed the people by laying down arms in 1951 in the midst of the glorious Telangana 
armed  agrarian  struggle  and  turned  revisionist.  So  a  war  of  self-defence  alone  can  ensure  the 
preservation of the revolutionary forces.  
 
And  once  you  lay  down  your  arms  then  of  what  use  is  your  force  to  the  people  who  are  daily 
groaning  under  the  oppression  and  suppression  by  the  feudal  forces,  land  and  forest  mafia,  and 
the various wings of the Indian state? Without a people‘s army can the people achieve even a bit 
of  justice?  How  can  you  expect  an  army,  however  small  it  may  look  at  the  present  juncture,  to 
abandon arms when the state‘s armed forces are engaged in brutal suppression of every people‘s 
movement? It is yet another thing if an agreement could be reached by both sides on a cease-fire 
without  pre-conditions.  On  this  thing  there  could  be  some  discussion  and  some  agreement  may 
also be reached if men like Chidambaram give up their irrational, illogical, impracticable, absurd 
condition that the Maoists should abjure violence if they have to sit for talks.  
 

 

7 

 

Q: When you take into account the serious setbacks suffered by the armed national liberation 
movements recently in many parts of the world such as in Sri Lanka, how do you think you can 
confront the mighty Indian state and succeed?  
 
Azad:  Every  war  has  its  own  particular,  specific  features.  The  war  waged  by  the  LTTE  in  Sri 
Lanka received a severe setback due to several mistakes which were explained vividly in a recent 
interview by our Party Secretary comrade Ganapathi. You cannot compare a people‘s war waged 
under  the  leadership  of  the  proletariat  over  a  vast  territory  spread  out  over  a  few  lakh  square 
kilometers of area with a war waged by non-proletarian leadership in a small area roughly the size 
of  a  big  district  in  India.  Moreover,  the  people‘s  war  we  are  waging  is  based  on  the  Maoist 
principles of guerrilla war. Until the time we reach a decisive stage in our war, we will not fight a 
positional  war  in  a  small  area  against  a  superior  force  that  is  likely  to  resort  to  aerial 
bombardment  if  needed.  We  can  fight  the  mightiest  enemy  by  properly  adhering  to  the 
principles of guerrilla warfare. We will hit the enemy when and where it is convenient to us, 
and  not  when  and  where  he  provokes  us.  His  aerial  surveys  cannot  locate  the  guerrillas  who 
mix  up  with  the  people  or  are  in  constant  mobility.  His  air  sorties  too  would  fall  on  the  wrong 
targets,  may  be  sometimes  on  his  own  men  (smiles).  It  has  happened  several  times  in  Iraq  and 
Afghanistan. We will even change our battle fatigues and move in the dress of civilians. It will be 
impossible  for  the  enemy  to  target  us  if  we  adhere  to  these  methods.  He  will  only  end  up 
killing  civilians  and  help  us  in  getting  more  recruits  into  our  guerrilla  army.  That‟s  what 
the  salwa  judum  had  done.  Thanks  to  salwa  judum  our  guerrilla  army  has  expanded 
rapidly.  
 
It  is  the  same  story  everywhere.  A  George  Bush  had  created  more  enemies  for  the  American 
imperialists.  He  helped  Al  Qaeda,  Taliban  and  several  other  Islamic  organizations  find  recruits 
and provided them with a justification for waging a jehad.  
 
The  unfolding  explosive  situation  makes  it  impossible  for  these  reactionary  rulers  to  maintain 
stability or control the mass uprisings and armed resistance even if they continue their mad policy 
of continuously increasing their repressive forces while the vast majority of the Indian population 
languishes  in  extreme  poverty  and  misery.  The  more  these  vultures  spend  people‘s  funds  to 
strengthen  the  state  apparatus  and  the  state‘s  forces  in  order  to  ensure  their  own  security  and 
marginalize the vast majority of the Indian people who are left without even food, drinking water 
and the minimum necessities of life, the more they will become the objects of people‘s wrath and 
hatred.  By  stepping  up  repression  instead  of  addressing  the  problems  of  the  oppressed  the 
reactionary  rulers  of  India  are  digging  their  own  graves  by  creating  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
Maoist guerrillas. 
 
Guerrillas  will  learn  how  to  fight  and  defeat  the  Indian  army,  or  for  that  matter,  even  the  US 
Marines. That‘s how the guerrilla army was born and developed to this stage. They learnt how to 
fight and inflict lethal blows on the elite anti-Naxal special forces and various Commando forces, 
they  learnt  how  to  fight  the  central  para-military  forces,  the  Naga,  Mizo  Battalions,  who  are 
projected as an invincible force. They had also dealt the first big blow to the COBRA force. They 
will  teach  the  Indian  Army  too  a  fitting  lesson  if  they  ever  dare  to  enter  deep  into  the  Maoist 
guerrilla zones. With tremendous mass support and participation in the people‘s war, the Maoists 
are  confident  of  defeating  the  conspiracies  of  Chidambaram  &  Co  and  grow  stronger  from  an 
escalation of the war just as it grew into a qualitatively stronger and highly steeled force after the 
reactionary rulers unleashed the cruel terrorist campaign through salwa judum in Dandakaranya, 
sendra and NSS in Jharkhand, harmad vahini and the social fascists in West Mednipur. 
 

 

8 

 

Repression  breeds  resistance.  And  the  more  Chidambaram‟s  men  go  about  terrorizing 
people,  killing,  torturing,  raping and  creating  havoc  in  the  adivasi  areas,  the  more  intense 
and  extensive  will  be  the  armed  resistance  of  the  masses,  and  the  stronger  will  our  army 
become. This is the logic of historical development. Hence we will utilize the situation created by 
the enemy‘s white terror to organize armed resistance on a far wider and extensive scale than ever 
before.  As  I  said  before,  we  live  among  the  people  and  if  the  enemy  destroys  the  entire 
population, we are willing to die with them rather than submit to the enemy.  
 
It  is  the  people  who  make  history  and  not  a  George  Bush  or  a  Manmohan  Singh  or  a 
Chidambaram.  These  vultures  who  prey  on  the  corpses  of  millions  of  helpless  people  will  be 
washed away by the unfolding tsunami of people‘s revolts throughout the country. 
  
Q: Then will you never be ready for talks with the government by laying down arms as a pre-
condition? 
 
Azad: Never, not even in our dreams we can think of such a step. We have taken up arms for the 
defence  of  people‘s  rights  and  for  achieving  their  liberation  from  all  types  of  exploitation  and 
oppression. Laying down arms means a betrayal of the people‘s interests.  
 
We may lose some forces in this brutal offensive by the enemy. But you must keep in mind that 
when the people‘s war began we had only a handful of committed cadre. Today it has grown into 
a  mass  Party  with  an  All  India  character  and  we  have  a  people‘s  army  for  the  first  time  in  the 
history of the revolutionary movement in India. Even if we lose some forces we shall rebuild the 
movement  as  we  are  now  doing  in  Andhra  Pradesh.  You  will  see  the  results  of  our  painstaking 
underground work in the near future.   
 
Q: Chidambaram has been saying that this is not a war against the Maoists but only a police 
operation. How do you describe the ongoing offensive? 
 
Azad:  This  is  sheer  deception  and  a  jugglery  of  words  which  the  rulers  of  this  country  have 
mastered  right  from  the  days  of  Chanakya.  What  is  it  if  not  a  bloody  war  when  75,000  well-
trained para-military forces are mobilized against their own citizens aided by helicopter gunships, 
mine-proof vehicles, mortars, rockets and heavy artillery? And add to this an equal number of the 
police forces of the states in the war zones. This is a force which is greater in size than the armies 
of most countries in the world. And this force is trained and guided by the Indian Army which is 
playing a key role in the entire operations. The  IAF has deployed its Garuda commandos and is 
ready  to  fire  on  the  people  and  other  non-combatants  under  the  pretext  of  self-defence.  Only  a 
Goebbels  and  Chidambaram  have  the  guts  to  say  it  isn‘t  a  war.  In  fact,  armed  revolutionary 
war has been confronting armed counter-revolutionary war ever since the Naxalbari armed 
revolutionary upsurge.  
 
But there is a hidden reason why Chidambaram has been repeatedly saying his military onslaught 
is  not  a  war  on  the  Maoists.  Chidambaram  is  a  shrewd  and  cunning  man.  He  is  aware  of  the 
implications if he officially declares a war. If it is a war then he has to adhere to the provisions of 
the International Geneva Convention.  
 
But nevertheless, Article 2 of the Fourth Geneva Convention states that signatories are bound by 
the  convention even in  situations of armed conflicts  where  war has  not been declared. We hope 
all civil rights organizations and democratic forces will bring pressure on the Indian government 
to abide by the Geneva Convention even if it deliberately denies going into war with the Maoists. 
We  hope  Chidambaram  will  instruct  his  forces  waging  war  against  us  not  to  harm  non-

 

9 

 

combatants  or  civilians,  not  to  kill  those  who  are  wounded  or  detained  during  the  war,  not  to 
indulge  in  mutilation,  cruel  treatment  and  torture;  not  to  indulge  in  rape  of  women  guerrillas 
arrested and the adivasi villagers, and to adhere to all judicial guarantees which are recognized as 
indispensable  by  civilized  peoples.  It  will  be  the  bounden  duty  of  the  civil  rights  organizations 
and the media to ensure that Chidambaram who talks of the ‗rule of law‘ ad nauseum will ask his 
men to adhere to these minimum provisions of the Geneva Convention during the current war.   
 
Q: The government, leaders of mainstream political parties, and even some civil society leaders 
have been emphatically saying that there is no other option before them but to go for a military 
solution  as  the  Maoists  are  blocking  development  work  in  the  areas  they  control  and  are 
keeping the people in abject poverty. Why don’t you allow development work to take place?  
 
Azad: This is another myth circulated by the ruling classes and parroted by the media and some 
circari  (pro-establishment)  intellectuals  who  hide  behind  the  façade  of  civil  society.  Even 
supposing  the  Maoists  are  blocking  the  so-called  development  work  by  the  government,  how 
much  percentage  of  the  population  is  affected  by  it?  If  we  take  the  Maoist-controlled  areas  as 
such, they embrace hardly 2 % of the Indian population. Even if we consider the areas under our 
direct  influence,  it  would  be  no  more  than  five  per  cent  though  the  geographical  area  may  be 
more. Then what are these gentlemen, who yell incessantly about lack of development in Maoist-
held areas, doing in the rest of the areas that are home to 98 % of the Indian population? Who is 
keeping 77 % of the Indian population in abject poverty? Why are they living in grinding poverty 
with  just  Rs.  20  a  day?  Who  is  stopping  the  government  from  bringing  development  in  these 
regions and improvement to their lives? Who has caused the suicides of two lakh farmers in just 
ten years? Are not Manmohan Singh and Chidambaram responsible for this great human tragedy 
which is a direct fall-out of their imperialist-dictated neo-liberal policies?  
 
The BJP and the Congress have both turned the lives of the common people into a veritable hell. 
They brought forth SEZs to fatten the  comprador business houses and the  real estate mafia who 
are their blood brothers. How much of the funds sanctioned for development in the areas outside 
the Maoist influence actually reach the poor and the needy and how much  goes into the pockets 
of  these  political  leaders,  bureaucrats  and  contractors?  Several  independent  studies  had 
revealed  that  more  than  50  %  of  the  funds  allotted  for  the  so-called  development  are 
siphoned  off  by  these  very  bureaucrats,  police  top  brass  and  political  leaders  who  spit 
venom against the Maoists.  
 
If a people‟s committee consisting of independent eminent personalities and social activists 
is set up and an enquiry is conducted into the assets of all the bureaucrats, police officials, 
political leaders, and businessmen, I think we can ferret out several trillions of rupees worth 
of illegal assets that can be put to good use. It is the imperialists, the feudal forces and the 
comprador  big  business  houses  that  are  blocking  genuine  development.  It  is  the  local 
gentry,  the  land  mafia,  the  hoarders,  unscrupulous  moneylenders  and  landlords  who  are 
blocking  real  development  in  the  rural  areas.  In  the  name  of  development,  lakhs  of  adivasis 
and  other  sections  of  peasantry  have  been  displaced  from  their  villages  by  successive 
governments  whether it is  led by the saffron gang of Vajpayee or the  khadi gang of Manmohan 
Singh.  What  these  rulers  are  carrying  out  in  these  regions  is  not  development  but 
destruction, pure and simple.  
 
It  is  also  not  a  fact  that  the  Maoists  are  opposing  or  obstructing  all  the  schemes  of  the 
government. No scheme that is really beneficial to the poor is blocked by us whether it is by the 
government  or  an  NGO.  A  visit  to  our  areas  would  prove  this  beyond  any  doubt.  Can  you 
imagine  that  Maoists  who  work  for  the  people  will  oppose  anything  that  is  really  beneficial  to 

 

10 

 

them? And if they do, would they not be isolated from those very people? How can you explain 
the ever-increasing mass support to our Party if we are doing anything against the will and wishes 
of the people? We are only opposing projects that lead to massive displacement, submerge entire 
villages,  or    snatch  away  fertile  lands  from  the  peasantry–projects  such  as  the  Netrahat  Firing 
Range that displaces 224 villages in Palamau, Latehar and Gumla districts, dams like Mandal and 
Auranga, Abhijeet Power Project and Essar steel plant in Latehar, Bhushan and Jindal projects in 
East Singbhum and Saraikela-Kharsewan districts, all in Jharkhand, Pallamaad mines, Bodhghat 
project,  and  Tata  steel  plant  in  Lohandiguda  in  Chhattisgarh,  Jindal  steel  plant  in  Salboni, 
POSCO and Kalinganagar steel plants in Orissa, Jindal‘s bauxite mining project in North Andhra, 
and so on. The sanction for these projects was done without the consent of the local people, and 
in most cases, the land was forcefully acquired with the help of the police and the goondas of the 
management.  In  some  cases,  a  drama  of  convening  the  gram  sabhas  and  taking  their  consent 
(through intimidation and even at gun-point) was enacted. We shall lead the people against these 
anti-people  projects  and  the  secret  deals  made  by  the  rulers  with  the  imperialists  and  the 
comprador  capitalists.  Only  anti-people  die-hards  can  say  this  stand  of  ours  is  against  real 
development.      
 
Q:  Chidambaram  has  been  describing  you  as  bandits,  terrorists,  murderers,  extortionists  and 
so on? 
 
Azad: This belligerent attitude on the part of the Home Minster, who has many resemblances to 
the  hawkish  Donald  Rumsfeld,  is  not  at  all  surprising  to  us.  It  reflects  the  fascist  mind-set  and 
political bankruptcy of our  reactionary rulers who are incapable of waging political battles with 
the Maoist revolutionaries. It is a sign of their desperation and their extreme ideological-political 
weakness.  Now  I  wish  to  make  three  points  on  Chidambaram‘s  refusal  to  recognize  the 
CPI(Maoist) as a political party.  
 
Firstly, this guy is too enamoured of a military solution to the Naxal issue; he wants to just bomb 
us out of existence by describing us as terrorists.  If he  recognizes  the CPI(Maoist)  as a political 
party  then  he  would  have  to  logically  try  the  political  solution  to  begin  with.  But  once  you 
describe your enemy as a terrorist and a bandit engaged in ruthless, mindless violence, then you 
have  no  hassles  in  bombing  him  out  of  existence.  Not  a  political  party,  hence  no  political 
solution-so  runs  the  perverted  logic  of  this  gentleman  heading  the  Union  Home  Ministry  who 
received  his  apprenticeship  in  the  thriving  ―war  on  terror‖  industry  from  the  American 
imperialists.  The  war  cabinet  comprising  of  Manmohan,  Chidambaram,  GK  Pillai  remind  us  of 
the war cabinet under George Bush. 
 
Secondly, the infamous statement that equates Maoists with bandits betrays the utter ignorance of 
the man who, to the misfortune of the vast majority of the Indian people, has come to occupy the 
helm  of  the  Home  Ministry.  He  is  ignorant  of  the  ideology,  political  programme,  strategy  and 
tactics of one of the biggest political parties in this country, a Party that is the only real opposition 
to the so-called mainstream political parties. One cannot but feel sorry for this ostrich that refuses 
to utter the truth even as he yells that Maoists are the ―single biggest threat to the country‖, that 
they are spread over 2000 police station areas in around 200 districts in 17 states, and so on. Then 
what  prevents  him  from  calling  the  CPI(Maoist)  a  political  Party  is  something  he  will  never  be 
able to explain.  
 
I suppose he imagines that a political party should be something  akin to his own Congress party 
run by coteries and cliques comprised of a handful of leaders and extra-constitutional powers who 
are answerable to none, obnoxious dynastic culture, or in one word, a non-transparent, autocratic 
structure  without  any  democratic  functioning  in  the  real  sense  of  the  term.  In  fact,  none  of  the 

 

11 

 

mainstream  parliamentary  parties  can  come  anywhere  near  our  Party  in  terms  of  democratic 
functioning. Our Party  holds plenums at all levels every two years, conferences as frequently as 
we  can,  and  a  central  Congress  every  five  years.  Every  Party  committee  is  elected  at  these 
forums. Not only in the Party, in all our mass organizations, organs of people‘s power and other 
departments too, the same practice is followed. And you can imagine how extremely difficult it is 
for an underground party operating in the midst of the severest enemy onslaught, to practice such 
democratic methods.  
 
Thirdly, I should say that in one sense, the title of bandit by our die-hard enemy is a compliment 
to us. When we hear such an attacking tone from our enemies we  are doubly assured that we are 
going  in  the  correct  direction.  In  China,  the  reactionary  ruler  and  traitor  Chiang  Kai-shek,  who 
was an agent of the Anglo-American imperialists, described the Communist Party of China as a 
bandit party and the communists as red bandits. Comrade Mao took it as a complement and said 
that  if  the  communist  revolutionaries  expected  good  words  from  the  enemy  then  there  must  be 
something basically  wrong  with their line and practice. Even supposing  we are red bandits who 
rob the rich to feed the poor, like some sort of robin hoods, as some believe, it is still not too bad 
a thing. But Chidambaram & Co are white bandits who rob the poor to pay the rich.  
 
Interestingly,  while Chidambaram refuses to  recognize  us  as a political Party,  even  some  police 
officers  like  the  former  DG  of  BSF,  ML  Kumawat,  have  better  clarity  at  least  on  this  question. 
People like Arnab Goswamy of Times Now, who not only reflect the views of Chidambaram and 
the  police  top  brass  but  also  embellish  them  with  their  own  perverted  logic,  become  wild  when 
someone  says  CPI(Maoist)  is  a  political  party.  How  can  a  party  that  beheads  an  Inspector  be 
called  a  political  party,  he  thunders.    But  even  a  schoolboy  knows  that  not  just  beheading,  but 
burning alive and massacring, thousands of Muslims, Sikhs and Christians, raping women of the 
minority  communities,  and  organizing  mass  murders  of  over  10,000  revolutionaries  in  the  past 
four decades, have not disqualified the Congress and the BJP as political parties. On the contrary 
they remain the two biggest representatives of the ruling classes.  
 
If violence alone is to be taken as the criterion to determine whether an organization is a political 
party or not, then there will not be a single party left in the country‘s political scene. For instance, 
even at the peak of the revolutionary war in Andhra Pradesh, studies had shown that in any given 
period,  the  violence  between  the  two  ruling  class  parties,  the  Congress  and  the  TDP  in 
Rayalaseema region alone, took a far higher toll of people‘s lives than the casualties in the entire 
state in the  hands of the Naxalites.  Stories of such rampant, brutal violence between  sections of 
the  ruling  classes  in  their  dog-fight  for  power  abound  in  the  states  of  West  Bengal,  UP,  Bihar, 
Tamil  Nadu,  Kerala  and  several  other  states.  Then  with  what  logic  do  these  so-called  analysts 
argue that a few punishments on the part of the Maoists disqualify it as a political party?   
 
All  these  ostriches  betray  their  stupidity  by  imagining  that  they  can  transform  a  political  party 
into a non-political entity with the wave of a hand. Will these ostriches ever lift their heads from 
the sand?   
 
Q:  Speaking  to  some  TV  channel  Chidambaram  said  he  would  love  to  be  the  Minister  for 
Environment and Forests so that he can sit in a forest lodge and study books. Any comments?  
 
Azad:  (laughing  loudly)  This  is  the  cruelest  joke  of  the  decade.  If,  to  our  misfortune, 
Chidambaram becomes the Minister for Environment and Forests, then would there be any forests 
worth the name left?  
 

 

12 

 

The  reason  why  Chidambaram  is  longing  for  the  environment  ministry  is  not  difficult  for  any 
keen  observer  of  the  unfolding  events  to  understand.  The  files  of  many  mining  and  so-called 
development projects  are languishing in  the shelves of the Ministry of Environment for  want of 
clearance. The bauxite project of Vedanta Aluminum Ltd, a subsidiary of UK-based Vedanta got 
the  clearance  from  the  Environment  ministry  in  April  this  year  after  pending  for  a  long  period. 
The  Company  is  devastating  the  Niyamgiri  Hills  in  Kalahandi  and  destroying  one  of  the  oldest 
indigenous tribes of India—the Dongria Kondhs. 
 
The big steel, aluminum magnates  and forest contractors  want someone  very close to them who 
will clear  their projects  without any  hassle.  If the Environment  Ministry is in  the hands of their 
loyal agents that would be the end of all their woes. No wonder, Chidambaram is longing to take 
over  this  job.  One  thing  is  certain:  with  Chidambaram  at  the  helm  of  the  environment  ministry 
several  more  millions  of  adivasis  would  be  displaced  from  their  traditional  homes,  the  forests 
would be decimated, the traditional way of life and the cultural identity of the adivasis would be 
destroyed, water sources polluted, and ecological imbalance would further aggravate. 
 
Moreover, the entire forests will be on fire as the people‘s war will spread even more rapidly due 
to the current repressive policies of the government.  So can poor Chidambaram fulfill  his  long-
cherished wish to study books in peace?   
 
Q: Now tell us something about the development work in the areas under your control? 
 
Azad:  If  you  visit  the  adivasi  villages  in  our  areas  running  into  a  few  thousands  in  the  vast 
hinterland  of  Chhattisgarh,  Jharkhand,  Bihar,  West  Bengal,  Andhra  Pradesh,  Orissa  and 
Maharashtra  you  will  see  what  real  development  means  to  the  poor  of  this  country.  The  most 
essential thing and a pre-condition for achieving real development in the lives of the people is an 
end  to  feudal  and  other  types  of  rapacious  exploitation.  In  the  adivasi  areas,  the  ruthless 
exploitation  by  the  forest  officials,  revenue  officials,  contractors,  village  mukhiyas,  non-adivasi 
landlords  and  traders,  and  the  policemen  makes  their  very  survival  an  impossible  thing. 
Manmohan  Singhs  and  Chidambarams  may  go  on  shouting  from  roof-tops  about  trickle-down 
effect,  percolation  of  growth,  and  such  abstract  phrases  that  have  absolutely  no  meaning  or 
relevance to  the poorest of the poor. As long as the poor masses are  in the  vice-like  grip  of the 
rapacious exploiters who are ruthless to the core, you cannot imagine any sort of improvement in 
their lives. This is true not only in the adivasi areas but throughout the country.  
 
So  the  first  thing  I  wish  to  emphasise  is  that  our  people‘s  war  had  put  an  end  to  this  terrible 
exploitation  and  oppression  of  the  people  living  in  the  areas  of  our  struggle.  This  itself  has 
brought about a qualitative leap in their living conditions. From a life of slavery and animal-like 
existence these down-trodden masses are now living in relative freedom, administering their own 
lives and deciding their destiny. However, they have to ward off the attacks by the state‘s armed 
forces  and  state-sponsored  vigilante  gangs  who  are  desperately  trying  to  re-establish  their  lost 
hegemony  and  bring  these  proudly  independent  communities  under  their  rapacious  exploitation. 
Hence the people will fight unto the last man and woman to defend their new-found freedom and 
life of dignity and independence under the people‘s governments.   
 
The second point I wish to emphasise is that development is basically linked to the class struggle 
of the masses.  I will not dwell into the details of the struggles waged by the adivasis  under our 
Party  leadership.  There  is  literature  on  that.  I  only  wish  to  point  out  that  people  had  increased 
their real incomes quite significantly after we took up struggles against  exploitation by the tendu 
contractors,  bamboo  contractors,  forest  department,  road-laying  contractors,  traders,  money-
lenders,  landlords,  and  so  on.  Through  these  struggles  the  adivasi  peasants  have  been  able  to 

 

13 

 

increase their incomes and standards of living. The liberation of the people from feudal customs, 
traditions,  values  and  attitudes  due  to  the  conscious  effort  of  our  Party  has  also  contributed  to 
releasing the initiative of the masses, particularly women, tremendously. 
 
Now after the formation of the people‘s governments, there has been further improvement in their 
lives  due  to  improved  productivity  in  agriculture,  formation  of  co-operatives,  mutual-aid  teams, 
proper utilization of local resources, marketing of minor forest produce, setting up poultry farms, 
piggeries,  fish  farming  and  other  productive  activities.  The  development  in  our  areas  is  carried 
out  by  the  people‘s  governments.  You  must  keep  in  mind  that  we  are  carrying  out  the 
development activities in the midst of the incessant murderous attacks by state‘s armed forces and 
state-sponsored  vigilante  gangs,  i.e,  under  the  most  severe  constraints.  Hence  defence  of  the 
people‘s  government  and  the  gains  achieved  by  the  people  too  is  an  important  task  of  these 
governments. We had eight departments under each people‘s government. A few months ago we 
established the trade and industries department taking the total  government departments to nine. 
These  are:  agriculture,  education  &  culture,  health  &  social  welfare,  defence,  economic  affairs, 
justice, forests, and public relations.  
 
We have set up schools in  villages  where the government had never bothered to go. And where 
school buildings were built, these are used for accommodating the police and the central forces; 
there are no teachers worth the name in schools which exist only on paper. In all these villages it 
is our teachers who teach the boys and girls  basic subjects and make them basically literate. We 
have  developed  the  language  of  the  adivasis,  published  text-books  in  their  mother-tongue,  and 
thus facilitated a flowering of their culture and rich heritage.   
 
There is also a conscious people‘s movement for the preservation of forests and an improvement 
in  agricultural productivity.  Now  no dispute  in  any  of our villages  goes  to the police station, so 
naturally,  the  policemen  are  angry  that  they  are  losing  their  illegal  incomes.  Health  conditions 
have significantly improved when compared  to  those existing  a decade or two decades ago. We 
have set up basic medical facilities in the villages.  
 
However,  all  this  development  is  taking  place  within  the  framework  of  the  existing  socio-
economic system in the  country  and hence it has its limitations. Moreover, the incessant  attacks 
by  the  Indian  state  and  vigilante  gangs  sponsored  by  the  state  are  obstructing  development  and 
even destroying what has been achieved.  
 
Q:  The  government  wants  to  establish  its  authority  over  the  areas  controlled  by  the  Maoists. 
Chidambaram has been talking of a policy of clear-and-hold or wrest-control-develop or area 
domination  in  the  major  pockets  of  Maoist  control.  His  argument  is  there  can  be  no 
development without recapturing territory from the Maoists. How do you counter this policy? 
 
Azad:  Although  we  have  influence  over  a  wider  area,  our  actual  control  is  confined  to  a  small 
area when compared to the vast geographical area of our country. And this area is witnessing real 
development  as  I  had  explained  earlier.  The  exploiting  classes  have  absolute  control  over  more 
than 90% of the country‘s geographical area.  If at  all  they  wish to reach out  to the masses with 
their so-called reforms, who is preventing them from doing so? Instead of addressing the burning 
problems  of  the  poor  in  these  vast  regions  under  their  absolute  control  they  are  talking  of 
recapturing territory from the Maoists.  
 
This  policy  of  clear-and-hold  as  against  the  search-and-clear  operations  or  sweeps  is  a  carbon 
copy  of  the  policy  pursued  by  British  imperialists  in  Malaya  and  the  American  imperialists  in 
Vietnam during the 1950s and 60s.  This policy was described at length by Robert Thompson in 

 

14 

 

his book ―Defeating Communist Insurgency‖. The dual purpose of the clear-and-hold policy is to 
kill  the  insurgents  and  destroy  their  infrastructure.  The  key  element  in  restoring  state  authority 
and  control  is  the  programme  of  strategic  hamlet.  The  enemy  has  realized  that  short-term  raids 
into the guerrilla bases and zones, however large-scale they might be, will not fetch lasting results 
and  the  revolutionaries  can  regroup.  Hence,  there  is  an  increasing  emphasis  on  clear-and-hold 
operations  with  the  creation  of  strategic  hamlet  as  the  key.  The  basic  military  strategy  of  the 
enemy is to deploy as many of his forces as possible in the same area of operation as that of the 
guerrillas. And the strategic hamlet is a pre-condition for restoring state authority as this ensures 
the  physical  and  political  isolation  of  the  guerrillas  from  the  population.  So  run  the  basic 
principles of this policy of Thompson now pursued by Chidambaram & Co starting with Lalgarh.  
The  success  of  the  British  in  Malaya  was  not  due  to  the  greatness  of  this  policy  but  due  to  the 
revisionist  line  of  the  leadership  of  the  Communist  Party  leading  the  revolution  in  that  country. 
Coming  to  our  own  experience  in  India,  we  find  that  in  the  glorious  Telengana  armed  agrarian 
struggle of 1946-51, around 3000 villages  were liberated but  we lost them to the enemy  control 
due to the betrayal by the leadership of the Communist Party. If a revolutionary line is pursued by 
the Party and uses the principle of guerrilla  war properly, it will be impossible for the enemy to 
completely clear and hold an area for long, not to speak of development.  The colossal failure of 
the  strategic  hamlets  created  through  the  combined  salwa  judum-state  military  campaign  is  a 
proof of this.   
 
The Indian government will pour in huge funds and carry out some reforms to win over a section 
of the people in a few areas. But even in these areas they cannot sustain for long nor can they set 
up strategic hamlets in a vast region. Anyway their chief aim is to clear the areas of Maoists and 
hand  over  the  mineral  wealth  to  the  corporate  sector.  So  even  if  they  compel  us  to  retreat  from 
some areas through their brute force, the entire population will be on our side and our war will be 
waged on a far extensive scale against the occupiers.  
 
The  case  of  Vietnam  is  a  classic  illustration  of  the  total  failure  of  the  clear-and-hold  policy 
propounded  by  Thompson.  Although  8000  strategic  hamlets  were  established  in  just  two  years, 
the enemy could not protect them or insulate them from the influence of the Vietcong, and several 
of these were recaptured by the guerrillas or used for their operations against the enemy forces. 
The most important thing to keep in mind is: Guerrilla warfare is precisely developed to hit 
and  run  i.e.,  to  hit  at  the  enemy  where  he  is  vulnerable,  harass  the  enemy  day  in  and  day 
out, cut off his supplies, create instability and a sense of insecurity among the enemy forces, 
annihilate  them  bit  by  bit,  and  finally  throw  them  out  from  the  area.  Hence  if  the  enemy 
wants to set up police and army camps in the interior, he will not last long. He will be under 
constant attack and harassment from our PLGA and the people‟s militia. How long can the 
enemy stay in these malaria-prone, water-scarce, inhospitable regions without any support or co-
operation  from  the  people?  It  will  ultimately  turn  out  to  be  a  graveyard  for  these  mercenary 
forces.  
 
I can confidently say that  within a short period, there  will be demoralization and desertion from 
these  repressive  forces.  We  have  to  wait  to  see  how  Chidambaram  would  deal  with  these 
desertions and what measures he would adopt to boost up the morale of his forces. Raman Singh 
and Vishwa Ranjan have bee boosting up the morale of their forces by carrying out massacres of 
unarmed  adivasis  as  in  Singaram,  Tongapal,  Singanamadugu,  etc  and  claiming  that  several 
Maoists were killed by their brave forces.  Chidambaram too has to travel along this beaten path 
thereby  sending  us  more  recruits.  And  the  more  areas  his  forces  try  to  ―recapture‖,  the  deeper 
they  will  get  bogged  down  in  an  unending  civil  war.  The  one  lakh  and  odd  forces  that 
Chidambaram  is  currently  deploying  in  the  Maoist  areas  cannot  control  a  fraction  of  the  entire 
region.  These  forces  which  spread  state  terror—the  CRPF,  BSF,  EFR,  IRB,  CISF,  ITBP, 

 

15 

 

NSG,  Cobras  and  various  anti-Naxal  special  forces  and  elite  commandos  like  the 
Greyhounds, STF, SOG, C-60, and so on—and their state-sponsored terrorist gangs like the 
salwa  judum,  sendra,  TPC,  JPC,  NSS,  Shanti  Sena,  Tigers  and  Cobras  under  various 
names, will get more and more bogged down and sucked ever deeper into the quicksands of 
people‟s  war.  Chidambaram‟s  fond  dream  can  never  be  fulfilled  even  if  he  turns  the  so-
called red corridor literally into a corridor of red with the blood of the adivasis and Maoist 
revolutionaries by enacting gory blood-baths.  
 
The  reactionary  rulers  can  neither  wrest,  control  nor  develop  any  of  the  regions  but  will  get 
embroiled in a war of attrition causing thousands of deaths of innocent  adivasis and losing their 
own forces in huge numbers. They can only destroy the villages through their policy of ―kill all, 
burn  all,  destroy  all‖  as  pursued  by  their  reactionary  counterpart  Chiang  Kai-shek  in  pre-
revolutionary  China.  The  more  destruction  and  havoc  these  mercenary  forces  cause  the 
faster our people‟s army will grow and our guerilla war will spread to wider regions in the 
country.  
 
Thanks to salwa judum, our war had achieved in four years  what it  would have otherwise 
achieved in two decades. Now thanks to Chidambaram, our war will expand to wider areas, 
mobilise wider masses, and also will gather new momentum and get new dynamism. Every 
mercenary  repressive  force,  by  its  very  nature  and  sense  of  insecurity  in  rebel-held  areas, 
will end up murdering people and destroying their property. This is what even the mightiest 
army is doing in Iraq and Afghanistan and getting rapidly alienated from the people.   
 
Q: But the Home Minister says the government is duty-bound to establish the “rule of law”?  
 
Azad: The ―rule of law‖, huh! Is the Home Minister serious about it? If so, why does he allow his 
police and the army to abduct people, illegally detain them for days without end, torture them in 
secret torture chambers in the most brutal manner, and murder them? Why did he permit the SIB 
of  AP  to  abduct,  torture  and  murder  our  central  committee  member  comrade  Patel  Sudhakar? 
Why did he not ask his men to produce comrade Kobad Ghandy in the court within 24 hours after 
his arrest and instead kept him in illegal detention for four days? Chidambaram revealed how big 
a liar he is by announcing that Kobad was arrested on the 20th of September and produced in the 
court within 24 hours. Just ten days ago, two of our comrades Ravi Sharma and Anuradha, were 
arrested from Jharkhand but the police vehemently denied even after the news was flashed in the 
media  and  the  AP  High  Court  called  for  an  explanation  from  the  police  after  a  habeas  corpus 
petition was filed. Only after they were completely exposed and all-round pressure was built up, 
the police produced  them in the  court on the 14th claiming they  were  arrested only the previous 
day.  The  list  of  such  incidents  is  endless.  As  regards  the  atrocities  on  innocent  people  I  had 
already described in some detail.   
 
The  so-called  ―rule  of  law‖  bandied  about  by  Manmohan,  Chidambaram,  Raman  Singh, 
Buddhadeb and others is only an empty phrase that exists on paper. In the eyes of the people it is 
merely  an  eye-wash  and,  moreover,  is  an  instrument  used  to  oppress  and  suppress  them.  If  the 
―rule  of  law‖  is  really  implemented,  the  entire  corrupt  and  lawless  bureaucracy,  police,  and  the 
political class would be languishing in jails.       
 
Q: What of the child soldiers? Some papers and TV channels have even shown some photos of 
child soldiers recruited by the Maoists. How is it correct to arm the children when you say you 
are fighting for liberation from all exploitation? 
 

 

16 

 

Azad: Child soldier is another myth that is deliberately concocted and circulated by the police, the 
various reactionary parties ruling the country, some so-called political analysts employed by the 
reactionary  rulers  and  dishonest  media  personnel  as  part  of  the  enemy‘s  psychological  warfare. 
Some  media  channels  have  been  carrying  out  vicious  propaganda  that  Maoists  are  preventing 
children  from  going  to  schools,  using  them  in  various  war-related  activities,  and  so  on.  They 
exhibit photos of young boys and girls in our guerilla camps and conclude that they are used by 
us  for  fighting  the  enemy.  Shame  be  on  these  liars  and  distorters!  They  do  not  even  have  the 
minimum  honesty  and  integrity  to  verify  the  facts  before  telecasting  such  falsehoods.  Besides 
these  deliberate  distorters  and  liars,  there  are  also  some  well-meaning  friends  and  human  rights 
organizations who to are misled by this propaganda. At the same time, the employment of young 
boys  and  girls  under  15  as  SPOs  in  Chhattisgarh  is  conveniently  forgotten  by  the  very  same 
people who cry hoarse about the non-existent child soldiers in the Maoist PLGA.  
 
I  can confidently tell  you that there is not a single child soldier in our PLGA.  Boys and girls in 
the  villages  do  create  problems  when  out  PLGA  squads  visit  them.  They  want  to  come  with  us 
and even parents request us to take them and teach them as there are no schools in the villages, or, 
even  where  there  are  schools,  there  are  no  teachers.  So  we  take  them  to  our  camps  and  use  the 
period to teach them basic knowledge—the three essential Rs. Then they go back home. They do 
PT  exercises  but  no  arms  are  given  to  these  youngsters.  It  is  these  photos  of  children  doing 
exercises that some channels  have been showing  and  claiming  that these are  child soldiers. Our 
Party is  a highly disciplined party with proletarian values and culture unlike the lawless lumpen 
goons of the ruling class parties  who  have  the sole aim of gaining power  and money.  Even if a 
single case of recruiting someone who is under 16 years of age comes to the notice of any Party 
committee action is taken promptly. 16 years is the minimum age for joining the PLGA. One may 
debate on this as the minimum age in the armed forces and police is 18 years.  We have already 
explained  in  several  interviews  why  16  years  is  good  enough  in  the  conditions  obtaining  in  the 
war zones where children are associated with the Party and the people‘s army from a very young 
age.  We  can  proudly  say  that  the  adivasis  have  received  basic  education  only  after  our  Party 
gained  a  foothold  in  these  areas.  Successive  reactionary  governments,  whichever  party  they 
belonged to, have done absolutely nothing in this regard even though they  were in existence for 
almost  six  decades.  And  now  light  has  dawned  upon  rulers  and  they  talk  of  development!  Can 
there be greater hypocrisy than this?  
 
Moreover,  why  are  Manmohans,  Chidambarams  and  all  the  ostriches  refuse  to  free  the  children 
held captive in millions of sweatshops, quarries, and innumerable other places and send them to 
school? The  children in the Maoist areas  are  a small fraction of the total  child population in the 
country. What  prevents  the  rulers  from  stopping  child  labour  and  providing  education  to  them?  
And even worse, why  are these gentlemen allowing their mercenary forces  who call themselves 
C-60  commandos  to  rape  pre-teen  girls  like  the  13-year-old  girl  in  Pavarvel  village  in  Dhanora 
tehsil  in  Gadchiroli  district,  and  leaving  Munna  Singh  Thakur  and  other  rapists  scot-free  even 
after they are identified by the victim?    
 
Q:  There  have  been  several  reports  of  extortion  by  your  armed  cadre.  Some  media  reports 
allege that extortion money by Maoists reaches a whopping Rs. 2500 crores annually.  
 
Azad:  This  is  again  a  part  of  the  dirty  propaganda  war  of  lies  and  falsehood  unleashed  by  the 
reactionary rulers who thrive on extortion. These rulers have more than  a trillion dollars (almost 
50  lakh  crores)  of  black  money  sucked  from  the  surplus  produced  by  the  Indian  toiling  masses 
and  also  siphoned  off  from  the  funds  meant  for  the  people.  The  top  one  per  cent  of  the  Indian 
population—the  fatty  layer  thriving  on  fraud  and  extortion—wallow  in  filthy  luxury,  possess 
palatial  buildings  and  what  have  you.  Sonia,  Manmohan,  Chidambaram  and  the  leaders  of  the 

 

17 

 

major  parliamentary  parties  are  the  political  representatives  of  this  filthy  parasitical  class.  They 
have  no  right  to  speak  against  the  selfless,  dedicated  revolutionaries  who  have  given  up 
everything to serve the people, literally live among the people, and have become martyrs for the 
people‘s cause.  
 
The  extortion  money  you  are  talking  about  is  perhaps  the  money  which  the  reactionaries  could 
not  extort  from  the  people  due  to  Maoist  presence.  In  all  the  Maoist-controlled  areas  the  local 
police, the government bureaucrats, forest contractors  and other exploiters are unable to procure 
money from the people. They might have calculated how much they had lost due to the ongoing 
people‘s war and hence concluded that this money is going into the hands of the Maoists.  
 
As far as our funds are concerned, we rely mainly on the people. We also collect taxes from the 
traders  and  others  in  our  areas  of  dominance  but  it  is  nominal.  This  is  not  extortion.  Extortion 
means  what  the  political  leaders,  government  bureaucrats,  encounter  specialists  and  police 
officials collect  through coercion and intimidation from businessmen and people from all  walks 
of life. The entire world knows who are the extortionists and yet the very same extortionists and 
other  pseudo-intellectuals  have  the  audacity  to  accuse  the  Maoists  as  extortionists.  One  is 
reminded  of  a  thief  himself  shouting  ―Thief!  Thief!”  There  are  cases  of  extortion  by  state-
sponsored pseudo-Naxalites like TPC, JPC, PLFI and so on who share the booty with the police 
officials.    
 
Some  of  the  pseudo-intellectuals  and  police  top  brass  even  allege  that  Maoists  derive  huge 
income from narcotics business as the DGP of Chhattisgarh, Vishwa Ranjan, has been doing.  If 
our  Party  had  some  legality  we  could  have  sued  this  rogue  for  spreading  lies  and  defaming  the 
Party. The fact is, it is the police who had encouraged the cultivation of ganja in Malkangiri and 
when  the  Maoists  tried  to  stop  it,  the  disgruntled  elements  from  the  ganja  growers  were  turned 
into their informers by the police and used against us.  
   
Q: Lastly, what is your Party’s call to the people at large?  
 
Azad: We appeal to the people of our country to stand up boldly against this unjust cruel war on 
the  poorest  of  the  poor  waged  by  the  central  and  state  governments  in  the  name  of  suppressing 
red terror. The only terror that is terrifying the people of our country is state terror, saffron 
terror,  and  the  terror  of  the  exploiters  and  oppressors.  Violence  is  a  structural  feature  of 
our  society:  it  is  an  inbuilt,  inherent  characteristic  of  the  existing  unjust,  authoritarian, 
hierarchical,  oppressive  and  rotten  society.  Just  think  of  it!  A  mere  five  per  cent  of  the 
country‟s  population  oppresses  and  suppresses  the  remaining  95  per  cent  through 
extremely  brutal  violence  reminding  us  of  unthinkable  medieval  brutalities.  All  tools  for 
perpetrating  violence  are  monopolized  by  the  ruling  classes  and  their  representative  state 
apparatus.  The  poorest  sections  of  the  society,  who  live  a  life  of  extreme  misery  and 
destitution, are forced into meek submission to the exploiters as they have no means to fight 
the  violent  repressive  tools  in  the  hands  of  the  state.  It  is  these  hungry  and  angry  masses 
who  form  the  backbone  of  our  revolution.  Their  violence  is  only  defensive  violence  or 
counter-violence  to  the  eternal  state  violence.  Every  peace-loving  democratic  citizen  of  this 
country should realize this truth and defend the revolutionary violence of the oppressed led by the 
CPI(Maoist).    
 
We must all ask the question: who is spreading terror? Whose policies have led to the suicides of 
two  lakh  farmers  in  just  one  decade?  Who  has  been  spreading  insecurity  and  pushing  the  vast 
majority  to live  under daily fear of hunger  and starvation? Who is artificially hoarding essential 
commodities  and  terrorizing  the  people?  Who  is  snatching  the  lands  from  the  adivasis,  dalits, 

 

18 

 

poor and middle peasants and handing them over to a few rich business houses and MNCs? Who 
is indulging in the massacre of religious minorities with the aim of ethnic cleansing and creating 
terror  among  the  20  crore  minority  communities?  Who  is  setting  up  vigilante  gangs  and 
unleashing  a  brutal  reign  of  terror,  butchering  advasis,  raping  women,  destroying  property,  and 
displacing  over  one  lakh  adivasis  in  just  two  districts  of  Dantewada  and  Bijapur?  Who  is 
abducting Maoists and supporters of revolution, cruelly torturing them and murdering them? Who 
is  a  terrorist?  And  who  has  given  Sonia-Manmohan-Chidambaram  clique  the  right  to  wage  war 
on the Maoists?   
 
It is time for every  Indian to raise these crucial questions and declare boldly:  ―Stop this  brutal 
war against the people! Not in my name, fascist Chidambaram!” It is the organized resistance 
of  the  people  and  people  alone  that  can  stop  this  brutal  war  waged  by  Delhi‘s  war-mongers—
Sonia,  Manmohan  and  Chidambaram—and  the  warlords  in  the  states,  for  serving  the  class 
interests  of  their  masters.  This  alone  can  ensure  that  the  biggest  traitors  who  publicly  mortgage 
the  interests  of  our  beloved  motherland  to  their  imperialist  masters—the  Sonia-Manmohan-
Chidambaram fascist clique—can never achieve their fond dreams of handing over huge chunks 
of our land to the imperialist marauders and their comprador agents in India. 
 
Terrorism  and  “Left-wing  extremism”  are  used  by  the  reactionary  ruling  classes  as  a 
pretext  to  step  up  their  fascist  offensive  on  the  people  at  large.  This  is  necessary  for  the 
reactionary  rulers  in  order  to  enforce  their  imperialist-dictated,  anti-people,  market 
fundamentalist, policies on a reluctant population.  
 
We  also  call  upon  the  policemen,  who  are  sent  to  suppress  their  brothers  and  sisters  for  the 
benefit  of  a  handful  of  exploiters  and  oppressors,  to  understand  the  conspiracies  of  the  ruling 
classes,  and  appeal  to  them  to  desist  from  opening  fire  upon  our  own  people. We  have  nothing 
against them so long as they cooperate with us and do not harm the people. We also call on them 
to join the revolutionary ranks or to help us through various  means to defeat the cruel war being 
waged by a handful of hawks against the overwhelming majority of the Indian people.   
 
Finally,  we  appeal  to  the  media  to  verify  the  facts  before  propagating  them  and  not  to  be 
carried  away  by  the  outright  lies,  deliberate  distortions,  baseless  allegations,  and  the 
incessant  mud-slinging  by  the  police,  bureaucrats,  political  leaders,  and  some  so-called 
political analysts, who have unleashed a dirty psychological war against the Maoists and the 
revolutionary  movement.  The  rulers  have  launched  an  all-out  multi-pronged  war  and  are 
engaged in a vicious propaganda campaign against us. You know that our Party has been banned 
and our members and supporters are constantly being hunted. Hence, we have hardly any scope to 
explain our stand-point to the people of our country and answer the unending baseless allegations 
against us. Let us not make truth a casualty during this war. We hope the media will provide 
some  democratic  space  to  the  other  version  of  the  Maoist  revolutionaries  while  leaving  the 
ultimate judgement to the people themselves.   
 
 
 

  

 

19 

