 
 

Edited text of 12,262-word response by Azad, Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, CPI (Maoist) 
 
In  an  exclusive  interview  to  The  Hindu,  Azad,  spokesperson  of  the 
Communist Party of India (Maoist), answers in writing questions on his 
party’s attitude to dialogue with the Union Government. The following 
is the edited text of the full interview:  
 

1.  In recent weeks one has seen statements by the Government of India and leaders 
of the Communist Party of India (Maoist) saying they are in favor of dialogue and 
talks but each side seems to lack seriousness. There has also been an element of 
drama or more precisely, theatre, with Kishenji and P. Chidambaram exchanging 
statements through the media. Our first question is whether Kishenji’s statements 
can  be  treated  as  authoritative  pronouncements  of  the  CPI  (Maoist)  central 
leadership  in  pursuance  of  a  national  strategy?  Or  are  these  tactical 
announcements by him keeping only the specifics of the Bengal situation in mind. 
 
Azad: It is true our Party leadership has been issuing statements from time to time 
in response to the government’s dubious offer of talks. But to generalize that there 
is lack of seriousness on both sides does not correspond to reality. To an observer, 
exchanging  statements  through  the  media  does  sound  a  bit  theatrical.  And  it  is 
precisely  such  theatrical  and  sensational  things  the  media  relishes  while  more 
serious things are swept aside. Now the stark fact is lack of seriousness has been 
the  hallmark  of  the  government,  particularly  of  the  Union  Home  Minister  P. 
Chidambaram.  It is Mr. Chidambaram who has been enacting a drama in the past 
four months, particularly ever since his amusing 72-hour-abjure-violence diktat to 
the CPI (Maoist) in the course of his interview with Tehelka Magazine some time 
last  November.  As  regards  Kishenji’s  statements,  they  should  be  seen  with  a 
positive  attitude,  not  with  cynicism.  Though  our  central  committee  has  not 
discussed  our  specific  strategy  with  regard  to  talks  with  the  government  at  the 
current juncture, as a Polit Bureau member, comrade Kishenji had taken initiative 
and  made  a  concrete  proposal  for  a  ceasefire.  Whether  comrade  Kishenji's 
statements  are  the  official  pronouncements  of  our  Central  Committee  is  not  the 
point of debate here. What is important is the attitude of the government to such 
an offer in the first place. Our central committee has no objection to his proposal 
for a ceasefire. But as far as the issue of talks is concerned, our Party will pursue 
the guidelines given by our Unity Congress-9th Congress held in early 2007.   

2.  Both  the  Government  and  the  Maoists  are  also  laying  down  preconditions. 
Chidambaram  says  the  Maoists  should  “abjure  violence  and  say  they  are 
prepared  for  talks…  I  would  like  no  ifs,  no  buts  and  no  conditions”.  ̱ow  ‘to 
abjure’ can mean to renounce or forswear violence, or even to avoid violence, i.e. 
a  ceasefire.  What  is  your  understanding  of  Mr.  Chidambaram’s  formulation? 
What do you think is the implication of what he wants the Maoists to accept?  
 

1 

 

 

 
 

 

Azad:  It  is  a  very  pertinent  question  as  no  one  knows  exactly  what  Mr. 
Chidambaram wants to convey by his oft-repeated, yet incomprehensible, abjure-
violence  statement.  Hence  I  can  understand  your  confusion  in  interpreting  Mr. 
Chidambaram's "abjure violence" statement. It is not just you alone but the entire 
media  is  left  in  a  state  of  confusion.  His  own  Party  leaders  are  a  confused  lot. 
Some  interpret  Mr.  Chidambaram's  statement  to  mean  that  Maoists  should  lay 
down arms. Some say it means unilateral renunciation of violence by Maoists. Yet 
others say what this could mean is a cessation of hostilities by both sides without 
any conditions attached.  
 
It is indeed very difficult to understand what Mr. Chidambaram wants to convey. 
This  seems  to  be  a  characteristic  trait  of  Mr.  Chidambaram  whether  it  be  his 
pronouncements on Telangana, which are mildly described by the media as "flip-
flop"  behaviour  and  interpreted  by  both  pro  and  anti-Telanganites  according  to 
their  own  convenience;  or  on  Operation  Green  Hunt  which  he  describes  as  a 
"myth  invented  by  the  media"  even  as  the  entire  political  and  police 
establishment,  and  the  entire  media,  give  out  graphic  descriptions  of  the  huge 
mobilization  of  the  security  forces,  and  the  successes  achieved  by  Operation 
Green Hunt; or on MOUs signed by various MNCs and Indian Corporate houses 
with  the  governments  of  Chhattisgarh,  Jharkhand,  Orissa,  West  Bengal  and 
others.  
 
The Home Minister himself had displayed his split personality, not knowing what 
exactly  he  wants  when  he  says  Maoists  should  “abjure  violence.”  To  a  layman 
what this proposal obviously implies is that the state too would automatically put 
a  stop  to  its  inhuman  atrocities  on  the  adivasis,  Maoist  revolutionaries  and  their 
sympathizers. But not so to our Home Minister!  
 
When  you  ask  us what  our understanding of  Mr. Chidambaram's formulation is, 
our  answer  is:  we  are  very  clear  that  the  real  intent  behind  his  rhetoric  is  not  a 
ceasefire between the government and the Maoists, like that with the NSCN, but 
an  absurd  demand  for  a  unilateral  renunciation  of  violence  by  the  Maoists. 
Anyone  with  a  bit  of  common  sense  would  understand  the  unreasonableness  of 
the Home Minister's demand.  
 
It  is  not  that  our  so-called  political  analysts  and  others  who  appear  on  TV 
channels  or  write  articles  in  the  print  media  lack  this  common  sense.  It  is  their 
vested  interests  that  come  in  the  way  of  questioning  the  Home  Minister  in  a 
straightforward manner. Can they not put a simple question why the government 
cannot stop its brutalities on the people, adhere strictly to the Indian Constitution 
by  putting  an  end  to  the  police  culture  of  fake  encounters,  abductions,  rapes, 
tortures,  destruction  of  property,  foisting  of  false  cases  and  such  indescribable 
atrocities  on  the  people  and  the  Maoists?  Chidambaram  is  cosy  in  studios  and 
press  conferences  before  English-speaking  TV  anchors  and  correspondents  but 
can never answer the questions put by illiterate adivasis. That is the secret behind 

2 

 
 

 

 

his skipping the Jan Sunwaayi in Dantewada last December. For, drama and real 
life are entirely different.  
 
The implication of what Mr. Chidambaram wants the Maoists to accept is crystal-
clear.  He  wants  the  Maoists  to  surrender.  Or  else  [the  state’s]  para-military 
juggernaut  would  crush  the  people  and  the  Maoists  under  its  wheels.  It  is  total 
surrender, pure and simple.  While repeating that he never wanted the Maoists to 
lay  down  arms  –  as  if  he  had  generously  given  a  big  concession  –  he  comes  up 
with  an  even  more  atrocious  proposal:  Maoists  should  abjure  violence  while  his 
lawless  forces  continue  their  rampage  creating  more  Gachampallis,  Gompads, 
Singanamadugus,  Palachelimas,  Dogpadus,  Palods,  Tetemadugus,  Takilodus, 
Ongaras, and so on. Not a word does he utter even as scores of inhuman atrocities 
by  his  forces  are  brought  to  light  by  magazines  like  Tehelka,  Outlook,  a  host  of 
websites,  and,  to  an  extent,  some  papers  like  yours.  What  is  it  if  not  sheer 
hypocrisy  on  the  part  of  the  Home  Minister  to  ask  Maoists  to  abjure  violence 
while  his  paramilitary  forces  indulge  in  crimes  every  day,  every  hour,  in  gross 
violation of the very Constitution by which he swears?     

3.  The Maoists also have their preconditions for talks. In his recent interview to Jan 
Myrdal and Gautam ̱avlakha, Ganapathy made the following formulation on the 
issue  of  talks:  “To  put  concisely  the  main  demands  that  the  party  has  placed  in 
front of the government [of India] for any kind of talks are 1. All-out war has to 
be  withdrawn;  2.  For  any  kind  of  democratic  work,  the  ban  on  the  Party  and 
Mass Organizations have to be lifted; 3. Illegal detention and torture of comrades 
had  to  be  stopped  and  they  be  immediately  released.  If  these  demands  are  met, 
then the  same leaders who are released from jails would lead and represent the 
Party in the talks.” 
 
My  question  is  whether  these  are  realistic  preconditions.  For  example,  the  “all 
out war” can be suspended first before it is “withdrawn,” i.e. a ceasefire, so why 
insist on its withdrawal at the outset? Are you asking for a ceasefire or something 
more than that? 
 
Secondly,  you  want  the  ban  on  the  Party  and  its  mass  organizations  lifted  and 
prisoners released. Usually in negotiations of this kind around the world between 
governments  and  insurgent  groups,  the  lifting  of  a  ban  is  one  of  the  objects  of 
talks  rather  than  a  precondition  and  the  release  of  political  prisoners  an 
intermediate  step.  Is  the  Maoist  party  not  putting  the  cart  before  the  horse, 
making  demands  that  the  government  may  be  unlikely  to  accept  as  a  starting 
point,  rather  than  positing  the  same  as  one  of  the  end  points  of  the  proposed 
dialogue?   
 
Azad: I concur with the logic of your arguments. It is logically a valid argument 
that  such  demands  could  be  resolved  in  the  course  of  actual  talks  and  not  as  a 
precondition  for  talks.  But  you  must  also  understand  the  spirit  of  what  comrade 
Ganapathi  has  said  in  his  interview  given  to  Mr.  Jan  Myrdal  and  Gautam 

3 

 
 

 

 

Navlakha.  Some clarification is required here.  I  will try to  clarify what comrade 
Ganapathi has said. 
 
Firstly  what  he  meant  when  he  said  the  government  should  withdraw  its  all-out 
war is nothing but a suspension of its war, or in other words, mutual ceasefire. Let 
there  be  no  confusion  in  this  regard.  What  Chidambaram  wants  is  unilateral 
ceasefire by Maoists while the state continues its brutal campaign of terror. On the 
contrary,  what  the  CPI  (Maoist)  wants  is  a  cessation  of  hostilities  by  both  sides 
simultaneously.  This  is  the  meaning  of  the  first  point.  A  ceasefire  by  both  sides 
cannot be called  a precondition. It is but an expression of the willingness on the 
part of both sides engaged in war to create a conducive atmosphere for going to 
the next step of talks. 
  
Secondly, if peaceful legal work has to be done by Maoists as desired by several 
organizations  and  members  of  civil  society,  then  lifting  of  ban  becomes  a  pre-
requisite. Without lifting the ban on the party and mass organizations how can we 
organize legal struggles, meetings etc in our name? If we do so, will these not be 
dubbed as illegal as they are led by a banned Party? According to us, the ban itself 
is an authoritarian, undemocratic, and fascist act. Hence the demand for the lifting 
of  the  ban  is  a  legitimate  demand,  and,  if  fulfilled,  will  go  a  long  way  in 
promoting  open  democratic  forms  of  struggles  and  creating  a  conducive 
atmosphere for a dialogue. 
  
Thirdly,  what  comrade  Ganapathi  had  asked  for  is  that  the  government  should 
adhere to the Indian Constitution and put an end to the illegal murders in the name 
of  encounters,  tortures  and  arrests.  We  must  include  the  term  'murders'  which  is 
missing in the third point. There is nothing wrong or unreasonable in asking  the 
government  to  stick  to  its  own  constitution.  As  regards  the  release  of  political 
prisoners this could be an intermediate step as far as the nature of the demand is 
concerned.  However,  to  hold  talks  it  is  necessary  for  the  government  to  release 
some  leaders.  Or  else,  there  would  be  none  to  talk  to  since  the  entire  Party  is 
illegal. We cannot bring any of our leaders overground for the purpose of talks.     

4.  Would  the  Maoists  be  prepared  to  establish  their  bona  fides  on  the  question  of 
talks  by  announcing  a  unilateral  ceasefire  or,  perhaps  the  non-initiation  of 
combat operations (̱ICO) after a particular date so as to facilitate the process of 
dialogue?  
 
Azad: It is quite strange to see intellectuals like you asking the Maoists to declare 
a unilateral ceasefire when the heavily armed Indian state is carrying out its brutal 
armed  offensive  and  counter-revolutionary  war.  How  would  unilateral 
announcement of ceasefire or NICO after a particular date establish the bona-fides 
of our Party on the question of talks? What purpose would such an act serve? It is 
incomprehensible to me why we are asked to "display this generosity" towards an 
enemy  who  has  the  least  concern  for  the  welfare  of  the  people  and  derives 
vicarious pleasure in cold-blooded murders, rapes, abductions, tortures and every 

4 

 
 

 

 

kind of atrocity one could ever imagine. And how would this "generous Gandhian 
act" on our part facilitate the process of dialogue with the megalomaniacs in the 
Home  Ministry  who  do  not  spare  even  non-violent  Gandhian  social  activists 
working in Dantewada and other places?   

5.  What do the Maoists hope to achieve with talks?  Are you only looking to buy time 
and regroup yourselves – which is what the government said the CPI (Maoist) did 
during the aborted dialogue in Andhra Pradesh? Or is it part of a more general 
re-evaluation of the political strategy of the party, one which may see it emerge as 
an  overground  political  formation,  engaged  in  open,  legal  activities  and 
struggles,  and  perhaps  even  entering  the  electoral  fray  directly  or  indirectly  at 
various  levels  in  the  kind  of  ‘multiparty  competition’  that  Prachanda  says  is 
necessary for the communist movement? When you say you want the government 
to lift its ban on the party, are you also undertaking not to indulge in methods of 
struggle  (eg.  armed  struggle)  which  led  to  the  imposition  of  the  ban  in  the  first 
place? There are other Maoist and revolutionary communist parties across India 
that  is  mobilizing  workers  and  peasants  through  mass  politics.  They  have  not 
been banned. Why does the CPI (Maoist) not believe those are legitimate forms of 
struggle? In Kashmir, the Hurriyat conference stands for the self-determination of 
J&K  and  seeks  to  mobilize  people  for  this  but  the  Indian  state,  which  may  use 
violence  and  repression  and  excessive  force  against  people  who  peacefully 
protest,  has  not  banned  the  Hurriyat.  Does  this  not  indicate  that  there  is  some 
space  in  the  system  for  the  Maoists  to  press  their  demands  through  peaceful 
political means? 
 
Azad:  Your  question,  or  rather,  a  whole  set  of  questions,  requires  a  detailed 
answer. I am afraid it will take much space but I will try to be as brief as possible. 
Before  I  proceed,  let  me  clarify  at  the  very  outset  that  the  proposal  of  talks  is 
neither a ploy to buy time or regroup ourselves, nor is it a part of the general re-
evaluation  of  the  political  strategy  of  the  party  that  could  lead  to  its  coming 
overground, entering the  electoral  fray, and multi-party competition as in Nepal. 
Our CC had already dealt in detail with the question of multi-party competition in 
our Open Letter to the UCPN (M) and various articles and interviews by our Party 
leaders. So I will not go into it again here.    
 
Now let me take up each of the points that you had raised.  
 
First, you asked me what we want to achieve with talks. My one sentence answer 
is:  we  want  to  achieve  whatever  is  possible  for  the  betterment  of  people's  lives 
without compromising on our political programme of new democratic revolution 
and strategy of protracted people's war. People have a right to enjoy whatever is 
guaranteed  under  the  Indian  Constitution,  however  nominal  and  limited  these 
provisions are. And the government is duty-bound to implement the provisions of 
the Constitution.  We hope the talks  would raise the overall consciousness  of the 
oppressed people  about their fundamental rights  and rally them to fight for their 
rights.  Talks  will  also  expose  government's  hypocrisy,  duplicity,  and  its 

5 

 
 

 

authoritarian and extra-constitutional rule that violates whatever is guaranteed by 
the  Constitution.  So  talks  would  help  in  exposing  the  government's  callous 
attitude  to  the  people  and  may  help  in  bringing  about  reforms,  however  limited 
they may be.     
 
Another  important  reason  is:  talks  will  give  some  respite  to  the  people  who  are 
oppressed  and  suppressed  under  the  fascist  jack-boots  of  the  Indian  state  and 
state-sponsored  terrorist  organizations  like  the  Salwa  Judum,  Maa  Danteswari 
Swabhiman  Manch,  Sendra,  Nagarik  Suraksha  Samiti,  Shanti  Sena,  Harmad 
Bahini, and so on. Those who sit in studios and insulated rooms, and make their 
expert  analyses  about  how  Maoists  want  to  buy  time  or  utilize  the  respite  to 
regroup  themselves,  can  never  understand  the  ABC  of  revolution  or  the  ground 
situation. This is actually  not  an argument at all. If the  Maoists try to utilize the 
situation, so would the police and the  government.  Wouldn't they? They  created 
an extensive network of police informers during the six-month period of ceasefire 
in Andhra Pradesh in 2004. The intelligence hawks attended every open meeting 
and  activity  of  the  Maoists,  took  videos  of  people,  and  could  easily  target  them 
after  the  clamp-down.  Maoists  had  definitely  increased  their  recruitment  but  so 
did the enemy. It doesn't need much of a common sense to understand that both 
sides will utilize a situation of ceasefire to strengthen their respective sides. Then 
could this be called an argument at all? These cynics, or, I would rather call them, 
war-hungry  hawks,  itch  for  a  brutal  suppression  of  the  Maoists  and  the  people 
they  directly  lead,  even  if  it  means  genocide.  They  do  not  care  if  in  the  process 
thousands of police and paramilitary personnel too perish for they are nothing but 
cannon-fodder in the eyes of these gentlemen.  
 
So let me make it crystal-clear: the proposal of talks is meant neither to buy time 
nor to regroup ourselves but to give some respite for the people at large who are 
living  under  constant  state  terror  and  immense  suffering.  How  many  of  our 
countrymen  know  that  three  lakh  adivasis  were  driven  away  from  their  homes, 
that half the adivasi population in our country is already living under conditions 
of chronic famine and even the rest of the population is now pushed into famine 
condition? And why? Because of the insatiable greed of the corporate sharks that 
is  fuelling  Chidambram-Raman  Singh's  war  in  Chhattisgarh,  Chidambaram-
Naveen Patnaik's war in Orissa, Chidambaram-Buddhadeb's war in West Bengal, 
Chidambaram-Shibu  Soren's  war  in  Jharkhand,  and  so  on.  Whoever  has  the 
minimum  concern  for  the  well-being  of  the  masses,  no  matter  what  his/her 
ideology is, would naturally think of how to save them from being decimated. But 
those who have nothing but sheer contempt for the poor and helpless people and 
only think of how to maximize the profits of a tiny parasitic class, put forth weird 
and cynical arguments deliberately to confuse the people. They depict the Maoists 
as  terrorists,  create  a  fear  psychosis  in  the  middle  and  upper  classes  that  the 
Maoists would soon come to your cities and disturb your supposedly secure lives; 
that they would seize power by the middle of this century, and what not. By such 
hysteria whipped up by the rulers through the various means at their disposal, they 
justify the brutal war on the people and make the massive displacement, mayhem, 

6 

 
 

 

massacres,  rapes  and  atrocities  appear  like  collateral  damage  in  the  larger  noble 
objective of achieving peace, progress and prosperity for all.  
 

Question of re-evaluation of political strategy of CPI (Maoist), demand for 
lifting of ban, and the issue of legitimacy of open, legal forms of struggle 
 
There  are  a  lot  of  questions  related  to  the  above  and  I  feel  this  needs  some 
detailed  explanation  keeping  in  mind  several  misconceptions  doing  the  rounds. 
Firstly you are wrong in assuming that it is the forms of struggle (armed struggle) 
pursued by the CPI (Maoist) that had "led to the imposition of the ban in the first 
place."  On the contrary, it is the other way round. It is the imposition of the ban 
that  had  led  the  Party  and  mass  organisations  to  take  up  arms  in  the  first  place. 
People are easily misled to believe that it is the violence of the Maoists that had 
compelled the government to impose the ban. This is a classic example of how a 
white lie can be dressed up and presented as the truth by endless repetition. If you 
have  even  a  cursory  glance  at  the  history  of  the  revolutionary  movement  in  our 
country  you  will  find  that  the  forms  of  struggle  adopted  by  the  Maoist 
revolutionaries  from  time  to  time  basically  corresponded  to  the  forms  of 
suppression pursued by the rulers.  
 
A stark example of the transformation of a peaceful mass movement into a violent 
armed  struggle  is  right  in  front  of  our  eyes.  Lalgarh's  peaceful  mass  movement 
with simple demands for an apology from the police officials and an end to brutal 
police repression had transformed into a revolutionary armed struggle due to the 
brutal suppression campaign unleashed by the state and state-sponsored terrorists 
like the Harmad Bahini. So was the case of the movement in Kashmir and various 
states  of  North  East.  Even  in  Naxalbari  in  1967,  the  first  shots  were  fired  on 
unarmed  women  and  children  by  the  police.  The  people  retaliated  in  their  own 
manner and the party took birth and evolved a correct political line for the Indian 
revolution.  In  Srikakulam,  Koranna,  and  Manganna  were  the  first  martyrs  and 
these murders transformed the movement into an armed struggle. Even during the 
first great armed mass uprising of Telangana during the late 1940s, the spark was 
first lit when the cruel feudal lords murdered Doddi Komaraiah.  
 
If  you  take  the  case  of  the  transformation  of  the  movement  led  by  the  erstwhile 
CPI  (ML)[PW]  or  MCCI  or  the  present  CPI  (Maoist),  you  will  find  the  same 
pattern.  The  revolutionaries  go  to  the  oppressed,  make  them  conscious  of  their 
inherent  strength  and  the  reasons  for  their  misery,  make  them  aware  of  their 
fundamental rights, organize and unite them, mobilise them into peaceful forms of 
protest and struggle. Then the state enters with its baton in defence of the class of 
big landlords, contractors, industrialists, land mafia and other powerful forces that 
control  the  state  and  economy.  Everywhere,  the  peaceful  struggles  are  crushed 
brutally,  entire  areas  are  declared  disturbed,  fake  encounters,  abductions, 
disappearances,  rapes,  burning  down  villages,  and  untold  atrocities  become  the 
order of the day.  
 

7 

 
 

 

The Indian Constitution is consigned to the dustbin by the rulers and is not even 
worth the paper it is written on. At that point of time any revolutionary party has 
to  quickly  switch  to  non-peaceful  and  armed  forms  of  struggle  if  it  is  really 
serious about transforming the lives of the people and the oppressive conditions in 
the  country.  The  alternative  is  to  surrender  the  revolutionary  aims,  make 
adjustments with the system and sail with other parliamentary parties albeit with 
some revolutionary rhetoric for a while. This, however, will not work for long as 
people cannot distinguish between the bourgeois-feudal parties and the ML party 
that had turned into a new parliamentary party. When people are fighting a do-or-
die  battle  you  cannot  turn  your  tail  but  will  have  to  provide  them  with  new 
appropriate  forms  of  struggle  and  forms  of  organization.  And  this  is  what  our 
Party had done right from the days of Jagtyal Jaitra Yatra.  
 
What  shook  the  rulers  at  that  time  and  compelled  them  to  declare  Jagtyala  and 
Sircilla  tauks  in  Karimnagar  district  of  North  Telangana  as  disturbed  areas  in 
1978 was not the armed struggle of the  Maoists  (which had suffered  a complete 
setback after the setback in Naxalbari, Srikakulam and elsewhere by 1972 itself) 
but  the  powerful  anti-feudal  militant  mass  struggle  that  upset  the  hitherto 
established feudal order in the countryside. And one of the main forms of struggle 
at  that  time  was  social  boycott  of  the  feudal  lords  and  their  henchmen,  which 
witnessed  the  unity  of  over  95  per  cent  of  the  people  in  most  villages.  Social 
boycott  had  disturbed  the  peace  and  tranquility  of  the  feudal  barons  who 
functioned  like  a  state  within  a  state.  From  then  on,  undeclared  ban  has  been  in 
vogue  in  parts  of  North  Telangana  until  1985  when  it  encompassed  the  entire 
state.  CRPF  was  deployed  for  the  first  time  to  suppress  the  peaceful  mass 
struggles  that  broke  out  against  liquor.  I  remember  how  the  mainstream  media 
like the Indian Express published stories of policemen selling arrack at the police 
stations  and  forcing  people  to  consume  liquor  in  order  to  foil  the  anti-liquor 
agitation of the revolutionaries.     
 
We  find  the  same  story  in  the  urban  areas  too.  The  Singareni  colliery  workers 
organised  themselves  into  a  trade  union  called  Singareni  Workers'  Federation 
(SIKASA)  in  1981  but  it  was  unofficially  banned  within  three  years.  An 
undeclared  ban  was  imposed  on  the  students  and  youth  organisations,  women's 
organizations,  workers'  organizations,  cultural  organizations  and  every  form  of 
peaceful,  democratic  protest  was  brutally  suppressed.  One  must  see  the 
development of armed struggle in the background of the strangulation of even the 
limited  democratic  space  available  in  the  present  semi-colonial  semi-feudal  set 
up,  and  the  brutal  suppression  of  the  movement  by  unleashing  the  lethal 
instruments of the state.  
 
To cut a long story short, it is not the forms of struggle and forms of organization 
adopted  by  a  party  that  had  led  to  imposition  of  ban  but  the  very  ban  (whether 
declared  or  undeclared)  on  every  type  of  open,  legal  activity  including  peaceful 
public meetings that had compelled the revolutionaries to adopt non-peaceful and 
armed  forms  of  struggle  and  underground  forms  of  organization.  Our  Party 

8 

 
 

 

appeals to all independent observers and unbiased media personnel to look at this 
phenomenon historically and analyse this with an open mind. You will realize that 
what  I  have  said  is  hundred  per  cent  correct.  We  are  prepared  to  enter  into  a 
debate with anyone on the course of development of the revolutionary movement 
led by our Party in our country and how, why, and when, armed form of struggle 
had to be adopted by the party.  
 
Revolutionaries  never  mince  words.  There  is  no  need  to.  We  believe  that 
ultimately people have to take up armed struggle to seize power. But this does not 
mean  we  take  up  armed  struggle  at  the  cost  of  all  other  forms  of  struggle  and 
thereby invite the state to unleash its brute force on the people. On the contrary, it 
is only when all other forms of struggle fail to achieve the objective, when these 
are  crushed  under  the  iron  heels  of  the  state  that  we  resort  to  non-peaceful  and 
armed forms of struggle. It is very important to understand this as it has become a 
common  practice  for  some  so-called  political  analysts  and  representatives  of  the 
ruling classes to charge the Maoists as responsible for all the violence since their 
very  ideology  talks  of  armed  struggle.  Hence,  they  conclude,  there  is  no  use  of 
talks  with  the  Maoists.  These  simpletons  resort  to  the  method  of  simple 
reductionism:  Maoists  believe  in  violence  and  armed  struggle  to  overthrow  the 
state; hence they indulge in endless violence; there is no use of talking to people 
whose very ideology is rooted in violence; and hence there is no other way than to 
crush the Maoists with all the means at the disposal of the state. Such goes their 
argument. I will deal with this later on.   
 
I  didn't  quite  understand  what  you  meant  when  you  said  referring  to  other  open 
Maoist  and  revolutionary  communist  parties  across  India  that  are  mobilizing 
workers  and  peasants  through  mass  politics:  "Why  does  the  CPI  (Maoist)  not 
believe those are legitimate forms of struggle?", you ask. Who has said we do not 
believe these are legitimate forms of struggle? We consider all forms of struggle 
as  legitimate,  right  from  social  boycott  as  we  had  practiced  in  Jagtyala,  hunger-
strikes as our comrades in various prisons are frequently taking up besides other 
places,  and  various  militant  demonstrations.  Armed  struggle  is  also  a  form  of 
struggle and assumes importance depending on the tactical moves by the enemy. 
While  all  forms  of  struggle  are  legitimate  in  our  eyes,  some  so-called 
revolutionaries, veterans of yesteryears, surprisingly exclude armed struggle from 
the forms of struggle  and  lay one-sided  emphasis on peaceful forms of struggle. 
They can well join the Gandhian organisations and fight for some reforms instead 
of  calling  themselves  as  part  of  the  ML  stream  or  as  Maoists  aiming  for  the 
revolutionary transformation of society. For some of them, ML ideology or label 
is  only  a  fashion.  They  do  not  wish  to  bring  about  the  revolutionary 
transformation of the society and state but only a few cosmetic reforms. 
 
The question of imposing or not imposing a ban on a certain party or organization 
depends  on  several  factors.  It  would  be  too  simplistic  to  conclude  that  just 
because  a  Party  believes  in  armed  struggle  and  indulges  in  acts  of  violence  it  is 
being banned while those who pursue open, legal forms of struggle are allowed to 

9 

 
 

 

function  freely.  During  the  Emergency,  as  we  all  know,  both  the  revolutionary 
Left  as  well  as  the  reactionary  Right  parties  were  banned.  Even  at  the  height  of 
sectarian violence indulged in by the Hindu fascist gangs, they are allowed a field 
day. They carry arms, display them openly, threaten the religious minorities with 
genocide,  indulge  in  violence  against  the  Muslims  and  Christians,  and  yet  are 
deemed  as  legitimate  organizations  since  they  are  part  of  the  ruling  classes  and 
their integral culture of violence.  
 
The acts of destruction in the violence that was organized in a planned manner [in 
Andhra  Pradesh]  by  a  faction  of  the  Congress  in  one  day  far  surpassed  the  so-
called violent acts carried out by Maoists in an entire year! Yet our Union Home 
Ministry issues advertisements against Maoist violence while keeping mum about 
the mayhem and arson by his own Congress party hooligans. Thus the question of 
how you look at violence is coloured with a class bias. The violence by the ruling 
class  parties  is  considered  legitimate  while  those  by  the  oppressed  masses  and 
their  organizations  are  dangerous  and  a  threat  to  the  security  of  the  rulers.  This 
has been true right from the time of Charvakas.  
 

6.  If  the  government  believes  the  Maoists  “misused”  the  Andhra  talks,  your  party 
believes  the  dialogue  there  was  abused  by  the  authorities  to  identify  and  then 
target your leaders. How, then, do you hope to deal with the risks of once again 
entering into a dialogue with the Indian state?  
 
Azad:  The  talks  we  held  with  the  Congress  regime  in  AP  provided  us  with 
important lessons. And these lessons would guide us in any future talks with the 
governments of the exploiting classes. It would be too simplistic to conclude that 
the police could identify and target the leaders by utilizing the talks interregnum. 
They used it to some extent just as we used it to take our politics widely among 
the people in the State and outside. The setback we had suffered in most parts of 
AP is not a fall-out of talks but due to several inherent weaknesses of our Party in 
AP and our failure to adopt appropriate tactics to confront enemy's tactics. This is 
an entirely different subject and can be dealt at some other time.  
 
What is of relevance here is that the talks in AP have given us a rich experience 
and important lessons. If at all a situation for talks arises once again—which we 
do  not  foresee  in  the  near  future  given  the  inexorable  compulsions  on  the 
government  from  the  corporate  sharks  for  total  control  of  the  mineral-rich 
region—we  can 
the 
responsibility.  Our  General  Secretary  had  explained  this  in  the  course  of  his 
interview  with  Mr.  Jan  Myrdal  and  Mr.  Gautam  Navlakha.  The  mistakes 
committed in AP during talks with the government will not be repeated.  
 

in  various  prisons 

take 

instruct  our 

leadership 

to 

7.  There is a contradiction between the recent offer for talks made by Kishenji and 
the  spate  of  violence  and  killing  by  the  Maoists  which  has  followed  that.  The 
Home Ministry has compiled a list of such incidents and circulated it to the media 
(see Annex). ̱o doubt there has been no letup in the government offensive during 

10 

 
 

 

this period and you could produce your own counter-list but many of these attacks 
by  the  Maoists  do  not  appear  to  be  ‘defensive’  but  ‘offensive’.  Can  the  offer  of 
talks  go  hand  in  hand  with  the  intensification  of  offensive  Maoist  military 
activities? 
 
Azad: This is not as complicated as it is made out to be. The crux of the matter is: 
no  ceasefire  has  been  declared  either  by  the  Maoists  or  by  the  government.  The 
Maoists  had  made  an  offer  of  talks  which  was  immediately  dismissed  by  the 
government  as  a  joke  and  spurned  by  Chidambaram  himself  who  wants  nothing 
short of total surrender, whatever be the language he uses. When the government 
is  not  serious  about  a  ceasefire  and  dialogue,  and  is  placing  a  condition  that 
Maoists  should  abjure  violence  without  spelling  out  whether  it  will  reciprocate 
with  a  simultaneous  declaration  of  ceasefire,  then  what  is  the  use  of  grumbling 
about acts of violence by Maoists? The acts of violence by both sides will cease 
from the day a ceasefire is declared. 
 
Now  I am not  going into the innumerable atrocities by the police forces  and the 
paramilitary  gangs  sent  by  [the  state].  There  has  been  a  wide  coverage  in 
magazines like Tehelka, Outlook and our own Maoist Information Bulletins. The 
statements  and  fact-finding  committee  reports  by  various  organizations  and 
Gandhians like Himanshu Kumar clearly show how savage the state has become.  
 
Equally atrocious is the list compiled by the Union Home Ministry regarding the 
violent acts by  Maoists to justify its  rejection of  the  Maoist offer. The annexure 
appended  to  your  questionnaire  speaks  volumes  about  the  duplicity  and  lies 
spread  by  the  war-mongering  hawks  in  the  Home  Ministry  as  part  of  their  psy-
war.  This  is  meant  to  lend  an  element  of  legitimacy  to  their  rejection  of  the 
ceasefire offer by Maoists and also to their war waged for nipping in the bud the 
alternative organs of people's power, the alternative development models, and for 
grabbing  the  resources  in  the  mineral-rich  region  for  the  benefit  of  the  class  of 
tiny  parasitic  corporate  elite  they  represent.  I  will  not  go  into  all  the  incidents 
listed therein. 
  
The very first "heinous act of violence" cited by the Union Home Ministry in its 
annexure  circulated  to  the  media  to  manufacture  consent  for  its  dirty  war,  goes 
like  this:  "In  West  Bengal  (February  22,  2010)  –attack  on  a  State  Police-CRPF 
Joint  patrol  party  in  PS  Lalgarh,  district  West  Midnapore.  In  the  ensuing  gun 
battle  Lalmoham  Tudu,  President  of  the  Police-e-Sangharsh  Birodhi  Janaganer 
Committee (PSBJC) was killed." 
 
The above incident was said to have taken place within three hours of the offer of 
a 72-day ceasefire made by comrade Kishenji. Chidambaram himself had gone on 
record  repeating  several  times  this  fabricated  "heinous  act"  in  a  desperate  bid  to 
justify  his  rejection  of  the  Maoist  offer.  Earlier  too,  Chidambaram  had 
deliberately hurled an accusation against the CPI (Maoist) of massacring villagers 
in Khagaria district. 

11 

 
 

 

  
Coming to the so-called attack by Maoists on the joint patrol party, it is a hundred 
per  cent  lie.  There  was  no  such  attack  at  all.  Ask  anyone  in  Narcha  village  or 
Kanatapahari.  Every  villager,  and  not  just  the  family  members  of  Sri  Tudu,  will 
tell you how a hundred-odd CRPF men lay in waiting at his house on the night of 
22nd  ,  how they  caught  the  three,  and  carried  out  the  cold-blooded  murder.  That 
there had been no firing by the Maoists was corroborated even by the CRPF men 
guarding the camp.  

Initially,  the  SP  of  Paschim  Mednipur  asserted  that  Mr.  Tudu  died  when  the 
CRPF men “bravely” retaliated an attack by the Maoist guerrillas on the fortress-
like CRPF camp in Kantapahari. Later, realizing the hollowness of his own story 
and fearing that it would evaporate like dew drops with the first rays of the sun, 
they changed the version by [saying] that Tudu and other two were killed when a 
Maoist  guerrilla  squad  attacked  the  CRPF’s  raiding  party.  This  lie  is  being 
propagated  consciously,  with  a  clearly  worked  out  strategy  of  justifying  the 
gruesome offensive by our own brand of George Bushes and Donald Rumsfelds.   

Tehelka  Magazine,  Star  Ananda  and  other  media  sources  have  graphically 
exposed this lie.  
 
As for  your question regarding offensive and defensive actions, I wish to clarify 
to every well-meaning person who desires a reduction of violence on the part of 
the Maoists that there is nothing like defensive and offensive actions once the war 
has  commenced.  However,  our  revolutionary  counter-violence 
is  overall 
defensive in nature for a considerable period of time. This does not mean we will 
retaliate only when we  are fired at and  keep silent the rest of the time when the 
police, paramilitary and the vigilante gangs unleash terror and engage in all-round 
preparations for carrying out genocide. To make this clear, let us suppose the men 
sent by Chidambaram are combing an area. When we come to know of it, we will 
carry  out  an  offensive,  annihilate  as  many  forces  as  possible  in  the  given 
circumstances,  and  seize  arms  and  ammunition.  We  will  also  take  prisoners  of 
war  where  that  is  possible.  This  will  be  part  of  our  overall  defensive  strategy 
although it is a tactical counter-offensive.  
 
In  the  war  zone,  if  you  do  not  take  the  initiative,  the  enemy  will  seize  the 
initiative.  Likewise,  we  may  have  to  attack  ordnance  depots,  trucks  carrying 
explosives,  guards  at  installations  such  as  NMDC,  RPF  personnel,  and  even 
outposts  and  stations  far  beyond  our  areas  to  seize  arms,  as  in  Nayagarh,  for 
instance.  To  fight  a  well-equipped  superior  enemy  force  that  has  no  dearth  of 
arms  supplies  and  logistical  support,  what  other  option  do  we  have  but  to  equip 
ourselves with the arms seized from the enemy?  
 
Some of these men are killed when they offer resistance.  We feel sorry for their 
lives but there is no other way. Chidambaram may yell that innocent CISF jawans 

12 

 
 

 

were  targeted  even  though  they  were  in  no  way  related  to  the  state's  offensive 
against Maoists. But that is how things would be in a war zone.  The war would 
get dirtier and dirtier, engulf new areas and affect hitherto unaffected regions and 
sections  of  society.  But  this  is  precisely  what  [the  ruling]  coterie  want.  We  will 
also  destroy  the  informer  network  built  by  the  enemy,  his  supplies,  bunkers, 
communication  network  and  infrastructure.  We  have  to  confiscate  money  from 
the banks and other sources for funding the revolution. There is no use of yelling 
about  the  indiscriminate  destruction  by  Maoists.  We  have  to  paralyse  the 
administration,  immobilize  the  enemy  troops,  cut  off  his  supplies  and  perhaps 
even  target  the  policemen  engaged  in  removing  the  dead  bodies  of  the  enemy. 
There was a hue and cry when our guerrillas placed mines under the dead bodies.  
 
But why such  a hue  and  cry?  Where are the  rules in this war?  Who has  defined 
the  rules?  If  there  were  rules,  then  why  are  the  peace-chanting  pigeons  in  the 
Home  Ministry  completely  silent  about  the  beasts  in  police  uniform  who  had 
chopped off the breasts of 70-year-old Dude Muye before killing her, murdered in 
cold  blood  over  120  adivasis  since  August  2009  in  Dantewada,  Bijapur,  Kanker 
and  Narayanpur,  and  yet  roam  freely  and  continue  their  atrocities  without 
hindrance?  Chidambaram,  Pillai,  Raman  Singh  and  their  like  should  first  define 
the  rules  of  engagement  and  then,  and  only  then,  they  have  a  right  to  speak  of 
violations  of  the  rules.  I  am  sure  they  would  never  dare  to  discipline  their  own 
forces while preaching meaningless sermons about Maoist "atrocities."  
  
We  appeal  to  all  peace-loving,  democratic-minded  organizations  and  individuals 
to ponder over this  question, pressurize the  government to adhere to  the Geneva 
Convention,  punish 
those  who  are  creating  Gompads,  Gachampallis, 
Singanamadugus, Palachelimas, Tetemadugus, Takilodus, Dogpadus, Palods, and 
several  other  massacres.  If  it  is  to  be  a  war,  then  let  it  be  but  the  state  should 
clearly state whether it would abide by its own Constitution and the International 
Conventions on the conduct of war.  
 
 

8.  The  Maoists  are  engaging  in  armed  struggle  but  have  not  hesitated  in  use 
violence  against  non-combatants.  The  beheading  of  a  policeman,  Francis 
Induvar,  while  in  Maoist  captivity,  shocked  the  country  and  was  a  blatant 
violation  of  civilized  norms  and  of  international  humanitarian  law,  which  the 
Maoists, like the Government, are obliged to adhere to. If civil society condemns 
the  security  forces  for  killing  civilians  in  places  like  Gompad  village  in 
Chhattisgarh  and  elsewhere  and  demands  that  justice  be  done  and  the  guilty 
punished,  it  has  an  equal  right  to  condemn  the  Maoists  whenever  they  commit 
such  crimes.  There  have  been  some  reports  that  the  Maoist  leadership  has 
apologized  for  the  killing  of  Induvar  but  what  steps  have  you  taken  to  punish 
those  who  were  involved?  What  steps  have  you  taken  to  ensure  such  crimes  are 
not  committed  by  your  cadres?  If  your  answer  is  that  the  state  has  also  not 
punished  those  among  its  ranks  who  have  committed  crimes,  are  you  then 

13 

 
 

 

admitting  that  the  political  culture  and  moral  universe  the  Maoists  represent  is 
the same as that of the state which you decry as illegitimate? 

Azad:  I  had  already  covered  part  of  your  question  in  my  answer  to  your  earlier 
question. Our attempt will always be to target the enemy who is engaged in war 
against us. Non-combatants are generally avoided. But what about the intelligence 
officials  and  police  informers  who  collect  information  about  the  movements  of 
Maoists and cause immense damage to the movement? It is true most of them do 
not  carry  arms  openly  or  are  unarmed.  What  to  do  with  them?  If  we  just  leave 
them  they  would  continue  to  cause  damage  to  the  Party  and  movement.  If  we 
punish  them  there  is  a  furore  from  the  media  and  civil  society.  Caught  between 
the devil and the deep sea! Our general practice is to conduct a trial in a people's 
court wherever that is possible and proceed in accordance with the decision of the 
people.  Where it is not possible to hold the people's court due to the intensity of 
repression  we  conduct  investigation,  take  the  opinion  of  the  people  and  give 
appropriate punishment.  
 
I agree there is no place for cruelty while giving out punishments. I had clarified 
this in one of my earlier interviews while referring to the case of Francis Induvar. 
But  it  is  made  into  a  big  issue  by  the  media  when  a  thousand  beheadings  had 
taken  place  in  the  past  five  years  by  the  police-paramilitary  and  Salwa  Judum 
goons. You are saying the beheading of Francis Induvar was a blatant violation of 
civilized norms and of international humanitarian law which both sides in the war 
are  obliged  to  adhere  to.  Do  you  really  think  the  government  is  adhering  to  the 
law? And has the media ventured to ask Chidambaram why [the state] hasn't been 
following  the  international  law  or  at  least  the  Indian  Constitution  when  dealing 
with the people in the war zone or citizens elsewhere? Just ten days ago, two of 
our  Party  leaders—comrades  Shakhamuri  Appa  Rao  and  Kondal  Reddy—were 
abducted  from  Chennai  and  Pune  respectively  by  the  APSIB  and  the  Central 
Intelligence officials and were murdered in cold blood. What cruel tortures these 
comrades were subjected to by the lawless goons of the Indian state no one will 
ever  know.  I  can  give  a  thousand  such  examples  of  killings  of  our  comrades  in 
cold blood while in police captivity in the past five years. Why is the media silent 
about these murders but becomes hysteric when one Police Inspector is beheaded? 
What is the civil society doing when such cold-blooded murders are taking place 
in police custody? Why single out a rare case of the beheading of one Induvar and 
play it up whenever you need an excuse to bash the Maoists?  
 
When our comrades hear of these cold-blooded murders committed by the APSIB 
or other officials of the state, it is natural that their blood would boil and they will 
not bat an eye-lid to hack any of the perpetrators of these inhuman crimes, say a 
man from APSIB or Grey Hounds, to pieces if he fell into their hands. In the war 
zone, the passions run with such intensity which one cannot even imagine in other 
areas or under normal circumstances. Could someone who has seen women being 
raped and murdered, children and old men being murdered after hacking them to 
pieces in the killing fields of Dantewada and Bijapur, ever give a thought to your 

 

14 

 
 

 

 

so-called non-existent ( I say non-existent as none of the combatants know what 
these are nor would follow these conventions as the history of fake encounters by 
the  Indian  state  shows)  international  laws  when  the  perpetrator  of  such  crimes 
happens to fall into their hands? The pent-up anger of the masses is so intense that 
even the Party general secretary will perhaps fail to control the fury of the adivasi 
masses when they lay their hands on their tormentors.  
 
Maoists  are  not  for  crude  and  raw  justice  as  some  are  trying  to  make  it  appear. 
Maoist guerrillas are not thugs and mercenaries like the men who carry out their 
brutal heinous acts in the name of democracy and the "rule of law." Maoists have 
great respect for human life. Democratic values and norms are an integral part of 
socialist and communist ideology. Yet at the same time we think it is necessary to 
destroy the few poisonous weeds to save the entire crop.  
 
I  once  again  request  you  and  all  others  to  think  by  imagining  yourselves  what 
would you have done when your mothers, sisters and daughters are raped in front 
of  your  eyes,  your  father,  brother  and  sons  are  murdered  after  being  hacked  to 
pieces. And worst of all, when there is no guardian of the "rule of law" to receive 
your complaints and the complainant himself/herself is abducted. When we do not 
understand the feelings of the affected people, it is better to imagine ourselves in 
their place. This may help us in getting nearer to the truth.   

9.  The  Supreme  Court  has  asked  the  petitioners  who  filed  a  PIL  against  Salwa 
Judum  atrocities  to  draw  up  a  rehabilitation  plan  for  those  displaced  by  the 
violence perpetrated in Chhattisgarh by Salwa Judum, the regular security forces 
and the Maoists. Is the CPI (Maoist) prepared to give an undertaking that it will 
allow  the  rebuilding  of  schools  and  the  establishment  of  basic  government 
services  (primary  health  care,  anganwadi,  PDS  etc.)  as  part  of  a  court-backed 
plan for the welfare of the tribals affected by the conflict? Will you agree not to 
attack  government  employees  and  officials  who  enter  to  provide  services  to  the 
tribal masses? 

 

Azad:  Asking  us  to  give  an  undertaking  that  we  will  allow  the  rebuilding  of 
schools  and  establishment  of  basic  government  services  in  the  areas  we  control 
and that we will not attack government employees and officials is quite bizarre, to 
say  the  least.  The  welfare  of  the  masses  is  the  first  priority  for  the  Maoist 
revolutionaries.  You  should  request  Mr.  Chidambaram  to  allow  you  to  visit  the 
areas  in  Dandakaranya,  Jharkhand,  Orissa,  or  the  villages  of  Jangalmahal  by 
controlling  his  paramilitary  forces,  the  SPOs,  the  Salwa  Judum,  Shanti  Sena, 
Nagarik  Suraksha  Samiti  and  Harmad  from  obstructing  you.  Then  you  will  see 
with your own eyes a hitherto hidden story of how the adivasis are prevented from 
pursuing their normal activity by the state and state-sponsored terrorists.  
 
You  will  find  how  the  forces  had  occupied  school  buildings  for  six  months  to  a 
year,  thereby  preventing  the  children  from  pursuing  their  studies.  You  will  find 
how  the  adivasis  are  prevented  from  buying  their  daily  necessities  from  the 

15 

 
 

 

weekly  bazaars  most  of  which  were  forcibly  closed  through  threats  and 
intimidation by the so-called security forces. Who is blocking the development of 
the  adivasis,  who  is  preventing  them  from  carrying  on  their  normal  activity  like 
cultivating  the  fields,  tending  the  animals,  collecting  minor  forest  produce, 
picking tendu  leaves, obtaining their daily necessities, and so on will  become as 
clear as day-light once you visit these remote villages. Hence the government, its 
"security"  forces,  and  vigilante  gangs  are  hell-bent  on  preventing  independent 
observers and fact-finding teams from visiting these areas.       
 
It  is  worthwhile  to  keep  in  mind  that  it  is  not  the  lack  of  development  that  has 
become the problem in the rural areas, particularly adivasi-inhabited areas. On the 
contrary,  it  is  its  imperialist-dictated  anti-people  development  model  that  is 
driving them to displacement and deprivation, death and destitution, and extreme 
desperation.  There  need  be  hardly  any  doubt  that  the  poor  adivasis  have  been  a 
happier lot before the civilized [corporate] goons set their foot on their soil. The 
development model pursued by [the rulers] displaced them and made them aliens 
in their own land.  

The so-called development that you are referring to is the development that India 
had seen under the British colonialists. The talk of roads in remote areas is not for 
the benefit of the people, who are without food and drinking water, but only for 
the  speedier  movement  of  the  raw  materials  from  the  hinterland  to  the  cities,  to 
help the mining sharks to transport the mineral wealth and forest produce. And, of 
course,  for  rushing  in  the  state's  troops  to  quell  any  militant  people’s  struggle 
against the rapacious plunder by the tiny parasitic class of blood-sucking leaches. 
The entire world knows that a George Bush invaded Iraq for oil even as the media 
in  the  US  barked  about  Saddam's  non-existent  Weapons  of  Mass  Destruction. 
Entire India knows that [the rulers] and the vultures they represent are itching to 
lay their hands on the abundant reserves of iron ore, coal, tin, bauxite, dolomite, 
limestone and other minerals of Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Orissa and other States 
where their Operation Green Hunt is launched.  

Lastly, banding together Maoists with the state and vigilante gangs, and equating 
their revolutionary counter-violence in defence of the rights of the people with the 
counter-revolutionary  violence  of  the  state  and  vigilante  gangs  like  the  Salwa 
Judum,  is  a  despicable  trick  played  by  the  rulers  and  those  so-called  democratic 
forces  to  obfuscate  the  stark  reality  of  the  brutal  violence  of  the  state  and  state-
sponsored  terrorists.  I  can  say  with  full  confidence  that  there  was  no 
displacement,  whatsoever,  of  innocent  people  due  to  the  revolutionary  counter-
violence by the Maoists. It is only a handful of anti-people exploiters, tribal heads 
and  landed  gentry  who  had  fled  the  villages  in  the  course  of  the  class  struggle. 

16 

 
 

 

Many,  however,  had  surrendered  to  the  people,  mended  their  behaviour,  and 
continue to live in the villages like others.  

in  Chhattisgarh  with  full  assistance  from 

The Supreme Court should know that the displacement of the adivasis was done 
in accordance with a pre-mediated plan to evacuate the villages and settle them in 
Vietnam-type  strategic  hamlets.  And  this  policy  is  being  continued  by  the  BJP 
government 
the  Congress-led 
government  at  the  Centre.  The  Supreme  Court,  if  at  all  it  is  serious  about  the 
displacement  of  the  adivasis,  should  direct  the  central  and  State  governments  to 
immediately halt its brutal  armed offensive on  adivasi villages in the  first  place, 
which is resulting in the massive exodus of the people estimated at around three 
lakhs since the current brutal war began in the name of Operation Green Hunt.       

10. Human rights groups have condemned the security forces and the Maoists for not 
respecting  the  sanctity  of  schools.  If  the  security  forces  take  them  over  and 
convert  them  into  barracks,  the  Maoists  have  also  been  guilty  of  destroying 
school  buildings  and  infrastructure.  Even  in  the  absence  of  a  ceasefire  or 
dialogue,  don’t  you  think  both  sides  need  to  come  to  an  understanding    that 
schools and school children should not become targets of this war? 
 
Azad: It has now become a fashionable thing for some human rights groups and 
the  media  personnel  to  play  the  role  of  referees  in  a  sports  event.  By  criticizing 
both sides equally they imagine they are being impartial or neutral in the war. If 
someone says that both Indians and the British were responsible for the violence 
in India during the two centuries of British rule would you accept it? Or that both 
Iraqis  and  the  American  occupiers  are  responsible  for  the  violence  in  Iraq?  Any 
freedom-loving person would unequivocally say it was the British colonialists that 
caused the blood-shed in India and it is the American aggressors that are the cause 
for the unending violence in Iraq.   
 
By criticizing both the so-called security forces and the Maoists for not respecting 
the  sanctity  of  schools,  these  human  rights  groups  imagine  they  are  playing  a 
neutral and impartial role. But they do not even see the cause and effect chain of 
events.  They  do  not  ask  themselves  the  simple  question:  If  the  police  and 
paramilitary  do  not  occupy  schools,  then  where  is  the  need  for  the  Maoists  to 
destroy them? Do  you know the fact that in many villages it was not the Maoist 
squads but the people themselves who had demolished school buildings since they 
did not wish to see the security forces create insecurity in their villages? How can 
you  ask  the  Maoists  and  the  people  to  assure  you  that  they  will  respect  the 
sanctity of schools occupied or likely to be occupied by their tormentors?    
 
My request to media people like you is: please do not be misled by an act, by how 
it  happened,  but  go  deeper  into  why  it  happened.  Only  then  you  will  reach  the 
truth. 
  

17 

 
 

 

However,  we  also  agree  with  your  proposition  that  even  in  the  absence  of  a 
ceasefire  or  dialogue,  both  sides  should  come  to  an  understanding  that  schools 
and school children should not become targets of the war. We take this occasion 
to  convey  to  the  GOI  that  it  should  immediately  withdraw  all  its  forces  from 
school  buildings  and  stop  recruiting  school  children  as  SPOs  and  as  police 
informers.  If  they  withdraw  their  forces  and  assure  they  would  not  reoccupy 
school  buildings,  then  our  Party  will  desist  from  targeting  schools.  And  if  the 
government  stops  recruitment  of  school  children  as  SPOs  and  police  informers, 
then the very basis for punishing these people disappears.  
 
But the more important thing and the larger issue is: can schools function even if 
the  buildings  are  intact  when  the  parents  of  the  school  children  are  murdered, 
raped, abducted, tortured, and are forced to flee? What do you have to say of the 
children  of  the  three-lakh  people  who  had  fled  the  villages  due  to  Operation 
Green Hunt I and II? What use are the school buildings and the talk of sanctity of 
schools  when  the  villages  themselves  are  deserted?  A  more  rational  proposal 
would  be  to  ensure  that  the  inhabitants  of  the  villages  are  resettled  with  the 
assurance that the police and paramilitary would not continue their atrocities and 
let  them  live  in  peace.  This  is  the  most  important  thing  and  should  assume  first 
and  foremost  priority 
theatres  all  over  India,  particularly 
Dandakaranya.  
 

the  war 

in 

11. Is  the  Maoist  party  and  leadership  under  pressure  because  of  recent  top-level 
arrests like that of Kobad Ghandy? Is there also a wider crisis of leadership with 
fewer activists from the intelligentsia getting attracted to Maoists? 
 
Azad:  I did not understand what pressure  you  are referring to.  Is it the pressure 
for a ceasefire and talks? If so, then I would say you are completely off the mark. 
One  cannot  overcome  pressure  through  such  tactics.  Actually  the  Party  and 
leadership  will  grow  rapidly  in  times  of  war.  Several  new  leaders  are  emerging 
out of the struggle.  War is giving birth to new generals and commanders, which 
we  never  anticipated  in  normal  times.  While  it  took  several  years  to  produce  a 
leader of calibre in relatively peaceful times, it is taking a fraction of that time in 
the midst of the war situation.  
 
Today  we  find  even  children  acquiring  high  level  of  consciousness  at  an  early 
age.  War  is  transforming  the  world  outlook  of  the  illiterate  people,  their 
understanding about the  class nature  of the state  and its various  wings,  and how 
they  have  to  get  rid  of  the  anti-people  state  and  establish  their  own  organs  of 
power.  People  have  begun  to  understand  from  their  own  lives  what  comrade 
Lenin had taught in his State and Revolution. This transformation has contributed 
to the development of leadership at all levels. At the central level, I agree there is 
some problem, though not very acute, after the losses in the past two years.  
 
Overall, it is not true to say that there is a wider crisis of leadership due to drop in 
recruitment from the intelligentsia. You will be surprised to know that contrary to 

18 

 
 

 

the assessment of various analysts and media personnel, the appeal of the Maoist 
movement has actually grown stronger in the intelligentsia. And it is precisely this 
fact which is rattling [the rulers] and [their] trumpeters in the media. The threats 
and  attacks  on  intellectuals  have  been  increasing  in  tenor  and  there  are  growing 
attempts  at  isolating  the  intellectuals  who  seem  to  sympathise  with  the  Maoists. 
The  more the  growth in  popularity of the  Maoists and their politics, the  more is 
the  cacophony  about  the  erosion  of  the  mass  base  of  Maoists,  especially  among 
the intellectuals.  
 
You must also look at it from another angle, instead of concluding that [a] lack of 
intelligentsia has created a crisis of leadership. The mass base of the Maoists has 
actually grown stronger, notwithstanding the attempts of the rulers to destroy it by 
brute force. The more you try to crush it the more it bounces back. Our leadership 
is  drawn  basically  from  the  oppressed  class  of  adivasis,  dalits,  agricultural 
labourers and poor peasants. It is precisely because of this circumstance that our 
movement has become invincible. Intellectuals are a good asset for the party but it 
is the basic classes that are the life-blood of the Party. And we have plenty from 
these sections.  
 

12. In Ganapathi’s interview to Jan Myrdal and ̱avlakha he said: “I reiterate that at 
present no one party or organization is capable enough to be a rallying center for 
all  revolutionary,  democratic,  progressive  and  patriotic  forces  and  people. 
Hence,  at  present  juncture  our  Party  can  play  a  significant  role  in  rallying  all 
revolutionary,  democratic,  progressive  and  patriotic  forces  and  people.”  This 
suggests you see the Maoists as one part of a wider force of progressive, patriotic 
people.  Who  else  do  you  consider  part  of  these  forces?  Which  organizations  or 
parties do you regard as progressive and patriotic part of these forces? Does this 
not  include  the  CPI  and  CPI  (M)?  Why  then  have  Maoists  in  Bengal  been 
involved in assassinating cadres of other communist parties like CPI (M)? 
 
Azad:  It  is  not  only  now,  but  all  along  we  have  been  considering  ourselves  an 
indivisible  part  of  the  broader  force  of  other  revolutionary,  democratic  and 
patriotic  sections  of  people.  Firstly,  we  are  one  of  the  several  revolutionary 
detachments  in  the  international  detachment  of  the  world  proletariat  and  we  see 
ourselves  as  a  part  of  the  broad  world-wide  anti-imperialist  front.  Our  mass 
organizations are a part of the  International League of People's Struggles  (ILPS) 
and are in the forefront of the struggle against American imperialism.  
 
Within India, our party took birth in the midst of the revolutionary upsurge of the 
late 1960s, particularly with the glorious Naxalbari uprising, and hence we are an 
indivisible part of  all that is revolutionary in the  Indian political stream.  We  are 
also  an  heir  to  the  great  Telangana  Armed  Agrarian  Uprising  (1946-51),  the 
Tebhaga  uprising  of  1946,  and  all  the  revolutionary  struggles  led  by  the 
Communist  Party  since  its  birth  in  1921,  notwithstanding  the  betrayals  by  its 
central  leadership  at  every  critical  turning  point  in  the  revolutionary  political 
history of our country. 

19 

 
 

 

   
Second, and the one more pertinent to your query, is the fact that the Communist 
revolutionaries are politically (i.e., in terms of its programme), a part of the wider 
democratic  stream  of  all  anti-feudal  and  anti-imperialist  forces  in  the  country. 
This  is  the  essence  of  our  programme  of  new  democratic  revolution  (NDR), 
which  seeks  to  unite  all  those  opposed  to  imperialism,  feudalism,  comprador 
bureaucratic  capitalism  into  one  broad  front  to  overthrow  these  enemies  and 
establish a government comprised of the four-class alliance of the working class, 
peasantry, urban petty-bourgeoisie, and the national bourgeoisie. Once you grasp 
this political basis  of our NDR it  will not be difficult to understand why  we are 
trying to form numerous tactical united fronts as part of forming a strategic united 
front in various States and at the all-India level.  
 
To  identify  the  organizations  or  parties  that  can  be  called  progressive  (usage  of 
the term 'democratic' would be more appropriate) and patriotic, one has to see not 
only  whether  they  have  any  anti-imperialist,  anti-feudal  and  anti-state  or  anti-
authoritarian  aspect  included  in  their  political  programmes,  but  also  their  actual 
practice. We consider most of the ML revolutionary forces as part of this front.  
 
We  consider  national  liberation  organizations  like  the  NSCN,  ULFA,  PLA  of 
Manipur, and the JKLF in Kashmir as part of the wider democratic forces fighting 
the  Indian  state.  We  consider  the  various  non-parliamentary  trade  union 
organizations,  various  progressive  organizations  belonging  to  the  religious 
minorities  which  are  persecuted  by  state-backed  Hindu  fascist  organizations; 
various  organizations  of  dalits  and  other  oppressed  castes,  adivasis  and  women; 
the  non-parliamentary  organizations  that  are  fighting  for  demands  like  separate 
Telangana, Gorkhaland, Vidarbha, Bundelkhand and so on; the organizations that 
are  waging  struggles  against  SEZs,  mining  and  other  so-called  development 
projects leading to massive displacement of people; organizations fighting against 
the  Liberalisation-Privatisation-Globalisation  (LPG)  policies  of  the  reactionary 
rulers;  those  which  boldly  confront  the  growing  authoritarianism  and  unbridled 
state  repression  resulting  in  fake  encounters,  mass  murders,  and  violation  of  all 
fundamental  rights  of  the  people;  and  so  on,  as  part  of  this  broad-based  non-
parliamentary democratic people's front.  
 
There  are  also  a  large  number  of  intellectuals  and  other  democratic  individuals 
who are concerned about the well-being of the people and the sovereignty of our 
country at large. We consider all these as genuine patriotic forces that are deeply 
concerned  about  the  future  of  our  country,  about  the  well-being  of  the 
overwhelming majority  of the  Indian people rather than that of a tiny parasitical 
class  that  runs  the  country  through  the  so-called  mainstream  parliamentary 
parties.  
 
I am obviously leaving out the names of the organizations and individuals who, in 
our  opinion  could  play  a  crucial  role  in  the  revolutionary  transformation  of  our 
country  into  a  self-reliant,  genuinely  democratic  society.  Today  we  are  passing 

20 

 
 

 

through  a  phase  of  Indian  McCarthyism  that  brands  every  form  of  dissent  and 
anyone who questions the authoritarianism of the Indian state as Maoist in order 
to legitimize its witch-hunting and brutal repression.  
 
Today  immense  possibilities  have  unfolded  for  the  rapid  advance  of  the 
revolutionary  war  in  India  and  the  task  of  the  revolutionary  Party  lies  in  how 
effectively  and  ably  it  can  utilize  the  present  situation,  rally  all  those  who  have 
become  the  victims  of  the  anti-people,  imperialist-dictated  policies  of  the 
comprador-feudal forces ruling our country, and forge a broad-based united front 
of all these affected sections of our society and all revolutionary, democratic and 
patriotic  forces  in  the  country.  This  task  should  be  achieved  by  defeating  the 
brutal  all-out  countrywide  coordinated  war  unleashed  by  the  reactionary  ruling 
classes of our country with the aid and assistance of the imperialists, particularly 
American imperialists.  
 
If  we  fail  in  achieving  broader  unity  of  all  these  forces,  the  fall-out  would  be 
disastrous  for  the  Indian  people  at  large  since  the  aim  of  this  cruel  armed 
onslaught is not only to suppress the Maoist movement, but also to suppress every 
form  of  democratic  dissent  and  struggle  of  the  people  against  the  authoritarian, 
feudal  and  autocratic  structure  of  the  Indian  state  and  socio-political  system.  As 
put  forth  by  our  General  Secretary,  comrade  Ganapathi,  in  the  same  interview 
given recently: "This war is principally against Maoist movement but not limited 
to  this  movement  and  aimed  enough  against  all  revolutionary,  democratic, 
progressive  and  patriotic  movements  and 
the  movements  of  oppressed 
communities of our society including oppressed nationalities. At this juncture, all 
these  forces  have  to  think  together  how  to  face  this  mighty  enemy  and  for  this 
how to unite to go ahead." 
 
Now coming to  your specific question regarding the CPI and CPI (M). Are they 
not a part of the wider democratic and patriotic forces? I would say YES and NO. 
As far as the rank and file cadre of these parties is concerned, there is still some 
amount of sincerity and zeal among a section of them to work for the well-being 
of  the  people.  But  the  leadership  has  completely  capitulated  to  the  exploiting 
ruling classes and pursues a reformist line that would only help sustain the status 
quo albeit with a few cosmetic changes. Here too, we have to differentiate the CPI 
from  the  CPI  (M).  We  do  not  place  both  the  CPI  and  the  CPI  (M)  in  the  same 
category. The CPI leadership has been critical of the policies of the CPI (M), has 
consistently  opposed  counter-revolutionary  vigilante  gangs  like  Salwa  Judum 
propped up by the State and central governments, and is opposing the Operation 
Green Hunt launched by the Centre. 
 
One can witness the reactionary anti-people nature of the policies of the CPI (M), 
especially in States where it is in power. Singur, Nandigram, Lalgarh, and a host 
of other names have stripped the CPI (M) of its guise of anti-imperialism and anti-
neoliberalism.  The  CPI  (M)  is  not  even  a  thoroughgoing  democratic  force,  let 
alone being Communist. However, we are prepared to join forces with even these 

21 

 
 

 

revisionists if they come forth into non-parliamentary struggles on the basic issues 
of the people, and to the extent they uphold democratic values. 
  
It  is  wrong  to  say  we  are  assassinating  the  cadres  of  the  CPI  (M).  We  are 
confronting  the  armed  onslaught  by  the  storm-troopers  like  the  Harmad  Bahini 
and other armed [men] maintained by their party leaders by putting up courageous 
resistance.  The  struggle  against  the  CPI  (M)  is  part  of  the  class  struggle  of  the 
people against exploitation and oppression. We challenge them to an open debate 
on any issue. Despite their diplomatic and opportunistic stand that their fight with 
the Maoists is mainly political, they are in the forefront in the war waged by the 
Indian ruling classes against the Maoists. Unable to confront us ideologically and 
politically, their leaders and spokespersons have unleashed a vicious campaign of 
outright lies and slander against the Maoists.  
 
We  call  upon  the  cadres  of  the  CPI  (M)  and  other  so-called  left  parties  to  come 
forward  to  unite  with  other  forces  to  fight  against  the  disastrous  policies  of  the 
central  and  State  governments,  to  unite  with  others  to  oppose  the  brutal  war 
waged by the reactionary rulers guided by the US imperialists against the Maoist 
movement and all forms of democratic dissent. We are prepared to unite with all 
sincere and genuine forces in these parties who take the side of the broad masses 
of people.  
 

 

13. Why  has  the  CPI  (Maoist)  decided  to  reach  out  through  the  columns  of  The 

Hindu? To use a newspaper to clarify its views vis a vis the Government? 
 
Azad:  Among  the  daily  newspapers,  The  Hindu  has  a  reputation  for  giving  out 
serious news and less of sensational stuff that has become the genre of the media 
these  days.  Our  party  leadership  has  given  interviews  to  this  paper  earlier  too, 
such  as  my  interview  on  the  developments  in  Nepal,  which  was  covered  in  two 
parts. On a lighter vein, I think it will reach out to our direct Enemy No. 1 at the 
present juncture, Mr. Chidambaram, too.  
   
I  think  the  media  can  play  a  role  in  carrying  the  views  of  a  banned  party  to  the 
government  and  the  people  at  large,  particularly  at  a  time  when  facts  regarding 
our Party are distorted, misinterpreted, and obfuscated in a meticulously planned 
manner. And when there is no scope for a dialogue given the determination of the 
rulers to carry out their pre-programmed war offensive that was worked out a year 
ago, we think it appropriate to reach out to the people at large through the media 
too.  
 
Finally, I thank The Hindu for the thought-provoking and incisive questions it has 
placed  before  our  Party.  We  look  forward  to  more  of  such  interaction  with  the 
media  in  future.  On  behalf  of  our  Central  Committee  and  our  entire  Party,  I 
welcome  any  questions  related  to  our  ideology,  political  programme,  strategy, 
tactics,  and  practice.  I  hope  through  regular  and  active  interaction  between 

22 

 
 

 

 

organizations  like  ours  that  are  proscribed  by  the  government  and  the  media,  an 
opportunity is provided to the people to arrive at a correct judgment and seek truth 
from facts. Or else, truth is certain to become a casualty in this world dominated 
by corporate sharks that control virtually every source of information that is fed to 
the people.    

23 

