COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release 

 

                                                                               September 21, 2010 

 

 

Stay alert to the heinous attempts of the ruling classes 

to divide us in the name of religion and 
stop killing each other in their interests ! 

 
 
Court judgment on the demolition of Babri Masjid is awaited on September 24, 2010. Even 
before the judgment is delivered the air is reeking with apprehension and trepidation. The uneasy 
memories of that fateful day (December 6, 1992) are giving fear to all democratic sections in the 
country and needless to say, especially to the Muslims all over the sub-continent. Any sane person 
who wants to learn history in order not to repeat it is waking up with a start from the nightmare of 
our  history  of  communal  flare  ups.  The  unprecedented  deployment  of  police  and  paramilitary 
forces  in  all  the  states  and  Union  Territories  on  the  eve of  the judgment  is  creating  doubts  as  to 
what is to be awaited from the court which is but an organ of the Hindu religion and upper caste-
biased  state  that  is  the  Indian  government.  The  callous,  cold-hearted,  pro-imperialist,  anti-Indian 
people, traitorous judgment in the Bhopal gas leak case is sending alarm chills down the spines of 
concerned  citizens  and  is  issuing  warning  calls.  There  is  not  much  in  our  whole  history  of  court 
judgments which could reassure the people. 
 
We, the CPI (Maoist) appeal to all the people of India to stay alert to the possibilities of  a 
 
flare  up  of  communal  tensions  with  the  instigation  of  the  ruling  classes,  especially  by  the  saffron 
fascist brigades in the wake of this judgment. Whatever may be the judgment, what they would like 
to do is to divert the people from their problems, struggles and political and economic crises. Since 
the days of the Partition, many a time lakhs of Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs and people of other religions 
and minorities in the sub-continent had fallen victim to the vicious propaganda of the ruling classes 
and  massacred  each  other.  In  the  context  of  India,  the  main  perpetrators  had  been  the  Hindu 
chauvinist fascist gangs and the main victims had been Muslims and other religious minorities. The 
state  is  not  an  accomplice;  in  fact  it  is  the  main  actor  in  all  these  massacres.  The  main  culprits 
among the political parties are the Congress and the BJP. 
 
 
We appeal to the people that it is high time we realize the conspiracies of the ruling classes 
in  dividing  us.  Let  us  say  a  big  NO  to  their  scheming.  Let  us  stand  united  against  their  devious 
plans to massacre us, especially the Muslims. However hard they may try to make us raise swords 
against each other, let us stand united and turn those swords against those who are trying to drive 
this wedge of communalism between us. 
 
 
 
CPI (Maoist) has been the most consistent among all the political parties of this country in 
unequivocally condemning the demolition of the Babri Masjid and demanding its reconstruction at 
the  same  place.  It  has  stood  firmly  in  support  of  the  minorities,  especially  of  Muslims  and 
Christians  and  had  put  up  a  bitter  struggle  against  the  Hindu  chauvinist  Sangh  Parivar  and  the 
pseudo  secularism  of  the  Congress.  We  once  again  firmly  reiterate  that  reconstruction  of  the 
ancient, historical monument at the same place is the only solution to this issue. 
 

 

 
We  appeal  to  all  the  Hindus  of  the  country  not  to  believe  the  divide  and  rule  policy  of 
Congress and Hindu chauvinist fascist propaganda of BJP and Sangh Parivar. We appeal that as 
the  majority  community  in  the  country  more  responsibility  lies  in  their  hands  as  massacres  are 
perpetrated only through their known and unknown collaboration. It is the duty of every concerned 
citizen  of  our  country  to stand  in  support  of  the victims  of communal  pogroms and  do  everything 
possible  to  stop  genocide  of  innocent  people,  whatever  may  be  their  religion.  We  appeal  to  the 
people of Muslim community to stay alert to the opportunistic attempts by some fundamentalists to 
stoke the fires instead of taking up a united resistance of all peoples against the common enemy. 
Our  party  stands  with  people  and  would  do  everything  possible  to  stop  massacres  of  innocent 
people.  
 

  Stand united against the malicious attempts of the ruling classes to divide us in the 

name of religion and community ! 

  Fight back the communal pogroms on minorities, especially Muslims which may be 

perpetrated in the wake of the judgment on demolition of Babri Masjid ! 

  No more killing of our own brothers and sisters, no more innocence in being at the 
receiving end of the false propaganda of all hues of communalism, particularly Hindu 
communalism, Indian state and the US imperialists ! 

 

 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

