COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release:  August 28, 2008 

 

 
 

Condemn the Brutal Murder of Com. Tutul by Bangladesh RAB 

Comrade  Tutul  was  a  leading  figure  in  the  Maoist  movement  of  Bangladesh.  In  1997,  along  with 

 
 
It was with great shock and deep sorrow that we heard the news of the brutal and savage  murder of 
our  beloved  comrade  Mizanur  Rahman  Tutul,  General  Secretary  of  the  Purba  Bangla  Communist  Party 
(Marxist-Leninist) Lal Pataka and a founding member of CCOMPOSA. He was killed in a fake encounter 
(termed  ‘killed  in  crossfire’  in  Bangladesh)  in  late  July  2008  by  the  notorious  Rapid  Action  Battalion 
(RAB) of Bangladesh. 
 
 
The  Central  Committee  of  the  CPI(Maoist),  the  PLGA  and  the  entire  rank-and  file  of  the  Party 
conveys its revolutionary condolence in this hour of serious loss to the CC and entire ranks of the Purba 
Bangla  Communist  Party  (Marxist-Leninist)  Lal  Pataka  of  Bangladesh.  As  a  fraternal  party  and  co-
member of the CCOMPOSA the loss to the Purba Bangla Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist) Lal Pataka 
is like a loss to our Party. We are fully with them in this hour of serious loss, particularly as it has come 
soon after the loss of their main ideological leader and guide, Com Kamrul Islam (Master). 
 
 
comrade Kamrul Islam (Master) he founded the Purba Bangla Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist) Lal 
Pataka. Comrade Kamrul was martyred in 2006, murdered while in the custody of the RAB. 
 
 
Comrade  Tutul  played  a  leading  role  in  initiating  a  thorough  summation  of  the  rich  history  and 
experiences  of  the  Party  and  of  the  Maoist  movement  in  Bangladesh.  He  was  keen  on  unifying  the 
genuine  Maoist  forces  of  that  country  into  a  single  party.  He  was  an  active  participant  in  CCOMPOSA 
and  had  close  relations  with  the  CPI  (Maoist).  We  shared  experiences  and  sought  to  learn  from  each 
other’s practice. His death,  coming in the wake of the loss of comrade Kamrul,  is  a  heavy blow for the 
Party. 
 
 
The martyrdom of comrade Tutul has deprived the Purba Bangla Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist) 
Lal Pataka and the Maoist movement of Bangladesh of one of its most able leaders. Yet, we are confident 
that  the  movement  will  get  over  the  loss  and  advance  the  New  Democratic  Revolution  in  Bangladesh 
which is reeling under acute poverty and fascist army rule. 
 
  We once again assure the Purba Bangla Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist) Lal Pataka that  we are 
with it in this hour of crisis and repeat our sincere condolence to the ranks of the Party and the family and 
relatives of Com Tutul. 
 
Azad 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI(Maoist) 
 

[From: CPI(Maoist) Information Bulletin, #4, Sept. 10, 2008.] 

