 

 
 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

 

Press Release:  August 17, 2008 

Re-imposition of ban on SIMI is reiteration of UPA 

government’s intention to continue its brutal war on Muslims! 

 

Secular and democratic forces of India! Let us unite to fight back the assaults 
by the reactionary ruling classes on the fundamental rights of the people!! 

 
 
  When  the  special  tribunal  headed  by  Justice  Geeta  Mittal  announced  that  there  were  no  sufficient 
grounds for re-imposing ban on the Student Islamic Movement of India (SIMI), the ruling lasses of India, 
particularly the Hindu fascist forces, received a severe jolt. They immediately moved the Supreme Court, 
which,  as  a  loyal  servant  of  the  exploiting  classes  and  inherent  bias  towards  the  Muslims,  like  every 
government  institution  in  our  country,  ordered  a  stay  on  the  Tribunal‟s  decision.  The  irresponsibility  of 
the judiciary is seen from the fact that the petitioner on behalf of SIMI was not even intimated about the 
Tribunal‟s order. One would not, of course, have expected anything less from the pro-Hindu, anti-Muslim 
fascist rulers of  India. Whether they are  in  the guise of the BJP or Congress or any other  parliamentary 
party,  (the  ban  on  SIMI  was  first  imposed  by  the  BJP  government  in  2001  and  later  continued  by  the 
Congress government) or in the form of the legislative, judiciary, executive, the police and other security 
forces, the bias against the Muslim community is crystal-clear. That is why, in the past several decades, 
not  a  single  Hindu  chauvinist  organization  was  banned  (barring  the  Emergency  period  when  all 
democratic  and  revolutionary  organizations  too  were  banned)  and  not  a  single  Hindu  terrorist  has  been 
awarded any punishment, no matter if he had burnt alive scores of Muslims, dalits, adivasis and women. 
Mass murderers of the Muslims like Narendra Modi of the BJP or butchers of Sikhs like HKL Bhagath of 
the  Congress  were  even  adorned  with  titles  of  honour.  Vajapayees  and  Advanis,  who  should  have  been 
hanged for their crimes of inflaming communal passions leading to the demolition of Babari Masjid and 
causing  death  and  destruction  on  an  unprecedented  scale  in  the  country.  The  real  terrorists,  whether 
communal-fascist,  or  state-sponsored,  roam  scot-free  while  national  liberation  fighters,  revolutionaries 
and Muslim youth are killed every day by the state and state-sponsored gangs. They are even denied the 
right to association, right to speech and movement. Such is the real face of democracy in our country. 
 
 
scamsters of our country.  These criminal  gangsters  are in leading positions in every parliamentary party 
and  they  enter  the  Parliament  and  Assemblies,  and  this  has  now  become  a  granted  thing.  There  are 
scamsters who occupy the highest seats of power despite swindling hundreds of crores of people‟s heard-
earned  money  through  kickbacks  and  commissions.  These  traitors  have  no  compunction  in  selling  the 
motherland  to  the  videshi  masters  for  a  few  crumbs.  Yet  all  these  anti-national,  anti-people  continue  to 
hold  the  lifelines  of  the  country,  posing  a  grave  threat  to  the  security  of  the  country.  The  BJP,  whose 
hands  are  stained  with  the  blood  of  thousands  of  Muslim  people,  and  whose  bestiality  and  sadism  was 
displayed  in  full  colours  during  the  Gujarat  genocide,  has  been  shamelessly  clamouring  loudly  for 
imposing  ban  on  every  Muslim  organisation  and  re-introducing  POTA  for  harassing  the  Muslim 
community  without  any  hindrance.  Rabidly  anti-Muslim  Narendra  Modi‟s  government  in  Gujarat  had 
incarcerated thousands of Muslim youth in prisons and eliminated hundreds in the name of encounters. 

It is, in fact, the Parliament that has the greatest number of the top terrorists, gangsters, criminals and 

Today  it  is  trying  to  enact  a  drama  by  arresting  some  SIMI  activists  and  trying  to  implicate  them  in 
Bangalore, Ahmedabad bomb blasts. It has been “unearthing” every day bombs planted by its own men in 
Surat and elsewhere in order to defame the Muslims and to justify its genocide of Muslims. Every charge 
made  by  the  Hindu  fascists  and  the  Indian  state  against  Muslims  will  turn  to  be  false  if  proper 
investigation  is  conducted.  The  blasts  in  Bangalore,  Ahmedabad  themselves  could  be  the  handiwork  of 
the Hindu communal forces in the two BJP-rule states in order to whip up communal tension, justify their 
brutal  assaults  on  the  fundamental  rights  of  the  people  and  genocide  of  Muslims,  and  gain  seats  in  the 
coming elections with inspiration derived from Modi‟s Gujarat. 
 
 
The CPI (Maoist) calls upon the people not to get diverted by the malicious propaganda made by the 
ruling  classes  and  their  media  which  portrays  all  the  militant  struggles  waged  by  the  oppressed  masses 
and oppressed nationalities as terrorist violence. The struggling people resort to revolutionary violence as 
a response to the  white terror/state terror unleashed by the big landlord big bourgeois ruling classes  and 
their  armed  forces  in  order  to  put  down  their  legitimate  struggles.  It  is  the  ploy  of  the  imperialists  and 
their  running  dogs  all  over  the  world  in  their  „war  against  terrorism‟  to  utilize  the  killing  of  innocent 
people to ruthlessly crush the people‟s struggles under the „sacred‟ banner of “war on terror”. It is these 
gangsters who are the real culprits causing death of millions of people not only through direct aggression 
over the sovereign states,  killing millions of children,  women and  aged through economic sanctions but 
also  through  their  policies  of  Liberalization,  Privatization,  and  Globalization.  The  CC  calls  upon  the 
workers,  peasants,  women,  youths,  and  all  other  oppressed  people  to  fight  unitedly  against  the  growing 
assaults by the rulers on the fundamental rights of the people, against the draconian policies imposed by 
the imperialists and the Indian ruling classes in the name of „war on terror‟. Our slogan should be to wage 
a united “war on state terror”. 
 
 
 
 
religious minorities! 
 
 
Azad, 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI(Maoist) 
 
 
 

Punish  the  criminals  who  had  unleashed  attacks  and  committed  atrocities  on  Muslims  and  other 

Lift the ban on SIMI, CPI(Maoist) and other organisations! 

[From: CPI(Maoist) Information Bulletin, #4, Sept. 10, 2008.] 

 

