COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

June 13, 2011 
Release Beloved Veteran Leader of Indian Revolution and Oppressed Masses 

Comrade Jagdish Master (Bhupesh ji) Unconditionally! 

Press Release

 

Observe 'Bharat Bandh' on June 23 

against the arrest of Comrade Jagdish Master and 

the ongoing fascist oppression on revolutionary movement 

unleashed by the exploitative ruling classes! 

 
Politburo member of CPI (Maoist) and one of the senior most leaders of Indian Revolution Comrade 
Bhupesh ji, who has been popular among the oppressed people of Bihar as ‘Jagdish Master’, was arrested 
by police on June 11 from Gurar area of Gaya district in Bihar. 72-year old veteran Comrade Bhupesh ji 
suffering  from  serious  illness  for  ten  years  has  been  living  among  the  people  and  inspiring  them  for 
struggles. Plainclothes goons of Bihar’s and central intelligence wings caught him while he was trying to 
get medical treatment. By not producing him before any court of law even after 24 hours and inflicting 
various  kinds  of  torture  and  harassment  on  him,  these  licensed  killers  have  bluntly  violated  their  own 
constitution and law whom they always claim to follow. 

Comrade Jagdish Master, who is very popular among Party ranks as ‘Comrade Bhupesh ji’ is one of 
the important leaders who has strived to advance the revolutionary movement for almost four decades. He 
was attracted to revolutionary politics in the early 1970s while he was serving as a school teacher inspired 
by one of the Great Leaders of Indian Revolution and Martyr Comrade Kanhai Chatterjee. He started his 
revolutionary  activities  as  a  professional  revolutionary  since  then.  In  Bihar  which  was  notorious  for 
feudal  exploitation  and  barbaric  attacks  on  oppressed  caste  masses  by  private  armies  of  upper  caste 
landlords, he led many mass struggles as a militant people’s leader. By arresting him the neo-landlords 
like  Nitish  kumar  and  the  ruling  clique  of  Sonia-Manmohan-Chidambaram  are  trying  to  push  Bihar 
peasantry once again into those dark years. Comrade Bhupesh ji was instrumental in seizing thousands of 
acres of land from  the  landlords and distributing them  among the poor and landless peasants and thus 
enabling them to raise their heads with self-respect. The arrest of Comrade Bhupesh ji is a great shock to 
the  people,  revolutionary  ranks  and  cadres  for  whom  he  has  been  an  inspiration  and  a  source  of 
enthusiasm for his defiance of old age and severe ill-health and the way he led his entire life amidst the 
oppressed masses until his arrest. 

Indian ruling classes have been viewing the Maoist movement as their biggest enemy and committing 
heinous acts of arresting and murdering its central and state leaders in fake encounters. Especially, as part 
of countrywide offensive named ‘Operation Green Hunt’ that has been going on for the last two years, 
they  are  on  the  one  hand,  eliminating  the  crucial  leadership  by  targeting  them  and  on  the  other  hand, 
unleashing fascist repression in the struggle areas. This state offensive - OGH - has been continuing in the 
cruelest oppressive forms of Middle Ages and in utter fascist forms of Nazi kind such as massacring the 
unarmed  people  indiscriminately  in  the  name  of  encounters,  setting  villages  ablaze,  raping  women, 
destroying  and  looting  the  properties,  beating  severely,  arresting  and  implicating  false  cases  against 
people  to  make  them  languish  in  jails  for  years  without  trials  and  bails.  The  areas  of  revolutionary 
movement  in  Chhattisgarh,  Jharkhand,  Bihar,  Bengal,  Andhra  Pradesh,  Maharashtra,  Madhya  Pradesh, 
Uttar Pradesh states are crushed under the iron feet of police and paramilitary forces. 

 1

Since January 2011, as part of the second phase of OGH as it is being called, governments are on the 
one hand unleashing barbaric attacks on the villages and the people and on the other hand, resorting to 
fascist attacks on those writers, artists, democrats and human rights activists who dare to raise their voice 
against  these  attacks.  Pronouncing  life  imprisonment  to  people’s  doctor  and  human  rights  activist  Dr. 
Binayak Sen in Chhattisgarh; attacks on Swami Agnivesh and others who were trying to directly meet the 
victims of brutal state violence in Chintalnar area; issuing threats of imposing ban on PUCL; attacking 
and implicating in false cases writers and journalists; repression on people of Odisha who were agitating 
against the forceful acquisition of land by corporate companies; killings of anti-mining activists in fake 
encounters; police firings and killings of people in Bihar; police firings and atrocities on the people of 
Jharkhand who were agitating against the government’s moves to evict the people from their residential 
areas in the pretext of illegal encroachments; arrest and torturing magazine editor and mass organization 
activist Harbindar Singh Jalal by police in Punjab; arrest of Dalit movement activist and magazine editor 
Sudhir Dhawale in sedition case in Maharashtra; various forms of repression on people’s movement for 
‘separate Telangana state’ in Andhra Pradesh – all of these are just some of the recent glaring examples. 

The  Indian  ruling  classes  who  are  hell-bent  on  giving  away  the  country’s  precious  wealth  to 
imperialists and comprador corporate houses have now deployed the Indian Army in this unjust war with 
the aim of wiping out the Maoist movement whom they see as the biggest hurdle in their way. At present, 
the forces of the Indian Army have arrived in Bastar region of Chhattisgarh in the name of ‘training’. The 
Indian Army which is supposed to be deployed in the borders of the country to fight the armies of enemy 
countries has now been deployed against the very people of this country in the heart of the country. The 
decision of the Raman Singh government to give away as much as 750 sq km land to the Army in the 
name of setting up of training schools would carve out almost one fifth of the Maad region displacing 
thousands  of  indigenous  Mariya  adivasi  people.  On  the  other  hand,  corporate  companies  have  been 
moving into these areas with their projects of acquiring thousands of acres of land. Thus the conspiracies 
of displacing the people living in the areas of revolutionary movement by using brute force are on the 
high now. 

Today,  the  corrupt  political  leaders,  corporate  bandits  and  big  bureaucrats  who  have  amassed 
hundreds and thousands of billions of rupees by virtue of vast scams and scandals are facing the people’s 
wrath severely. Tens of millions of people are immensely suffering from serious problems such as price 
rise, starvation deaths, famine, diseases, displacement, plunder of resources etc. Unable to solve any of 
these basic problems, governments have unleashed fascist repressions and mass killings with the aim of 
suppressing the just movements of the people. They’re arresting and killing the revolutionary leaders who 
have  been  striving  hard  for  the  people  selflessly,  dedicatedly  and  relentlessly.  Comrade  Bhupesh  ji’s 
arrest must be seen in this context. 

The  Central  Committee  of  CPI  (Maoist)  calls  upon  the  people  of  our  country  to  observe  24-hour 
‘Bharath  Bandh’  on  June  24  to  protest  the  arrest  of  Comrade  Bhupesh  ji  and  the  fascistic  repression 
unleashed  against  the  revolutionary  movement  by  the  ruling  classes.  This  bandh  would  be  mainly 
observed  in  six  states  –  Jharkhand,  Bihar,  West  Bengal,  Odisha,  Andhra  Pradesh  and  Chhattisgarh;  in 
three districts of Maharashtra – Gadchiroli, Chandrapur, Gondia; in the border districts of Uttar Pradesh 
adjoining Bihar and in Balaghat district of Madhya Pradesh. There will be protests in various forms in 
other states. Emergency services like health care, examinations of students and interviews are exempted 
from the bandh.  

 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

 2

