COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

September 17, 2013 

Observe Bharat Bandh on October 5 protesting the  
brutal massacre of 14 Maoists in Malkangiri by the  
neo‐fascist Naveen Patnaik government in Odisha! 

On  September  14,  2013  the  SOG  of  Odisha  conducted  a  joint  operation  with  the  District 
Voluntary Force and the police in Silakota forests in Podiya block of Malkangiri district in Odisha 
and brutally massacred 14 Maoists including a woman comrade. The police seized their weapons 
too. Our CC, CPI (Maoist) is calling upon the people of our country to observe Bharat Bandh on 
October  5  to  protest  this  brutality  perpetrated  by  the  neo-fascist  Naveen  Patnaik  government  in 
collusion with the central government and under the guidance of the imperialists, particularly the 
US imperialists. 

Naveen Patnaik has been shamelessly playing the ultimate comprador since he came to power 
by signing countless MoUs with the MNCs to hand over for peanuts the natural riches and resources 
of Odisha. The people of Odisha, particularly the Adivasis and the Dalit peasantry are engaged in a 
life and death struggle against the central and state governments and their mining mafia which are 
hell  bent  on  displacing  them  and  impoverishing  them  to  please  the  corporate  houses  by 
implementing these MoUs. On the other hand they are waging a bitter struggle against the big land 
lords, usurers and liquor mafia that are sucking their blood like leeches. The militant, long drawn 
and  uncompromising  struggles  of  the  brave  people  of  Odisha  against  POSCO  and  in  Kashipur, 
Niyamagiri and Narayanapatna have not only inspired the fighting people of our country but also 
every activist fighting against the ill-effects of neo-liberal policies all over the world.  

Naveen Patnaik government born with deaf ears due to its comprador character has ignored 
the  genuine  demands  of  the  people  and  instead  resorted  to  severe  repression  with  the  complete 
support  and  aid  including  27  Battalions  of  paramilitary  forces  including  COBRA  Bns  on  all  the 
people’s movements ongoing in Odisha. Massacres of people and activists including Maoists have 
become  a  common  feature  of  this  repression.  Arrests,  false  cases,  harsh  punishments,  inhuman 
incarcerations, beatings, atrocities, rapes, burning peoples homes and property – what not, the neo-
fascists  did  not  leave  any  stone  of  cruelty  unturned  to  suppress  the  genuine  aspirations  of  the 
people.  

Our party has been working since decades in Odisha and organizing the oppressed masses, 
particularly the Adivasis against the exploitation, oppression and suppression they are suffering in 
the hands of the ruling classes. It has either been in the forefront or has extended its full support to 
all the people’s movements against liberalization, privatization and globalization not only in Odisha 
but in majority of the states in our country. So the Indian ruling classes under the guidance and 
goading  of  the  imperialists  launched  the  multi-pronged  country  wide  offensive  Operation  Green 
Hunt - War on People since mid-2009 to wipe out our movement and suppress the genuine struggles 
of the people. Repression on oppressed masses is the hall mark of any exploiting state and OGH 
denotes a crucial node in this as it has surpassed all the previous offensives both in its scale and 
brutality. Though OGH is supposed to wipe out the Maoist movement it is in fact aimed to suppress 
every genuine democratic demand of the people, particularly for Jal, Jungle and Zameen. That is 

why the Maoists, democratic organizations and individuals and the people are at the receiving end 
of this offensive.  

The Nazi Hitler, Fascist Mussolini or their current descendants like Bush, Obama, Hollande, 
Cameroon,  or  their  desi  avatars  of  Sonia,  Manmohan,  Rahul  Gandhi,  Chidambaram,  Jairam 
Ramesh,  Pranab  Mukherji,  or  their  satraps  in  the  states  like  Raman  Singh,  Naveen  Patnaik, 
Kirankumarreddy, Mamta Banerji, Piruthvi Raj Chavhan etc all have one thing in common. They 
all think they can play with people’s lives as and how they want. What they unfailingly don’t realize 
is that they are amassing the fury of the people and that they are bound to be buried underneath its 
torrent.  The  killings  of  people  in  Kashipur,  Niyamagiri,  Narayanapatna  or  in  Malkangiri  as  on 
September 14 both in police firings and in fake encounters would never succeed in suppressing the 
people of Odisha. If at all it would give them more reasons to hate this government and mobilize for 
its overthrow.  

The ignoramus DGP of Odisha, true to his nature of a boot-licking dog of the ruling classes 
has  warned  that  any  Maoists  entering  Odisha  would  face  the  fate  of  these  14  Maoists  killed  in 
Malkangiri. Would they never learn from history? No, unless it is their doomsday. It is the anti-
people, pro-imperialist, pro-CBB, pro-land lord neo-liberal policies of the Indian ruling classes that 
is giving rise to Maoism in the vast rural tracts of our country in every state and there is no need for 
any Maoists to enter from ‘outside’ states or sky. Every comprador ruler who is implementing LPG 
policies  is  fated  to  face  the  resistance  of  the  people  and  it  is  just  one  step  forward  in  the  right 
direction for them to turn into Maoists. As all fascists he refuses to respect facts and that is why the 
beloved  children  of  Odisha  who  were  killed  in  Malkangiri  are  looking  like  ‘outsiders’  to  this 
progeny of Goebbels. The people of Odisha would definitely avenge the killing of their beloved 
sons and daughter in Silakota forests by embracing Maoism in large numbers and by teaching the 
Naveen Patnaik gang a fitting lesson.  

Beloved People of India, 
Our beloved comrades who were killed in Malkangiri are mostly Adivasis who have taken 
upon themselves the duty of fighting the neo-liberal policies that are most detrimental not only to 
the Adivasis but all other exploited and oppressed masses in our country. Protesting their encounter 
means lending your voice not only against the brutal offensive OGH but also saying a big NO to the 
pro-imperialist economic policies of the ruling classes.  

This  year  alone  has  seen  massacres  of  people  and  Maoists  in  places  like  Lakadbandha  in 
Jharkhand, Govindgaon, Bhatpar, Sindesur, Medri and Bhagawanpur in Gadchiroli of Maharashtra, 
in Edesmetta and Puvvarti in Chhattisgarh to name a few. In almost all these incidents both village 
women  and  women  Maoists  were  also  brutally  murdered.  All  of  them  belong  to  the  oppressed 
sections of our country and they have been fighting for the liberation of all oppressed sections in the 
society. Protesting these massacres should be done by whoever opposes the lopsided development 
model of the ruling classes and we appeal to every citizen who aspires for democracy in our country 
to participate in the protest. 

We appeal to all the genuine democratic organizations, parties and individuals of our country 
to  unequivocally  condemn  the  September  14  massacre  and  organize  and  participate  in  protests 
against  it.  We  appeal  to  the  people  of  our  country  to  observe  Bharat  Bandh  on  October  5  and 
participate in the protests in huge numbers.   

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, CPI (Maoist) 

