Our Aim is to Break CPM Shackles 

 

[Interview given by the Zonal committee secretary of Communist Party of India (Maoist) for 

West Midnapore, Bankura and Purulia districts, comrade Bikash to The Hindustan Times.] 

 

What are your immediate plans? 
 
Our aim is  to break the shackle that the ruling CPM has put on the people of this area.   For 
nearly  two  decades,  the  people  have  not  reaped  the  so-called  benefits  of  parliamentary 
democracy.  Gradually, everything began to be controlled by CPM.  Its leaders even had a say in 
marriages and other social and personal matters.  There are many leaders against whom FIRs are 
pending.  The police have taken no action against them.  We will punish them.  Those who have 
spent money or used political connections to avoid justice will be tried by people’s courts. 

 
The government is preparing to strike in a major way.  How will you counter this? 
 
We  have  seen  media  reports  in  which  government  officials  have  spoken  about  bringing  in 
central forces, COBRA or Greyhound personnel.  We are prepared for any strike.  PCPA is with 
us.  In Purulia, Bankura and West Midnapore districts, we have set up gram committees in over 
250  villages.    We  shall  ultimately  liberate  Keshpur  and  Garbeta.    The  state  cannot  stop  us  by 
using force. 

 
Why have you resorted to violence? 
 
We were forced into taking up arms by the administration.  When we had guns pointing at us, 
one can’t expect us to respond with flower petals.  Violence was started by CPM.  We took up 
arms to counter this.  Many of them are educated unemployed youths.  Family members of CPM 
have got jobs that were meant for them. 

 

Why do you target the police? Many of the constables belong to poor families. 
 
We have appealed to the police a number of times, not to blindly follow the diktats of CPM.  
We have asked the police not to torture poor villagers.  There are some who heeded our appeal.  
Those who we targeted worked at the behest of CPM and paid a price. 

 

What is your ultimate goal? 
 

We want public funds to be used by the people’s committee.  They will be accountable for all 
development work done.  We have already done a lot of development work in the villages.  CPM 
talks a lot about land reforms.  Anuj Pandey and his two brothers owned 40 bighas of land.  We 
shall distribute such land among the poor. 

 
[The Hindustan Times, 18 June, 2009] 

 
 
 

[From: People’s Truth, #7, August 2009.] 

 

