 

 
 

Extracts of Interviews with Comrade Bimal,  

Politburo Member of the CPI (Maoist)  

Taken from Newspapers 

(May and June 2009) 

Hindustan  Times:    What  is  the  future  of  the  so-called  Indian  revolution  you  are 

spearheading? 

 
Bimal:  We  have  a  considerable  mass  base  in  eight  or  nine  states.  Moreover,  the  capitalist 
economy  is  going  through  a  crisis  all  over  the  world,  and  sooner  or  later,  India  will  suffer  the 
same fate as the West. So, the conditions are quite ripe for a revolution. 

 
HT:  You  had  earlier  supported  Islamic  militancy.  Do  you  still  do  so  after  the  Mumbai 

attacks? 

 
Bimal:  We  do  not  support  the  way  they  attacked  the  Victoria  station  (Chhatrapati  Shivaji 
Terminus,  or  CST),  where  most  of  the  victims  were  Muslims.  At  the  same  time,  we  feel  the 
Islamic  upsurge  should  not  be  opposed  as  it  is  basically  anti-US  and  anti-imperialist  in  nature. 
We therefore want it to grow. 

…. 
 
HT: How is your party faring in states like Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Orissa, West Bengal and 

Maharashtra? 

 
Bimal: Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Orissa will be the new storm centers in Indian politics. 
We have our strongest base in Chhattisgarh  – particularly in Old Bastar, which stretches across 
five districts – and it’s totally in our control now. Our militia in the state is more than one-lakh 
strong. 

We have the wherewithal to put up teams of 400-500 fighters, encircle hundreds of police and 
para-military troops, and wipe out them. We have also taken up development projects. Then, we 
are gaining strength in other states you mentioned. 

… 
 
HT: Your party suffered a major setback in Andhra Pradesh. What are you doing about it? 

 

1 

 

 
Bimal: It’s true that we faced a major setback in Andhra Pradesh (when the police drove the 
Naxalites out of their former strongholds across the state). But we will definitely recover because 
most  of  our  leadership  is  alive  and  safe  in  our  Dandakaranya  camps.  Our  mass  base,  built  up 
over 30 years, is still intact. But in a war, there will always be ups and downs.  
 

(Excerpts from interview given to a correspondent of the Hindustan Times, 

published in the June 10, 2009 edition of that paper.) 

 
 
Mint: The administration alleges that you ambush people and run away – that you don’t have 

the courage to fight them… 

 
Bimal: Absolute rubbish – they know we don’t run away, but say so because neither they can 
ignore us nor can they fight us. Even on 2 November, when Bhuddhababu’s (West Bengal chief 
minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee) convoy was attacked, I was within a kilometer of where the 
blast took place. Huge forces were deployed, the area was combed, but I did not run away. All 
our comrades in (West) Bengal are sons and daughters of the soil. Where will they run away? …. 
We  are  not  scared  of  appearing  before  the  people.  Lakhs  of  villagers  and  tribals  know  what  I 
look like since I interact with them regularly.   … 

 
Mint: How do you forge ties with the locals? 
 
Bimal: We play  very diverse roles, which the people don’t get to know.  Because they have 
lost  faith  in  the  administration,  villagers  approach  us  with  their  day-to-day  problems.  We 
organize camps in villages so they can voice the grievances. We deal with the villagers with lot 
of compassion and kindness, which is why they love and protect us. We also work for women’s 
liberation.  There  are  many  women  who  are  tortured  by  their  (parents)  in-law,  husbands  or 
parents. But they cannot protest because they dependent on them. We fight for the liberation of 
such women. Women are very important for our movement. Many oppressed women have joined 
us in our struggle across the country. 

They have led from the front in many a battle that we have fought. However, in terms of the 
strength, our women cadre in (West) Bengal is slightly weaker compared with other areas such 
as  Jharkhand,  Dandakaranya  and  Andhra  Pradesh.    Whereas  elsewhere  the  ratio  of  men  to 
women is 50:50 and even 60:40 in favor of women, in Bengal, the ratio is around 70:30 (in favor 
of men). Besides our guerilla operations, we also lead strong mass movements in many parts of 
West  Bengal  such  as  Lalgarh  and  Nandigram.  A  lot  of  women  are  participating  in  such 
movements, though they may not be members of the party. Exposure to such movements leads to 
political  maturity.  We  need  mature  organizers  for  the  party  and  would  look  to  recruit  women 
who have actively participated in these movements. 

2 

 

 

… 
 
Mint: How do you recruit people for your movement? 
 
Bimal:  We  don’t  recruit  from  villages  on  our  own.  We  have  a  party  controlled  mechanism 
under which we receive proposals from the locals. After obtaining the consent of the parents of 
applicants, we forward the proposals to one of our committees. It vets them and takes a final call 
on  whether  or  not  to  recruit,  based  on  the  person’s  antecedents,  class  and  disposition  towards 
others in his or her village. The responsibility of the group that I lead is to train the new recruits. 
Many of them are initially intimidated by the difficult life we live, but most of them eventually 
learn to cope with it. 

…    

(Mint, May 29, 2009.) 

 

 
Mint: How long can you hold out? The state is mobilizing more forces… 
 
Bimal: Let them send another 500 companies (of police). We are ready. This protracted war 
is not going to end soon. And we have prepared for it with full understanding of the strength of 
our opponents. We have enough resources… but more importantly,  we have the support of the 
locals, and the whole area is surrounded by them. Tell Buddhababu, his forces should fight us  – 
the guerillas – and not the tribals. 

 
Mint: So you agree that you are using the tribals as human shields… 
 
Bimal: We have never used the tribals as human shields. They are with us voluntarily…and 
some  of  them  are  even  leading  our  forces.  Come  to  Lalgarh,  and  you  wouldn’t  take  long  to 
understand that they support us, and the support is entirely voluntary. 

 
Mint: A lot of civilians might die in the  crossfire. Wouldn’t  you be morally responsible for 

those killed? 

 
Bimal: In a war, there are no civilians – there are people either on your side or against you. 
 
Mint: And moral responsibility? 
 
Bimal:  The  Centre  and  the  state  should  be  held  responsible  for  the  bloodshed.  We  have 
repeatedly appealed to them to withdraw the forces and initiate a dialogue, but they ignored (the 
appeal). So, let them face the consequences. But yes, I will be hurt if the locals died in this war. 

 

 

3 

 

Mint: If the state government eventually agreed to  your proposal for a dialogue, would  you 

come? 

Bimal: If the government agrees to discussions or debate, the people of Lalgarh will take part. 
The government will have to sit with the civilians and their representatives to understand what 
they want. 

 
Mint:  You  have  been  saying  that  Mamata  Banerjee  (union  rail  minister  and  leader  of  the 
Trinamool  Congress,  West  Bengal’s  main  opposition  party)  should  pressure  the  government  to 
withdraw  central  forces  from  Lalgarh.  Are  you  expecting  her  to  bail  you  out?  Has  your  party 
joined forces with the Trinamool? 

 
Bimal: Let me tell you that the Trnamool Congress was never with us. We were in Singur and 
in Nandigram on our own and we had gone there to help the locals. We fight for the people, and 
our only partners are people who face oppression. The Maoists consider oppressors as their worst 
enemy,  and  the  tribals  of  Lalgarh  have  been  facing  oppression  by  the  CPM  (the  Communist 
Party of India-Marxist) and the state administration for decades. 

…   

(Mint, 22 June, 2009.) 

 
 
Bimal  to  Hindustan  Times;  June  18th:  By  defying  the  public  mandate,  they  have  initiated 
the war. Now no one should blame us for the bloodshed…. The Germans made more advances in 
Russia than the State and Central Government made in Lalgarh. Let everybody be patient and see 
how  the  people  of  Lalgarh  fight  the  battle.  The  State  was  supposed  to  pay  heed  to  the  local’s 
grievances and solve them but they chose the way of policing. They will have to pay for acting 
against the people’s decision. 
 
 
 
 

[From: People’s Truth, #7, August 2009.] 

 

4 

 

