 

WE WANT A SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PATH AND INCLUSIVE GROWTH 

TRAJECTORY THAT WON’T DIVEST THE POOR FROM THE FRUITS OF THEIR LABOR 
 

Interview given by comrade Bimal, Politburo member of the CPI (Maoist) to 

correspondents from the daily, The Times of India, from the issue of April 27, 2009. 

Bankura,  Purulia  and  West  Midnapore  are  three  of  the  most  backward  districts  of  the  state.  Our 

 
 
You  are  one  of  the  most  wanted  persons  of  the  country.  Even  Left  Front  Chairman  Biman  Bose 
announced months ago that you have entered Bangal from Jharkhand. What made you come here? 
 
 
(Smiles) I am not new to this terrain. I first came to Bengal from Dandakaranya in 1995. I have been 
to the villages in Lalgarh in West Midnapore in 1998. The Bengal-Jharkhand-Orissa (BJO) border zone, 
as well as North Bengal, has been our priority. North Bengal — which would give us access to the North-
East,  Bangladesh  and  Bhutan.  But  we  chose  the  BJO  because  that  is  part  of  a  contiguous  forest  cover 
spread over Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Orissa, Bengal and Bihar. I joined politics in my student days 
in  Karimnagar  College,  North  Telengans,  from  where  I  did  my  graduation  in  mathematics.  Kondapelli 
Sitaramaiah  was  our  political  guru. We  took  military  training  from  the  LTTE  in  1981.  Today  our  party 
has an uninterrupted presence in this 800-km corridor up to Bangriposi in Orissa, except of short patch of 
30 km. 
 
West  Bengal  has  been  a  traditional  Left  bastion  for  decades. What  made  you  concentrate  on  this 
state? 
 
 
organizers have been working in these areas since long. We have some organizers in Mayurbhanj and 
East Singhbhum as well. What I find unique in Bengal is the hegemony of political parties. True, there are 
no big landlords here as in Andhra Pradesh. But here political leaders have turned oppressors. Earlier, it 
was the Congress, and now it is the CPM. Power-hungry CPM leaders – some of them even coming from 
Dalit or poverty-stricken families – are now disowning their roots. They have become lackeys of the state 
machinery  and  are  controlling  everything  from  business  to  social  institutions.  They  are  social  fascists. 
Asim  Mondal,  who  was  killed  in  Bhulabheda,  was  a  CPM  leader-cum-timber  trader.  He  used  to  decide 
prices  of  kendu  leaf  and  was  also  raising  a  force  against  us.  It’s  the  same  with  others.  The  villages  and 
villagers’  lives  are  under  their  control.  We  warn  them  to  mend  their  ways  and  only  after  extreme 
provocation  do  we  pull  the  trigger.  Unfortunately,  their  daily  misdeeds  and  acts  of  repression  are  not 
reported by the media. It is only when they are killed that the news gets highlighted. CPM leaders such as 
Dipak  Sarkar  (West  Midnapore  CPM  district  secretary),  Lakshman  Seth,  MP  from  Tamluk  and  Anuj 
Pandey,  CPM  zonal  secretary  have  turned  tormentors.  They  want  to  have  the  area  under  their  control. 
People are scared of them. Men like these and their henchmen are our targets. Worse, they have lost the 
political courage to win hearts. Instead, they come with the police and torture the villagers in the dead of 
the  night.  They  have  recently  formed  a  Ganatantra  Suraksha  Samiti,  and  police  distribute  their  posters. 
How  else  do  you  expect  us  to  challenge  CPM  leaders  who  are  armed  to  the  teeth?  They  are  a  counter-
revolutionary force and have to be politically exposed. 
 
While creating your bases in these areas,  your party had come to the aid of the CPM in 2000 and 
then went with the Opposition. How do you reconcile this role reversal? 
 
  Yes,  we  joined  the  CPM  ranks  to  fight  the  Trinamool-BJP  offensive  in  Keshpur.  That  was  in  May 
2000, when the  Trinamool chief announced that Keshpur  would be CPM’s graveyard. Armed men were 

 

1 

 

setting the huts of the poor villagers on fire. We sided with the poor. I distinctly remember that I collected 
5, 000 cartridges from the CPM party office. CPM leader and Minister Susanta Ghosh would have been 
nowhere today, had we not been with them. But the CPM atrocities in Suchpur, Nanoor in Birbhum and 
Chhoto  Angaria  and  Garbeta  in West  Midnapore  did  not  lose  our  sight.  We  started  working  among  the 
poor, voiced against corruption in the panchayats and started mobilizing the poor on social issues. We did 
not kill any CPM activist till 2000. It was only when CPM came to grips with the situation in 2001 and 
began targeting our men that we struck back. Finally, when Nandigram villagers rose against the State’s 
land grab move, we took on the CPM’s armed brigade. This time, Trinamool supplied us the ammunition. 
We  kept  up  with  the  resistance  along  with  Trinamool  ranks  for  months  after  the  Nandigram  carnage. 
During  the  final  assault  in  November,  we  ran  out  of  stocks  and  had  to  beat  a  retreat.  The  CPM  men 
captured 300 of the local militia, and literally treated them  as  slaves like  war prisoners  with their hands 
tied behind. 
 
Even  if  one  were  to  accept  your  logic  of  summary  punishment,  how  do  you  justify  the  killings  of 
low-rung party men who come from the poor families? 
 
In most cases, killings have happened after all means of persuasion and reasoning failed. What may 
 
appear to you as a simple low-rung CPM leader is actually his mask that outsiders get to see. But believe 
me, we  check many times  in our committees, trying  to gauge the people’s pulse before taking any such 
final  action.  But  yes,  there  have  been  mistakes.  In  20%  of  the  cases,  there  could  have  been  more 
persuasive attempts. In 50% cases, we could have campaigned better, politically. The blast that killed the 
medical  team  was  clearly  a  mistake.  A  rectification  process  is  currently  on  in  the  party  and  we  hope  to 
emerge as an outfit that takes more judicious decisions. 
 
What about the landmine blast that targeted the CPM’s convoy in November? 
 
 
Till  the  Nandigram  carnage,  Budhadeb  Bhattacharjee  was  not  on  our  hit  list.  The  villagers  of 
Nandigram  were  fighting  CPM  politically  when  the  massacre  was  ordered  by  the  CM.  That  changed 
everything.  Now,  he  is  our  target.  So  are  CPM  strongman  and  MP  Lakshman  Seth,  West  Midnapore 
district secretary Dipak Sarkar, zonal party leader Anuj Pandey… 
 
The Maoists are also seen as anti- industry. The perception about the outfit, particularly in cities, is 
that it will not allow industrialization. How can class struggle happen sans the working class? 
 
  We are not against industry. But we are opposed to the neo-liberal policies pursued by the Buddhadeb 
Bhattacharjee  government.  The  neo-liberal  bubble  has  burst.  The  deviated  Marxists  (CPM)  are  only 
giving lip service to it and at the same time are looking at options to come to postpoll adjustment with the 
Congress.  The  CPM  government  is  pursuing  the  industrial  projects  dumped  by  advanced  capitalist 
countries. People all over the world are rising against the most polluting sponge iron units, construction of 
big dams, chemical hubs that affect the environment. Even the proposed car factory in Singur is to create 
an assembly line and has low direct employment potential. Tell me, how do these projects help the sons of 
the soil? These are projects advocated by the IMF and the World Bank and the CPM government is trying 
to implement them. We will oppose Nayachar because a chemical hub will destroy the livelihood of 
2.5 lakh fishermen. No developed country sets up chemical hubs now. Why should we? We will oppose 
Buddhadeb  Bhattacharjee’s  dream  project  in  Nayachar,  the  steel  project  in  Salboni.  As  for  Singur, 
industry  will  not  happen  there.  The  land  was  forcibly  acquired  from  farmers.  We  will  take  over  the 
acquired land, if the locals want it and return it to the tillers. But if the government chooses to usurp the 
rights of the poor and forest dwellers, we can’t but resist the move. We are waiting for the response from 
the  Opposition  —  Trinamool  and  Congress.  Instead,  we  want  a  sustainable  development  path  and 
inclusive growth trajectory that won’t divest the poor from their fruits of labour. 
 

 

2 

 

I don’t care what the law says. Has the law come of any help in booking the culprits who burnt men 

But how can you distribute government acquired land when the law says to the contrary? 
 
 
alive in Chhoto Angaria? Let law take its course, we will have our own if people want it. 
 
There  are  allegations  that  your  party  has  been  extorting  businessmen  and  salaried  persons  and 
terrorizing villagers. 
 
This is far from truth. Our leaders lead a simple life. On the contrary, we have been resisting efforts 
 
by  contractors  to  plunder  the  forest  wealth.  Why  should  we  fleece  common  people?  If  we  need  money, 
we will loot banks and collect the arms from the state armory. This is no secret. Our party has a written 
resolution  on  this.  At  times,  some  of  the  government  officers  have  tried  to  lure  some  of  our  supporters 
with contracts. In such cases, we have pointed it out to them in presence of their guardians, who are also 
our supporters and asked them to fall in line. 
 
 
 
 

[From PEOPLES' TRUTH, #6, July 2009.] 

 

 

3 

