 

 

 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

 

           Press Release:                                                                               November 5, 2008 

 

Boycott the upcoming Assembly elections in the six states! Fight back state terror and 
state-sponsored terror, the reactionary anti-people policies of the Congress and its UPA 

allies, Hindu fascist terror of the neo-Nazi  BJP-RSS-VHP-Bajrang Dal-BJD, and the 

social-fascist offensive of the so-called Left front led by the CPI(M)!! Advance the people’s 

war in the country and establish people's revolutionary power!! 

 

 
Elections to Assemblies in the six states of Kashmir, Chattisgarh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi 
and Mizoram, which are to be held in November/ December this year, are a big fraud and hoax enacted to 
dupe the people and divert them from the real path of their liberation. Seen as a rehearsal to the General 
Elections being held a few months  later,  every parliamentary Party  is  trying to mould people’s opinion, 
whip up prejudices of all sorts, divert people’s attention from the real issues, rig the election results, and 
win by hook or by crook 

 
These  elections,  as  any  other  elections  to  the  legislative  bodies  in  the  present  semi-colonial  semi-
feudal  India,  cannot  bring  even  an  iota  of  change  in  people's  lives  but  will  only  further  enslave  the 
masses. They are merely a safety valve to let out the fury and frustration of the masses by giving them the 
option of choosing between various bands of dacoits. The CC, CPI(Maoist), calls upon the vast masses of 
the  country  to  boycott  the  elections  which  bring  nothing  but  greater  misery  and  destitution  to  the  vast 
majority of the population and merely replace one band of dacoits with another. 

 
Both the Congress-led UPA and the BJP-led NDA are the biggest enemies of the people and the worst 
traitors of our country. They are competing with one another to sell the country's interests to imperialists, 
particularly the US imperialists, and to loot the vast natural wealth of the country. They are birds of the 
same feather in pursuing anti-people, pro-imperialist policies and imposing draconian acts on the people; 
in  persecuting  and  suppressing  the  Muslim  community,  decimating  the  Kashmiri  population  and 
trampling  down  the  national  aspirations  of  the  Kashmiris;  organizing  vicious,  blood-thirsty  vigilante 
salwa  judum  gangs  in  Chattisgarh  and  letting  loose  the  police  and  central  armed  forces  to  murder  and 

maim adivasis and Maoist revolutionaries, rape adivasi women, destroy their houses and burn down entire 
villages,  all  with  the  sole  aim  of  paving  the  way  for  unbridled  loot  and  plunder  of  the  region's  mineral 
wealth by big business houses. 

The lives of the common people had deteriorated to an unheard of level under the Congress-led UPA 
 
regime in the country as a whole. Spiralling prices of essential commodities, soaring inflation, closure of 
industries  and  retrenchment  of  workers,  growing  unemployment,  worsening  levels  of  malnutrition  and 
ever-spreading  diseases  have  become  the  order  of  the  day.  Several  thousand  peasants  had  committed 
suicides. On the other hand, the growth in the wealth of a handful of millionaires and billionaires is really 
mind-boggling.  

 
BJP-led saffron fascist gangs are whipping up communal frenzy and unleashing murderous attacks on 
Muslims and Christians all over the country. And the states ruled by the BJP and its allies such as Orissa, 
MP,  Karnataka,  have  become  Hindutva  laboratories  where  all  other  minorities  are  systematically 
eliminated. While BJP is campaigning for brutal suppression of the entire Muslim community by bringing 
in  more  draconian  acts  like  POTA,  the  Congress-ruled  states  too  are  not  lagging  behind  in  unleashing 
attacks  on  innocent  Muslims  in  the  name  of  war  against  terror.  These  comprador-feudal  parties  are  the 
greatest threat to the lives and security of the people. The so-called Left parties such as CPI and CPI(M) 
have earned notoriety for the brutal suppression of the people's struggle in Nandigram, Singur and other 
places and are shamelessly serving as trusted managers for imperialist and comprador capital. 

 
In  the  BJP-ruled  states  of  Chattisgarh,  Rajasthan  and  MP,  where  elections  are  being  held,  the 
incumbent  BJP  governments  had  unleashed  the  most  savage  assaults  on  the  people  at  large.  In 
Chattisgarh, in particular, the fascist Raman Singh government had carried out the most savage war on the 
adivasis  and  the  Maoist  revolutionaries  eliminating  over  600  people,  burning  and  destroying  over  700 
villages, displacing over 1.5 lakh adivasis from their homes, raping hundreds of hapless adivasi women, 
and snatching  away  all  the fundamental  rights guaranteed by the  Indian Constitution.  The  Congress is  a 
part and parcel of this brutal campaign.  

  And the most shameful acts  have been committed in Kashmir by  the  central forces  where the  entire 
Muslim  population  is  targeted  with  vengeance.  Arrests,  torture  and  murder  of  Kashmiri  youth,  rape  of 
women  by  the  Indian  Army  and  other  state  security  forces  have  become  the  order  of  the  day.  Even 
peaceful protests are banned, curfew  imposed, and those  who dare to defy this military  rule in Kashmir 
are  shot  dead  without  any  compunction.  While  holding  the  entire  Kashmiri  population  captive  at  gun-
point  by  over  five  lakh-strong  armed  troops,  the  reactionary  rulers  have  shamelessly  declared  that  they 
would impose the election farce on  an  unwilling population, no matter  if the majority boycotts the poll. 
Enforce elections over the corpses of Kashmiris in order to legitimize Delhi' durbar's rule over the state, 
in  true  Iraqi  style.  Such  is  the  real  face  of  Indian  parliamentary  democracy.   And  to  push  through  the 
election  hoax at gun-point the entire drama  is being staged in seven phases spread out over a five-week 
period so as to overwhelm the voters with brute force. 

   The  CC,  CPI(Maoist),  calls  upon  the  people  to  boycott  the  elections  and  to  support  and  actively 
participate  in  the  ongoing  people's  war  led  by  our  Party  to  overthrow  this  exploitative  system  and 
establish people's democratic power in place of the dictatorship of a tiny feudal-comprador elite. We call 
upon  the  entire  Party  ranks,  the  heroic  fighters  of  PLGA,  and  the  members  of  all  revolutionary  mass 
organizations  to  actively  organize  the  masses  to  boycott  the  elections  and  to  throw  out  the  reactionary 
parliamentary party leaders who come for votes in the areas of our armed struggle. They should also work 
out  plans  to  deal  effective  blows  against  the  police  and  para-military  forces  that  are  sent  to  enforce  the 
election farce on the masses. 

 
Signed/ 
Azad, 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI(Maoist)         

[From: CPI(Maoist) Information Bulletin, #5, Winter 2008-2009, preliminary MS Word edition.] 

 
 

 
 

