 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

DANDAKARANYA SPECIAL ZONAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

Boycott the visit of Modi, the Prime Servant of CBB and MNCs to Chathisgarh 

May 3rd, 2015 

 

Communist  Party  of  India  (Maoist)  strongly  protests  the  visit  of  prime  minister  of 
India Narendra Modi to Chathisgarh on the 9th of May 2015. We appeal to all the people of 
the state, democrats, progressive persons, patriots, workers and peasants, adivasi and non 
adivasi social organisations to protest this visit which is intended only to sign certain MoUs 
in  a  bid  to  sell  away  the  natural  resources  of  the  state  to  big  corporate  companies.  We 
appeal to take up all sorts of protest demonstrations like chakkajam, burning of effigies of 
Ramansingh and Modi. This boycot would be a symbol of struggle of the toiling masses, 
especially peasants and the adivasis for survival and identity and to protect the jal jungle 
and zameen and the mineral resources of the state. 

As soon as Modi came to power, there is an unprecedented spate in implementing the 
financial  and  industrial  policies  that  serve    domestic  and  foreign  corporate  companies. 
Through  the  mystifying  slogan  of  “make  in  india”,  in  the  name  of  development  of  the 
country and providing employment to the youth of the country, Modi opened the doors for 
the  domestic  and  foreign  industrial  giant  companies.  He  brought  forward  the  land 
acquisition  bill  only  to  facilitate  the  unrelented  loot  of  jal  jungle  zameen  and  mineral 
resources of the country. In fact Modi is not the prime minister of India. He is a dynamic 
“prime servant” of the comprador bureacratic capitalists and the multinational companies.  

Imitating  Modi’s  make  in  india,  Raman  Singh  took  up  make  in  Chathisgarh  and  is 
looting the natural resources of the state. This is clearly evident from the recent budget and 
the neo industrial policy. Central para military forces were deployed in a large number to 
ensure the construction of the Dalli-Raoghat rail line which is very much in the favor of 
facilitating the loot of iron and other mineral resources. Now modi is visiting chathisgarh to 
facilitate the expansion of the Raoghat Jagadalpur rail line, to sign the MoU for an ultra 
mega steel plant and to inaugurate police headquarters in naya Raipur. The signing of the 
MoU and the inauguration of Police Head Quarters in the new capital are not coincidental 
but well planned.  

Grosssly violating the constitutional powers, Fifth schedule, PESA and the powers of 
the  gramsabhas,  the  governments  intensified  their  attempts  to  start  Raoghat,  Chargam, 
Aamdayi,  Kuvve,  Budhiyarimad,  Pallemad  and  other  such  mining  projects  in  Bastar 
sambhag and Rajnandgaon. The attempt to start military training school in one fourth land 
of Maad and turn it into a hub of the army is also actively underway. In this background 
patrolling  campaigns  and  attacks  on  villages  have  increased  in  all  the  areas  of  struggle 
including  Maad.  Attacks  on  receiving  information  and  fake  encounters  on  PLGA  have 
become a regular practice.  

Our  party  calls  upon  the  people  of  the  state  to  take  up  extensive,  organised  and 
militant  people’s  movement  against  the  ruling  Hindutva  fascist  BJP  government  of  the 
state,  in  order  to  protect  the  natural  resources,  especially  the  jal  jungle  and  zamen,  the 
mineral  resources  and  the  identity  of  the  adivasis.  Extend  all  possible  support  to  the 
revolutionary  peoples’  war  of  Dandakaranya.  Protest  the  war  on  people  in  the  name  of 
Operation Greenhunt.  

 

 

 

(Gudsa Usendi) 

             

Spokesperson, 
Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee,  
CPI (Maoist). 

 

