COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

April 05, 2011 

Boycott the assembly polls in the five states! 
Intensify the People's War to establish the People's Democratic State 

by uprooting the present semi-feudal and semi-colonial system of 
exploitation, oppression, corruption, violence, atrocities and insults! 

 

The farce of assembly polls in the five states of Assam, Tamilnadu, Kerala, Pondichery and West Bengal is on. 
While the people of our country are facing corruption, price rise, poverty, hunger, unemployment, loot of resources, 
displacement, destruction of ecology etc, all the parliamentary parties are oblivious to these life and death problems 
of the people and are engaged in a severe violence filled contest to capture power by hook or crook. Apart from the 
main  exploiting  classes'  parties  of  Congress  and  BJP  who  are  in  the  forefront  in  implementing  the  imperialist-
dictated  economic  policies,  other  ruling  class  parties  like  the  CPM  which  is  implementing  fascist  rule  in  West 
Bengal since 30 years, the DMK and AIDMK that are notorious for their corruption and malpractices, the Assam 
Gana  Parishad  which  shamelessly  betrayed  the  national  aspirations  of  the  Assam  people  are  mainly  in  the  race. 
They are indiscriminately using money power, muscle power, identities like caste, religion etc and are vying with 
each other for votes. All kinds of cheap tricks are being used like  wooing the voters with everything under the sun 
from sarees to computers. Millions of rupees are poured down the drain just to 'buy votes'.  

For  the  past  30  long  years,  CPM  has  been  carrying  on  a  social  fascist  rule  in West  Bengal  in  support  of  the 
feudal, imperialist and comprador bureaucratic capitalist exploitation and has been completely exposed before the 
people.  For  the  sake  of  comprador  capitalists  like  Tata,  Jindal  etc  and  for  the  sake  of  SEZs  the  fertile  lands  of 
peasantry  were  sought  to  be  seized.  The  cruel  repression,  the  inhuman  massacres  and  the  atrocities  on  women 
perpetrated by the state police, central paramilitary forces and the goonda force of CPM, the 'Harmad Bahini' on the 
militant peasantry of Nandigram and Singur who opposed seizure of their lands and the heroic people of Lalgadh 
who rose in an upsurge against police atrocities will remain a permanent blot in the history. Parties like the CPI and 
Forward Block which are sharing power with the CPM as part of Left block are getting exposed with each day  for 
their bankruptcy of continuing with the CPM in all the anti-people policies it is taking up. The Trinamool Congress 
under  Mamta  Banerji's  leadership  is  cashing  in  on  the  dissatisfaction  and  the  hatred  among  all  sections  of  the 
people towards CPM and came to the fore as a strong contender for power. So now the CPM is facing the danger of 
losing its power. Whatever Mamta Banerjee may promise today, once in power her rule is not going to be basically 
any different from that of the CPM. It is very clear that her rule in alliance with Congress would be a continuation 
of the pro-feudal, pro-corporate and anti-people policies implemented by all ruling class parties including the CPM 
till date. Along with Congress, BJP and CPM, Trinamool Congress is also a party which represents the interests of 
the feudal and comprador bureaucratic capitalist classes, bending its knees before the imperialists. So the only way 
before  the  people  of  Bengal  is  to  boycott  these  sham  elections  and  to  build  militant  people's  struggles  while 
keeping  the  Maoist  People's  War  at  the  core  with  the  inspiration  of  the  glorious  struggle  spirit  of  the  Lalgarh 
people. The real  alternative is  to expand more militantly  and in a more organized manner the  alternative people's 
political power which came to the fore in an embryonic form as a result of the historic Lalgarh movement. 

Using their power in the state and in the UPA alliance at the centre Tamilnadu Chief Minister Karunanidhi, A. 
Raja and his other bandit coterie have resorted to scams swindling billions of rupees and are now spending millions 
of rupees to come to power again. Karunanidhi granted permissions to nearly 70 SEZs and gave away thousands of 
hectares  of  prime  land  to  MNCs.  The  living  conditions  of  the  peasantry  and  workers  are  worsening.  More  than 
25,000  workers  were  retrenched  in  the  past  two  years  in  Tirupur  which  resulted  in  the  suicides  of  more  than  a 
thousand garment  workers.  AIADMK under  Jayalalitha's leadership is  trying  to come to power by  hook or crook 
utilizing  the  dissatisfaction  among  the  people  towards  DMK.  However  the  people  of  Tamilnadu  are  more  than 
aware that she is also a notorious bandit who hoarded billions of rupees misusing power. DMK and AIADMK who 
do not tire of focusing themselves as the champions of the Tamil cause have indirectly supported the massacres of 
Tamils and the unjust war waged by the Sinhala chauvinist Rajapakse government in Srilanka with the support of 
India, China and US with the aim of decimating LTTE. Rejecting these two parties and other parties which are in 

cohorts with them and intensifying mass movements and revolutionary struggles is the only alternative in front of 
the Tamilnadu people. 

The ruling Left Front in Kerala is bogged down in several corruption scams and earned the ire of the people by 
fulfilling  the  interests  of  the  corporate  classes.  Using  this  situation  the  UDF  under  the  Congress  leadership  is 
leaving no stone unturned to come to power. The AGP which had a past history of waging struggles representing 
the national aspirations of the Assam People has completely betrayed the cause and is now vying for power in the 
state. This party was hand in glove with Congress in suppressing the just national struggles of ULFA, Bodos etc.  

Particularly, in the past few years many corruption scams have come to light and the real face of the political 
system  of  our  country  is  getting  exposed.  It  became  crystal  clear  through  the  recent  2G  Spectrum  scam  how  the 
ministers of all parties, leaders, corporate bosses and media barons have  colluded to  amass billions of rupees. On 
the other hand, with the aim of suppressing the various sections of people, people's movements and revolutionary 
movements  that  are  waging  struggles  on  various  people's  issues,  repressive  campaigns  are  launched  deploying 
security forces. Fascist laws are formulated and the people and revolutionaries are jailed for years together without 
any trial. Harsh punishments are pronounced. All the rights  which are  supposed to be granted by the  constitution 
are curbed including the right to live.  

The  central  government  had  deployed  more  than  800  companies  of  paramilitary  forces  for  the  'smooth 
conducting' (read violence, atrocities, firings on people, arrests and rigging) of elections. It is worth noting that out 
of these, more than 600 companies  are for West Bengal  alone  where the Maoist movement  is  relatively  stronger. 
Long  before  the  elections,  CPM  had  deployed  thousands  of  armed  goons  belonging  to  its  goonda  army  Harmad 
Bahini  in  the  villages,  particularly  in  dozens  of  villages  in  the  Jungle  Mahal  area.  These  armed  goons  and  Joint 
Forces have already been perpetrating countless unspeakable brutal atrocities and violent acts on the masses.  This 
means  that  all  preparations  have  been  completed  to  herd  the  people  into  polling  booths  pointing  barrels  of  their 
guns  at  their  backs  and  for  unprecedented  mammoth  rigging.  Particularly  in  West  Bengal  CPM  readied  itself  to 
perpetrate huge scale violence to continue in power at any cost.  

It has been proven beyond doubt in the past 64 years history of so-called independent India that any party or 
alliance in power or any party or alliance which wants to come to power is only fulfilling the interests of the feudal, 
comprador  bureaucratic  bourgeoisie  and  the  imperialists  and  not  that  of  the  95  percent  of  the  population 
constituting workers, peasants, employees, students, women, dalit, adivasi and other oppressed classes/sections in 
our country. The election process is itself a big sham. It is a farce conducted to strengthen the rule of the exploiting 
classes.  Only  the  color  of  the  ruling  alliance  or  the  party  it  represents  changes  with  these  elections  but  nothing 
changes basically in the system. None of the fundamental problems of hunger, poverty, unemployment, price rises 
etc  can  get  solved  through  this.  Money  is  spent  for  getting  elected,  it  is  the  moneybags  which  sit  in  the 
parliament/assemblies and rule us and it is they again who amass wealth which is many times over what they spent 
to  get  elected.  The  increasing  number  of  criminals  who  are  accused  of  murders,  kidnaps,  rapes  and  such 
abominable  crimes  in  all  the  parties  contending  in  elections  is  an  indication  of  their  true  nature.  That  is  why  our 
party  makes  it  clear  that  the  parliament  and  assemblies  are  nothing  but  'pigsties'.  Without  uprooting  this  whole 
rotten system the lives of people can never improve. Successfully completing the New Democratic  Revolution and 
building  a  People's  Democratic  State  of  all  oppressed  sections  on  the  basis  of  worker-peasant  unity  is  the  real 
alternative before the people of our country. Our Central Committee is issuing a call to the people to rally into the 
People's War waged under the leadership of our party. 

Beloved People of Our Country ! 

Boycott the assembly polls in five states! A country which calls itself a 'democracy' should honor the right not 
to vote along with the right to vote. We must fight against curbing  of this right. We must raise our voices against 
herding  people  into  polling  booths  pointing  guns  at  their  heads.  Reject  the  fake  parliamentary  democracy  rotten 
with corruption and scams. Welcome the alternative people's democratic political power which is being established 
at  a  basic  level  in  Dandakaranya,  Bihar-Jharkhand,  Odisha,  Bengal  and  other  places  under  our  party's  leadership 
and come forward  to establish people's power in all four corners of our country.  

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

 

