CPI(Maoist): 9th Congress 
 
 

Oppressed people of India and the world! 

Rise up as a tide to smash Imperialism! 

Advance the Revolutionary war throughout the world!! 

Call of the Unity Congress 

9th Congress of the CPI(Maoist) 

 
      The imperialist-sponsored policies being pursued by the ruling 
classes are devastating the lives of the already impoverished 
masses of the country on a scale unheard of in post-1947 India. No 
matter which party is in power at the Centre or in the States, all are 
aggressively pushing these policies of LPG1 in all spheres of the 
economy and social life of the country. 

      The grip of the imperialists, particularly of the US, is 
tightening, with each passing day, over every aspect of the life of 
the country. This is the result of the growing and deepening crisis 
of imperialism which has particularly hit the number one 
imperialist, the US. Bogged down in the wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, and an economic crisis in its economy, the US 
imperialists are facing serious problems. Facing worldwide 
opposition to their terroristic and warmongering policies and 
greater contention from rival imperialist powers, the US 
imperialists are getting more and more desperate. The crisis is 
intensifying all the contradictions worldwide, including India. 

      The people of India and the World are not taking these attacks 
lightly; they are fiercely resisting these attacks on their lives. But, 

their resistance is being crushed with fascist brutality and 
ruthlessness, where all countries have equipped themselves with 
terroristic laws. Due to the weakness of the genuine communist 
forces, the Maoists, to lead these struggles, the people’s resistance 
faces problems of further intensification and tends to go around in 
circles. But the outbursts continue to intensify as seen with the 
massive revolts witnessed over Khairlanji in Maharashtra and the 
revolts in France. Where the Maoists movements have taken roots, 
as in India, Nepal, Philippines, Turkey, Peru, etc the revolts have 
taken the form of systematic armed resistance. 

      In India the policies of the rulers have affected the lives of 
every section of the masses while giving gigantic wealth to big 
business, TNCs2 the big semi-feudal elements and all their agents 
in the country. The worst affected are the poorest in the country. 

      The peasantry and landless poor have been the worst affected 
due to these policies pushing over one lakh3 to suicide and lakhs 
more to deeper and deeper hunger. The depth of the crisis is due to 
all the WTO, IMF, World Bank dictated policies that has badly hit 
also the middle peasants and even a section of the rich peasantry. 
The Unity Congress (9th Congress) of the CPI(Maoist) calls upon 
the vast oppressed peasantry to rise as a storm against these 
policies to sweep away their oppressors and establish their own 
people’s power from village to village. 

      Together with the polices of liberalisation, privatisation and 
globalisation have come massive attacks on the working class and 
vicious attempts to bind labour hand-and-foot, which has 
facilitated a massive loot by big business. Massive 
contracturalisation of labour, wage freeze, VRS,4 dismissals, curbs 
on recruitment, anti-labour Court Judgments, de-facto ban on 
strikes, etc. are leading to greater and greater impoverisation of the 
entire working class. Rural destitution is resulting in lakhs of 
migrant labour floating around the urban pockets eking out a hand-

to-mouth existence in a state of semi-starvation. The Congress 
calls on the working class to throw off the chains of the 
revisionists, reformists, and reactionary trade unionists and take to 
militants struggles against the attacks on their living standards and 
democratic rights. 

      The present policies have led to the further marginalisation of 
tribals and all forest dwellers, with huge projects leading to 
massive displacements. Mining and dam projects like Posco, 
Kalinganagar, bauxite mines etc in Orissa; Chargaon and Raoghat 
in Chattisgarh, bauxite mines and Polavaram project in AP, 
massive iron mines, and uranium projects in Jharkhand; and other 
such projects throughout the country. The 9th Congress of the 
CPI(Maoist) calls on all forest dwellers to resist till the end the 
massive displacement taking place and protect their land and 
forests from the robbers and looters that seek to seize them. 

      The 300 planned SEZs (Special Economic Zones) are all set to 
create de facto foreign enclaves within our country by grabbing 
lakhs of acres of prime agricultural land by the foreign and local 
sharks. Together with this, to turn urban centres into elite enclaves 
and pave the way for big business retail chains, ruthless 
demolitions and eviction of lakhs of people are taking place 
demolishing slums and even permanent housing. The Unity 
Congress of the CPI(Maoist) calls on the people to resist the 
seizure of their lands and houses and beat back the demolition 
hordes by whatever means possible. 

      The big growth of imperialist capital in the country and that of 
the CBB5 has increased the expansionist designs of the Indian 
ruling classes which are resorting to greater and greater domination 
of the countries of South Asia. The Unity Congress supports the 
struggles of the people of South Asia against Indian expansionism 
and calls on the Indian people to be in the forefront of the struggle 
against Indian expansionism. 

      The heroic struggles of the nationalities particularly those of 
the Kashmiri and North East people, are continuing for decades 
against the oppressive Indian state. The Unity Congress of the 
CPI(Maoist) supports the struggles of the oppressed nationalities 
for their right to self-determination, including secession; and calls 
on the people of India not to fall prey to the hysterical Indian 
propaganda and lend support to these struggles. 

      Imperialist and feudal culture has increased the exploitation 
and patriarchal oppression of women on a massive scale. So-called 
dowry deaths, increased sexual exploitation, and growing violence 
and discrimination by the state, feudal and male chauvinist forces, 
on women, has led to the massive increase on women’s oppression. 
The 9th Congress of the CPI(Maoist) calls on women to rise against 
this crude exploitation/oppression, assert their rights, and stand up 
and fight all forms of oppression and discrimination by organising 
powerful women movements. 

      With greater dalit6 assertion there has been a big increase in 
attacks on dalits, together with the continuation of existing 
discrimination due to the disgusting practice of untouchability. The 
9th Congress of the CPI(Maoist) calls on all dalits to rally under the 
revolutionary banner to militantly resist these growing attacks and 
discrimination on them and mobilise all the oppressed to continue 
the struggle to root out the caste system from its roots. 

      The Imperialist/CBB offensive together with the continuing 
stagnant semi-feudal relations has created a nightmare-like 
situation for the students and youth of the country who are facing a 
bleak future of unemployment, under-employment, cultural 
degeneration, careerism and desperation. The 9th Congress of the 
CPI(Maoist) calls on the students and youth of the country to resist 
these attacks and join the revolutionary movement on a huge scale 
to create a truely new democratic society, which alone can sole the 
problems they face. 

      The massive imperialist/TNC/CBB offensive has pushed lakhs 
of small industries and traders to bankruptcy and continues to do 
so. The 9th Congress of the CPI(Maoist) calls on all such small 
business to lend whatever possible support to the on-going 
people’s war as it is only through the democratic transformation of 
society they will be able to break free from imperialist/CBB 
strangulation and semi-feudal restriction of their markets. 

      The big imperialist offensive, continuing deep stagnation in the 
rural economy, the cruel Hindu fascist attacks and the brutal State 
authority is affecting all aspects of the life of the country creating 
great disillusionment and frustration amongst the progressive and 
democratic intellectuals throughout the country. The 9th Congress 
of the CPI(Maoist) calls on all the progressive and democratic 
intellectuals to raise their voice against all forms of injustice and 
state repression and thereby become a part of the overall 
democratic and revolutionary stream in the country. 

      Finally, the Indian anti-imperialist movement is part and parcel 
of the worldwide movement against imperialism, particularly US 
imperialism. Particularly the heroic armed resistance of the Iraqi 
people and Afghan people are in the forefront of these great 
battles. Together with these growing movements in the backward 
countries and the mass upsurges in the imperialist countries, 
particularly those led by the Maoist parties, is an important part of 
the worldwide anti-imperialist movement. The 9th Congress of the 
CPI(Maoist) lends full support to these anti-imperialist movements 
and calls on the Indian people to strongly condemn the aggressive 
war-mongering policies US imperialism throughout the world and 
supports the people’s resistance, particularly those of Iraq, 
Afghanistan, Lebanon and Palestine. 

      Citizens of India, 

      The 9th Congress of the CPI(Maoist) finally calls on the people 

of India to come forward in large numbers to support the ongoing 
people’s war in the country and the embryonic power emerging, to 
build a truly democratic society built on justice, equality, free from 
the chains of imperialism and semi-feudal bondage. 

 
Unity Congress-9th Congress, 
CPI(Maoist) 
February 1st 2007 

