COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Celebrate the Fiftieth Anniversaries of the Great Proletarian  
Cultural Revolution (GPCR) and the Historic Naxalbari Armed 

Uprising, Centenary of the Earth-shaking Russian Socialist Revolution 
and the Bicentenary of the Birth of the Great Teacher of International 

Proletariat Karl Marx with Revolutionary Enthusiasm and Spirit! 

 
 

 

 

Call of the Central Committee 

 
16 March 2016 

 

Dear comrades, friends of the Indian revolution, workers, peasants, toiling masses, 

 
We  are  going  to  celebrate  four  historically  significant  world  proletarian 
anniversaries within a short span of time. The Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution 
(GPCR)  –  which  is  completing  its  fiftieth  anniversary  this  year  –  was  an 
unprecedented  revolutionary  mass  upsurge  in  socialist  China  led  by  Mao  and  the 
Communist  Party.  It  aimed  at  bringing  each  and  every  sphere  of  the  cultural 
superstructure in conformity with the country’s socialist economic base by arousing 
the vast working masses against bourgeois and other forms of reactionary culture. It 
involved  a  bitter  class  struggle  against  the  entrenched  capitalist-roaders,  it  was  a 
continuation  of  the  anti-revisionist  struggle  of  the  Great  Debate  and  marked  a  new 
stage in the development of the Chinese Revolution. It reinforced Mao’s teaching that 
many cultural revolutions will be necessary on the path to communism by building 
and consolidating socialism. Internationally, it provided the conditions and context for 
a decisive break with revisionism in the  communist  movements of many countries, 
formation  of  ML  parties  and  a  new  wave  of  armed  agrarian  revolutionary  wars.  In 
India, the great Naxalbari peasant revolutionary armed uprising – which is going to 
complete  its  fiftieth  anniversary  –  was  influenced  and  inspired  by  the  GPCR. 
Naxalbari  was  a  path-breaking  event  under  the  leadership  of  comrade  Charu 
Majumdar – one of the two great leaders, teachers and fore-founders of CPI(Maoist) 
comrades  CM  and  KC  –  which  marked  a  new  beginning  in  the  history  of  the 
country’s  democratic  revolution.  The  centenary  of  the  victory  of  the  great  Russian 
Socialist  Revolution  is  also  approaching.  It  smashed  the  political  power  of  the 
Russian capitalist and the feudal classes through armed insurrection and for the first 
time  established  a  new  state  of  the  working  class  and  the  toiling  masses  under  the 
leadership of comrades Lenin and Stalin. It undertook the task of building socialism 
and laid the foundations of a socialist system, thus paving way for the transition to 

 

1

communism. Bolshevik Revolution was guided by the correct proletarian ideology of 
Marxism and a correct proletarian revolutionary party. It adopted correct strategy and 
tactics and carried out relentless struggle against right and ‘left’ opportunism within 
the party and the country. In the course of socialist construction and struggle against 
domestic and international opportunism, Marxism developed into a new and higher 
stage – Leninism or Marxism-Leninism. The bicentenary of the birth of Karl Marx, 
the founder of the proletarian ideology, politics and scientific socialism and a great 
revolutionary philosopher who formulated an entirely new and thoroughly scientific 
theory and method, is also coming near. Marx showed a new path for humanity that 
flourished in the process of bitter class struggle and in struggle against bourgeois and 
petty-bourgeois  ideology,  economics,  politics  and  culture  as  well  as  in  struggle 
against  right  and  ‘left’  opportunism  within  the  working-class  movement.  It  marked 
the  dawn  of  a  new  epoch  for  humanity  that  was  chained  to  class  exploitation  and 
oppression for thousands of years. This made the transition to a classless society – 
and hence to the realm of freedom – a real possibility.  

These anniversaries are important occasions to reaffirm the irrefutable truth that 
the only alternative to wage-slavery, exploitation, oppression, domination, destitution, 
discrimination, disparity, devastation, crises and wars engendered by capitalism in the 
present world is socialism and communism. These are occasions to declare once again 
that  in  the  fight  against  capital,  its  grave-diggers  will  bury  the  old  decadent  social 
relations and build new social ones in their place in the course of building socialism 
to progress to a classless society, thus bringing the prehistory of humanity to an end 
so that the real history of humanity can begin. Those who claim the permanence of 
capitalism and the out-datedness  of communism wantonly forget that humanity has 
spent most of its past in a classless society, has emerged from a classless society and 
is  destined  to  once  again  enter  a  classless  society  by  passing  through  successive 
higher stages under the leadership of the proletariat – the newest, the last and the most 
revolutionary  class  in  history.  Those  who  point  to  the  reversal  of  the  Soviet  and 
Chinese  socialist  societies  willfully  forget  that  the  bourgeoisie  too  had  to  face 
innumerable  defeats  over  several  centuries  before  it  could  emerge  victorious  in  its 
struggle  for  power  against  the  feudal  class.  Ever  since  the  Paris  Commune,  every 
defeat  has  brought  new  lessons  to  the  proletariat.  Learning  from  mistakes  and 
drawing lessons from defeats, the proletariat and its party will relentlessly, doggedly 
and  steadfastly  pursue  its  struggle  against  the  bourgeoisie  as  the  vanguard  of  all 
oppressed social classes and social sections to build socialism in one country and then 
in  several  countries  to  finally  establish  socialism  on  a  world-scale  by  defeating 
capitalism, imperialism and all reaction. Then, after all the necessary conditions have 
matured,  the  society  will  finally  be  able  to  inscribe  on  its  banner  –  “from  each 
according to his/her ability, to each according to his/her want”. So let us once again 
assert in the course of celebrating these anniversaries that there is no alternative to 
Marxism/MLM!  There  is  no  alternative  to  proletarian  party/leadership!  There  is  no 
alternative to revolution and there is no alternative to socialism and communism!  

Three  of  these  anniversaries  –  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  GPCR,  the 
centenary of the Bolshevik Revolution and the bicentenary of the birth of Karl Marx – 
are  going  to  be  celebrated  by  the  proletariat  in  all  the  countries  of  the  world.  Our 

 

2

Party,  CPI(Maoist),  is  a  committed  detachment  of  the  international  proletariat.  It  is 
guided  by  the  scientific  ideology  of  Marxism-Leninism-Maoism  (MLM)  and 
creatively  applies  this  ideology  in  concrete  revolutionary  practice.  It  staunchly  and 
relentlessly  fights  against  revisionism  of  all  hues,  be  it  right-opportunism  or  ‘left’-
sectarianism. It is engaged in a widespread protracted war to successfully complete 
the New Democratic Revolution (NDR) in India as an inseparable part of the world 
socialist revolution. CPI(Maoist) joins the international proletariat in celebrating these 
important anniversaries. It is our bounden duty to celebrate these three great world 
proletarian  revolutionary  events  along  with  all  genuine  Maoist  parties  and 
organizations  and  individuals  of  the  world  as  a  way  of  upholding,  defending, 
following  and  applying  MLM  for  advancing  the  NDR  in  our  country.  To  celebrate 
these events is to grasp the revolutionary essence of Marxism, to emulate the spirit of 
the  victorious  proletarian  revolutions  of  the  past,  to  learn  from  the  positive  and 
negative experiences of the international proletariat, to draw lessons from our defeats 
and mistakes and to rely on our strength for boldly advancing towards completing the 
NDR  in  our  country  in  new  social  and  revolutionary  conditions  by  fighting 
imperialism and all reaction.  

Therefore, these historic occasions should be celebrated by our Party to the best 
of  our  strength  and  ability  in  all  places  where  we  have  our  presence.  All  the  party 
units  should  make  preparations,  put  maximum  efforts  and  issue  calls  to  the  vast 
masses  to  actively  and  energetically  participate  in  these  celebrations.  We  call  upon 
them to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the GPCR from 16 to 22 May 2016, the 
fiftieth anniversary of Naxalbari from 23 to 29 May 2017, the centenary celebrations 
of the Bolshevik Revolution from 7 to 13 November 2017 and the birth bicentenary of 
Karl Marx from 5 to 11 May 2018. If for any reason it is not feasible to conduct these 
events on the above-mentioned dates, they can be organised in any other time of the 
years  of  these  anniversaries  (The  CC  regrets  the  delay  in  issuing  the  call  for  the 
fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  GPCR  due  to  unavoidable  circumstances.  It  should 
therefore be celebrated at any time for a week between May 2016 and May 2017 with 
the  aim  of  taking  the  great  significance  of  GPCR  to  the  masses).  These  occasions 
should be celebrated in the form of campaigns and as Anniversary Weeks. 
 
Comrades,  

 
The world capitalist system is giving rise to acute economic and political crises, 
destruction of productive forces, intensified exploitation and oppression and predatory 
wars  across  the  globe.  A  great  majority  of  the  countries,  nations  and  people  are 
subjected to the growing stranglehold of imperialism, resulting in massive resentment 
as well as resistance among the people. The coming social upheavals are making all 
reactionaries of the world and their institutions shudder. Therefore they are adopting 
various  repressive  and  deceptive  tactics  including  widespread  counter-revolutionary 
propaganda against MLM and socialist revolutions, new democratic revolutions and 
national liberation movements as well as all kinds of people’s democratic struggles to 
pacify and divert the boiling social discontent. In such a situation, our aim should be 
to confront the enemy on a wider plane encompassing ideological, political, military 

 

3

and  all  other  spheres.  The  four  upcoming  revolutionary  anniversaries  should  be 
utilized for this task. We should use these occasions to ideologically and politically 
educate the country’s workers, peasants, students, youths, intellectuals, the oppressed 
social  sections  including  women,  Dalits,  Adivasis  and  oppressed  nationalities  and 
religious minorities and all other sections of the toiling masses. We should call upon 
them  to  rise  to  the  occasion,  unite  and  get  organized  strongly  enough  to  resist  the 
ruling-class  onslaught  by  all  possible  means.  We  should  appeal  to  the  masses  to 
participate  in  the  new  democratic  revolution  and  join  the  people’s  war  in  large 
numbers and more militantly. The message that the new democratic revolution is the 
only  way  for  the  liberation  of  the  vast  toiling  masses  should  be  widely  propagated 
among  them.  This  is  all  the  more  crucial  in  the  present  times  when  Brahmanical 
Hindu fascism in serving the interests of the Indian ruling classes and imperialism is 
more viciously and widely attacking communism and all progressive and democratic 
ideologies, movements, cultures, values, aspirations and practices openly and in the 
parliamentary guise as a part of its general offensive against the people. 

We will have to plan two types of programmes to celebrate these anniversaries. 
The  first  type  is  the  programmes  in  rural  areas  organised  by  our  Party,  PLGA, 
Revolutionary People’s Committees (RPCs) and the revolutionary mass organisations 
(MOs). The second type is the open and legal programmes mainly in the cities to be 
organised  by  open  organisations  either  independently  or  with  other  revolutionary-
democratic  forces  and  individuals.  Our  MO  leadership  should  take  maximum 
initiative for organizing these events. They should take the responsibility of chalking 
out the plan of these programmes with other friendly forces.  

While 

the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  Naxalbari  uprising  has 

international 
significance,  it  is  basically  related  to  the  ongoing  protracted  people’s  war  of  our 
country. Pro-Maoist and radical democratic parties, organisations and individuals at 
all-India and state levels may be willing to come together with us for celebrating this 
anniversary  if  we  make  necessary  efforts,  take  initiative  and  show  necessary 
flexibility.  While  it  is  important  to  try  to  celebrate  the  occasion  jointly  with  other 
forces,  we  should  not  allow  the  dilution  of  the  ideological-political  essence  and 
significance of Naxalbari. So it is better to unite with only those who broadly uphold 
Naxalbari  without  diluting  its  essence.  They  should  generally  be  supportive  of  the 
ongoing  revolutionary  and  democratic  movements.  Keeping  the  above  in  mind, 
maximum  participation  should  be  ensured.  Our  Central  Committee  appeals  to  the 
genuine  proletarian  parties,  organisations  and  individuals  of  different  countries  as 
well as the friends, well-wishers and supporters of the Indian revolution to organise 
programmes  celebrating  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  Naxalbari  in  the  context  of  the 
ongoing protracted people’s war in India.  

Genuine  Marxists  as  well  as  revisionists  will  uphold  and  celebrate  the  fiftieth 
anniversary of the GPCR, the centenary of the Bolshevik Revolution and Marx’s birth 
bicentenary.  So  there  is  a  possibility  of  organizing  these  celebrations  on  an  even 
wider basis by involving many more forces than the Naxalbari anniversary. But we 
should  unite  with  only  those  Marxist  and  democratic  forces  which  uphold  the  core 
teaching of Marx – the absolute necessity of smashing the old state by applying force 
to build socialism under the dictatorship of the proletariat so as to proceed towards 

 

4

establishing a classless society, i.e., communism. This essential teaching of Marxism 
– which was first put in practice in its true spirit in Russia under the leadership of 
Lenin and Stalin – is ignored and rejected by the revisionists and neo-revisionists of 
the  world  and  in  this  way  fight  against  Marxism  in  the  name  of  Marxism  in  the 
interest of capitalism-imperialism. These forces are in existence in all countries today 
and they try to prevent the working class from advancing on the revolutionary road. 
Opportunists  like  CPI  and  CPI(M)  in  our  country  too  do  not  adhere  to  this 
fundamental teaching of Marx. So it is better to avoid uniting with them on the basis 
of the Party banner for these celebrations. We must not forget for a moment that it is 
impossible to advance in the fight against the enemy with clarity, courage and unity in 
the  ranks  of  the  Party  and  the  people  without  a  relentless  and  uncompromising 
struggle against opportunism of all hues. However, those intellectuals who uphold the 
essence  of  Marx’s  teachings,  Bolshevik  Revolution  and  the  GPCR  even  while 
supporting such parties can be invited to our forums and programmes.  

Since  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  GPCR,  the  centenary  of  the  Bolshevik 
Revolution  and  Marx’s  birth  bicentenary  will  be  celebrated  internationally,  efforts 
should be made to organize at least one international program in any of the Indian 
cities on a date agreeable to all participants. We can utilize the event to talk about all 
the  four  anniversaries.  Likewise,  Indian  revolutionaries  should  participate  in 
international  programmes  organized  by  genuine  revolutionary  forces  abroad  to 
celebrate these events. 

It  is  to  be  expected  that  the  enemy  will  try  to  create  all  kinds  of  hurdles 
everywhere to prevent us from organizing these anniversaries, be it in the urban or the 
rural areas. We should be prepared for this and make realistic and practicable plans to 
conduct  these  programmes  successfully  in  spite  of  such  disruptionist  efforts.  We 
should  organize  public  meetings,  hall  meetings  and  seminars  in  urban  areas  by 
depending on our mass base and by mobilizing the people. All programmes should 
aim at taking the ideology of MLM, its relevance in the present conditions and in the 
future and the Party’s ideological-political line to the vast masses. MLM should be 
presented  as  the  alternative  to  all  bourgeois  and  petty-bourgeois  ideologies  such  as 
economism,  reformism,  parliamentarism  and  post-modernism,  etc.  The  necessity  of 
the  world  proletarian  revolution,  the  unprecedented  world-historic  achievements  of 
the  Russian  and  Chinese  revolutions  and  the  great  advancements  they  made  in  the 
history  of  humanity  in  spite  of  later  betrayals  by  the  revisionists,  renegades  and 
capitalist-roaders  emerging  from  the  Party  leadership  should  be  highlighted.  The 
reasons  behind  the  collapse  of  the  Russian,  Chinese  and  other  socialist/new 
democratic states along with measures to prevent similar reversals in the future should 
be discussed deeply and comprehensively. Our views on the scientific theory of the 
proletariat  emerging  from  the  struggle  for  production,  class-struggle  and  scientific 
experiment, the need for applying proletarian leadership method and style of work as 
well as the application of class-line and mass-line should be placed before the broad 
masses of the people.  

In addition, the Party, PLGA, organs of people’s power/RPCs and revolutionary 
MOs should widely propagate the achievements of India’s revolutionary movement 
among the masses. All party committees from top to bottom along with primary units 

 

5

and Party fractions in MOs/united front forums should conduct theoretical study and 
political classes on MLM, Bolshevik Revolution, GPCR and the NDR of our country 
during these occasions. New recruitment campaigns should be taken up by the Party, 
militia  and  MOs  to  replenish  their  strength  with  new  forces.  Torchlight/armed 
processions, rallies, pubic meetings and group meetings etc. should be conducted in 
the  Guerrilla  Zones  by  following  all  methods  of  defense  and  secret  functioning 
considering the likelihood of enemy attacks to disrupt our programs. Similarly, rallies, 
hall  meetings,  public  meetings,  seminars,  etc.  should  be  organised  by  the  mass 
organisations in the cities by mobilizing like-minded forces and the people. Our Party, 
PLGA,  RPCs  and  revolutionary  MOs  should  prepare  propaganda  material,  give 
interviews to the media and publish theoretical-political books and special issues of 
magazines in concerned languages. Books on revolutionary theory and history should 
be  published/republished.  Propaganda  material  of  different  kinds  and  all  other 
publications should in general have a simple and creative style of presentation easily 
understandable to the masses. Fractions in MOs should pay special attention and take 
initiative 
to  bring  out 
books/booklets/collection  of  articles  written  in  a  lucid  style  for  enhancing  the 
understanding of MLM, Russian Revolution, GPCR and our Party history among the 
cadres and activists. Given the significance of the four anniversaries, attention should 
be paid to enhance the ideological-political level of the Party.  

this  regard.  Special  attention  should  be  paid 

Revolution is a festival of the workers and the toiling masses and its victories 
are the fruits of their heroic sacrifices. The upcoming anniversaries too are the festive 
occasions  of  the  masses.  So  their  active  participation  and  involvement  should  be 
ensured  in  all  our  propaganda,  mobilization  and  programmes.  We  must  strive  to 
involve the people to the widest possible extent so that they embrace these events as 
their  own  and  enthusiastically  enhance  their  role  in  the  country’s  ongoing 
revolutionary war.  

in 

 

Comrades, 

 
The international proletariat shoulders the historic responsibility of guiding the 
vast  masses  in  thousands  of  battles  against  the  enemy  through  a  tortuous  path  to 
establish a classless society. Wielding the invincible weapon of MLM – the present-
day Marxism – it will continue to advance towards fulfilling this historic mission. Our 
Party as one of its detachments has achieved some significant successes in the last 
fifty  years  since  the  outbreak  of  the  great  Naxalbari  armed  agrarian  uprising  by 
passing through a thorny path with many ups and downs, twists and turns in the path 
of protracted people’s war. These achievements have been won by creatively applying 
MLM to the concrete conditions of the country, fighting back the continuous fascist 
repression of the ruling classes in collusion with the imperialists and with the blood of 
thousands of heroic martyrs. We should utilize the upcoming anniversaries to uphold 
and  defend  these  achievements  and  draw  inspiration  from  them  to  make  further 
advancements in the people’s war. We should equip, educate and remould the Party 
and the masses with MLM on these occasions and place before them the positive and 
negative  experiences  and  the  lessons  learnt  from  the  mistakes  in  our  practice.  We 

 

6

should strive to enhance the enthusiasm and fighting spirit of our Party, PLGA, RPCs, 
MOs,  friendly  forces  and  the masses through these anniversaries.  We  should  try  to 
gain the confidence of the friendly forces and the people and to win them over to our 
side so that they can be united vastly and strongly against the common enemy. We 
should make all efforts to propagate new democracy, socialism and communism as 
the only path of liberation from the chains of exploitation, oppression, bondage and 
enslavement.  This  is  the  path  shown  by  the  great  international  proletarian  teachers 
Marx,  Engels,  Lenin,  Stalin  and  Mao.  This  is  the  trail  blazed  by  Bolshevik 
Revolution, Chinese Revolution and Naxalbari. On the occasion of the four upcoming 
anniversaries,  let  us  renew  our  pledge  to  continue  advancing  on  this  path!  We  call 
upon all Party units and members to propagate this Call extensively among the people 
and successfully conduct the anniversary celebrations with their active involvement 
and participation.  
 
 

With revolutionary greetings,  

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

         
             (Ganapathy) 
       General Secretary, 
      Central Committee,  
             CPI(Maoist) 

 

7

