Modi’s victory is the victory of Hindutwa, National Chauvinist politics 

 

Dear people of the country build broad united militant struggles courageously to end the Brahmanic 
Hindu fascists and the reactionaries! 

The General Elections for the 17th Lok Sabha ended amidst the noise of the fake promises of the 
bourgeois leaders. No actual problem of the people of the country came forth in these elections. The 
rulers boast that the biggest parliamentary democracy of the world gained victory in fact for which a 
terror atmosphere was created - one lakh crore rupees of money and liquor was spent, caste and 
religious hatred instigated among the people, 25 lakhs of government mercenary armed forces put the 
people on trigger point and 40 revolutionaries and people were murdered in the areas of our 
revolutionary movement. The BJP in the leadership of Modi came to power with absolute majority in 
these elections in the centre. The BJP won 542 seats in the Parliament and together with its allies (NDA) 
won 353. The opposition parties were defeated horribly. While the Congress was limited to 52 seats the 
NDA won 90. The grand alliance won only 15 seats in Uttar Pradesh. On the whole the regional parties 
and others won 99 seats. Naveen Patnaik in Odisha, DMK – Congress alliance in Tamilnadu, Congress in 
Kerala, YSRCP in AP and Mamata Banerjee in Bengal sustained the pressure from BJP, gave a tough fight 
and gained the majority seats. BJP could not see its debut in Andhra Pradesh, Tamilnadu and Kerala. In 
North India the BJP and Congress had a straight encounter where the BJP gained 174 out of the total 186 
and the Congress won only 15. Congress lost in 20 states. 

Assembly elections were held along with the Lok Sabha elections in Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Arunachal 
Pradesh and Sikkim. Without any alternative the BJP came in a sweep in Arunachal Pradesh. In Andhra 
Pradesh, Sikkim Assembly elections anti-government vote was utilized and YSR Congress and Sikkim 
Krantikari Sangathan came to power. The BJD in the leadership of Naveen Patnaik utilized the 
aspirations of the Odiya nationality and came to power for the 5th time. On the whole we need to deeply 
look into the reasons for the grand victory of BJP in the elections. 

The country’s economy was disturbed due to large scale anti-people, pro-imperialist, pro-comprador 
ruling class traitorous policies in the past five years of Modi government. The GDP rate fell to 6 per cent. 
Unemployment rose to 6.5 percent. People faced severe burden due to demonetization and GST. The 
peasantry was forced into helpless situation and is committing suicides in thousands of numbers. The 
workers’ rights are trampled. A large number of small and medium industries were affected. The Modi 
government opened the doors for the imperialists and invited 100 percent FDI into the public sector 
industries. Exports were affected. The rupee fell to 76 per dollar three and a half lakhs of bank loan was 
waived for the big comprador bureaucratic capitalists and the whole burden was put on the poor 
people. It is unleashing cruel violence on the minorities, Dalits, Adivasis and oppressed nationalities with 
its Brahmanic Hindutwa politics. It is unleashing attacks on the secular, democratic and patriotic forces. 
It is imprisoning scores of intellectuals and democratic forces in the name of ‘urban Naxalites’. There is 
no crime that it did not do. As a result the BJP is gradually losing its political prestige. It did not do 
anything considerable in its rule for the development of the country. So it faced defeat in the elections 
to Assembly in five states in 2018 November this trend continued until 2018 December. To avoid the 
impact of the November elections and to win in the Lok Sabha elections it concentrated a very big 
aggressive scheme concentrating all its strength together with Sangh Parivar and the support of the 
domestic and foreign giants and landlords, in a way with money, men and power. Booth management 
was its main policy. It created propaganda to create illusions among the people about welfare schemes 

 

1 

and formulated budget with several fake promises. As the general elections were nearing all the political 
parties were getting ready and the Pulwama incident took place. Taking this as an opportunity the Modi 
government made the Balakot Airstrike instigating anti-Pak war frenzy, fake nationalism and Hindu 
communalism. It took up large scale propaganda that the country is ‘protected only if it is in the hands 
of Modi’, that Pakistan was fought back only due to the daring action of Modi, that we need a ‘strong 
central government’, vote to those who conducted the Balakot attack and ‘Indian Army Modi Army’. 
These forces utilized the incident to the extent of giving an idea that the Modi government had a ‘hand’ 
in the Pulwama incident. It conducted anti-Pak demonstrations all over the country. It brought forth the 
slogan ‘ab ka baari phir Modi sarkar’ (Modi government is the present downpour’. The corporate media 
helped to a large extent. The Modi government also indulged in large scale mis-utilisation of power, 
used the central organisations like the CBI and controlled, split or bent the opposition parties. Since the 
Hindutwa forces gained victory with fake nationalism as the main agenda the aspect of ‘development’ 
was kept aside. Unemployment, demonetization, GST, Rafale deal, the pathetic situation of the 
peasantry and other such fundamental and important problems are neglected. With this the opposition 
parties are isolated and are pushed into defense. All these parties followed anti-party policies and lost 
the confidence of the people. they have internal skirmishes and are weak. 

We see this impact in the North, West and Central India (except Punjab). it is interesting to know that 
these are the places of direct competition of BJP and Congress. The Sangh Parivar deployed its forces 
with this kind of propaganda since a long time and spread to West Bengal and North East. It strongly 
contended with Trinamool Congress in West Bengal and Biju Janata Dal in Odisha. 

The regional parties contended in these elections with NDA together with the grand alliance in Uttar 
Pradesh and Congress in Bihar, Jharkhand, Karnataka and Maharashtra. 22 opposition parties together 
took up the slogan of ‘Modi hatao’ before elections and held few meetings but they could not fight with 
the BJP united from a single forum. So their votes split and none of the opposition parties was efficient 
in facing the pressure from Modi. BJP could turn the opinion of the people in its favor. Congress 
attracted the Muslims in Uttar Pradesh and many candidates of the Samajvadi party were defeated. 

The role of the Election Commission was totally in favor of the BJP and contributed to its victory. It 
formulated the election schedule in favor of Modi and Shah to concentrate its propaganda in few states. 
it was in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal where the elections were held in 7 phases. This helped 
Modi and Shah to take up thorough propaganda in these states. the EC did not take action on the 
violation of the BJP leaders including Modi when they mentioned the Balakot attack repeatedly in their 
election speeches. Moreover it was partial towards BJP in taking actions on the opposition parties in 
several issues. 

The BJP won in Uttar Pradesh basing on dividing the society and consolidated the Hindu vote bank. The 
SP-BJS-RLD alliance and the Congress Party faced great defeat. In Bihar too the BJP alliance gained 
victory with the same experiment and the alliance in the leadership of the RJD failed. 

In West Bengal BJP won 18 of 40 seats against the strong TMC. RSS is working in a planned manner in 
this state for decades. Here too the BJP and RSS worked on consolidation of the majority Hindus. It 
instigated the Hindus on the issue of subsidies given to the Muslims by the TMC government. in the 
name of Durga Puja the BJP organized large scale people’s gatherings. When Mamata Banerjee opposed 
it propagated that she was against Hindus. It thus organized the Hindus, utilized the internal conflicts of 
the TMC and attracted the TMC leaders and activists in a large number. The CPM and Congress activists 
affected by the TMC lent large support to the BJP. Prime Minister Modi and BJP President Shah made 
many instigative speeches in this state. thus the BJP gained considerable seats in West Bengal. 

 

2 

In addition to the above mentioned reasons there are conflicts within the JD(S) and Congress alliance 
government and within the two parties. They were losing ground which the BJP utilized and won the 
elections. 

The Congress party that won the Assembly elections in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh in 
2018 November faced a big defeat in these elections. The Congress party took up reforms like lending 2 
lakhs of loan to the farmers, subsidy in electricity in agriculture and pensions to small and medium 
farmers. Even though there is no opposition towards the governments in these states, due to the 
internal skirmishes of the Congress party BJP could win 62 seats out of the total 65 in these states. 
congress won only 3 seats. 

In the South BJP could not gain a single seat in Kerala, Tamilnadu and Andhra Pradesh. In Telangana it 
won 4 seats. We can understand the extent of opposition from the people of the South towards BJP. The 
intervention of BJP in the Tamilnadu politics since the Jellikattu movement, the AIDMK acting as an 
agent of the centre and other such developments made the people resent it. The people, especially 
youth and students held many struggles against the BJP and the centre regarding the issue of ‘Occupy 
Marina Beach’. The DMKK supported these movements and so the people voted for it. 

The people of Andhra Pradesh were discontented with BJP since it did not provide special status after 
the division of the state. YSRCP in the leadership of Jaganmohanreddy strongly brought forth the 
demand of special category in these elections, the people were against the Chandrababu government 
and so the regional big capitalists supported Jagan. This led to the horrible defeat of the ruling TDP and 
the BJP too lost the earlier seats. 

In Kerala the BJP took up agitations with Hindutwa murder politics in Sabarimala but the people did not 
favor it. In these three states the regional aspirations, the nationality and language characteristics and 
strong regional leadership aspects worked to a large extent. Though the BJP increased its base and votes 
it could not sustain. Especially in Tamilnadu the feelings against Brahmanic Hindutwa, against the 
hegemony of North India and against the hegemony of Hindi language showed impact on the elections. 

In Telangana BJP won four seats in the stronghold of the TRS. Local political conditions too added to the 
Hindutwa politics for the victory in these constituencies. The Congress Party gained 3 seats in South 
Telangana. We can assess the discontent among the people towards TRS. The Chief Minister KCR’s 
daughter Kavita lost her Nizamabad seat. 

The opposition parties did not expose the failures of the BJP along with the collective and economic 
problems of the people and held casteist, soft Hindutwa politics. These parties never gave a tough fight 
to the BJP. In addition to it when these parties were ruling they implemented anti-people policies. They 
gave a lot of promises but did not implement them. They served the capitalists and imperialists and so 
lost the confidence of the people. The people were not at all influenced with the Congress schemes such 
as ‘Jan Hitaishi’ election plan, mainly that in the name of ‘minimum income act’, ‘justice is being meted 
now’, and ‘poor family – 72,000 rupees’. The Congress could not gain the status of opposition party too. 
CPI, CPI (M), TDP, PDP and other such parties lost since they could not gain the confidence of the 
people. TMC fell in self-defense. TRS too had a big blow. The existence of AAP fell in danger. In the North 
East the regional parties turned comprador parties to the BJP and this helped the BJP to gain hold. The 
Modi wave did not work in Kerala, Tamilnadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Odisha. Thus fascism 
came forth in a strong manner in these parliament elections. 

However there was not more than 63 percent polling as per the official statistics in spite of any number 
of circus feats of the EC to increase the polling. This is 3 percent lesser than that in the last Lok Sabha 

 

3 

polling. The actual polling percentage will be much lesser if we subtract the percent of rigging with the 
help of money, men and power and the domination of the government armed forces. The polling will 
not be above 5-30 percent in the states like Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, 
Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and other states where our movement is strong. PLGA fighters in the 
leadership of our Party and with the support of the people conducted many heroic attacks on the enemy 
forces in Dandakaranya, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Andhra-Odisha Border area and Telangana as a part 
of stopping polling on trigger point and self-defense from the police attacks. 35 armed policemen were 
wiped out and 76 injured. In Kashmir even though a terror atmosphere was created in a big way there 
was mere 10 per cent polling in certain areas. the slogan of ‘Freedom for Kashmir’ once again 
reverberated in the valley. In the North East areas also people boycotted elections in many places. The 
people boycotted elections in protest to their unsolved problems in 165 places of the country. people 
pressed the ‘NOTA’ button with the fear created by the exploitive ruling class political parties and the 
government armed forces that if they do not vote they would be branded terrorist or Maoist and that 
they cannot avail PDS or welfare schemes. 

It is said that the NDA alliance gained a bumper majority in these elections that were a fiasco but in fact 
the total votes it gained was only one third of the total number of voters. The fakeness of the BJP’s 
telltale that they gained the votes of all the sections irrespective of religion, caste, area, gender and 
existence is revealed. This shows the bankruptcy of the ‘biggest democracy’. 

In a fascist and deceptive manner Modi gave a message to the people that his victory was ‘India won’, 
‘sab ka sadh, sab ka vikaas, sab kaa viswas’ (development for all with all and with the confidence of all), 
that he would work together with the social sections that did not vote him, that he would not indulge in 
any actions for a wrong objective in the coming dive years and said he leaves it to the people to think 
whether this was his will, dedication or commitment. In no time the BJP government that follows 
Brahmanic Hindu fascist policies, pro-imperialist, pro-landlord, anti-federal and expansionist policies 
shall come out with its fascist naked character with its majority in the parliament. The utmost majority 
of NDA government in the leadership of Modi in the Lok Sabha, the absence of a strong parliamentary 
opposition and moreover the intensifying social, economic, political crisis and the intensifying 
Brahmanic Hindu fascist offensive show the danger of a big offensive on the people in all spheres in the 
name of building a ‘new India’. 

The Modi clique that came to power the second time started to fascise the government by incorporating 
people like Amit Shah into its cabinet and eight cabinet committees. The main agenda of the Modi 
government is to serve the interests of imperialist MNCs, the comprador bureaucratic capitalists and 
landlords of the country and to establish ‘Brahmanic Hindu state’ in the country. 

It means it further opens the country for the exploitation of the imperialists. the imperialists shall take 
away all the natural wealth of the country. for this purpose they will unleash severe massacre on the 
people with their fascist rule. They shall much more aggressively unleash the ‘SAMADHAN’ scheme on 
the revolutionary movement and the movements of the oppressed nationalities, on the democratic 
movements of the religious minorities, Dalits and tribal people and further suppress the people 
especially the tribal and poor people. mob lynching in the name of ‘protection of Cow’ shall be on the 
rise. There shall be more intense offensive on the economic, political, social and cultural rights of the 
people. the slogan of ‘sab ka sadh – sab ka vikaas – sab ka viswas’ means ‘saamrajyavadiyonka unka 
dalaliyon ka sadh – un logom ke vikaas – un logon ka ur jyada viswas’ (with the imperialists for their 
development to gain more of their confidence) but not the confidence of the people. there shall be 
more attempts to establish Hindu state amending the Constitution in the name of ‘new India’. the BJP 
leaders have been propagating that there shall be no elections after 2019. The BJP stated in its election 

 

4 

manifesto that fighting terrorism is patriotism, that they would repeal Article 370 and Article 35A by 
amending the Constitution, that they would totally eliminate Naxalism, that they would implement the 
National Register of Citizenship (NCR) and chase away the Muslim people that came as refugees from 
the neighboring countries and that they would provide shelter to people practicing Hindu and Buddhist 
religions and openly brought forth its Brahmanic Hindu fascist state. all the people must realize the 
great danger of Brahmanic Hindu fascism. The coming days will be more difficult for the people of the 
country. the central and the state governments shall make many more cruel laws to suppress the 
movements of the workers, peasants and the middle class. Therefore revolutionary and democratic 
organisations must prepare for courageous severe struggles against Brahmanic Hindu fascism they must 
expose the Brahmanic Hindu fascist theory. We must make efforts so that the people take up united 
militant agitations in the respective areas. For this purpose our party and all the Mass Organisations 
must make efforts to unite all the revolutionary, democratic organisations, individuals, forces and 
parties. 

In the background of intensification of the offensive on the revolutionary movement and on the 
nationality liberation struggles in Kashmir and the North East we must further consolidate the Party and 
protect it. We must develop the mass base and strengthen the People’s Army (PLGA). We have to 
enlighten the people of the country and build broad, united and militant movements to defeat 
‘SAMADHAN’ or any new strategic multipronged offensive with another name and to preserve the 
victories achieved by our people’s war. We have to intensify countrywide people’s struggles and 
People’s War with the objective of rooting out Brahmanic Hindu fascism and all kinds of reactionary, 
fascist and counter revolutionary forces and establish a genuine Democratic Federal Republic in the 
country. when the people fight in a united and militant manner not only the Brahmanic Hindu fascists 
but any reactionaries of the country is bound to collapse. 

 

5 

