Press Releases of
COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST)
CENTRAL COMMITTEE
(July 2010 - July 2012)

2

Publisher’s Note

We are publishing here the statements issued by the CC, CPI (Maoist)
from July 2010 to July 2012. This period is one of the most turbulent
periods in our country and the world and one of the toughest in terms of
intensification of the offensive of the Indian state on the revolutionary
movement in India. CPI (Maoist) responded to the various political changes
happening in the world and in our country in this period and categorically
stated its stand through these statements.

In view of the historical significance of these statements we have
compiled them and are placing the compilation before the cadres, the
people and all Maoist, progressive and democratic organizations, parties
and intellectuals in our country and abroad who stand in solidarity with
the Maoist movement. This compilation would be useful in informing the
organizations, parties and intellectuals who support the Maoist movement
about the viewpoint and stands of the party on various issues and would
also educate the cadres and the people about the same. The calls given
by the party on various issues in these statements were implemented by
the party cadres and thus these statements had significance in revolutionary
practice too.

In the backdrop of the ruling classes’ foul and vicious propaganda
increasing at an unprecedented scale as part of its psychological warfare
that is itself an integral part of the Low-Intensity Conflict strategy
implemented in our country under the guidance and full support of the US
imperialists, it has become utterly necessary for revolutionary propaganda
also to pose a formidable challenge to it. We hope that this compilation
also would play its role in countering the psy-war of the ruling classes on
the CPI (Maoist) and the revolutionary movement led by it. We appeal to
our cadres and sympathizers and supporters of our movement to use this
as a weapon in revolutionary propaganda in the fight against the foul
propaganda of the Indian State.

3

On the occasion of bringing this compilation, we humbly pay our red
homage to our beloved leaders Comrade Cherukuri Rajkumar (Politburo
member) and Comrade Mallojhala Koteswarlu (Politburo member) who
were spokespersons for the Central Committee and the Eastern Regional
Bureau respectively for their contribution in the field of political propaganda
in Protracted People’s War as spokespersons of the party. We had lost
both these great leaders of Indian Revolution in this period and this
compilation includes statements that paid rich tributes to them.

 July 2012

With Revolutionary Greetings

Central Committee

CPI (Maoist)

4

Contents

Hail the Martyrdom of Comrade Azad
Hail the 6th Anniversary of Party Formation Day
Stay alert to the ruling classes’ attempt to divide us

....
....

7
12

18
21
26
28
32
35
38

40
45
48

on religious lines

....
....
Bandh call protesting the massacres of Kashmiris
....
Defy orders to kill the people of Lalgarh
....
Oppose Obama’s visit to India
Stop Army recruitments in Maoist movement areas
....
Unified Action Plan aimed to crush the revolutionary movement ....
Rebuild Babri Masjid at the same site
....
Protest week condemning the sentences of Dr. Binayak Sen,
Maoist leader Narayan Sanyal, Piyush Guha & Asit Sen Gupta ....
Red Homage to Comrade KG Kannabiran
....
Condemn fake encounters in Odisha
....
Protest week & Bharat bandh against price-rises, scams &

52
state terror
58
Condemn war on Libya, solidarity to people of Arab countries
64
Boycott Assembly polls in 5 states
69
Intensify mass struggles to end institutionalized corruption
72
Condemn state repression on people of Jaitapur
77
Condemn brutal murder of Osama Bin Laden
82
Bharat bandh protesting arrest of three CC members in Bihar
Indian Army GO BACK
89
Bharat bandh protesting arrest of Comrade Jagdish Master, PBM.... 94
Fight back the new state offensive on Chhattisgarh & Odisha
98
Protest week in Central Region against Army Training School
in Maad

....
....
....
....
....
....
....
....

.... 103

....

5

Red Homage to Comrade Pattipati Venkateswarlu
Hail the heroic resistance of anti-POSCO agitators
Red Homage to Comrade RS Rao
Offer for talks by President a ploy to divert from the

.... 105
.... 108
.... 113

reality of OGH-II

.... 116
Withdraw death sentences of Jitan Marandi & others
.... 119
Observe Martyrs’ Memorial Week – July 28 to August 3, 2011 .... 123
Condemn gruesome Mumbai bomb blasts
.... 134
Throw into dust bin vicious propaganda by the state

on Maoist movement

.... 138
.... 142
Condolence message on demise of “Ka Roger” to CPP
.... 144
Bharat bandh supporting “Sakala Janula Samme”
CMC call on 11th Anniversary of PLGA
.... 148
Condemn brutal murder of Comrade Mallojula Koteswara Rao .... 153
.... 158
Revolutionary greetings to the friends of Indian revolution
.... 162
Condemn arrests of Maoists in Kolkata and Mumbai
Scrap the proposal for the formation of fascist NCTC
.... 164
Revolutionary Greetings to NPA for Butuan Raid
.... 168
Chidambaram has no moral right to talk about ‘kidnaps’ by Maoists...170
Expose the sham of 60 years of Parliamentary rule in India
.... 174
Condemn the proposal to ban on Com. Jan Myrdal’s visits to India....178
.... 181
Punish the perpetrators of Basaguda massacre
Sabyasachi Panda Expelled from Party
.... 185
.... 194
Homage to Com. Goru Madhava Rao



6

July  4,  2010
Hail the Martyrdom of Com. Azad, Leader of
Indian Revolution and Member of Politburo!
Condemn with one voice, the Fake Encounter
that took place as a part of the war against

people and Operation Green Hunt!

Make a success the Protest Week
from July 8th to July 14th and

 Bharat Bandh on 13th and 14th of July,

as a part of this Protest Week!

A bright star of the Indian revolution fallen down! Three days back,
Com. Cherukuri Rajkumar (Azad), the great leader of the proletariat who
played a key role in the Indian revolutionary movement for nearly four
decades;  the  central  committee  member  of  Communist  Party  of  India
(Maoist), the Politburo member and the official spokesperson of the Central
Committee, and the beloved leader of the Indian toiling masses, was brutally
killed along with a freelance Journalist, Hemachandra Pandey by the watch
dogs of the Imperialism, i.e. the Indian ruling classes.

Com. Azad had to come to Dandakaranya in the first week of July, to
teach political economy classes to the party cadre. For that purpose, he set
up an appointment with the Special Zonal Committee of Dandakaranya, on
July 1st, in Nagpur town. He even informed the Dandakaranya Comrades
about his arrival on 30th June. The Dandakaranya Committee sent a comrade
to bring him in. But that comrade returned as Com. Azad didn’t turn up at
the specified place and time. The police arrested Com. Azad along with
the journalist Hemachandra Pandey at the wee hours of 151 and 2nd July
and brutally killed them in an ‘encounter’ in Adilabad district of Andhra
Pradesh. As Com. Azad informed that he had started on 30th of June and

7

not reached the particular place on July 1st suggests that, the murderous
and monstrous APSIB personnel might have abducted them during his
journey  to  Nagpur  or  after  reaching  the  Nagpur  town.  The  murderers
tortured them cruelly and shot them up on the same night in Adilabad
district.

We appeal to all to condemn this dastardly murder with one voice. We
appeal all the people to agitate against the cruel and suppressive acts of
the ruling classes, which on one side are hunting and brutally killing the
revolutionaries standing for the cause of the people, and chanting the mantras
of democracy, peace, law and justice with that same blood spilling mouth
on the other side.

Some exploiting powers are trying very hardly to pocket our beloved
country for their will or to mortgage it to their imperialist masters and are
even trying to sell it. As a part of that they are giving out our forests, mines
and the rivers to the imperialists. The innumerable agreements including
the nuclear deal that our ruling classes made with the imperialist countries
and multi national companies stand as naked evidences to this. Digging out
the minerals from our mines is the part of this exploitation only. The projects
on our rivers that are under construction and to be constructed are meant
only  for  the  speedy  shifting  of  our  fortunes  through  the  ships  by  the
imperialists; and the widening roads are to pave the way to exploitation.
The  proposed  SEZs,  corporate  farmlands  are  for  the  interests  of  the
imperialists only. The ruling classes fondly named this exploitation as
‘development’! This ‘development’ is meant for the exploiting classes only
and it is a fact that even 1% of this ‘development’ wouldn’t reach the large
sections of the Indian masses. Because of this ‘development’, our lands,
the land produce, our water resources and our culture have been alienated
from us. This unconditional surrender of the ruling classes is a great shame
to us and it throws us into slavery. These exploiting powers which are
selling our beloved mother land are shamelessly calling themselves as
patriots.

The oppressed people of our country endeavored to demolish this
conspiracy of these traitors in the guise of patriots, and chose the path of
revolution. The workers, peasants, adivasis, students, intellectuals, women

8

and minorities, the true inheritors of this country, are actively taking part in
this movement. The Communist Party of India (Maoist) is the inspiration
to this struggle and stood in solidarity with the struggle, and proudly leading
this movement. Because of this only, in the view of Sonia, Manmohan and
Chidambaram clique, the Party became a serious threat to the internal
security of the country. This clique and its imperialist masters clearly know
that Maoist Party is not at all a threat to the country’s internal security but
indeed a threat to their security and their interests of the exploitation. This
clique is trying to deceit the people and is day dreaming to gain authenticity
to the ruthless suppression that it is launching on the struggling people, by
showing the Party as a serious threat to the internal security. From the day
it dubbed the Party as a serious threat to the internal security of the country,
it is enforcing serious repression on the Party and the people that are
struggling under the leadership of the Party. It is thinking that by making
the people to believe that the Maoist Party as an internal threat, it can
suppress anyone, who opposes its exploitation, by dubbing them as Maoists.
We all see that the government is suppressing the people’s movements
that are not at all in any way related to the Maoist Party, by dubbing them
as Maoist related movements.

To overcome the serious economic crisis that they are facing now, the
imperialists have no alternative other than intensifying the exploitation. As
a part of that they are severely trying to rob the produce of our forests,
especially they are keeping their eyes on the forests of Dandakaranya,
Odisha,  Bihar,  Jharkhand, West  Bengal  and Andhra  Pradesh,  the  rich
sources of minerals. But it’s becoming impossible to them to move the
assets from these areas, as these areas are under the influence of Maoist
Party. That is why; they tried to suppress the movement in the name of
Salwa Judum and Sendra. But the people and our Party defeated the attack
by resisting heroically, and so they put forward the Operation Green Hunt
now. From 10 months to till date, they brutally killed hundreds of ordinary
people, from infants to elderly people, and killing more and more people in
the name of Green Hunt. They are resorting to mass rapes on women,
putting fire to hundreds of villages and demolishing the people’s property.
In Dandakaranya only, they killed 150 ordinary people, put fire to innumerable
villages and resorted to sexual violence on hundreds of women.

9

While killing the general people on one side, they are targeting and
hunting the Maoist Party and trying to wipe out the leadership to the people.
The brutal killing of Com. Azad is a part in that. Com. Azad worked with
strong conviction for the Indian Revolution for the past four decades. He
began his journey as a Radical student and in a very short period spread to
several  arenas.  He  completed  his  M.Tech.  in  Warangal  Regional
Engineering  College  and  dedicated  his  life  to  the  revolution  with  the
inspiration of martyr Com. Surapaneni Janardan and Com. Kondapalli
Seetharamaiah, the then leader of the movement. He exhibited extraordinary
intelligence and capabilities right from his childhood and maintained the
same heights in the study of revolutionary ideology, its implementation and
revolutionary  practice.  He  laid  foundation  to  build  the  revolutionary
movement in Karnataka state. He was elected to the Central Committee,
became the member of Politburo. He worked hardly in different arenas
like ideological, political and constructive work and also worked as an official
spokes person of the oppressed masses, targeted against the ruling classes.
The murder of Com. Azad is significantly notable. For some time, the
home minister Chidambaram, with his high-flown talk, about bringing to an
end to the Naxalite violence and trying to conceal the inhuman violence
that they are executing on the people. While Chidambaram has been waging
an  unlawful  war  against  the  people  of  the  country  and  concealing
innumerable atrocities that he was committing against the people, resorting
to bad propaganda in a big way against the resistance of revolutionary
forces; Com. Azad had been instantly and incessantly made the Party’s
viewpoint and the voice of toiling masses, audible loudly to the world. When
some democrats along with Swami Agnivesh came with peace proposals
recently, Com. Azad put “forward the Party’s opinion. He proposed that to
solve this problem, the Operation Green Hunt should be stopped immediately
and  the  ceasefire  should  take  place  from  both  sides  at  a  time.  While
pretending to continue this process and prevaricating the people on one
side, the Sonia, Manmohan, Chidambaram clique determined to kill Com.
Azad. That is why Chidambaram impeded Swami Agnivesh’s initiation. It
is crystal clear that Com. Azad’s murder was a part of a big conspiracy
and the clique of the ruling classes has no sincerity in peace, peace talks,
and solving the problems of the people.

10

The  main  reason  for  the  murder  of  the  freelance  journalist,
Hemachandra Pandey, who is traveling with Com. Azad, is only to erase
the evidence to Azad’s killing. This is also a warning given by the ruling
classes  to  the  journalists  and  democrats  that  are  with  the  people.  The
brutal murder of Hemachandra Pandey is also a warning to some journalists
and intellectuals who visited Dandakaranya recently and exposed the factual
situation to the world. It is a good example to understand that how hostile
the ruling classes can be with the freedom of the press.

The ruling classes are day dreaming to eradicate the movements by
murdering the leaders of the revolutionary movement. With the murder of
Com. Azad, the toiling masses of our country lost a great revolutionary
intellectual, a great communist warrior, and a great scientist of Marxism. It
is indeed a big loss. But, the people and the revolutionary movement
themselves created and will create a great leader like Azad. Thousands of
the country’s youth will definitely fulfill the loss of Com. Azad by following
the path that shown by him, and will make the Indian Revolution a success.
This is an indisputable historical truth.

We, the Central Committee appeal the people of this country to observe
a protest week from July 8th to 14th, to organize protest rallies, dharnas,
and meetings for five days i.e., from 8th July to 12th July, and to make the
48-hour Bandh, i.e., on 13th and 14th of July, a success. We are exempting
the emergency services like medical services from the bandh. We also
appeal  all  the  masses,  to  demand  in  several  forms,  for  the  complete
investigation of this fake encounter, for the severe punishment to the culprits
of these brutal murders, and for the immediate withdrawal of Operation
Green Hunt.

Sonu
Politburo member, CPI (Maoist)

11

                                              August 30, 2010

Hail the Historic 6th Anniversary of

the Party Formation Day!

Defeat the fascist Operation Green Hunt!!
Come together for a united struggle against

the loot of our country!!!

Call of the Politburo of CPI (Maoist) on the occasion of
the 6th anniversary of the party to be celebrated with

revolutionary enthusiasm and great fervor from

September 21 to 27, 2010

Our  beloved  comrades  and  people!

On the 6th anniversary of our party formation day on September 21,
2010, our PB extends hearty revolutionary greetings to the Party, PLGA,
Revolutionary people’s committees and comrades of all mass organizations
and to the revolutionary people who are advancing the people’s war by
fearlessly fighting back Operation Green Hunt, the countrywide massive
counter-revolutionary military offensive of the enemy, who is bent upon
annihilating our party. On this fervent occasion our PB also congratulates
the comrades in the jails who are bravely facing the enemy.

Our PB humbly pays homage to the more than 10,000 great martyrs,
1500 of them after the unified party was formed in 2004, and 300 in one
year, who sacrificed their invaluable lives for the success of the New
Democratic Revolution in India and for the achievement of the greatest
cause of human kind, i.e. socialism and communism. The fact that a majority
of these martyrs are common people, revolutionary mass organizations’
members and militia member shows how the vast masses of India are
thronging into the revolution.

Since we celebrated our party formation day last year, the war between

12

revolution and counter-revolution in our country has intensified further.
There have been many significant changes of strategic importance in this
period which would affect the Indian revolution for a long time to come. It
is necessary to look into our strengths and weaknesses, the favourable and
unfavourable conditions for the revolution on this occasion and place before
the people and the ranks of the party.

Firstly - starting from May 2009 to July 2010, eight topmost comrades
including PBM and beloved leader Azad and ten state level comrades had
either been caught and killed by the enemy or had been put behind bars.
Many leadership comrades from district level to lower ranks were either
arrested or killed. These losses had all affected our party and movement
seriously. Particularly, losing comrade Azad who had been fulfilling key
responsibilities in the highest committee and had been rendering multi-
faceted services most efficiently in many fields is a great loss.

The formation of the new party in 2004 placed before the people of
our country enriched political, organizational, military lines, a strong party,
a strong leadership, a people’s army, the PLGA and a vast mass base and
struggle areas. This created very favourable conditions for the advancement
of the revolution. Fearing all these favorable conditions, the enemy sought
to crush our party and all the losses in 2005 and 2006 occurred due to this
conspiracy. Yet, the Unity Congress - 9th congress had strengthened the
unity of the party and the party leadership and laid down a thorough plan
for the advancement of the revolution. Though Andhra Pradesh movement
and North Chhattisgarh movement suffered setback and though we suffered
heavy losses in North Odisha, the successes won filled the revolutionary
camp with self-confidence.

The  successful  completion  of  the  Unity  Congress  and  the  later
successes  worried  the  enemy  camp  to  no  end  and  so  the  enemy  had
intensified war on people at an unprecedented level to annihilate the party
leadership. These losses which occurred since 2009 May are larger in
number and more serious in nature than before. However, serious they
may be, in the past 45 years, revolutionary movement had been giving birth
to new leadership constantly and it will do so again. As long as masses
need a revolution, they give birth to its leaders too.

13

Secondly - UPA-2 had launched the fascist ‘Operation Green Hunt’
(OGH) as a concrete form of the multi-pronged offensive strategy. Of all
the offensive strategies formulated by the Indian ruling classes to crush
the revolutionary movement in India, the one which started from mid-2009
(and continuing) is unprecedented, country-wide, most severe, deceptive,
centralized and protracted one till date. The military suppression campaign
is concentrated on our strong rural areas and guerilla zones, especially
Dandakaranya, Jharkhand-Bihar, Lalgarh and bordering areas of Jharkhand-
Odisha, Andhra-Odisha and Telangana-Chhattisgarh. This ‘War on People’
has intensified social contradictions. No other suppression campaign had
earned the wrath and resistance of people as much as the OGH in the past
45 areas.

Thirdly  -  after  UPA  came  to  power  for  second  time,  there  was  a
qualitative change in implementing the counter-insurgency theories which
are restructuring or influencing the state machinery, Indian constitution,
judiciary, legislating bodies, administrative bodies, politics, economy, culture,
media and so on. This is inspired and led by the ‘War on Terror’ waged by
the imperialists under the leadership of US imperialists. This will lead our
country to a disastrous situation. The more they try to wage this brutal war,
the more protest and resistance they would encounter from the vast masses.
Such resistance is clearly seen all over the country.

Due to the struggles waged by us in all the fields and due to the immense
sacrifices of our most revered and beloved three hundred martyrs in the
past one year we have won significant successes. They are:

1. The successful attacks in Singanamadugu, Mukaram (Tadimetla)
and Kongera of Chhattisgarh; Laheri in Maharashtra; Sankrel
and Silda in Bengal; Gumla, Vishnupur and Latehar in Jharkhand;
Sono, government toll plaza (Gaya) and Tandwa bazaar in Bihar;
Potakal and Baipharguda in Odisha, particularly the historical
Mukram (Tadimetla) attack had broken down the initiative of the
enemy and increased that of the guerilla forces. These attacks
had armed the PLGA with more weapons and new experiences
in guerilla war. Tadimetla experience is of the highest level of all
these. If not for this active resistance of our forces and people,

14

the  enemy  would  have  found  more  ground  to  obliterate  our
movement. These great experiences would definitely help us in
fighting back the enemy forces employed for a bigger attack. It
was nothing else but the active support of the people which served
as the foundation for all these successes.

2. The struggles of Kalinganagar, Singur and Nandigram shook the
ruling classes and later Lalgarh and Narayanpatna struggles had
burst forth on an extensive and higher scale than these struggles.
These  were  led  by  our  party  against  revisionism  or  right
opportunism  and  were  waged  against  the  enemy  classes,
imperialists and the state. We had not seen a deluge of such vast,
militant, long drawn mass uprisings in the past 25 years. The
lessons of these revolutionary mass uprisings for the development
of people’s war in our country are invaluable.

3. Lalgarh armed peasant movement which had erupted, spread and
consolidated in a period when the enemy had deployed forces on
a large scale and was attempting to crush the peasant uprising, is
very significant and earned a special place in the annals of Indian
armed agrarian revolutionary struggle history.

4. Vast  masses  under  our  party’s  leadership  have  successfully
thwarted the attempts of the MNCs and CBB corporations to
loot the natural resources in Eastern and Central India. Our PB
sends revolutionary greetings to all the people, revolutionary,
democratic, progressive and patriotic organizations and individuals
who stood firmly in these struggles and promises that our party
would stand in the forefront in these struggles.

5. Our party had conducted ideological and political propaganda war
against the enemy’s psychological war, under the leadership of
Comrade Azad. If our entire party had not fought along with Com.
Azad at various levels, the people’s war would not have won this
much credit. His services in this field are most significant and
paramount. Let us continue the struggle in this field with Com.
Azad’s inspiration.

Along with these five main successes, in some states, we had expanded
15

to  new  areas,  consolidated  party,  PLGA,  politically  and  militarily,
consolidated the existing Revolutionary People’s Committees/Janatana
Sarkars and expanded them in newer areas. All these successes had won
us  the  support  of  many  revolutionary  forces,  intellectuals,  democrats,
progressive and patriotic forces.
Comrades!

Our losses had been very severe. Unless each committee from the
CC to the lower committees and the entire party strives very hard to build
up new forces in a planned manner on a wide scale and continues the
rectification campaign effectively we will not be able to fulfill the losses
incurred, particularly that of Com. Azad and other leadership comrades at
central and state level.

Only when we understand the real reasons behind the losses, we can
prevent them and only then we can strengthen the party as an impregnable
fort to the enemy. To identify the real reasons we have to take lessons
from the experiences of our party and Maoist parties of other countries.
We have to expand and intensify the self-defensive war waged under
the party’s leadership by PLGA, people and by uniting with all struggling
forces of our country and other countries. If we firmly rely on the masses
and make use of our PLGA properly in the war, we would definitely be
able to defeat Green Hunt.

Let us prepare ourselves to wage people’s war with utmost courage
and determination. Celebrate the 6th anniversary of our party formation
day with brimming revolutionary enthusiasm and zeal. Let us propagate
widely the successes won even amidst severe repression in the past one
year.
Our beloved comrades and people of India!

The CPI (Maoist) is issuing a call to all the people of our country to
unify under the leadership of the party and rise against the feudal and
comprador rulers who are selling our country to the imperialists. We cannot
liberate  our  country  from  the  clutches  of  these  predators  without  a
revolutionary party. The party calls upon all the resistance struggles against
the loot of our country to come together which would lead to a broad

16

united front. The fight for land to the tiller, democratic power to the people
and basic needs and against SEZs, displacement, corporate mining, plunder
of our natural resources, price rise, corruption and all such burning problems
have to be carried out in an united manner. We can win only through our
unified strength. As our fight intensifies, the state onslaught on all the
democratic and revolutionary struggles would also intensify. Let us prepare
ourselves for this. Jan Jagrans, Salwa Judums, Sendras and Green Hunts
can never break a determined people or their revolutionary party. Final
Victory belongs to the people.

 Let  us  consolidate  our  party  as  an  impregnable  fortress  and

avoid  huge  losses  to  leadership  and  ranks  !

 Hail and follow the exemplary model battle of Tadimetla to de-

feat ‘Operation Green Hunt’  !

 Let  us  unite  with  and  bring  together  all  resistance  movements

paving the way for a countrywide strong United Front !

 Let us hail and follow the exemplary model of Comrade Azad in
effectively  fighting  back  the  enemy’s  psychological  warfare  !
 Let  us  extend  to  vast  areas  to  fulfill  the  multi-faceted  tasks  of

People’s  War!

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

17

Stay alert to the heinous attempts of

September  23,  2010

the ruling classes to divide us
in the name of religion and

stop killing each other in their interests !
Court judgment on the demolition of Babri Masjid was initially awaited
on September 24, 2010, which has been postponed for a week today. Even
before the judgment is delivered the air is reeking with apprehension and
trepidation. The uneasy memories of that fateful day (December 6, 1992)
are giving fear to all democratic sections in the country and needless to
say, especially to the Muslims all over the sub-continent. Any sane person
who wants to learn history in order not to repeat it is waking up with a start
from the nightmare of our history of communal flare ups. The unprecedented
deployment of police and paramilitary forces in all the states and Union
Territories on the eve of the judgment is creating doubts as to what is to be
awaited from the court which is but an organ of the Hindu religion and
upper caste-biased state that is the Indian government. The callous, cold-
hearted, pro-imperialist, anti-Indian people, traitorous judgment in the Bhopal
gas leak case is sending alarm chills down the spines of concerned citizens
and is issuing warning calls. There is not much in our whole history of
court judgments which could reassure the people.

We, the CPI (Maoist) appeal to all the people of India to stay alert to
the possibilities of a flare up of communal tensions with the instigation of
the ruling classes, especially by the saffron fascist brigades in the wake of
this judgment. Whatever may be the judgment, what they would like to do
is to divert the people from their problems, struggles and political and
economic crises. Since the days of the Partition, many a time lakhs of
Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs and people of other religions and minorities in the
sub-continent had fallen victim to the vicious propaganda of the ruling classes
and massacred each other. In the context of India, the main perpetrators
had been the Hindu chauvinist fascist gangs and the main victims had been

18

Muslims and other religious minorities. The state is not an accomplice; in
fact it is the main actor in all these massacres. The main culprits among
the political parties are the Congress and the BJP.

We  appeal  to  the  people  that  it  is  high  time  we  realize  the
conspiracies  of  the  ruling  classes  in  dividing  us.  Let  us  say  a  big
NO  to  their  scheming.  Let  us  stand  united  against  their  devious
plans  to  massacre  us,  especially  the  Muslims.  However  hard  they
may  try  to  make  us  raise  swords  against  each  other,  let  us  stand
united and turn those swords against those who are trying to drive
this  wedge  of  communalism  between  us.

CPI (Maoist) has been the most consistent among all the political
parties of this country in unequivocally condemning the demolition of the
Babri Masjid and demanding its reconstruction at the same place. It has
stood firmly in support of the minorities, especially of Muslims and Christians
and had put up a bitter struggle against the Hindu chauvinist Sangh Parivar
and the pseudo secularism of the Congress. We once again firmly reiterate
that reconstruction of the ancient, historical monument at the same place is
the only solution to this issue.

We appeal to all the Hindus of the country not to believe the divide
and rule policy of Congress and Hindu chauvinist fascist propaganda of
BJP and Sangh Parivar. We appeal that as the majority community in the
country more responsibility lies in their hands as massacres are perpetrated
only through their known and unknown collaboration. It is the duty of every
concerned citizen of our country to stand in support of the victims of
communal pogroms and do everything possible to stop genocide of innocent
people, whatever may be their religion. We appeal to the people of Muslim
community  to  stay  alert  to  the  opportunistic  attempts  by  some
fundamentalists to stoke the fires instead of taking up a united resistance
of all peoples against the common enemy. Our party stands with people
and would do everything possible to stop massacres of innocent people.
 Stand united against the malicious attempts of the ruling classes to

divide us in the name of religion and community !

 Fight back the communal pogroms on minorities, especially Muslims

19

which may be perpetrated in the wake of the judgment on demolition
of Babri Masjid !

 No more killing of our own brothers and sisters, no more innocence
in being at the receiving end of the false propaganda of all hues of
communalism, particularly Hindu communalism, Indian state and
the US imperialists !

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

20

                                                                               September 23,
2010

Condemn the brutal killings of Kashmiris
who are agitating for their freedom by the

Indian ruling classes !

Participate in huge numbers in the 24 hour

bandh called on September 30, 2010

in protest of the massacre of Kashmiris by the

government armed forces and

in support of the just movement of the

Kashmiri people!

Massacres of people in Kashmir by the state is out bursting all limits.
People are conducting protest marches all over the Kashmir valley against
the innumerable atrocities, indiscriminate firings and endless curfew hours.
The slogan of AZADI is reverberating all over the valley. More than a
hundred Kashmiris have lost their lives since June 11 in the firings done by
the paramilitary, army and police forces to suppress the just struggle of the
Kashmiri people. Most of those who died are youngsters below 20 years
of  age  and  children.  Hundreds  of  protestors  have  been  injured.  The
exploitative and expansionist Indian ruling classes who claim that this is the
biggest democracy in the world are shamelessly deploying the armed forces
to suppress the Kashmiris who are conducting peaceful, unarmed and just
protests.  While  the  UPA  government  led  by  the  Congress  and  all
parliamentary parties including the so called left parties CPI, CPI(M) are
supporting directly or indirectly this massacre of the Kashmiri people, the
Hindu chauvinist BJP is repeatedly inciting the government to suppress the
Kashmiri people in cruelest manner. The Omar Abdullah government which
is working as a stooge of the Indian ruling classes is participating in this
brutal  suppression  and  has  been  completely  isolated  from  the  people.

21

Kashmiri people hate these traitors. Firing, tear gas shelling and lathi charges
on each and every procession have become the order of the day. It is in
this background that the Kashmiri youth are resorting to counter offensive
by hurling stones. This resistance done in self-defence against the brutal
massacres is completely justified and democratic.

Kashmir people had never considered themselves a part of India. By
1947 when a sham ‘independence’ was handed over to India and Pakistan
by the British rulers, Kashmir was an independent state under the rule of
Raja Hari Singh. The Indian and Pakistani ruling classes who are stooges
of the British imperialists had integrated Kashmir into their countries for
their own interests and against the aspirations and desires of the Kashmiris.
One part was occupied by the Indian expansionists and the other half was
occupied by Pakistan. Thus Kashmir was divided into two parts in the
most atrocious manner. In order to cool down the fury of the Kashmiris,
Nehru government had promised to the people of Kashmir and the UNO
in writing to conduct a plebiscite and promised that it would give them
independence if people wanted to secede. Nehru had reiterated this promise
many more times. But within a short time Nehru began suppressing the
Kashmiris under the iron heels of his armed forces. This promise had been
deeply buried by every ruling class party which had come to power from
Nehru to Sonia-Manmohan’s UPA. Indian expansionists had always used
repression  against  the  Kasmiris  whenever  they  agitated  for  their
independence. The Indian ruling classes had been conducting a planned
propaganda that Kashmir is an integral part of India by hiding even the
recent past and burying the promises. The desire for independence has
been simmering inside the hearts of the Kashmiris since then and it turned
into a militant armed movement in the 90s. Many militant organizations
conducted  armed  struggle.  Though  there  are  some  differences  in  the
political aims of these organizations, they got the support of the people
because they expressed the national liberation aspirations of the Kashmiris.
But the fascist Indian ruling classes had deployed more than 7 lakh para
military and military forces all over the Kashmir valley and had already
killed more than 80 thousand Kashmiri people. Thousands of Kashmiris
had gone missing. It is no exaggeration to say that no other government
had carried out such a cruel repression on any nationality struggle by
22

deploying armed forces in such large numbers on such a massive scale.
The Indian ruling classes had resorted to all kinds of conspiracies and
scheming  and  had  ignited  differences  between  Kashmiri  Hindus  and
Muslims using divide and rule policy. They are still conspiring to counter
pose the Kashmiri Pandits against the just movement of the Kashmiri people.
Particularly, the role of the expansionist chauvinist Congress, and role played
by the saffron Hindu chauvinist Sangh Parivar in the past and present is
outrightly heinous. With the excuse that there are pro-Pakistan forces and
Islamic  forces  in  the  movement  of  the  Kashmiris,  Indian  rulers  are
propagating that the movement of the Kashmiris is aimed at seceding from
India and integrating in Pakistan. This is nothing but an utter lie. The only
aspiration of the Kashmiris right from the beginning is to win liberation for
their nationality. That is why, though the Indian ruling classes had been
repeatedly stating that they had put down militancy in Kashmir, in fact, it
had never been extinguished. Though this movement has been erupting
under various circumstances as a response to different problems, the fact
that the main slogan of all these agitations is AZADI is testimony to this.
CPI (Maoist) firmly reiterates that Kashmiri movement for the liberation
of Kashmiris, for their right to self-determination is completely just and
that neither India nor Pakistan have any rights over them.
Freedom-loving  people  of  Kashmir,

Our party supports and stands in complete support of your struggle
for independence and right to self-determination against the expansionist
Indian ruling classes. Our party is sending revolutionary greetings to you
on behalf of the entire revolutionary, democratic and struggling people of
India and salutes the determination you are demonstrating in your agitations
braving police firings, lathi charges, curfews, continuous searching operations
and unending insults. Though dozens of youngsters are being killed in
indiscriminate firings, you are hoisting the dead on your shoulders and are
participating in the funeral marches in thousands all the while demanding
AZADI. Your determination and sacrifice will forever be etched in the
annals of history. Our party expresses deep condolences to all the martyrs’
families, their near and dear and to the whole Kashmiri society who had
lost their beloved sons and daughters to the bullets of the mercenary troops

23

of the Indian expansionists. It is the ruling classes who are trying to isolate
you by branding you as anti-national and your movement as a secessionist
movement who are the real enemies of all the oppressed nationalities and
peoples all over the sub-continent. So let’s fight unitedly against this common
enemy of ours. Let us intensify our struggles.
Justice-loving  people  of  India,

Our party is appealing to all of you to not to believe the chauvinist lies
propagated by the Indian exploitative ruling classes, particularly by Congress
and saffron terrorist brigade against the just struggle of the Kashmiris. It is
appealing to all of you to verify facts and stand in firm support of this just
struggle. We are calling upon all of you to participate in huge numbers in
observing a 24 hour bandh on September 30, 2010, in support of the just
struggle of the Kashmiris and against the massacres perpetuated by the
government armed forces.

The concrete demands of our party in this context are as follows
1. Stop immediately the massacres of Indian armed forces in

Kashmir!

2. Withdraw immediately military and para military forces from

Kashmir !
Immediately repeal the Armed Forces Special Powers Act
(AFSPA)  which  authorizes  the  armed  forces  to  kill  the
people indiscriminately !

3.

4. Plebiscite should be conducted in Kashmir and Kashmiris

should be allowed to decide their future on their own !

5. Release all political prisoners unconditionally !
We are calling upon the people of six states (Bihar, Jharkhand, West
Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh), people of Gadchiroli,
Gondia, Chandrapur districts of Maharashtra and people of Balaghat in
Madhya Pradesh to close down all rail and road traffic, banks, government
and  private  offices,  industries,  educational  institutions  and  business
24

establishments and refuse to attend them. We are excluding essential services
like hospitals and other services from this bandh call.

    Anand

Secretary, Central Regional Bureau

     Abhay
Spokesperson,

      Central Committee,
          CPI (Maoist)

        Central Committee,

 CPI (Maoist)

25

September  25,  2010

Defy the Orders to Kill Fighting People of

Jangal Mahal!

Dear  Friends,

You are the soldiers of the Nagaland Indian Reserve Battalion. You
have been deployed in this mountainous terrain of Purulia district of West
Bengal to fight against the Maoists and the poorest of the poor people who
have dared to struggle against extreme poverty, visible and invisible murders
every day, every moment and against this unjust system. You the Naga
soldiers will be compelled to kill, injure and brutalize the poverty-stricken
people in exchange for a fixed salary to look after your poor parents in
Nagaland. With this monthly income the government of the rich uses you
as cannon fodder in this war against the class of people who are like your
parents, brothers and sisters. The government considers you as ambush
expert Nagas who can easily kill and get killed in the battle-zone of the
Ayodhya Hills of Purulia district in West Bengal. Your precious lives are of
no value to the government of the rich. They think you are like robots who
can be utilized like lifeless machines. And with such a hatred and disdain
the central government has sent you to risk your lives in this treacherous
battle field.

You do not know why this unequal war of the State against the exploited
people continues in Jangal Mahal. But you are definitely aware that this
same State has never stopped its brutal war on the Naga people in your
native land struggling for freedom and justice. This Indian State thinks you
the Naga soldiers are like beasts who are adept at ambushes. So you can
be deployed here for the most risky and brutal war against the uprising of
the people of Jangal Mahal. And as this is a war against the Maoists and
the common people, retaliation shall inevitably kill and injure many of you.
A few years back even after our earnest appeal to your colleagues in
Chhattisgarh not to participate in anti-people operations, they did not heed
to it and many got killed. You must remember that common people in
Nagaland protested then against sending the Naga soldiers to Chhattisgarh

26

to battle against the Maoists. You must keep it in mind that you are inviting
an inglorious end to your lives and infamy to the freedom-loving Naga
people.

Here in West Bengal we the Maoist are struggling against centuries-
old exploitation and oppression. The Congress-led Central government and
the state government here controlled by the fake Marxist CPI (M) want to
sell out natural resources, acquire land and destroy livelihoods of the people
by  any  means  in  the  interests  of  native  and  foreign  corporates.  The
Operation Green Hunt in West Bengal in collaboration with the armed CPI
(M) goons is to clear the land of Maoist patriots and fighting masses. You
have been brought here to fight their war against the people and the Maoists
dedicated to the interests of the poor people.

It is your duty as sons of the freedom-loving Naga people to resist this
conspiracy  against  the  exploited  people  and  their  leaders.  The  CPI
(Maoist) appeals to you: revolt against the Orders to do battle against
people, desist from pumping bullets into the bodies of your brothers
and sisters and defy all Orders to dispatch you from one place to
another at the diktat and whims of your superiors to kill people and
get  killed.

Kishanji
Spokesperson,
Eastran Regional Bureau, CPI (Maoist)

27

October  31,  2010
Oppose Firmly Barack Obama’s visit to India,
who is the Gang Leader of US Imperialism and

The No. 1 Enemy of the World People!

Raise the Slogan in One Voice

‘OBAMA! GO BACK!!’

Loudly Throughout the Country!

US  President  Barack  Obama  will  be  coming  to  our  country  on
November 6. The comprador rulers of India are busy laying red carpet to
welcome him and trying to beautify Mumbai and Delhi. This is a great
insult to democracy-loving, peace-loving and patriotic people of our country.
US imperialism, which has been plundering the poor countries across the
world, suppressing the oppressed nationalities, pushing the notorious thugs
and dictators into the power, bullying those countries who wouldn’t cooperate,
going to any extent to loot oil, minerals and all other natural wealth and
sources, is the no. 1 enemy of world people. Its leader Barack Obama is
such a person whom the entire humanity must hate. As his predecessor
George Bush had accumulated the hate across the globe, US imperialist
masters brought Barack Obama in a plan that people could be deceived
with his skin color. Though Obama was so much rhetorical opposing the
policies of Bush, after entering into the White House, all the policies and
decisions taken by him till this day are nothing but continuation of the Bush
administration. In fact the difference between George Bush and Barack
Obama lies just in their color and in the name of their representing parties.
There is no difference between them in exploiting and suppressing the
world people, oppressed nationalities, countries and working class of the
US. It’s an irrefutable fact that this black color President was selected by
the most notorious white vultures of US monopolistic corporations.

The US imperialists are killing innocent people everyday in Afghanistan
and western Pakistan by indiscriminate bombing and drone attacks. The

28

endless massacres are still going on in Iraq. Obama has proved himself a
warmonger by sending 30 thousand more US troops to Afghanistan. The
US  imperialism,  which  has  stood  upon  the  huge  mountains  of  most
destructive arms which could smash this globe at least for ten times,  has
been instigating wars and waging wars itself so as to keep away its war
industry getting caught in crisis which constitutes the mammoth of its
economy. On the other hand, it’s been issuing threats to Iran and North
Korea in the pretext that they were acquiring nuclear capabilities. Now it’s
targeting Yemen alleging that it had become a hub for Al Qaeda. ‘War on
terror’, initiated by George Bush after 9/11 attacks, is now being continued
without any letting by Democratic Barack Obama with indiscriminate
attacks in the name of dealing with Al Qaeda, Talibans and so-called Islamic
terrorists. Obama did not try to stop or condemn the inhuman attacks of
Israeli Zionists on Gaza, which had become a hell on the ground, and the
conspired  assassinations  of  notorious  Mosad.  Thus  Obama  holds
responsibility for the death of hundreds of Palestine people.

A significant phenomenon that has come to the fore in Obama’s rule,
is that the US intelligence agency FBI has been provoking the innocent
American Muslims, particularly the American youths of Pakistani origin,
for  attacks  and  then  by  covert  operations  it’s  arresting  them  with  all
evidences and propagating its victory in a big way. Thus it’s has been able
to keep the insecurity feeling alive among the masses of America and to
divert huge amounts of people’s money into its ‘war on terror’. By this, the
Obama administration is creating endless waves of hopelessness and despair
among the Muslim community in America in particular and among entire
toiling masses of the US on the whole.

Today, the US economy is caught in a quagmire of severe economic
crisis. Present crisis which was initially ignited as a sub-prime crisis, now
has  taken  such  a  severe  form  that  was  never  seen  after  1930s.
Unemployment rate in US is 10% now which is unprecedented. But Obama
has been pouring hundreds of billions of dollars of money collected from
tax-paying people into the huge bellies of greedy monopolistic corporate
lords by pushing American people, particularly working class and middle
class people into a state of agony. He cut so many schemes meant for the
welfare of the people. Despite all these steps, as there seems no ray of
29

hope of getting out of this cyclone of crisis, he’s been trying to intensify the
plunder of resources from backward and poor nations so as to revitalize
his economy. Now Obama along with the host of rapacious corporate
bosses is not going to come here to enjoy the beauty of Mumbai or Delhi.
They’re going to visit our country only to push more capital here and to
sign many more agreements which would plunder our country’s wealth
further more. Thus, they are eager to plan to push their burden of their
crisis onto the shoulders of India even more. They are coming here only to
give suggestions to suppress the Maoist movement which is the biggest
obstacle in robbing away the resources of this country indiscriminately,
along with all other people’s movements, with more barbarity.

  During  UPA-I,  Prime  Minister  Manmohan  Singh  ignoring  stiff
opposition from the people, had civilian nuclear deal with the US passed
proving himself a trustworthy servant of the US imperialists. The Nuclear
Liability Bill which has been passed by the Parliament recently is nothing
but a continuation of this servility. Regarding the Bhopal gas leak accident
which  led  to  gruesome  death  of  thousands  of  people  and  disaster  for
hundreds of thousands of people in Bhopal, the wounds in the hearts and
minds of the people of India continue to pain till this day. And now the UPA
government has in a most shameless manner dared to prepare this Bill
enabling many more ‘Bhopals’ to make their way and ensuring even if
such holocausts take place, the foreign capitalists responsible for those
would be set free with far less ‘liability’ (just like Warren Anderson and
Dow Chemicals were set free). While BJP has helped UPA government
in passing this Bill, the parliamentary Left parties who call themselves
Communists, have once again proved their compromising nature by not
opposing this traitorous Bill firmly and not initiating people’s movement
against this. Manmohan Singh worked hard to ensure this Bill passed before
the arrival of Obama.

Indian government is acting as a tool in the hands of the US in its geo-
political strategy of encircling China which has been rising recently as a
new player in the arena of international capitalism. The US is one hand
keeping both India and Pakistan of this region in its firm grip and on the
other hand, ensuring the enmity between these countries sustained. It’s
been selling arms to both of these countries and plundering the markets of
30

both countries. It’s been implementing its strategy of global hegemony by
tightening the grip over this region on the whole. Indian ruling classes are
not at all dissenting and thus supporting the regular bombings and drone
attacks of the US on Afghanistan and western Pakistan. In response to
this, US is supporting India’s policies of intervention and plunder in south
Asia region. Now, the Obama’s visit and the warm welcome being offered
by these comprador rulers and other opposition parties are an integral part
of this collusion.

Instead of opposing Obama’s visit firmly, the parliamentary Left parties
are so showing their eagerness and glad to listen this warmonger. They are
cheating the people by saying Obama is not Bush. They are trying to hide
the fact that the difference between these two would be equivalent only to
the difference between a monster and a beast. BJP is singing the welcome
tunes along with Congress showing to its comprador nature as well.

Dear people of India! Democrats!! Welcoming Obama means nothing
but a betrayal to the values of sovereignty, freedom, independence, self-
reliance, peace, justice and democracy. Inviting Obama to our beloved
country means showing servility to its warmongering, invasive, exploitative
and hegemonic policies. That’s why the Central Committee of the Communist
Party of India (Maoist) is calling upon entire people, revolutionary and
democratic organizations and all patriotic forces of India to register your
protest in various forms and to raise the slogan ‘OBAMA! GO BACK!!’
loudly in one voice. On this occasion through distributing leaflets, posters
and banners and conducting meetings and seminars, we also call upon the
people to register your protest to Obama’s visit to India and to oppose the
UPA government and other bankrupt parliamentary parties who’re ridiculing
the  sovereignty  of  our  country  by  bowing  their  heads  before  the  US
imperialists.

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

31

November  25,  2010

Army recruitment campaigns
should be immediately stopped

in areas of ‘Naxal influence’!

Our party, the CPI (Maoist) severely condemns the army recruitment
campaigns in areas of ‘Naxal influence’. Rosaiah, the Chief Minister of
Andhra Pradesh stated that the army recruitment campaigns carried out in
Warangal and Karimnagar districts should be extended to all areas of naxal
influence in the state as these campaigns would be very useful in pulling
out the youth from under naxal influence. This very clearly shows what
the stance of the central and state governments is towards the naxal issue.
Already  army  headquarters  and Air  Force  headquarters  were
established in Raipur, the capital of Chhattisgarh. In states of naxal influence
unified commands have been formed and it was decided that army officers
should lead them. The paramilitary and special forces deployed in these
areas are being trained under the leadership of the army officers and then
sent. All the anti-naxal operations are guided closely by the army experts.
In the background of the Mukaram (Tadimetla) ambush where 76 security
personnel were wiped out in the valiant attack of our PLGA, the central
government had come to the understanding that none of forces other than
the army are sufficient for solving the naxal problem and has intensified
the preparations to deploy the army. These army recruitment campaigns
taken up by the defence ministry are also a part of this.

The central defence ministry which is at present facing a shortage in
forces to deploy army in areas of naxal influence, is trying to fill up the
deficit by recruiting as many as possible into the army in the next two to
three years. The defence ministry is taking up these recruitment campaigns
in a scheming manner as it had come to the conclusion that in order to
decimate the naxalite movement completely local youth familiar with the
local terrain, language and culture of the people are very much necessary
and that they could not fight back the naxalite movement without increasing
recruitment from them. As part of the LIC (Low Intensity Conflict) strategy
32

and tactics it is trying to continue army recruitments by luring the youth
born in areas of revolutionary movement with the ‘promise of jobs’ in
order to damage the unity among the people through bringing a divide and
making them fight each other. The Indian ruling classes want to solve the
naxal problem thus through the army.

In 2005 as part of the counter-revolutionary ‘Salwa Judum’ taken up
with the same goal, thousands of SPOs were recruited from local adivasis
by the government of Chhattisgarh and ignited the ‘civil war’ among the
people. Now all the people of our country know how ‘Salwa Judum’ was
defeated. The adivasi people had vehemently opposed the white terror
created by the Salwa Judum and had defeated it through large scale attacks
on the SPO system it had given birth to. The youth had strongly voiced
their opposition to the ‘SPO job’ which creates a divide between the people.
But the central and state governments which have not taken any lessons
from this are following the bankrupt policies of recruiting youth into the
army by luring with the promise of a job without solving the basic problems
of the people who are fighting for ‘Jal-Jungle-Zameen’ and for the liberation
of the country. Our party is giving a call to all sections of people in our
country  including  the  democrats,  patriotic  forces  and  adivasi  mass
organizations to oppose this recruitment campaign. The governments have
signed hundreds of MoUs to hand over for peanuts the abundant forest
and mineral resources in areas where adivasi population lives in large
numbers to the MNCs and the Indian comprador big bourgeoisie. The goal
of these army recruitment campaigns is to decimate the revolutionary
movement which is very strong in exactly the same adivasi areas. Their
ultimate  aim  is  to  carry  on  unrestrained  offensive  on  people  and
revolutionaries in those areas by using the locally recruited youth as a
shield and destroy the naxalite movement, chase away the adivasis from
the forests and carry on their exploitation without any hindrance. Every
citizen should oppose the attempt to build the army from sections of the
oppressed people to suppress and annihilate the adivasis and the oppressed
people.

Our party is calling upon the youth to boycott these army recruitment
campaigns. If they had already been selected, we appeal to them to take

33

the interests of their people and their class to heart and cancel the selections.
In the name of patriotism and by propagating that Maoists are the ‘biggest
threat to internal security’ the Indian ruling classes are filling the brains of
the youth with poison and are trying to realize their interests by making
them cannon fodder. The people of Kashmir and North-East states would
tell you what would happen if army is deployed. People would be killed,
tortured, incarcerated in sibirs, women would be raped and become victims
of innumerable atrocities, thousands would be arrested and put in jails –
this is what would happen if the army is deployed and it has been proven in
history that this had never ensured security for the people. So our party is
appealing to the youth not to join the army which leads to the destruction of
property and dignity and lives of their parents, brothers and sisters. Please
do not become the enemies to your own people.

Our party is calling upon the unemployed youth, their organizations,
students and student-youth organizations to resort to united action to solve
the unemployment problem. Our party is appealing to the people to fight
with the slogans ‘Provide us with jobs other than the jobs of police, home-
guard and army’ and ‘Jobs to all the deserving’. They should fight against
unemployment,  hunger,  ill-health,  illiteracy,  poverty,  corruption  and
displacement problems. The youth should realize the solution to several
basic issues like right to land, water and forest is linked to the liberation of
the country and should join the People’s Liberation Guerilla Army (PLGA)
in thousands.

Pratap
Spokesperson,
Central  Regional  Bureau, CPI  (Maoist)

 

34

November  27,  2010

Unified Action Plan

To ‘Develop’ Maoist Stronghold Districts
Is Not Aimed To Solve Any Basic Problems

Of The People,

But To Crush The Revolutionary Movement!
Punish Traitors Severely, Who Are Involved In
Scams Of Billions Of Rupees Of Hard Earned

People’s Money!!

Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, yesterday on 26th November,
has approved Central Planning Commission’s Rs 137.42 billion ‘Unified
Action Plan’ to ‘develop’ naxal affected areas. Two year long, Rs. 33
billion package of the first phase announced by Home Minister is to spend
Rs 250 millions in each of the districts of the 9 naxal affected states in the
year 2010-11 and Rs. 300 millions for each of the districts in the year 2011-
12. He said cabinet committee will review it after 2 years. These rulers
claim that, by providing basic amenities in these poor tribal districts, where
more than 50% of the population live below poverty line, want to achieve
‘development’ and thus aim to solve naxal ‘problem’. As per them, basic
‘amenities’ include primarily roads, later panchayat buildings, electricity,
school buildings, education and health. On the one hand, since one year
these rulers, in the name of Operation Green Hunt, have deployed more
than 200 thousands of paramilitary forces and massacred hundreds of tribal
people, now on the other hand, in these same areas want to spend millions
of rupees. Is it for the benefit of people? Or is it to further its repression on
the people? It is easy to understand. While making this announcement,
Home Minister P. Chidambaram insisted to spend all the money by end of
the March next and show ‘development’. Involving police department in

35

the  programme  and  placing  district  superintendents  of  police  in  these
committees is nothing but an effort to put a ‘developmental’ mask to their
fascist repressive measures. Is construction of roads and buildings for
‘people living below poverty line’? Or is it to facilitate state’s armed forces,
which are carrying out killings at will and crushing their right to live. Any
adivasi living in these areas can answer this question. Hiding the fact that,
by occupying the buildings of educational institutions, armed forces have
themselves become a great hindrance to the very education, want to spend
billions of rupees to improve educational facilities is an outright deceit.
These rulers never bothered, at the loss of lives of adivasis every year for
minor diseases like diarrhea and fevers can not be trusted, when want to
improve medical facilities under these packages.

In fact, since the last two months not a single day passed without the
news of scams. People are witnessing, how tens of billions of people’s
money is being whacked away by corrupt political leaders, ministers, big
bureaucrats, corporate bosses and noted media barons. These rulers, who
shout on top of their voice that Maoists are the biggest internal security
threat and their bankrupt intellectuals who beat the drums in unison are the
real  big  dacoits. This  can  be  easily  realised  without  referring  history.
Commonwealth Games scam (nearly one billion rupees), 2G spectrum scam
(above one billion rupees), Adarsh housing society scandal, Karnataka land
scams etc. are enough of evidence. Congress, BJP, DMK, Janata Dal like
exploitative ruling class parties are all, without exception, part of this outright
plunder. All these scams are more nakedly and blatantly getting exposed
before the people. Maoist understanding that the only way out is to smash
this deep-rooted, corrupt, exploitative system completely is day by day
getting  more  people’s  acceptance. This  is  what  is  threatening  these
exploitative ruling classes.

By all these scams, which are visible to naked eye, one can easily
guess to where and in whose pockets millions of rupees of money by these
economic packages would end up. It’s worth noting that these rulers are
not afraid of the people that they will mock at them, when they say that
‘development’ will take place by these economic packages. If we note the
fact  that  Montek  Singh Ahluwalia,  vice-chairperson  of  the  planning
commission, who, designed this economic package, Chidambaram, who
36

approved it, both of them have sincerely and reliably served in imperialist
financial institutions and imperialist corporate houses and the leader of this
ruling clique, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who himself spent most of
his life in the service of imperialist financial and monetary institutions, then
it is easy to understand who will be the end beneficiary. On the one hand,
signing hundreds of billions of rupees of MOUs with corporations, facilitating
the plunder of country’s resources in tribal areas, threatening the very
existence of tribal populations, turning a deaf ear to the demand by the
people and democratic forces to make all MOUs public and cancel them
all, on the other hand, talking of ‘Development’ is a big joke.

We, the Central Committee of CPI (Maoist) severely oppose this anti-
people ‘Unified Action Plan’. Our CC feels that this is a part of the fascist
repressive  campaign  by  the  centre  and  state  government-sponsored
Operation Green Hunt and facilitate it further. The claim that, backward
areas will be developed is a farce, a deceit. The governments, if at all
sincere, should first give all rights over Jal-Jungle-Jameen to adivasis
and poor people; cancel all MOUs signed with MNCs and big corporate
companies; stop all those projects of big dams, mines, sanctuaries, big steel
plants and SEZs which would displace hundreds of thousands of people;
and stop Operation Green Hunt immediately under which adivasis are
being massacred.

On this occasion, our Central Committee demand to arrest and punish
severely all those political leaders, ministers and corporate houses’ heads
involved in Commonwealth Games scam, Adarsh housing society scam,
Karnataka land scams etc.; and all those saffron terrorist leaders involved
in Malegaon, Ajmer Sharif, Mecca Masjid etc. bomb explosions.

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

37

Rebuild Babri Masjid At The Same Site!
Isolate And Defeat Hindu Fascist Forces!!

December  4,  2010

Punish Severely Saffron Terrorists

Responsible For Malegaon, Mecca Masjid,

Ajmer Sherief And Samjhouta Express

Bomb Blasts!

Exactly  18  years  ago,  on  6th  December,  1992,  Hindu  religious
fundamentalist goondas in connivance with the then Congress government
at the centre, demolished Babri Masjid at Ayodhya. Firstly, these Hindu
fundamentalists made 500 year-old Babri Masjid a controversial site by
claiming it as the birth place of Lord Rama and on that pretext many a time
instigated  communal  disturbances  in  the  country  killing  thousands  of
Muslims. Demolition of Babri Masjid was the biggest attack by Hindu
fascists in the history of our country. The likes of LK Advani, Ashok Singhal,
Murali Manohar Joshi, Praveen Togadiya, Uma Bharati, Sadhvi Ritambara,
who were directly involved in it were not punished by any court even till
today. On 30th September, giving its verdict on the ownership rights of the
controversial site, pending for 61 years, the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad
High Court with its Brahminical Hindu religious ideology did injustice to
Muslims. Without any historical evidence and archeological proof it stated
the controversial place to be the birth place of Lord Rama. First occupying
Masjid, then demolishing, now by giving verdict to build temple, that too to
handover the very forces involved in demolition, clarifies Indian state’s
Hindu fascist mindset. By this verdict, once again it has been proved that
the Houses of justice in this country favour only exploitative classes and
Brahminical Hindu religious fanatics, but not peasants, workers, dalits,
women and religious minorities. By court verdicts a solution to this cannot
be found, only by smashing the present system and by establishing New
Democratic State, a solution to this can be found.

In the recent past, many evidences surfaced proving the involvement
of saffron terrorist groups of the Sagh Parivar in bomb blasts at Malegaon,

38

Ajmer  Sherief,  Hyderabad’s  Mecca  Masjid,  Samjhouta  express.   The
leaders of VHP, RSS, Bajarang Dal and other organizations on the proxy
name of ‘Abhinav Bharat’ conspired bomb blasts and killed many innocent
people. It has become a norm for the police and intelligence agencies to
blame Muslims as culprits, wherever and whenever bomb blasts take place,
even if at Masjids. Arresting hundreds of youth without any reason and
severely torturing, killing in fake encounters, implicate false cases, accusing
of having links with ISI and thus playing with the lives is part of the Hindu
communal and fascist policies of the governments. By projecting every
Muslim as a terrorist through media, governments are trying to suppress
them by all means. Those who demand to hang Ajmal Kasab who is involved
in Mumbai attacks, at the same time keeping mum or not raising their voice
loudly against Hindu fascist killers of Sangh gang is a dangerous sign.
Governments are not arresting these saffron terrorists, even if they arrest
a few on some occasions, are setting them free declaring innocent by not
conducting thorough probe. On the other hand, those intellectuals, journalists,
media organizations, newspapers and activists who dare to raise their voice
against these Hindu fundamentalist forces are being attacked by Sangh
gang at several places. On the whole, the communal fascistic trends of the
Indian state are taking a severe form day by day.

Secular forces of all religions, democrats and progressive thinkers
should come forward and fight unitedly against Hindu communal fascism.
All of us must condemn the attacks of Hindu fascist forces on Muslims,
Christians and all other religious minorities. At the same time all other
kinds of religious fundamentalism should be opposed.

Our Party has been maintaining that the place of Babri Masjid belonged
to Muslims; it should be given to Muslims and has been demanding that
Babri Masjid should be rebuilt at the same site and those fascist leaders
who had demolished it must be punished severely. Our Central Committee
calls upon all democratic, secular, progressive and revolutionary forces,
organizations and parties to support this demand. Our CC also calls upon
entire people to observe ‘BLACK DAY’ on December 6, by conducting
meetings and processions and wearing black badges in protest of Hindu
communalism.

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)
39

December  24,  2010

Serving people is not conspiracy!

Supporting people’s struggles can never be

sedition!!

The Scamsters who amass billions of rupees are

the real conspirators!

The Gangsters who sell-out our country to imperialists

are the real traitors!!

Observe Protest Week from January 2nd to 8th,  2011  against
the fascist Chhattisgarh government’s court judgments that

sentenced  Civil  Rights  activist  Doctor  Binayak  Sen,
Maoist leader Narayana Sanyal, trader Piyush Guha

under sedition for life imprisonment and

magazine editor Asit Sengupta for eight years imprisonment!

On December 24, the Raipur district additional sessions court sentenced
for life civil rights activist Dr. Binayak Sen, our party Politburo member
Comrade Narayan Sanyal, trader Piyush Guha under IPC, Chhattisgarh
Special Public Security Act and UAPA implicating them in false cases.
The life sentences were pronounced by B.P. Verma under IPC section
124 (sedition), 120 B (conspiracy) and many other kinds of sentences were
pronounced under various sections of CSPCA and UAPA. The eight year
sentence  for Asit  Sengupta  was  pronounced  on  the  same  day  by  O.P.
Gupta. Both these judgments are the latest additions to the huge cache of
anti-people, fascist repressive measures of the Indian ruling classes.

Sentencing for life our party Politburo member Comrade Narayan
Sanyal, Binayak Sen, a doctor who had dedicated his life as a doctor serving
the poor people selflessly, a prominent civil rights activist and the vice-
president of PUCL and Piyush Guha, a trader belonging to Kolkata is the
most shameless thing for the rulers to do even while boasting that this is
the biggest democracy in the whole world. Opposing the repressive policies

40

of the government, the fascist Salwa Judum, raising his voice for the repeal
of  the  black  law  CSPSA  and  standing  in  support  of  the  just  peoples
movements are the ‘crimes’ committed by Dr. Binayak Sen for which he
has been punished with life sentence. When he was arrested in May 2007
and kept in jail for two years, immense protests were held and severe
condemnations were issued by democratic sections, medical community,
Nobel laureates and many others in India and abroad. Pronouncing this
sentence ignoring all this can only mean that the fascist rulers are without
any  scruples  or  embarrassment  issuing  a  threat  to  all  the  democratic,
progressive and patriotic sections of our country. If responding positively
towards people’s issues in a legal, democratic manner, serving the people
sincerely  and  criticizing  the  anti-people  policies  of  the  government  is
‘sedition’, then one can imagine what kind of ‘democracy’ is being practiced
in this country and how dangerous it is for the people. The eight year
sentence for Asit Sengupta (editor of the Hindi version of ‘A World To
Win’ which is published in various languages all over the world) who is
languishing in jail since three years with the false accusation that he was
participating in Maoist activities is nothing but stifling the Freedom of Press.
Recently, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Raman Singh, DGP Viswaranjan,
Bastar  IG  Longkumer  and  Dantewada  SP  Kalluri  gang  had  published
pamphlets under the name ‘Maa Danteswari Adivasi Swabhimani Manch’
and had openly declared that they would kill journalists SRK Pillai, Anil
Sharma and Yaswant Rai along with democrats Himanshu Kumar and
Arundhati Roy and had the audacity to declare that it is indeed their own
doing! So much for the ‘rule of law’ harped upon by our rulers day in and
day out!

Comrade Narayan Sanyal, a 73-year old veteran communist who began
his revolutionary life in 1968 and has dedicated more than four decades of
his life for the liberation of the oppressed people, is ailing with various
health problems and has been languishing in the dark dungeons of the
fascist Chhattisgarh government since five years. The Sonia-Manmohan-
Chidambaram-Raman Singh terrorist gang is killing Maoist leaders in fake
encounters and sentencing many of them to harsh punishments under black
laws. They are subjected to physical and mental tortures in the inhuman
conditions prevailing in jails.

41

On July 29, 2010, our party activist Comrade Malati @ Santi Priya
and a worker Surendra Kosaria were sentenced to ten years imprisonment
using false witnesses under the case that Maoist propaganda CDs were
sent to the MLAs. Amitabh Bagchi, a Politburo member of our party and
Comrade Kartik, a state committee member of West Bengal, incarcerated
in Ranchi jail, were also sentenced to life imprisonment through fast track
court in Jharkhand. On October 29, the AP government sentenced Comrade
Panduranga Reddy and three others to four years imprisonment in the
Alipiri case (attack on ex-CM Chandrababu) using false witnesses. Many
more revolutionary activists and ordinary people are being sentenced to
very harsh punishments including capital punishment by the reactionary
courts serving the exploiting ruling classes. Comrades Sushil Roy and Kobad
Gandhi who are senior leaders and ailing with various health problems and
old  age;  comrades  Shobha,  Patitpavan  Haldar,  Pramod  Mishra, Vijay,
Asutosh,  Balraj,  Chintan,  Biman,  Bidhan,  Chandi  Sarkar,  Balganesh,
Jharkhand Abhen’s Jeetan Marandi and thousands of other comrades are
denied bail, being implicated in false cases one after another and made to
languish in jails for years together. In West Bengal, Comrade Swapan Das
arrested under UAPA was denied health care in Jail and became the first
martyr of this draconian law.

The UPA government bent on selling our natural and human resources
to imperialist MNCs like Vedanta and to comprador bourgeoisie like Tata,
Essar, Jindal, Mittal etc has declared CPI (Maoist) as the biggest internal
security threat as it is standing in their way offering stiff resistance to this
unlimited loot. As part of this, the government is carrying on vicious foul
propaganda using its propaganda machine. Since August 2009, in the name
of Operation Green Hunt the central and state governments are resorting
to brutal attacks on the revolutionary movement and particularly adivasis
are being massacred by deploying millions of police and paramilitary forces
in Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal
and other states. This offensive is carried on under the guidance and full
support of imperialists, particularly the US imperialists. The exploiting rulers
are using every means at their disposal to portray our party which is fighting
with the lofty aim of establishing people’s government of democratic classes
basing on the unity of worker-peasants by overthrowing the imperialists,

42

bureaucratic comprador bourgeoisie and the feudal classes, as ‘terrorist’
and ‘traitor’.  Why are the ministers, political leaders, big bourgeoisie and
their brokers, the real traitors who are amassing billions of rupees in scams
and stacking them in Swiss Banks shamelessly roaming in the corridors of
power not booked under SEDITION? Why are all those criminals who
perpetrated  and  facilitated  the  Bhopal  Gas  Tragedy  not  called
CONSPIRATORS? How could striving for the liberation of the toiling
masses become SEDITION? How could democrats who raised their voices
and pens in support of people’s movements be called CONSPIRATORS?
These sentences are nothing but a part of the bigger conspiracy of the
ruling classes to eliminate all kinds of hurdles to their anti-people, unpatriotic
and immoral neo-liberal economic policies. This is an alarm signal that
fascist repression would intensify further in the near future. These judgments
are an eye opener for those who believe and get deceived innocently that
there is still some semblance of democracy in this country. Though the
overt statements of the ruling gang declare that Maoist movement is their
prime target, what is happening in reality is a fascist onslaught on progressive
and democratic forces who wish for the welfare of the people and aspire
to protect the interests of our country vis-à-vis the imperialists. Our party
is appealing to the people to stand united against this offensive and defeat
it through a determined fight.

The comprador governments are resorting to suppression of people’s
movements and nationality liberation struggles using black laws like UAPA,
CSPCA,  MCOCA  and AFSPA  following  in  the  footsteps  of  the  US
government which promulgated black laws like the Homeland Security
Act. The reactionary legal system which had never bothered to book or
sentence the saffron terrorists who had killed many innocent people in the
Mecca Masjid, Malegaon and Ajmer Sharif bomb blasts or the scamsters
and political gangsters involved in scams like 2G Spectrum (worth 1,76,000
crores  of  rupees),  Commonwealth  games, Adarsh  housing  society,
Karnataka  lands  and  dozens  and  dozens  of  other  scams  are  eagerly
sentencing revolutionaries, people’s leaders, democrats and activists of
national liberation movements in Kashmir and North-East.

The CPI (Maoist) Central Committee is appealing to all democratic,

43

patriotic forces, national liberation activists and to all civil rights activists,
organizations, students, intellectuals, teachers, writers, artistes, doctors,
lawyers, media friends, workers and peasants to come out on the streets
condemning and opposing these judgments delivered through the reactionary
legal system by the collusion of the UPA government at the centre and the
BJP government in Chhattisgarh. We appeal to all of you to build united
and militant agitations demanding the immediate repeal of UAPA, CSPCA,
MCOCA and AFSPA. We appeal to all the progressive, democratic and
revolutionary organizations, communities and individuals of various countries
to condemn in severe terms this criminal act of the Indian ruling classes
and express their vigorous protest in various democratic struggle forms. In
the past the international community stood in strong solidarity with the
Indian people’s movements and had condemned the arrest of Binayak Sen
and demanded his immediate release. Now the time has come for it to play
this role more solidly.

Our party calls upon the people to observe protest week all over the
country from January 2 to 8 against these judgments by creatively taking
up  various  protest  activities  including  press  conferences,  statements,
dharnas,  rasta  rokos,  meetings,  protest  rallies,  processions,  signature
campaigns, wearing black badges, waving black flags, burning of effigies
etc., and to take up legal battles condemning severely the anti-people,
traitorous and fascist policies of the ruling classes.

Our party is calling upon all our ranks, PLGA forces and revolutionary
mass organizations to take up various protest forms on this occasion by
mobilizing vast masses.

Our Central Committee is making it very clear that no call for bandh is
being given as part of this protest week and is requesting the people and
media not to believe the deliberate propaganda of the police to portray this
as a bandh call.

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

44

January  5,  2011

Revolutionary homage to Civil Liberties

leader Comrade KG Kannabiran!

KG Kannabiran (KGK), the civil liberties leader, democrat and close
friend of Indian revolution, breathed his last on 30 December, 2010 in
Hyderabad. He was 82. His demise had left a void in the civil liberties
movement of India. Kannabiran’s whole life was dedicated to the civil
rights movement and he fought on behalf of the poor people in the bourgeois
courts to protect them from the injustices of this system. He stood firmly
with the oppressed people fighting state violence on them. He always stood
in  support  of  the  revolutionary  masses.  KGK’s  life  was  inseparably
intertwined with the more than four decade long revolutionary movement
in our country. He did not cave in even in the face of severe repression on
the civil liberties movement in Andhra Pradesh or all over India. In this
whole period he stood firmly with the oppressed people fighting state violence
on them. He was not only a civil rights leader but also an efficient and bold
lawyer who undauntedly argued for the just things he stood for. In the post
70s, he left an indelible mark as a rare personality who had carved a niche
in the field of civil liberties and also as a people’s lawyer in India.

Kannabiran was influenced by communist politics in his youth and
since the wake of Naxalbari he walked in step with the revolutionary
movement  in  our  country  waged  under  the  leadership  of  Maoists.
Kannabiran’s activity as a civil rights leader started in the 1970s and his
services in this field continued for four decades. After emergency he took
up  responsibilities  as  the  President  of Andhra  Pradesh  Civil  Liberties
Committee (APCLC) in 1978 and served in that post till 1993. He was
elected the national president of People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL)
in 1994 and served in that post till last year. In this course he came closer
to the revolutionary movement as the well-wisher of the oppressed people.
He proved since the dark days of the emergency period of Indira raj that
the “encounters” staged by the state are nothing but brutal murders. Even
in his last days, as an unflinching civil rights leader he strongly raised his
voice against the brutal murders of Comrades Rajkumar (Azad), Patel

45

Sudhakar, Apparao and accused the state of perpetrating these murders.
Since the days of emergency, KGK had stood in full support to all the
agitations led by prisoners and political prisoners. During the historic jail
agitation  led  by  Maoist  political  prisoners  in  1994-1995  in AP,  KGK
participated in the talks with the government. Thus he strived for the release
of hundreds of prisoners which included several revolutionary leaders. Due
to the legal services offered by KGK, a number of prisoners could escape
the dark dungeons of the jail and gallows. Many among them had once
again joined the revolutionary movement. In his last days, he worked as
the President of Andhra Pradesh chapter of Committee for Release of
Political Prisoners (CRPP).

KGK  had  persistently  argued  in  courts  for  years  together  in  the
Parvatipuram, Srikakulam, Secunderabad, Ramnagar and Bengaluru and
several  other  conspiracy  cases  and  had  proved  that  revolution  is  no
conspiracy and that revolutionaries are not conspirators. He offered free
legal service to poor people on whom false cases have been foisted. KGK’s
legal service were not limited to AP alone, he freely offered his services to
the dalits and poor peasants who fought against age-old feudal oppression
in Bihar and other struggle areas. Due to his services, many peasants
could escape the gallows. The revolutionary masses, dalits, adivasis and
national liberation activists would always fondly remember KGK for the
legal services he rendered to their movements as well as the moral support.
He gave material help to fellow civil rights activists’ families when the
activists faced state repression. The values and standards he established
in his 50 year career as a lawyer are of a higher quality and worth emulating.
KGK propagated about the callousness of the state in the Indravelli
massacre of adivasis in Adilabad, the burning of adivasi villages in Manyam
of Eastern Ghats and other atrocities on them. From the 1980s till Operation
Green Hunt, the latest offensive of the state on the fighting masses, KGK
had consistently and staunchly fought against the state terror on the adivasis
and was in the forefront in building a country-wide democratic movement
against it.

KGK played a crucial role during the talks between the CPI (Maoist)
and the government in AP in 2004. He criticized the government when it

46

withdrew from the talks and began a grave offensive on the Maoists and
exposed the sham behind its mantra of peace chanted till then. Even when
the revolutionary movement faced a setback in AP he fought firmly against
state violence and inspired others.

KGK was a voracious reader and a prolific and creative writer. He
wrote extensively against state violence and on people’s issues. He wrote
on the anti-people provisions in the constitution and the inadequacies in the
laws. Particularly during his last days his writings on revolutionary leaders
who were brutally murdered by the state eulogizing their contributions had
earned an eternal place in the hearts of the oppressed masses.

The Central Committee of CPI (Maoist) expresses its deep grief at
the demise of Comrade Kannabiran and humbly pays revolutionary homage
to him on behalf of the whole revolutionary camp. It is sending its deep
condolences to his family members, colleagues in the civil liberties movement
and friends. Our party sees this decades-long service of KGK for genuine
democracy, independence and oppression-free India as an inseparable part
of the broader movement for the establishment of people’s democratic
society. The establishment of a New Democratic society would ensure in
the real sense all the democratic rights fought for by comrades like KGK
to all the marginalized and deprived people of India and we once again
appeal to all on this solemn occasion to vow to carry on the struggle for
such a society. It is appealing to all democrats, intellectuals, lawyers and
writers to continue the ideals and values he established and to continue his
fight for the democratic rights of the oppressed masses of India. That
would be the real homage one could pay to this great democrat.

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

47

January  12,  2011

Condemn the indiscriminate killings
and fake encounters by the police and

paramilitary forces in Odisha !
People would surely defeat

the conspiracy of Naveen Patnaik

to hand over the natural resources of Odisha

to the Corporations by decimating

the Maoist revolutionary movement !
As  part  of  the  massive  offensive  Operation  Green  Hunt  being
conducted in coordination by the central and state governments with the
avowed aim of decimating the Maoist revolutionary movement completely,
the special police and paramilitary forces have resorted to indiscriminate
killings in the past two months in Odisha and  have taken nearly 25 lives in
cold-blood in various incidents. Of these most of them were fake encounters
while others were incidents where hundreds of police and paramilitary
were deployed with specific information about the whereabouts of the
guerillas and fired indiscriminately on the guerillas and the people with
them.

Recently on January 12, 2011, in an ‘encounter’ in a forest area in
Keonjhar district two Maoists had died and on January 9, 2011 in an alleged
encounter in Bandhkamali mountains which fall under the Niyamgiri area
of Rayagadha district, nine comrades were martyred. Ravi, one of the
martyred comrades, is an important leader who has been working among
the oppressed people of Odisha for the past few years. He hails from East
Godavari district in Andhra Pradesh. Just one week back, on January 2,
2011 in the encounter which was said to have taken place in the Rayaghati
forests under Kalinganagar area in Jajpur district, five Maoists including
three women comrades were martyred. One among these martyrs was an
48

Area  Committee  member  of  the  Kalinganagar  area.  They  were  in
preparation for some mass activities on the occasion of the fifth anniversary
of the massacre of Adivasis on January 2 when this incident occurred. On
29 December, 2010, in an alleged encounter in Talpada forest area of
Keonjhar district one woman comrade was martyred. Before this in the
fourth week of December the police announced that three Maoists had
died in an encounter at Adaba forest area in Gajapati district. In the beginning
of January, in another alleged encounter in Bargarh district two persons
had died but the people had declared that they were ordinary people and
that the police had killed them in cold-blood. Some days before this there
were news items in the media that even the encounter in Gajapati district
was also a fake one and that ordinary people had died in this. Though huge
scale  protests  were  staged  by  people  and  democrats  on  these  fake
encounters, the Naveen government is not caring a damn and is resorting
to murders of ordinary people and revolutionaries unscrupulously.

Odisha is a state abundantly rich in mineral, water and forest resources
but it has become the abode of dire poverty and hunger deaths. Odisha is
in the first place in iron reserves and it has many other valuable mineral
resources. But all this wealth is filling the coffers of the wealthy while the
conditions of the poor people are deteriorating. In the past 63 years of so-
called  independence,  the  oppressed  people  of  Odisha,  particularly  the
adivasis are getting crushed under the feudal and imperialist exploitation.
The Odisha government led by the Mining Mafia Boss Naveen Patnaik
has turned Odisha into the paradise of the mining corporations by signing
innumerable MoUs with them. More than 49 MoUs regarding steel plants,
more  than  20  MoUs  regarding  thermal  power  plants,  some  MoUs  for
alumina refinery projects and a harbor were signed.  The MoU worth
55,000 crores of rupees signed with the MNC Posco belonging to South
Korea  is  the  biggest  foreign  direct  investment  in  India.  The  Odisha
government had shamelessly violated its own laws while granting permissions
to Tata in Kalinganagar and Vedanta in Niyamgiri apart from Posco. All
these MoUs lead to untold miseries for the Odisha people. These would
lead to destruction of the forests, lands, water, ecology and all aspects of
their lives. This could be one of the biggest man-made disasters in the
world. That is why the people of Odisha are fighting against this atrocity

49

and exploitation.

In the recent past, Odisha people agitated and are still agitating against
the exploitation and atrocities of the MNCs and big comprador bourgeoisie
companies  like Tata, Vedanta,  Posco  etc.  and  also  against  the  feudal
exploitation in the Narayanapatna area of Koraput district. Government
used brutal force against these struggles and killed many people. On January
2, 2006, the police fired on the adivasis who refused to hand over their
cultivable lands to the Tata Steel company in Kalinganagar and killed at
least fourteen of them. In many other instances, people had become injured
or have lost their lives in police firings. People launched agitations against
bauxite mines of Vedanta company in Niyamgiri area and against Vedanta
Alumina refinery in Lanjigarh. Caving in before the people’s agitations, the
Central government had cancelled permission to Vedanta with the reason
that it had violated rules and regulations. But the people are still continuing
their agitation as they feel that as long as the Vedanta refinery exists in
Lanjigarh it is detrimental to their very existence and that it would adversely
affect their lands and ecology. People of Odisha are fighting against such
issues in many places. The Maoist party is leading these agitations in many
places and supporting them in others. More important is the fact that people
are welcoming the leadership of Maoists and are aspiring for it. The Odisha
people have realized that there is no political party other than the Maoist
party which could put an end to feudal and imperialist exploitation. The
Maoist movement is expanding to many new areas. The Naveen Patnaik
government with the full support of the UPA government at the centre is
resorting to these massacres precisely because the Maoists constitute the
main hurdle to their blanket loot of resources. Particularly, it is obvious to
one and all that the callous murder of nine revolutionaries in Niyamgiri
area has happened with the aim of facilitating the wholesale loot of Vedanta
and under its aegis. Similarly it is also very clear that the fascist massacres
resorted to by the government in the Kalinganagar area (in Jajpur and
Keonjhar districts) is to facilitate the exploitation of corporations like that
of Tata and others waiting in the wings to occupy this whole area. Naveen
Patnaik who is gobbling billions of rupees as the stooge of the corporations
and his administrative machinery are being threatened seriously by the
existence of the Maoist movement. That is why they are resorting to fascist

50

onslaught on the people and the guerilla squads spending billions of rupees
on increasing police, commando forces (SOG), SPO and informer network
on a huge scale.

History has proven many a times that it is impossible to suppress the
people’s movements with murders, offensives and suppression campaigns.
The comprador Naveen Patnaik, Vedanta ex-director and the CEO of the
present Operation Green Hunt Chidambaram, other ruling class oligarchs
and their imperialist masters are dreaming that they would be able to put
aside all the hurdles in the path of exploitation of the feudal classes and the
corporations by crushing the Maoist revolutionary movement. The people
are bound to come to the fore more militantly to intensify their struggles.
Though the spate of encounters in the past few days indicate the intensity
of the offensive on the Maoists this should be seen as part of the overall
offensive on all the people’s movements fighting against their loot.  We can
stop these massacres only by taking up arms and fighting in a united manner
against the anti-people, pro-imperialist policies followed by the blood-thirsty
Naveen government and against corporate exploitation.

The Central Committee of the CPI (Maoist) is appealing to all the
people of our country and democrats to condemn in severe terms these
atrocious massacres and fake encounters. We are appealing to the people
to demand independent judicial inquiry into all these incidents of firings and
to demand punishment for all the police officials involved in them.  We are
appealing to all that they should realize that these offensives are not carried
on exclusively on the Maoist movement and that they are aimed at all
those who are raising their voice or fighting against this corporate loot. Our
Central Committee is calling upon all the democratic, progressive and
patriotic forces to unite and fight against the corporate exploitation and
against the massacres perpetrated by the central and state governments
and against the Operation Green Hunt carried on  for the incessant loot of
our  resources.

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

51

Unite And Fight

January  15,  2011

Against Price-rise, Scams And State Terror!

Make Success Country-wide Protests

From 4 to 6 February And
Bharat Bandh on February 7

The latest addition to the already long-list of sufferings of the people
of our country is the new rise in food inflation to 18.5 percent with prices
touching the sky. On top of this petrol prices have been hiked (Rs 2.50 per
litre) from the midnight of 15 January which would again lead to more
price-rise in all items particularly in food items. The life of ‘Aam Aadmi’
would become even more miserable with the prices of onion, mirchi, atta,
pulses, vegetables soaring.  Though price-rises have become an integral
part of our life since decades, this kind of price-rise in the conditions where
more than 90 percent of the workforce is employed in unorganized sector
and where 83 percent of the people live on less than 20 rupees daily income,
the connotations are grave and disturbing. Add to it the continuous loss of
employment of even white collar jobs of the middle classes due to the
world wide economic crisis and the picture which emerges is even bleaker.
It is one thing to put up with this.  But how should one also put up with
the most inhuman, cruel, insensitive and callous statement of the person in
the  highest  post  in  our  country,  that  too  a  person  who  is  supposed  to
administer this country efficiently so that the lives of the people turn for
better? While the people and particularly the children of this country are
dying in their lakhs each year just due to lack of food and nutrition, this
person had the audacity to declare that the present price-rise is due to the
increase in food consumption of the poor people! This is the zenith of
shamelessness one can ever reach. It is not our fault if this sounds like an
echo of what an equally if not a more barefaced person named Mr. Bush
(Junior) said some days back accusing the people of countries like China
and  India  of  consuming  more,  leading  to  a  crisis! At  least  one  could
understand the contempt a President of the imperialist country (US), the
52

number one enemy of the world people, would have for the people of third
world countries. But Mr. Manmohan Singh! You have out stepped all the
limits of decency and humanity in expressing such contempt for the people
of the country you are supposed to lead. The blood of every patriot boils
and the face of every citizen burns with indignity to hear this from the high
offices of this country. Surely our beloved country and its dignified people
do not deserve this shabby treatment.

It is under the aegis of this Prime Minister that a Mukesh Ambani
builds a Mahal worth 3,500 crores, ministers function on a daily basis from
five-star hotels, trillions of rupees are guzzled in scams by every single
person who is even a bit of somebody in his parliament or his administrative
mechanism and army/police/forest services (the 1,76,000 crore 2G Spectrum
scam is still fresh in public memory) not to mention their billions of dollars
stacked away safely in Swiss banks! All the future trading, hoarding, black
marketing,  faulty  PDS  which  have  become  the  trademark  of  the
‘independent’ India have all been brazenly pushed aside as the possible
reasons for this appalling inflation rate and the poor people who are breaking
their backs in conditions which can be compared to the medieval times
(again a fallout of the LPG policies gifted to us since 1991 by this reliable
servant of IMF and World Bank) and are not even able to have one square
meal in a day have become the culprits. Wah ! Great Economics indeed,
worth a Nobel Prize! This is not just a cruel joke on the poor people of our
country (whom he doesn’t represent at all) but also an unabashed attempt
to cover up the scams and hoarding of the richie rich people of our country
and the imperialist countries (whom he represents so well) and to divert
the attention of the people from the actual causes of inflation and burning
problems at present.

What is the actual condition prevailing? On the one hand, people are
tragically suffering with this price-rise while on the other hand a new scam
is rising on the horizon along with the sun every day. The price-rise is
closely linked with the scam-rises of the ministers and high-rises of the
comprador  bureaucratic  bourgeoisie  along  with  the  rise  in  their  bank
accounts  in  the  Swiss  banks.  (Remember?  India  refuses  to  reveal  the
names of those persons who have amassed billion of dollars in these banks?)
The recent 2G Spectrum scam has exposed the back door deals of the big
53

players of the corporate world, ministers and hi-fi media people while the
series of scams which came to light have uncovered the brash pillage by
all the parliamentary parties of the resources rightfully belonging to the
people. The BJP which had stalled the proceedings of the Parliament for a
whole session with the demand of instituting a JPC on 2G Spectrum scam
is desperately trying to masquerade as a ‘clean party’ hiding its own set of
scams, one of the major of these happening in Karnataka under BJP Chief
Minister Yedyurappa. The close relations which Congress and BJP, including
the leader of opposition Ms. Sushma Swaraj have with the notorious mining
mafia bosses Reddy brothers are well documented. There is another purpose
too. With Aseemanand singing in police custody and the unearthing of
other evidences, the direct involvement of the saffron terrorists in the
Samjhauta Express, Malegaon and Mecca Masjid blasts stands exposed
and the JPC probe demand and the uproar about price-rise are aimed at
diverting the attention of the people from the heinous criminals involved in
those blasts. The UPA government dumped A. Raja, of course after lot of
hullabaloo due to inescapable evidence implicating him, in the 2G spectrum
scam in order to save the skin of the Prime Minister and Sonia who are the
directors of this sky-scraping scam and without whose involvement such a
spectacle would be impossible. The names of highest level ranking generals
in the army have also come up in scams not to mention the bureaucrats.
The mother of all scams but which is not so visible is the stockpiling of
thousands of crores of rupees by the likes of Naveen Patnaik, Raman
Singh, YSR  (now  dead), Yedyurappa,  Nitish  Kumar,  Narendra  Modi,
Vilasrao Deshmukh and Ashok Chavan in the form of commissions earned
through the MoUs they are signing with the MNCs and imperialists.  YSR
had alone earned nearly 60,000 crores of rupees in his term as CM and
one can imagine how many billions of rupees of the hard earned money of
the common people is filling the coffers of all these super gangsters.

The people of our country are not sitting quite while these scamsters
and gangsters are pillaging our wealth. In every corner of our country
people  are  agitating  at  various  levels  and  in  different  forms  against
corruption, all kinds of anti-people policies, price-rise and loot of natural
resources. Of all these resistances, the most organized and militant struggle
is waged by our party the CPI (Maoist). That is why it was named the

54

biggest internal security threat by the Sonia-Manmohan-Chidabaram gang
and an unprecedented countrywide multi-pronged offensive was launched
on it in the name of Operation Green Hunt (OGH). The intensification of
the anti-people, pro-imperialist policies which give rise to scams and price-
rise and the repression on CPI (Maoist) are directly proportional and this
became particularly obvious in the past two months. The Prime Minister
and Home Minister are conducting series of meetings to crush the Maoist
movement and in the latest meeting held in January first week with higher
level officers of police and paramilitary forces of six states, they laid emphasis
on synergy between intelligence agencies, paramilitary and the police. This
insistence on synergy is not an innocent proposal but is aimed at perpetrating
more massacres, mopping up campaigns and clearing the adivasis and
Maoists from the forests. Some more billions of rupees were allotted for
this War on People.

In West Bengal, the social fascist CPM in collusion with the central
government has increased the number of camps to 140 in Jangal Mahal
and Lalgarh and filled them with police, paramilitary and its own counter-
revolutionary Harmad Bahini goons, with an eye on the upcoming elections.
That the ongoing atrocities and repression on the people of these areas
would increase is anybody’s guess and the massacre by CPM/Harmad
cadres of eight people and injuring many more in Lalgarh area in the first
week  of  January  are  an  indication  of  the  terrible  things  in  store.  On
December 3, 2010, the police arrested the West Bengal state secretary of
our party Com. Sudeep Chongdar, state committee members Kalpana Maiti,
Barun  Sur, Anil  Ghosh  and  some  other  comrades  while  another  state
committee member Com. Dwijen Hembram was arrested earlier. They
were cruelly tortured and false cases were foisted on them. Particularly,
the insulting and inhuman treatment meted out to Com. Kalpana is denigrating
the dignity of a woman.

In Bihar and Jharkhand arrests, tortures, barbarous attacks and murders
of Maoist cadres are continuing. In Andhra Pradesh despite the claims of
the ruling classes that they have suppressed the Maoists, fake encounters
and attacks on the people haven’t stopped. On 17 December, 2010, in an
encounter in Visakhapatnam district four comrades including three women
were killed. People fighting against seizure of their lands for SEZs, thermal
55

power  plants  and  for  a  separate Telangana  state  are  being  fired  upon
indiscriminately.

In an unprecedented severe offensive on Maoist areas in Odisha in
the past two months nearly 25 Maoist cadres and ordinary people were
killed  and  most  of  these  ‘encounters’  were  fake.  Five  Maoists  in
Kalinganagar area on January 2, nine Maoists in Niyamgiri area on January
9 and two Maoists in Keonjhar area on January 12 were killed in so-called
encounters. Right in the beginning of this year two villagers were killed in
cold-blood in Bargarh district and the police claimed it was an encounter.
On 8 October, in Savargaon of Gadchiroli district of Maharashtra
(Dandakaranya), the ITBP forces had fired mortars shells on a school
leading to the death of 6 people including two school children and injuries
to eight more. On the next day on 9 October, in a fierce encounter in
Mahasamund district of Chhattisgarh (CG) six comrades were martyred
and the police killed two innocent villagers mercilessly in the same incident.
On 23 November, the CRPF had massacred nine villagers near Jegurugonda
in Dantewada district. The CG government is suppressing dissent in the
most reactionary manner by arresting democratic intellectuals, putting them
in jails and pronouncing harsh punishments on them. The recent conviction
of CPI (Maoist) Politburo member Narayan Sanyal, Human Rights activist
Dr. Binayak Sen, trader Piyush Guha and editor-writer Asit Sengupta is a
blatant example of this. Though this offensive is obviously directed against
the Maoists, in reality this is directed against all those individuals and
organizations that are resisting the policies of the government.
Beloved  people  of  India!

This is not the time to cry over the depths of despair and degradation
the ruling classes are forcing us into. The need of the hour is for all the
people to come together and fight back the anti-people, repressive and
pro-imperialist policies of the state and to direct our fight against scamsters,
hoarders, black marketeers and forces of the repressive state.

Our Central Committee appeals to all the people to observe protests
from 4 to 5 February and one-day Bharat bandh on 7 February against
price-rise, scams and state terror. We are making it clear that there would
be  no  bandh  during  the  protest  days  and  that  Bharat  bandh  would  be
56

observed  in  six  states  –  West  Bengal,  Jharkhand,  Bihar,  Odisha,
Chhattisgarh, Andhra  Pradesh  and  three  districts  in  Maharashtra  –
Gadchiroli, Gondia, Chandrapur and one district in Madhya Pradesh –
Balaghat.  Medical  services  and  people  attending  examinations  and
interviews will be excluded from the bandh activities.

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

57

Condemn the war of occupation on Libya

by US-France-Britain!

March  31,  2011

Express solidarity to the people of countries
like Tunisia, Egypt, Yemen, Bahrain, Algeria,

Morocco and Jordan

who are fighting for democracy and

independence!

Oppose the intervention of imperialists,

particularly of US, Britain and France

in the internal matters of Arab countries!
For  the  past  few  weeks,  the  people’s  upsurges  in Arab  world  are
shaking the imperialists, particularly US imperialists while at the same time
greatly influencing the people of the world. Starting from Tunisia this spread
to many Arab countries. Ben Ali, the President of Tunisia who has been
suppressing the people of Tunisia since 23 years and Hosni Mubarak, who
was ruling Egypt since 30 years had to step down and run away dreading
these  mass  upsurges. The  mass  movements  in  countries  like Yemen,
Bahrain, Algeria, Morocco, Jordan etc are ongoing in the same vein. The
Arab population is demanding with one voice that their rulers who have
been carrying on dictatorial rules since decades colluding with the imperialists
should step down. Lakhs of Arab people, particularly the youth are defying
ban orders and are pouring into the streets. Streets and squares have become
seas of masses for weeks together. Hundreds have laid down their lives
and thousands were injured in the crackdown by the governments. But
now with the war on Libya by NATO countries led by US, the entire Arab
world phenomena took a crucial turn.

58

In the name of stopping Libya from using its armed forces to suppress
the rebels opposing Qaddafi’s rule, the Security Council made the ‘No fly
zone’ resolution. The NATO countries led by US voted in favor of the
resolution while Russia, China, Germany, Brazil and India abstained from
voting. Nor did the ones with Veto power use it to stop this resolution.
Obviously these countries had indirectly condoned the military action by
not opposing the resolution. The Manmohan Singh government is deceiving
the people of India and the world by shedding crocodile tears in the aftermath
of the attacks without even caring to condemn the attacks formally. US
which had never condemned the arbitrary killings of Palestinians carried
out by the Zionist Israel umpteen number of times by confining dozens of
UN resolutions to the dustbin and which had used its Veto power for Israel
most indiscriminately and other western powers have immediately started
bombing Libya as soon as the UN resolution was made. On the very first
day of this attack which is said to be part of an international campaign, 18
bomber jets belonging to France had rained at least 40 bombs on several
targets. The US and Britain navies have targeted the security systems in
Libya and have launched missiles. 18 Air Force B-2 war planes of US
launched more than a hundred missiles on Libya and bombed several targets.
In this war launched in the name of preventing massacres that could be
perpetuated by Qaddafi forces, hundreds of civilians have lost their lives.
Nothing could be more callous than asking the world people to believe that
the value of the lives (deaths) of the Libyans change according to which
bombs took their lives! The very media houses which have been relaying
badly twisted news items supporting this NATO war on Libya hiding the
facts on the ground had to admit that in the first attacks many children had
died. They have once again nakedly displayed their class nature in the
reportage of this one-sided war.

The UN which calls itself a neutral organization has once again proved
itself to be a puppet in the hands of imperialist countries like US, Britain,
France etc. Secretary General Ban-Ki-Moon is behaving like their poodle.
In the inhuman attacks on Gaza launched by Israel in December 2008,
nearly 1,417 Palestinians (most of them women and children) lost their
lives and many thousands of them were injured; Israel illegally used white
phosphorus on the Gaza people and many of them became cancer patients

59

due to this; it used F-16 bombers and resorted to ‘targeted killings’ and
virtually made 15 lakhs of Gaza people live in conditions of an open jail
without even drinking water or electricity – but all these were not enough
for  the  UN  to  make  a  no-fly-zone  resolution.  The  neo-Nazi  Rajpakse
government launched a genocidal war on Tamils to decimate LTTE and
rained tonnes of bombs on residential areas and civilian targets and had
killed 20,000 Tamils just in the last two days of the war; the atrocities
committed by the Sinhala chauvinist army on the captured women tigers
not sparing even their dead bodies have horrified the world – but the UN
did nothing. In the past quarter of a century the Indian government through
its army had crushed to death more than 80,000 Kashmiris under its iron
heel – but the UN could not be woken from its slumber. And now the UN
wants the world people to believe that this war on Libya is indeed being
fought to protect the Libyans from Qaddafi forces. Shame on it! There is
not even one instance where it had acted for the interests of the oppressed
nations or the people while we can quote dozens of instances where it had
jumped to save the US, Israel or other western countries’ interests even if
there is so much of a scratch.

The war on Libya defies the very spirit of the no-fly-zone resolution
of the UN too. In the name of implementing the UN resolution made to
prevent Libyan planes from bombing the rebels US, Britain and France are
indiscriminately bombing Libya. This is nothing but a war of occupation.
The real motive is to oust Qaddafi and replace him with their favorable
ruling clique and loot the oil resources there. Nobody is so innocent as to
believe that Obama is bombing Libya to protect Libyan rebels while he had
sent Saudi Arabian troops into Bahrain through the back door to suppress
the people’s rebellion there. This blood-thirsty ‘Nobel Peace Prize Laureate’
who is killing hundreds of innocents in drone attacks in Afghanistan and
western  Pakistan  has  no  moral  right  to  utter  even  the  words  ‘lives  of
innocents’. The western countries which never bothered about the lives of
people when the armed forces of the dictators of Saudi Arabia, Yemen,
Jordan etc, whom they had been supporting all these years, fired upon
people killing them in scores are now bent upon dethroning Qaddafi – mind
you, not for any selfish interests but ‘to save the Libyans’. Unadulterated
imperialist hypocrisy!

60

Ben Ali of Tunisia, Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, Ali Abdullah Saleh of
Yemen, Isa Al Khalipha of Bahrain and King Abdullah of Jordan are the
dictatorial rulers who have been suppressing the people of their countries
since decades colluding with the western imperialists, particularly the US
imperialists. The façade of democracy and elections in these countries can
be gauged from the fantastic statistics that Ben Ali always got 97 to 99
percent of the votes?! There was no semblance of any democratic or civil
rights.  The  police  and  intelligence  departments  were  developed  to
monstrous proportions and they had been controlling the lives of people
suppressing even an iota of dissent. Unemployment is on the rampage.
Yemen alone has 40% unemployment. On the other hand the rulers are
amassing immense wealth due to the rich oil resources there. Countless
billions  of  dollars  are  stashed  away  in  foreign  banks.  The  world  was
astonished to find that Ben Ali had actually carried one and half tonne of
gold physically with him while running away. Tip of an ‘oilberg’? The ill-
effects of the worldwide financial crises on the Arab people since 2008
are as severe as in any other part of the world. More than half the population
there is living on less than two dollars a day. These dictators are spending
people’s money indiscriminately in the ‘War on terror’ launched by US in
the name of suppressing Al Qaeda. Yemen started a counter-terrorist training
programme with 750 millions of dollars. Such misuse of people’s exchequer
while cutting subsidies on essential services etc earned the wrath of the
people. All these years the imperialists have stood in support of all the
exploitation, oppression and repressive measures of these dictatorships on
the people of their countries and have been cashing in on the several
contradictions between various religions, tribes, nationalities and between
sects like Shias and Sunnis. Now seeing the scale of the upsurges the
imperialists have decided to trade new horses getting rid of the old ones.
They made Ben Ali and Mubarak step down and had the power transferred
to the military generals. In other countries the western powers are still
supporting the dictators. The 22 nation Arab League is behaving like a
stooge of the western powers in this entire episode and is neither displaying
any shades of Arab nationalism nor giving voice to the anti-imperialist
aspirations of the Arab people.

Only those rulers who fulfill the democratic aspirations of the people

61

and unite them and oppose imperialism unequivocally can defend and
preserve the independence and sovereignty of their countries. Any ruler,
whether it is Qaddafi or any other, who resorts to autocratic rule over his
people can never fight imperialism uncompromisingly. He can never unite
people against imperialism.

The imperialists have been resorting to many conspiracies and scheming
right from the beginning to establish their authority in West Asia and North
Africa which are home to immense oil resources. They have stood in
support of the dictators who bent their knees and preserved imperialist
interests. If they think that he is a hindrance to their interests they are not
hesitating to ‘use and throw’.
Call of CPI (Maoist) to the Arab people

The Arab people should continue their agitations against dictators and
imperialists with great determination. They should firmly oppose the attempts
of imperialists, particularly US, Britain and France to hijack their movements.
They should stay alert towards the military councils which came to power
in place of the dictators. We are cautioning the whole Arab population not
to get deceived by believing that the military generals who had all along
supported the dictators would now guarantee democracy. All the anti-
imperialist, democratic, patriotic sections including workers, peasants and
middle classes should unite. The only path before the Arab population is to
fight  uncompromisingly  with  imperialism  under  the  leadership  of  the
proletariat. The recent phenomena in the Arab world has once again proven
clearly that guidance of Marxist ideology and leadership of the vanguard
of the proletariat, i.e. of a revolutionary communist party are inevitable for
the true liberation of the oppressed masses. The namesake independences
won by these countries from colonialism has given way to neo-colonial
exploitation resulting in unbearable living conditions and the Arab people
are direct victims of this since the past 40-50 years. If the Arab people
have to win real independence then they have to stand on their own legs,
destroy neo-colonialism and fight imperialism firmly. They should fight a
united war against US, Britain and France imperialists who are waging an
unjust war on Libya. CPI (Maoist) is hopeful that the struggles against the
comprador bureaucratic rulers supported by the imperialists would definitely

62

grow into determined resistance struggles against imperialists, against their
intervention and against the unjust wars imposed by them. Only then could
the Arab world be liberated from the clutches of dictators and imperialists.
Call of the CPI (Maoist) to the people of India and the world

The  upsurges of the Arab people for freedom and democracy are
entirely just struggles. Though there are some reactionaries like religious
chauvinists among the agitators, these movements are democratic and
progressive. Express solidarity to these movements. Condemn with one
voice the unjust war imposed on Libya by the Western imperialists and the
intervention of the imperialists in the Arab world.

·

·

·

·

Stop immediately the unjust war on Libya by NATO forces led by
US!
The imperialists have no right to intervene in the internal matters
of Libya!
Expose the interventionist policies of imperialists, particularly of
US, Britain and France in the Arab world!
Support the just people’s movements in the Arab countries!

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

63

April  05,  2011
Boycott the assembly polls in the five states!

Intensify the People’s War to establish the People’s

Democratic State

by uprooting the present semi-feudal and semi-colonial
system of exploitation, oppression, corruption, violence,

atrocities and insults!

The farce of assembly polls in the five states of Assam, Tamilnadu,
Kerala, Pondichery and West Bengal is on. While the people of our country
are facing corruption, price rise, poverty, hunger, unemployment, loot of
resources, displacement, destruction of ecology etc, all the parliamentary
parties are oblivious to these life and death problems of the people and are
engaged in a severe violence filled contest to capture power by hook or
crook. Apart from the main exploiting classes’ parties of Congress and
BJP  who  are  in  the  forefront  in  implementing  the  imperialist-dictated
economic  policies,  other  ruling  class  parties  like  the  CPM  which  is
implementing fascist rule in West Bengal since 30 years, the DMK and
AIDMK that are notorious for their corruption and malpractices, the Assam
Gana Parishad which shamelessly betrayed the national aspirations of the
Assam people are mainly in the race. They are indiscriminately using money
power, muscle power, identities like caste, religion etc and are vying with
each other for votes. All kinds of cheap tricks are being used like wooing
the voters with everything under the sun from sarees to computers. Millions
of rupees are poured down the drain just to ‘buy votes’.

For the past 30 long years, CPM has been carrying on a social fascist
rule in West Bengal in support of the feudal, imperialist and comprador
bureaucratic capitalist exploitation and has been completely exposed before
the people. For the sake of comprador capitalists like Tata, Jindal etc and
for  the  sake  of  SEZs  the  fertile  lands  of  peasantry  were  sought  to  be
seized. The cruel repression, the inhuman massacres and the atrocities on
women perpetrated by the state police, central paramilitary forces and the
goonda force of CPM, the ‘Harmad Bahini’ on the militant peasantry of
64

Nandigram and Singur who opposed seizure of their lands and the heroic
people of Lalgadh who rose in an upsurge against police atrocities will
remain a permanent blot in the history. Parties like the CPI and Forward
Block which are sharing power with the CPM as part of Left block are
getting exposed with each day for their bankruptcy of continuing with the
CPM in all the anti-people policies it is taking up. The Trinamool Congress
under Mamta Banerji’s leadership is cashing in on the dissatisfaction and
the hatred among all sections of the people towards CPM and came to the
fore  as  a  strong  contender  for  power.  So  now  the  CPM  is  facing  the
danger of losing its power. Whatever Mamta Banerjee may promise today,
once in power her rule is not going to be basically any different from that
of the CPM. It is very clear that her rule in alliance with Congress would
be a continuation of the pro-feudal, pro-corporate and anti-people policies
implemented by all ruling class parties including the CPM till date. Along
with Congress, BJP and CPM, Trinamool Congress is also a party which
represents the interests of the feudal and comprador bureaucratic capitalist
classes, bending its knees before the imperialists. So the only way before
the people of Bengal is to boycott these sham elections and to build militant
people’s struggles while keeping the Maoist People’s War at the core with
the inspiration of the glorious struggle spirit of the Lalgarh people. The real
alternative is to expand more militantly and in a more organized manner
the  alternative  people’s  political  power  which  came  to  the  fore  in  an
embryonic form as a result of the historic Lalgarh movement.

Using their power in the state and in the UPA alliance at the centre
Tamilnadu Chief Minister Karunanidhi, A. Raja and his other bandit coterie
have resorted to scams swindling billions of rupees and are now spending
millions of rupees to come to power again. Karunanidhi granted permissions
to nearly 70 SEZs and gave away thousands of hectares of prime land to
MNCs. The living conditions of the peasantry and workers are worsening.
More than 25,000 workers were retrenched in the past two years in Tirupur
which resulted in the suicides of more than a thousand garment workers.
AIADMK under Jayalalitha’s leadership is trying to come to power by
hook or crook utilizing the dissatisfaction among the people towards DMK.
However the people of Tamilnadu are more than aware that she is also a
notorious bandit who hoarded billions of rupees misusing power. DMK and

65

AIADMK who do not tire of focusing themselves as the champions of the
Tamil cause have indirectly supported the massacres of Tamils and the
unjust war waged by the Sinhala chauvinist Rajapakse government in
Srilanka with the support of India, China and US with the aim of decimating
LTTE. Rejecting these two parties and other parties which are in cohorts
with them and intensifying mass movements and revolutionary struggles is
the only alternative in front of the Tamilnadu people.

The ruling Left Front in Kerala is bogged down in several corruption
scams and earned the ire of the people by fulfilling the interests of the
corporate  classes.  Using  this  situation  the  UDF  under  the  Congress
leadership is leaving no stone unturned to come to power. The AGP which
had a past history of waging struggles representing the national aspirations
of the Assam People has completely betrayed the cause and is now vying
for power in the state. This party was hand in glove with Congress in
suppressing the just national struggles of ULFA, Bodos etc.

Particularly, in the past few years many corruption scams have come
to light and the real face of the political system of our country is getting
exposed. It became crystal clear through the recent 2G Spectrum scam
how the ministers of all parties, leaders, corporate bosses and media barons
have colluded to amass billions of rupees. On the other hand, with the aim
of suppressing the various sections of people, people’s movements and
revolutionary movements that are waging struggles on various people’s
issues, repressive campaigns are launched deploying security forces. Fascist
laws are formulated and the people and revolutionaries are jailed for years
together without any trial. Harsh punishments are pronounced. All the rights
which are supposed to be granted by the constitution are curbed including
the right to live.

The central government had deployed more than 800 companies of
paramilitary forces for the ‘smooth conducting’ (read violence, atrocities,
firings on people, arrests and rigging) of elections. It is worth noting that
out of these, more than 600 companies are for West Bengal alone where
the Maoist movement is relatively stronger. Long before the elections,
CPM had deployed thousands of armed goons belonging to its goonda
army Harmad Bahini in the villages, particularly in dozens of villages in the

66

Jungle Mahal area. These armed goons and Joint Forces have already
been perpetrating countless unspeakable brutal atrocities and violent acts
on the masses. This means that all preparations have been completed to
herd the people into polling booths pointing barrels of their guns at their
backs and for unprecedented mammoth rigging. Particularly in West Bengal
CPM readied itself to perpetrate huge scale violence to continue in power
at any cost.

It has been proven beyond doubt in the past 64 years history of so-
called independent India that any party or alliance in power or any party or
alliance which wants to come to power is only fulfilling the interests of the
feudal, comprador bureaucratic bourgeoisie and the imperialists and not
that of the 95 percent of the population constituting workers, peasants,
employees, students, women, dalit, adivasi and other oppressed classes/
sections in our country. The election process is itself a big sham. It is a
farce conducted to strengthen the rule of the exploiting classes. Only the
color of the ruling alliance or the party it represents changes with these
elections  but  nothing  changes  basically  in  the  system.  None  of  the
fundamental problems of hunger, poverty, unemployment, price rises etc
can get solved through this. Money is spent for getting elected, it is the
moneybags which sit in the parliament/assemblies and rule us and it is they
again who amass wealth which is many times over what they spent to get
elected. The increasing number of criminals who are accused of murders,
kidnaps, rapes and such abominable crimes in all the parties contending in
elections is an indication of their true nature. That is why our party makes
it clear that the parliament and assemblies are nothing but ‘pigsties’. Without
uprooting this whole rotten system the lives of people can never improve.
Successfully completing the New Democratic Revolution and building a
People’s Democratic State of all oppressed sections on the basis of worker-
peasant unity is the real alternative before the people of our country. Our
Central Committee is issuing a call to the people to rally into the People’s
War waged under the leadership of our party.
Beloved People of Our Country !

Boycott the assembly polls in five states! A country which calls itself
a ‘democracy’ should honor the right not to vote along with the right to

67

vote. We must fight against curbing of this right. We must raise our voices
against herding people into polling booths pointing guns at their heads. Reject
the  fake  parliamentary  democracy  rotten  with  corruption  and  scams.
Welcome the alternative people’s democratic political power which is being
established at a basic level in Dandakaranya, Bihar-Jharkhand, Odisha,
Bengal and other places under our party’s leadership and come forward
to establish people’s power in all four corners of our country.

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

68

13 April,  2011

Intensify Mass Struggles To Put An End To

Institutionalized Corruption!

In recent times, corruption has once again come to the forefront as a
main  issue  with  the  exposure  of  massive  scams  like  2G  spectrum,
Commonwealth games, Adarsh housing society, Karnataka land scams, S-
Band spectrum scam. Workers, peasants, adivasis, dalits, women, and urban
middle class - all classes and sections of the society are expressing their
deep discontent and anguish. Recently we saw great support to the hunger
strike of Anna Hazare, which is the direct consequence of the widespread
discontent in the people against corruption, corrupt political parties and
their leaders. Though the demand for hunger strike is Jan Lokpal Bill, the
aspiration of the people is to completely wipe out corruption.

It would be innocence, if anyone feels that by setting up a committee
to frame Lokpal bill and by selecting half of the committee members from
civil society would itself finds a solution. In fact, lack of rules and laws is
not the cause for endless and deep-ridden corruption. Way back from jeep
scam, Lockheed’s airplane deal to late Rajiv Gandhi’s Bofors deals, our
country has seen many a scams starting from a few million rupees to
trillions of rupees. Not only main parliamentary parties like Congress and
BJP, leaders and ministers of all other national and regional parliamentary
parties  like  RJD,  BSP,  SP,  DMK, AIADMK, TDP  and  hand  in  glove
beaurocrats  have  a  long  history  of  corrupt  practices.  By  proper
implementation  of  the  existing  laws  in  the  country  and  by  the  proper
functioning of anti-corruption wings, scams like these can be prevented to
a grate extent and those responsible for these can be severely punished. In
the last 64 years history of ‘independent’ India, we don’t find a single
incidence, where corrupt politicians, ministers, heads of corporate houses
and beauraucrats have been punished. Due to pressure from people or
opposition  parties,  even  if  arrested  in  some  rare  cases,  by  prolonging
investigation and diluting of the charges, they get scot-free without any
stringent punishment or with nominal punishment. This is because; the

69

judiciary of this country is also an inseparable part of this exploitative state
machinery. None can be under the illusion to end corruption through these
laws and court rooms.

We have to first realize that corruption is not an issue confined to a
handful of bad or greedy individuals. The root cause of all these corruptions
and scams lies in the capitalist system whose sole motto is cut-throat
profiteering. In spite of preaching liberty, freedom and democratic values,
in pracitce it’s based on intense labor exploitation, bribery, commissions,
kickbacks etc. Hence ending of corruptions and scams is an issue which is
linked with the revolutionary transformation of present system. It would be
illusionary to expect a complete solution to this by bringing in few fine laws
while keeping this semi-feudal and semi-colonial system in our country
intact.

In  fact,  the  scams  that  have  not  surfaced  are  many  times  more
compared to the ones that have surfaced. For example late chief minister
of Andhra  Pradesh, YS  Rajasekhar  Reddy,  present  chhattisgarh  chief
minister Raman Singh, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik, chief ministers
of Jharkhand Madhu Koda, Shibu Soren and Arjun Mundas, Karnataka
chief minister Yediyurappa and likes, by signing agreements with mining
mafia and big companies have amassed huge commissions amounting to
tens of billions of rupees is being exposed even in the media. LPG policies
being pursued by the governments have opened the floodgates for rampant
corruption, huge scams and massive plunder of natural wealth of our country.
Hence, without unequivocally opposing imperialist-dictated anti-people
government policies and without focusing mass struggles against these,
just speaking and hoping to wipe out corruption is to mislead people.

Anna Hazare ended his fast with the government’s decision to form a
committee to frame Lokpal bill. But justice is not meted out to the people
who are aspiring to put an end to corruption. In fact, government accepted
this demand not in fear of Anna Hazare’s fast, but to pacify people’s anguish
that came forth in support to his fast. It is noteworthy that ruling classes
accepted to this demand only because any numbers of laws like these in no
way affect the present system.

The Central Committee of the CPI (Maoist) welcomes countrywide

70

response of the people against corruption. Our Party believes that only
through the united, well-organized and militant mass struggles, corruption
can be put to an end. Our Party calls upon the people of our country not to
get satisfied by the namesake laws and forming new committees to frame
such laws by the government and not to end these struggles, but to continue
with firm conviction. We call upon workers, peasants, students, intellectuals,
employees, pro-people Gandhians and all other patriotic forces to come
forward and to form a broad alliance to fight against corruption which has
affected our country. Our Party appeals to raise voice against all these
thieves and dacoits who are involved in endless corruption, scams and
plunder and who have stashed trillions of rupees of black money in Swiss
banks, have no right to be in power even for a moment.

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

71

28 April,  2011
Condemn police firings and arrests of people
agitating against Jaitapur nuclear power plant!

Fight for scrapping of

all proposed nuclear power plants

in the country including Jaitapur plant!
On April 18, 2011 police fired on people agitating against the planned
9,900 MW Jaitapur nuclear power plant and killed Tabrez Soyekar (32), an
anti-nuclear activist belonging to Nate village and the sole breadwinner of
his family. Eight other demonstrators were seriously injured. Protestors
attacked and damaged a hospital to prevent a government autopsy on the
dead body as they believed the government would not conduct an impartial
autopsy. The four year old agitation which intensified after the nuclear
disaster at Fukushima nuclear power plant in Japan had gained enough
first hand experience of the government’s callousness to believe so.

Coldly ignoring the increasing protests and not bothering to compensate
or reassure the victims, the Environment Minister Jairam Ramesh and the
Maharashtra government (the spineless pet dogs of imperialists) restated
their intention to go ahead with the construction of the ‘world’s largest
nuclear power complex’ with six reactors. In fact, the above protest was
against this very stand of the government to build the nuclear power park
‘come what may’, deliberately unmindful of the Fukushima tragedy.

Nearly  100  people  and  eminent  activists  from  all  parts  of  India
(Maharashtra,  Gujarat, Tamilnadu,  Jharkhand, West  Bengal,  Haryana,
Madhya Pradesh) who gathered to participate in the national anti nuclear
yatra planned from Tarapur, the First Nuclear power plant in India to Jaitapur
from 23rd to 25th April were detained illegally by the Police. In fact, after
Fukushima there were a spate of protests – both new and as a continuation
of already ongoing agitations – against nuclear power plants in all corners
of the country especially in Haryana, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh, if
only our stone-deaf rulers would care to hear.
72

The nuclear plant site covers the five villages of Madban, Niveli, Karel,
Mithgavane, and Sakhari Nate, in an earthquake-prone region of Jaitapur
in Ratnagiri district, Maharashtra and 968 hectares of land was cleared for
acquisition. A total of 2,400 families were affected by this land acquisition.
The plant affects the livelihood of 40,000 people which includes about
16,000 people dependent on fishing.

While many countries are rethinking about their nuclear programs after
Fukushima, the government of India is hell-bent on implementing its nuclear
program. Hiding the fact that India’s reactors are considered to be the
most inefficient and dangerous in the world, some anti-people scientists of
India are misleading the people by utterly lying that India’s safety standards
are the better than Japan’s! Jairam Ramesh who till now masqueraded as
a pro-environmentalist minister came out with his true pro-corporate face
claiming there is no alternative to nuclear power mimicking Manmohan
Singh who bent over backwards to sign the Indo-US nuclear deal, disbursing
billions of rupees given in bribes by the nuclear companies to buy votes.
While the whole world is thinking about and trying out various alternative
energy sources he has the audacity to say that there is no alternative as if
all of us Indians are dumb enough to believe this trash. Everything would
be possible if the basic electricity needs (domestic, industrial and agricultural)
are to be fulfilled. But in a country where the monthly electricity bill of
Mukesh Ambani is nearly 71 lakhs of rupees, where day and night cricket
matches are played with utter disregard to the electricity consumed while
on the other hand farmers weighed down by the agrarian crises they cannot
escape, one of the reasons of which is lack of electricity, are committing
suicides and millions of people are living without even a dimly lit electric
bulb in their homes, one can only imagine about whose or what energy
needs the Minister is talking about. The hundreds of MoUs signed by the
comprador central and state governments to mine the rich resources in the
vast rural and forest tracts of India and to build various industrial plants
require enormous amounts of electricity and it is this need of the corporate
MNCs that is driving the likes of Jairam and Manmohan crazy to construct
power plants in spite of immense protests from the people. The issue of
lives and livelihoods of the people or the ecology of this country which the
protestors are raising mean nothing to them and the only solution they

73

know is to treat them like a ‘law and order’ problem.

Moreover, we would never know (unless another Wiki ‘leak’ surfaces)
how much our comprador rulers had been paid in kickbacks from notorious
corporations like the Areva (belonging to France) from whom we are
importing reactors while even pro-nuclear countries like USA and UK too
have refused to give design clearance to them. Not a single Evolutionary
Pressurized Reactor (EPR) has either been built or safe-tested till now
anywhere in the world which makes them the most unreliable and unsafe
option but our rulers with their lickspittle servility to their imperialist masters
are scurrying to purchase them without in the least bothered about the
human or ecological costs.

Fukushima disaster affected lakhs of people and the deathly radiation
would last for tens of thousands of years. Independent European medical
experts have estimated that more than 4 lakh people will suffer from cancer
in the coming decades in the region 200 kms from the reactor and the
radioactive contamination from the plant has spread all over the world.
Four  lakh  people  were  evacuated  after  the  Chernobyl  accident  that
happened 25 years ago while many millions continue to live in contaminated
conditions constantly living in fear that they could develop cancer anytime
and that even their great grand children may be born with severe birth
defects. Nearly ten lakh people have already died due to its delayed health
effects and the number will continue to increase. If there is a major accident
at  Jaitapur,  the  entire  Ratnagiri  district  will  have  to  be  evacuated,
permanently, and entire Western Maharashtra, including Pune and Mumbai
would be radioactively contaminated for tens of thousands of years.

The  Konkan  people  of  Jaitapur  who  are  well  aware  of  all  these
consequences, more so after Fukushima are waging a determined struggle
against the nuclear plant. The government unleashed a brutal repressive
campaign (lathi-charges, promulgating Section 144 and Section 37 (3)
prohibiting different kinds of assembly, beatings, indiscriminate arrests,
registering of false cases (including one for an attempt to murder!) against
hundreds of activists and now police firings) to crush the struggle. Leading
activists of the area have been issued externment notices from Ratnagiri
district with Narayan Rane even threatening that they would not return

74

alive from the district if they dare to enter it! The police even informed the
media that Jaitapur agitation is being closely watched for ‘possible links
with naxalites’, using an already-exposed intimidatory tactic. Eminent
citizens from the region who have supported the struggle have been barred
from entering the district. But all these and more could not cow down the
Jaitapur agitation which is soon becoming another symbol of unflinching
struggles raging across India on various burning livelihood issues.

The Shiv Sena which kept quiet during the four-year period that the
agitation was raging on has now entered the agitation seeing an opportunity
to regain the ground it has lost in Konkan after Narayan Rane defected.
The politically aware people of Jaitapur must not allow these opportunists
who said Enron would be thrown into the Arabian Sea and did a volte-face
after they came to power, to hijack their genuine struggle for their self-
interests. The CPM which projected itself as the champion of nuclear deal
issue is seen nowhere in the scene consolidating against the government’s
choice of nuclear power as the only option. In AP opposition parties like
TDP are shedding crocodile tears when villagers protesting power plants
are killed in police firings but they would be no different once they are in
power as they had proved the previous times they were in power. While a
broad based struggle uniting all kinds of forces which oppose the nuclear
power plants is to be consciously built up the people should stay alert to
various kinds of ploys to divert the struggle from the actual issue for vested
interests or vote-bank politics.

CPI (Maoist) demands that all proposed nuclear power plants in India
including the Jaitapur nuclear park should be scrapped. It strongly condemns
the strong arm tactics employed by the government to suppress the just
struggle of the Konkan people to preserve their lives and ecology from
imminent dangers of a nuclear power plant. It is demanding a judicial probe
into the firings on 18th April and immediate action against the officers and
officials who ordered the firing. All false cases, illegal externment orders
and banishments of anti-nuclear activists should be withdrawn. In fact, the
people of Ratnagiri should declare that it is the likes of Narayan Ranes
hell-bent on selling the resource-rich Konkan coastline to the imperialists
and destructing their livelihoods have no right to enter the area and not the
anti-nuclear activists who are selflessly fighting for them.

75

Let us declare that the people of this country alone have the right to
decide what kind of development or energy resources they need and not
the corrupt politicians who behave like loyal servants of the imperialist
MNCs. Let us stand in firm support of the anti-nuclear plant struggle of
the militant Konkan people and build a country-wide campaign against the
unsafe, harmful nuclear power option pushed by the ruling classes. As the
Ratnagiri people have declared – let us not allow the sacrifices of Tabrezs
to go in vain.

Our country is at present witnessing a deluge of militant struggles in
all four corners on various issues with Jal,  Jungle and Jameen, genuine
democracy, progress and self-reliance at the core. People are carrying on
these struggles (some of them since many years) peacefully and militantly
without stepping back even in the face of severe repression. All these
struggles are drawing inspiration from one another too. The need of the
hour is for all these struggles to stand in firm solidarity and support to one
another and unite on a common platform to fight the imperialists, Indian big
corporate sharks and feudal lords which are implementing all these anti-
people policies and repressing the fighting masses. A broad, united and
militant movement of all the fighting masses of India can alone save this
country and people from the dark pits of destitution these enemies of the
people are scheming to throw us into.

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

76

4  May,  2011

War-monger, butcher and blood-thirsty

Obama and not Osama

is the No.1 global terrorist
threatening world peace!

US imperialism and not Al Qaeda is

the gravest global threat

not only to the entire oppressed nations and

people of the world

but also to the US citizens!

Condemn the brutal murder of Osama Bin Laden
in a covert operation by the global gendarme CIA!
On May 2, the US imperialists murdered Osama Bin Laden, the leader
of Al Qaeda by attacking with helicopters the building where he was staying
in Abbottabad in Pakistan. US overstepped the sovereignty of Pakistan by
directly conducting this operation without even informing the Pakistan
government about it. They jammed the radars of Pakistan, entered its skies
with four helicopters and attacked the building and finished the operation
‘with surgical precision’. One woman and two men in the building were
also killed and it is said that Osama’s wife was also injured in the attack.
Their child seems to have escaped death only by chance in this forty minute
operation. The Obama administration was callous beyond words even
towards the dead body of Osama. They did not hand over the body to his
family members but threw it into the Arabian Sea! This was done to rub
salt into the wounds as they very well know how insulting and outraging it
would be to the muslims all over the world.

As soon as Obama gleefully announced the death of the Al Qaeda
77

leader, the fascists-in-arms of US government – the heads of imperialist
countries and their minion rulers in the third world scrambled to describe
this as a great victory in the global War on Terror. The comprador Indian
ruling classes jumped at the chance to take potshots at Pakistan for sheltering
such a ‘dangerous man’ on its soil. Not a word of condemnation about the
one-sided attack on a SAARC nation conducted without any regard to its
sovereignty. Not a question about what the US war-machinery was doing
on the soil of the sub-continent in the first place. The response of the
Indian compradors is not really surprising given their record of overt and
covert  support  to  most  of  the  aggressive  wars  and  interventions  of
imperialists (particularly that of US and NATO) in the third world violating
their sovereignty in umpteen number of ways and given their own servility
to the US imperialists.

The arm-twisting and coercing of Pakistan government by the US ‘to
get its cooperation’ in its so-called war on terror ever since the NATO
attack on Afghanistan in 2001 has been increasing with each passing day
and Pakistan has become a extended backyard of US in this war. This
operation is just the most glaring instance of the rampage of the belligerent
bully as this is but in continuation of the numerous unchallenged interventions
by it in Pakistan, especially in the past decade. The kowtowing of the
Pakistan’s comprador rulers is so complete that even after such an offensive
action, the Pakistan government is not even unequivocally condemning the
attack  done  leaving  to  wind  all  international  norms.  It  was  only  after
widespread agitations all over Pakistan pushed it to the corner did it whimper
inaudibly that this attack was illegal and carried on without its knowledge.
The Master says ‘So what, I won’t apologize’ and the servant shuts his
mouth. Again not really surprising when we look at its record of tail-wagging
total submission to the US imperialists. No.1 global terrorist Obama day in
and day out bombs Pakistani tribal (Pashtun) areas and kills hundreds of
Pakistani citizens (mostly women and children) in the countless drone
attacks. Scores of trigger-happy future Raymond Davises roam impudently
in the streets of Pakistan baying for the blood of ordinary Pakistani citizens.
But the shameless, spineless Pakistani ruling classes are jostling to lay red
carpets soaked with the blood of Pakistanis for this murderous ‘Nobel
Peace prize winner.’

78

Ever since the 9/11 attacks allegedly conducted by Al Qaeda under
the leadership of Osama Bin Laden, the US imperialists under the leadership
of the then president George W. Bush have launched a vicious anti-Muslim
tirade all over the globe and launched occupation wars against Afghanistan
and Iraq. Millions of ordinary people have died or were crippled in these
unjust wars not to speak of the appalling horrors faced by women and
children. In the name of War on Terror, Muslims all over the world were
targeted and subjected to innumerable horrors. Al Qaeda was shown as
the face of this ‘terrorism’ and Osama was portrayed as the number one
enemy of the US and the world and given a larger-than-life image. Al
Qaeda  was  inflated  as  the  monster  behind  every  terrorist  attack  in  an
attempt to justify all kinds of atrocities on Muslims. A man-hunt was launched
for Osama and other leaders of Al Qaeda and billions of dollars were spent
on the so-called War on Terror. Puppet regimes were installed in Afghanistan
and Iraq and Pakistan almost resembles a colony now. The juggernaut of
War on Terror continues to run amok among the Muslim populations crushing
millions under its feet.

It has been proven many times in history that killing one leader
can never end an organization without eliminating the root causes,
which  are  imperialist  super  exploitation,  oppression,  intervention
and insult in this case, which gave birth to it in the first place. The
deep  anger  and  frustration  of  the  Muslim  people  against  the
imperialists, particularly the US imperialists and Zionist Israel is
finding expression in many ways and Al Qaeda is one of them. The
upsurges  in  the Arab World  are  another  expression  of  this  fury  -
both against their despotic rulers and against imperialism. Some of
the methods employed by organizations like Al Qaeda in their fight
against imperialism are harming the ordinary citizens and deserve
to  be  condemned  when  lives  of  innocents  are  lost.  But  we  should
not  take  them  out  of  context  and  see  them  as  the  acts  of  some
mindless  people  who  ‘just  hate America’  as  the  US  government
wants its citizens to believe. If there were no imperialist interventions
and wars of occupation then there would be no Al Qaeda. If there were no
slaughterers like Bushes and Obamas there would be no Osamas.

CPI (Maoist) calls upon the people of the world to condemn the brutal
79

murder of Osama Bin Laden by the US imperialists. It demands that all
kinds of attacks on Muslims in the name of ‘War on Terror’ be stopped
immediately.

CPI (Maoist) firmly reiterates that Marxism-Leninism-Maoism is the
only ideology that can end all kinds of exploitation and oppression in the
world. Only under the leadership of the proletariat and its communist party
can the oppressed nations and peoples crushed under tyrants, bourgeois
dictatorships going by the name of ‘democracies’ and imperialism achieve
their complete liberation. Any number of acts of Al Qaeda or any other
organization like Al Qaeda cannot win them freedom or sovereignty from
the occupation and intervention of imperialists. The upsurges in the Arab
World including the struggle of  Palestinian people and the unrelenting fight
and sacrifices of their organizations would go nowhere unless they get
consolidated  into  People’s Wars  against  imperialism,  feudalism  and
comprador bureaucratic capitalism in their countries.

CPI (Maoist) calls upon all the oppressed nations and peoples
of the world to unitedly fight back the imperialists, particularly the
US imperialists, who unjustly launched the so-called War on Terror
targeting the Muslim populations all over the world.  We  appeal  to
the US citizens to realize that it is the brutal imperialist policies followed by
their rulers in third world countries that are endangering the lives of US
citizens and not so-called terrorists; that it is the capitalist economic system
which is leading to financial crises again and again affecting their well-
being or rendering them unemployed and not immigrants. We appeal to the
people of US to raise their voice and fight our common enemy on his home
turf.  Supporting the just struggles of the people oppressed by the rulers of
your country would also pave the path for your own liberation. We sincerely
hope that the struggles of the working class and people in imperialist countries,
including US, against monopoly capital and that of the oppressed nations
and peoples of the third world would unite and turn into a mighty storm
which would ultimately destroy our common enemy.

CPI (Maoist) particularly calls upon the people of South-Asia to raise
their voices against the brutality of the NATO forces led by the US in
Afghanistan  and  Pakistan  and  demand  their  withdrawal  immediately.

80

Support  the  struggles  of  Pakistani  people  against  the  attacks  of  US
imperialists on their soil and their struggle for freedom from imperialist
coercion and intervention.

Let us realize that US imperialism is the No.1 enemy of the world
people threatening world peace, sovereignty of the third world countries
and their progress. Let us fight back the imperialists and their compradors
in our countries for a life free of exploitation and oppression, for a life to be
lived with dignity and raised heads.

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

81

11  May,  2011
Release the Maoist leaders arrested in Bihar

unconditionally!

Make success the ‘Bharat Bandh’ on May 21 and 22

against the arrests of

CPI (Maoist) Central Committee members,

the ongoing unjust war on the people waged by

the ruling clique of the country and

the brutal repression of Uttar Pradesh peasants!

On April 29, the central and the state intelligence agencies of Andhra
Pradesh,  Bihar,  Chhattisgarh  etc  conducted  a  well-planned  attack  and
arrested seven persons including three CC members of our party from
Barsoi village in Katihar district of Bihar. Among those arrested are CC
members Comrade Pulendu Sekhar Mukherji alias Saheb da, Varanasi
Subrahmanyam alias Vimal alias Srikanth, Vijay Kumar Arya alias Jaspalji,
Comrade Abhimanyu  alias  Umesh Yadav  –  the  secretary  of  the  Uttar
Bihar-Uttar Pradesh Regional Bureau under the Bihar-Jharkhand Special
Area Committee, Nokhelal Choudhury, Syamji Rushi and house-owner
Anirudh  Ravidas.  The APSIB  notorious  for  hunting  and  killing
revolutionaries  has  been  following  the  movements  of  Comrade
Subrahmanyam since some months. In end July last year, he narrowly
escaped being caught by them. When our comrades met for a meeting, the
Bihar STF officers arrested them on information provided by the central-
state intelligence agencies.

67 year old veteran Maoist leader Comrade Pulendu Sekhar Mukherji
known as Saheb da, Gagan da and Akash da in the party has been leading
the revolutionary movement since 45 years. Born in Kolkata city, he left
his higher studies and joined the revolutionary struggle with the inspiration
of Naxalbari and dedicated his whole life for the advance of people’s war.
In his long revolutionary career, he strove to build revolutionary movement
82

in various states including Bengal and put substantial efforts for the unity
of communist organizations and genuine revolutionaries. Though suffering
severely  from  asthma,  ulcer  and  other  ailments  he  is  carrying  on  his
responsibilities with great spirit.

Comrade Subrahmanyam known as Vimal among the AP cadres and
famous as Srikanth among the party ranks all over the country, completed
his higher studies from Andhra University in Visakhapatnam and entered
revolutionary activities. In the 1970s he led the Radical Students Union,
Radical Youth League and Singareni Karmika Samakhya. Responding to
the call of the party he went to North India and put great efforts in building
revolutionary movement in many states there. He worked day and night at
various levels and in various spheres in spite of his severe ill-health.

Comrade Jaspalji well-known among the Bihar masses as Vijay Kumar
Arya played a crucial role in the revolutionary movement leading the
peasantry and the cultural field. For more than three decades he led the
revolutionary  movement  in  various  spheres  and  areas  and  built  mass
movements.

Indian intelligence agencies which were trained by foreign intelligence
agencies like CIA and Mossad notorious for their infinite cruelty are hunting
senior comrades leading the revolutionary movement and catching them.
In fact, it is the CIA and FBI of US which are running the intelligence
agencies in our country. In the past two years the intelligence agencies
murdered comrades Patel Sudhakar, Sakhamuri Appa Rao and Azad among
the  top  leaders  who  were  caught.  Some  more  central  and  state  level
leadership comrades were arrested and put in jails. False cases were foisted
on them in various states and they are left to rot in jails without granting
bail for many years. False witnesses are summoned and harsh punishments
and life sentences are pronounced basing on such testimonies. The women
leaders and activists are particularly subjected to inhuman physical and
mental torture. Comrades like Sushil Roy, Sheela didi, Narayan Sanyal,
Kobad Gandhi and Amitabh Bagchi who are suffering from serious ailments
are harassed by denying them health care.

The  imperialists  are  intensifying  the  exploitation  of  resources  in
backward countries to come out of the severe crises faced by the world

83

economy. They are threatening those countries which do not cater to their
interests.  If  they  do  not  heed  bombs  are  dropped  and  unjust  wars  are
launched against them. The Indian feudal, comprador bourgeoisie ruling
classes even while denying that there is any effect of the crisis on the
country’s economy are getting bogged down in it with each passing day.
They are opening the doors of the economy to imperialist exploitation and
are implementing neo-liberal policies with impunity. The central and state
governments have signed MoUs worth billions of rupees with several MNCs
and are selling the natural resources of our country. Lands are forcefully
grabbed from the people in the name of SEZs, nuclear and thermal power
plants,  big  dams,  express  highways,  wildlife  sanctuaries  etc.  While
destroying forests, water, land and ecology on the whole they are rendering
the people and particularly the adivasis homeless. Hiding behind these
policies the ministers, chief ministers and bureaucracy are resorting to
scams on a huge scale and stashing away billions of rupees in Swiss banks
and rendering the lives of workers, peasantry, employees and middle classes
unbearable. While the Tatas, Birlas, Ambanis, Jindals, Mittals, Mahindras,
Ruiyas, Neko Jaiswals and Sun networks are amassing wealth worth trillions
of rupees, 77 percent of the country’s population is living on less than 20
rupees a day. The people of our country are caught in a whirlpool of problems
like starvation deaths, price rises, unemployment, displacement, diseases
and malnutrition. Lakhs of police and paramilitary is deployed by the ruling
classes against those who question this situation and fight against it to
suppress  them  under  the  iron  heel.  Black  laws  are  enacted  crushing
underneath their feet democratic and civil rights. Billions of rupees are
poured down the drain to sharpen the fangs of the repressive machine to
suppress the people.

The ruling classes which realized that the huge discontent and anger
erupting against the ruling classes is strengthening the Maoist movement
have launched the well-planned campaign that ‘Maoist movement is the
biggest internal security to the country’. They are portraying the Maoist
movement as violent and the Maoist party as a terrorist organization and is
carrying on a malicious propaganda campaign on a large scale. To continue
their pro-imperialist policies and to completely decimate the Maoist party
which they think is the biggest hurdle for the loot of resources they have

84

launched the most  fascist offensive in the name of ‘Operation Green
Hunt’ particularly since two years. This offensive which even has the
avowed aim of destroying the alternative people’s power developing at
various levels in the Maoist movement areas has been intensified since
January 2011 and now they are calling it ‘Operation Green Hunt – 2’. As
part of this, the police, paramilitary forces, Special Forces and the counter-
revolutionary  vigilante  gangs  launched  by  them  have  intensified  fake
encounters, indiscriminate killings, burning of villages, loot, atrocities on
women, arrests and tortures. They are making full preparations to deploy
army in Chhattisgarh and are on their way to grab 800 sq. kms of land in
Maad. In Maad and on the borders of Chhattisgarh and Odisha two army
training centres are coming up. Apart from making preparations to establish
an Air-Force base they have given permission to the Air-Force to conduct
attacks in ‘self-defence’.

In Chintalnar area of Dandakaranya between 11 and 16 of March,
350 Cobra commandos, Koya commandos and hundreds of STF forces
descended on Morpalli, Timmapuram and Tadimetla villages, created havoc
and razed to the ground 300 houses. Thousands of quintals of food grains
were burnt. Every home was looted. Three villagers were shot dead, two
went missing, five women were gang raped and nearly 50 villagers were
severely tortured. Democrats who went to inquire into this, media persons
who went to report this and social activists who were taking relief material
to the victims were attacked by the Salwa Judum goons and not allowed to
enter the area at the behest of fascist chief minister Raman Singh, the
running dogs of the ruling classes DGP Viswaranjan, Bastar IG Longkumer
and Dantewada SSP Kalluri. In the background of the furor which rocked
the state and country on this atrocity, Raman Singh was forced to visit
Tadimetla village. Even while he was speaking at the meeting, the Koya
commandos went on a rampage once again and looted fifteen houses, beat
some villagers and raped a woman in the same village. This is the level of
fascist terror being unleashed in Chhattisgarh today. These kinds of attacks
are being conducted regularly in Gadchiroli district of Maharashtra too.
Moreover  secret  killer  gangs  are  encouraged  to  attack  and  kill  mass
organization activists and party activists. They are told to particularly target
women activists – to rape and kill them. On April 19, 14 year old boy Rajnu

85

was killed in cold blood in Chinari village and a fake encounter story was
circulated.  These  are  just  recent  examples  of  the  severe  repressive
campaign unleashed on a daily basis in Dandakaranya.

On March 14, six Maoists including three women were killed by the
police in East Champaran district of Bihar. Some more were arrested. The
Jharkhand government is deploying thousands of police and paramilitary
forces with the aim of annihilating Maoist leadership and is carrying on
offensives.  Indiscriminate  arrests  are  continuing.  Fascist  attacks  are
conducted on people fighting against displacement and forceful evictions
from land. In Odisha the comprador Naveen Patnaik government carried
on fake encounters all over the state and killed more than 25 Maoists, anti-
mining activists and ordinary people within four months. The fact that there
is a 12 year old girl Janga and some more teenage girls among the dead
bares the brutal face of the Patnaik regime.

With the aim of continuing their fascist rule of the past 34 years at any
cost, the CPM government in West Bengal intensified its attacks on people
and the Maoists. It is resorting to massacres and the most appalling atrocities
using police, paramilitary and its goonda force of Harnad Bahini. Arrested
Maoist leaders, particularly women, are being treated in the most inhuman
manner. Recently WB police severely attacked the political prisoners who
were striking against the horrible conditions in the Medinipur jail. The AP
government which claims to have decimated the Maoist movement in the
state is going on increasing its police forces on a large scale. It intensified
its hunt for Maoist leaders. It is suppressing the people fighting for separate
Telangana. Its leaders are being attacked by state-sponsored black gangs.
The Maharashtra government is continuing the campaign of repression in
the adivasi movement areas, is arresting Maoist leaders and democrats in
the urban areas and foisting false cases on them.

This fascist onslaught is not just aimed at the Maoist movement. The
oppressive ruling classes have been resorting to fascist repression against
every democratic movement. Last month, on 18th, police had indiscriminately
fired at the people of Jaitapur area in Maharashtra who were agitating
against the proposed nuclear power plant killing one protester named Tabrez.
And now, the police forces are brutally suppressing the agitating peasants

86

of Uttar Pradesh who are opposing to give away their lands for proposed
Express Highway to be built from Greater Noida to Agra. At least two
peasants were killed and so many people were injured when police force
resorted to beatings and firings. People of Bhatta-Parsaul and nearby villages
boldly resisted the police rampage in which two policemen were also killed
and some others including few officers were injured. Next day people of
Agra  and Aligarh  also  intensified  their  agitation  and  resisted  the
highhandedness of the police. Taking this as a pretext, fascist Mayawati
government has resorted to severe repression on the peasants of Uttar
Pradesh. Laying siege upon the villages, it is inflicting inhuman atrocities
upon the villagers.
Beloved  People!  Democrats!  Patriots!

The above fascist repressive measures and the arrests of Maoist leaders
are  part  of  the War  on  People  waged  by  the  ruling  clique  of  Sonia-
Manmohan-Chidambaram with the support of the imperialists in the name
of OGH. We must see this political repression, massacres and attack on
civil rights in the context of the repercussions of the severe crisis faced by
the world capitalism on all the spheres in our society. It is part of a conspiracy
to  carry  on their  pro-imperialist, anti-people policies  unchallenged by
completely destroying the Maoist revolutionary movement. It is a historical
truth  that  repression  leads  to  resistance.  The  daydreams  of  Sonia-
Manmohan-Chidambaram ruling clique that they would be able to suppress
mass movements and revolutionary movements through arrests, murders
and repressive campaigns are bound to end in a nightmare. The feudal and
comprador bureaucratic bourgeois ruling classes  and imperialists who
control them are the biggest enemies to the development of our country,
self-reliance, sovereignty and people’s welfare. Our Central Committee is
calling upon the people to join in huge numbers in the People’s War waged
by our party and in the New Democratic Revolution conducted with the
aim of completely eliminating these people’s enemies. Our CC is appealing
to all civil rights activists, intellectuals, democrats and those who wish for
peace talks to visit our movement areas and see with your own eyes the
inhuman  atrocities  and  massacres  perpetrated  by  the  state  here.  It  is
requesting you to place before the people of this country the facts about
the fascist state violence unleashed on adivasis - the poorest of the poor -
87

in the heart of this country which calls itself ‘the largest democracy’.

Our CC is calling upon the people and the democrats to condemn
these  arrests,  massacres,  destruction,  loot,  atrocities,  foul  propaganda,
fascization of the state, forceful land acquisitions and black laws like UAPA
and to fight unitedly against all these. It is demanding that the arrested
Maoist leaders be released unconditionally and immediately. The only way
before us is to fight back unitedly and militantly the fascist state terror and
our CC is calling upon the people to come forward bravely to resist this. It
is clearly stating that only by intensifying the people’s resistance movement
ongoing under the leadership of our party and PLGA and by getting mobilized
into it in thousands and lakhs can we defeat this offensive.

Our CC is appealing to the people to make success the 48 hour ‘Bharat
Bandh’ to be observed on May 21-22 protesting the arrests of Maoist
leaders and against the war on people by the ruling clique and against the
ongoing repression of Uttar Pradesh peasants. This bandh would be mainly
observed in six states – Jharkhand, Bihar, West Bengal, Odisha, Andhra
Pradesh and Chhattisgarh; in three districts of Maharashtra – Gadchiroli,
Chandrapur, Gondia; in the border districts of Uttar Pradesh adjoining Bihar
and in Balaghat district of Madhya Pradesh. There will be protests in various
forms in other states. Emergency services like health care, examinations
of students and interviews are exempted from the bandh.

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

88

4 June, 2011

Deployment Of Army

In The Name Of Training Schools

Puts The Very Existence Of The Aborigines

and Inhabitants Of Bastar In Peril!

Forest Belongs To

The Indigenous People (Mulvasis) –

The Government Doesn’t Have Any Right

Over Even An Inch Of It!
Indian Army GO BACK –

Do Not Kill Your Own Citizens!

While the Bastar adivasi peasants are readying themselves for the
monsoons to till their lands so that they can feed their children and families
throughout the year – unknown to them, silently and stealthily the central
and state governments have completed the preparations for another kind
of monsoons. These ‘monsoons’ do not rain droplets of water but bullets
and shells, rockets and cannon balls  and would irrigate their lands with the
blood of children, women and men – young and old. These ‘monsoons’
promise a lifelong peace and prosperity. Peace it would – as peaceful as a
graveyard could be and lifelong as their longing for life would come to an
end. Of course, prosperity it would be – for the imperialists, their running
dogs - the ruling classes of India, the corporate vultures, the MNC sharks,
the great Indian extended family of the comprador bureaucratic bourgeoisie
i.e., the chief ministers, ministers, MLAs, MPs, IAS, IPS, IFS, bureaucrats
etc as now they could lay their greedy hands on the immense wealth buried
under this graveyard.

89

The home ministry says it wants to ‘clear, hold and build’ in the ‘Maoist
areas.’ In our country words have long ago ceased to have their original
meaning, for which they were created in the first place. Here is the new
lexicon– ‘clear’ means massacres, mopping up or complete destruction of
everything, ‘hold’ means a war of occupation and ‘build’ means absolute
loot of people’s resources. All this ultimately results in reducing the people
to a slave like existence complete with absolute surrender to the imperialist
slave-owners and this has got its own word – ‘development’. And it is not
just words, even institutions have changed their ‘supposed duties’ in our
country (into their ‘actual duties’ for which they were created, in fact) –
the government doesn’t look after the welfare of the people – it bends
over backwards and crawls on its fours to protect the interests of those
who exploit them; the judiciary doesn’t protect the rights of the people – it
shows admirable adroitness in finding ways to deny them; the police think
they are the ‘law’ and that ‘ordering around’ restores it; and the Indian
Army with impeccable acumen finds ‘enemies’ in the dilapidated huts of
poor adivasis, in the empty granaries of the bankrupt peasants or in the
stench-filled  bastis  of  workers  and  of  course  in  every  nook  corner  of
Kashmir and North-East.

In the first week of June, a thousand-men strong iron heeled column
marched its way to Bastar – physically that is. Because the Indian Army
has been breathing down the necks of Bastar people in many more indirect
ways since almost a decade. It has been an integral part of all the counter-
insurgency operation plans formulated against the Maoists and has been
training the mercenaries who do that job in hundreds.  In just Narayanpur
the land to be allotted for the Army (training school) amounts to 750 sq.kms
while  the  talk  is  about  three  training  schools  and  in  three  districts
(Narayanpur,  Bastar  and  Bilaspur). This  is  not  counting  the  previous
allotments to army and air-force.

‘Oh, no, don’t mistake us, all this is just for the training school, the
army  won’t  enter  into  operations  against  Maoists,  it  is  just  to  gain  a
psychological advantage over the Maoists, to tell them – ‘see a lion is
sitting at your door!’ says the army. And pray – may the humble citizens
ask His Excellency Herr Manmohan what this ‘training’ is for as it is he
who with great insight discovered that Maoists were the biggest internal
90

security threat? Who are you trying to fool? Only a fool would believe that
this lion just sits there and roars instead of pouncing on us. Don’t forget,
this is a man-eater on the prowl which has tasted human blood in Kashmir
and North-East.  Let us be very clear – this training is nothing else but
counter-insurgency training ‘to fight the guerilla like a guerilla.’ Unable to
contain the armed resistance of the most deprived people of Central and
Eastern India through their police and paramilitary, the ruling classes of our
country have now turned to the army whom they have been ‘grooming’
exactly for such purposes (read for wars on people). What is the need for
another  ‘training  school’  when  there  are  already  so  many? And  more
importantly, why in Central India?

It is as clear as daylight – it is no doubt a training school but it doesn’t
stop with training, as soon as a batch finishes training it would be ready
with its boots and helmets, guns and grenades on to be sent off to its
destination to fight the Maoists, and it doesn’t cater just to Chhattisgarh
but also to Maharashtra, Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Western Ghats,
West Bengal, Odisha and last but not least Andhra Pradesh. That explains
the location of it.

Following the policy of ‘draining the water to catch the fish’, the central
and state governments, with the close guidance of their mentors – the US
imperialists - are implementing the ‘Low Intensity Conflict’ (LIC) strategy,
applying it ‘creatively’ to the concrete conditions in India. This can be in
such ‘indigenous forms’ like - in preparation for the deployment of army
and ‘draining water’ – now Maad adivasis do not get to buy rice anywhere
nearby their dwellings. They get them only from towns (and only in such
quantities so that the Maoists do not take some rice from them) from shops
which are actually police camps. Even the namesake schools from the
hamlets are being shifted to pucca buildings on the road-side and would
exist in the name of that hamlet which would be at least 60 to 100 kms
away. Next the army would step in and ‘clear’ the forest of all inhabitants
and  herd  them  off  to  strategic  hamlets  which  are  a  euphemism  for
concentration camps. At the higher level, the recent hobnobbing exercises
of Indian and US ruling classes for ‘helping each other’ in Homeland Security
were done in preparation for the crueler phase of this War on People – the
Phase Two of the Operation Green Hunt as it is being called.

91

No people in this world without a land to claim as their own could
wage battles against their enemies. The ruling classes know this truth more
than anybody else and this is exactly what they are planning to do. In the
name of training schools it is occupying thousands of square kilometers of
land and in the name of strategic hamlets it is rendering the adivasis and
forest dwellers homeless and everybody knows that forest IS their home.
So, revolutionaries, democrats, civil rights activists and particularly the adivasi
organizations must realize the whole conspiracy behind the smokescreen
of army training schools. It is the need of the hour to assert loudly that Jal,
Jungle and Jameen belongs to the indigenous people (Mulvasis) of Bastar,
who represent one of the most ancient inhabitants of the world and to the
Mulvasis of Central and Eastern India.

True,  the  government  must  be  questioned  about  land  acquisition,
throwing to wind all laws and regulations it has promulgated for adivasi
areas (5th schedule, PESA, Forest Rights act etc). Though posing a direct
question about its not following its own rules is necessary, one must be
careful not to give it legitimacy to occupy the forest ‘if it follows its rules’.
In fact, a conspiracy is under way in the name of land acquisition act to
hand over the land of the peasants in a ‘legal’ manner to the corporates. It
would not result in any peaceful transfer of land from one hand to another
but  would  remain  a  naked  land-grabbing  act  which  would  never  be
implemented  without  shedding  the  blood  of  the  peasants  and  without
destroying their livelihoods. The first and foremost thing to be done is to
declare that forest belongs to the Mulvasis and that they do not have any
‘elder brother’ named ‘government’ with whom they should share it!

As our party has been consistently saying and as even all genuine
democrats have been expounding - all these operation green hunts and
clear-hold-build policies are meant to loot the immense mineral wealth and
other natural resources in Central and Eastern India. And for this they do
not care if a whole community or a civilization is wiped out; it would just be
a ‘collateral damage’ as taught by their ex-boss ‘Bush’ or their current
master  ‘Obama’.

The Central Committee of CPI (Maoist) calls upon the people of Bastar
and Chhattisgarh to fight back the Indian Army as they had been fighting
back the police, paramilitary and vigilante gangs like Salwa Judum to protect
92

their lives and livelihoods, to secure the future of their children and to save
their mother forest and one of the most ancient cultures of this world of
which they are the proud inheritors.

Let the slogans – Forest belongs to the Mulvasis - Not an inch of
it to the Sonias-Manmohans-Chidambarams and Raman Singhs, not
to  blood-sucking  land  grabbers  masquerading  as  chief  ministers
and ministers, not to MNCs, not to Indian corporate sharks, not to
mining mafias – reverberate in every corner of Central and Eastern India.
Mobilize to the very last member in the family – children and elders, young
and old, women and men with the slogan – Indian Army Go Back, do
not kill your own citizens.

We have seen many offensives, but this new offensive using the army
puts the very existence of the aborigines and inhabitants of the forests in
Central and Eastern India in peril. It is a question of life and death. If we
let them prevail, the consequences would be very bleak and may lead to
many decades of dark years. Sacrifices and acts of bravery are not new to
us. It is a specific characteristic of our history of struggle against colonial
rule that the most consistent, continuous, militant armed struggles against
the British colonialists were waged by the adivasis of this country. And
some of the most glorious chapters in it belong to the Santhals and Bastar
adivasis  during  the  Santhal  rebellions  and  Mahan  Bhumkal  of  1910
respectively. It is this struggle legacy from our fore fathers and mothers
which we have to evoke now if we have to save everything that is precious
to us, everything that is dear to our heart – everything that makes us breathe
free. So let us fight the enemies of the people to the end. Let us fight back
everything which seeks to reduce us to a slave-like existence in the name
of ‘development’.

We  appeal  to  all  the  revolutionary,  democratic  and  patriotic
organizations and particularly the adivasi organizations in India and abroad
to raise your voice against the deployment of army in Central and Eastern
India and do everything in your means to expose, to fight back and stop this
war of the Indian government on its own citizens.

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)
93

June  13,  2011
Release Beloved Veteran Leader of Indian Revolution and

Oppressed Masses

Comrade Jagdish Master (Bhupesh ji)

Unconditionally!

Observe ‘Bharat Bandh’ on June 23

against the arrest of Comrade Jagdish Master and

the ongoing fascist oppression on

revolutionary movement

unleashed by the exploitative ruling classes!
Politburo member of CPI (Maoist) and one of the senior most leaders
of Indian Revolution Comrade Bhupesh ji, who has been popular among
the oppressed people of Bihar as ‘Jagdish Master’, was arrested by police
on June 11 from Gurar area of Gaya district in Bihar. 72-year old veteran
Comrade Bhupesh ji suffering from serious illness for ten years has been
living among the people and inspiring them for struggles. Plainclothes goons
of Bihar’s and central intelligence wings caught him while he was trying to
get medical treatment. By not producing him before any court of law even
after 24 hours and inflicting various kinds of torture and harassment on
him, these licensed killers have bluntly violated their own constitution and
law whom they always claim to follow.

Comrade Jagdish Master, who is very popular among Party ranks as
‘Comrade Bhupesh ji’ is one of the important leaders who has strived to
advance the revolutionary movement for almost four decades. He was
attracted to revolutionary politics in the early 1970s while he was serving
as a school teacher inspired by one of the Great Leaders of Indian Revolution
and  Martyr  Comrade  Kanhai  Chatterjee.  He  started  his  revolutionary
activities as a professional revolutionary since then. In Bihar which was
notorious for feudal exploitation and barbaric attacks on oppressed caste

94

masses by private armies of upper caste landlords, he led many mass
struggles as a militant people’s leader. By arresting him the neo-landlords
like Nitish kumar and the ruling clique of Sonia-Manmohan-Chidambaram
are trying to push Bihar peasantry once again into those dark years. Comrade
Bhupesh ji was instrumental in seizing thousands of acres of land from the
landlords and distributing them among the poor and landless peasants and
thus enabling them to raise their heads with self-respect. The arrest of
Comrade Bhupesh ji is a great shock to the people, revolutionary ranks and
cadres for whom he has been an inspiration and a source of enthusiasm
for his defiance of old age and severe ill-health and the way he led his
entire life amidst the oppressed masses until his arrest.

Indian ruling classes have been viewing the Maoist movement as their
biggest enemy and committing heinous acts of arresting and murdering its
central  and  state  leaders  in  fake  encounters.  Especially,  as  part  of
countrywide offensive named ‘Operation Green Hunt’ that has been going
on for the last two years, they are on the one hand, eliminating the crucial
leadership by targeting them and on the other hand, unleashing fascist
repression in the struggle areas. This state offensive - OGH - has been
continuing in the cruelest oppressive forms of Middle Ages and in utter
fascist  forms  of  Nazi  kind  such  as  massacring  the  unarmed  people
indiscriminately in the name of encounters, setting villages ablaze, raping
women, destroying and looting the properties, beating severely, arresting
and implicating false cases against people to make them languish in jails
for years without trials and bails. The areas of revolutionary movement in
Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Bihar, Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra,
Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh states are crushed under the iron feet of
police and paramilitary forces.

Since January 2011, as part of the second phase of OGH as it is being
called, governments are on the one hand unleashing barbaric attacks on
the villages and the people and on the other hand, resorting to fascist attacks
on those writers, artists, democrats and human rights activists who dare to
raise their voice against these attacks. Pronouncing life imprisonment to
people’s doctor and human rights activist Dr. Binayak Sen in Chhattisgarh;
attacks on Swami Agnivesh and others who were trying to directly meet
the victims of brutal state violence in Chintalnar area; issuing threats of
95

imposing ban on PUCL; attacking and implicating in false cases writers
and journalists; repression on people of Odisha who were agitating against
the forceful acquisition of land by corporate companies; killings of anti-
mining activists in fake encounters; police firings and killings of people in
Bihar; police firings and atrocities on the people of Jharkhand who were
agitating against the government’s moves to evict the people from their
residential areas in the pretext of illegal encroachments; arrest and torturing
magazine editor and mass organization activist Harbindar Singh Jalal by
police in Punjab; arrest of Dalit movement activist and magazine editor
Sudhir Dhawale in sedition case in Maharashtra; various forms of repression
on people’s movement for ‘separate Telangana state’ in Andhra Pradesh –
all of these are just some of the recent glaring examples.

The Indian ruling classes who are hell-bent on giving away the country’s
precious wealth to imperialists and comprador corporate houses have now
deployed the Indian Army in this unjust war with the aim of wiping out the
Maoist movement whom they see as the biggest hurdle in their way. At
present, the forces of the Indian Army have arrived in Bastar region of
Chhattisgarh in the name of ‘training’. The Indian Army which is supposed
to be deployed in the borders of the country to fight the armies of enemy
countries has now been deployed against the very people of this country in
the heart of the country. The decision of the Raman Singh government to
give away as much as 750 sq km land to the Army in the name of setting
up of training schools would carve out almost one fifth of the Maad region
displacing thousands of indigenous Mariya adivasi people. On the other
hand, corporate companies have been moving into these areas with their
projects of acquiring thousands of acres of land. Thus the conspiracies of
displacing the people living in the areas of revolutionary movement by
using brute force are on the high now.

Today,  the  corrupt  political  leaders,  corporate  bandits  and  big
bureaucrats who have amassed hundreds and thousands of billions of rupees
by virtue of vast scams and scandals are facing the people’s wrath severely.
Tens of millions of people are immensely suffering from serious problems
such as price rise, starvation deaths, famine, diseases, displacement, plunder
of resources etc. Unable to solve any of these basic problems, governments
have  unleashed  fascist  repressions  and  mass  killings  with  the  aim  of
96

suppressing the just movements of the people. They’re arresting and killing
the  revolutionary  leaders  who  have  been  striving  hard  for  the  people
selflessly, dedicatedly and relentlessly. Comrade Bhupesh ji’s arrest must
be seen in this context.

The Central Committee of CPI (Maoist) calls upon the people of our
country to observe 24-hour ‘Bharath Bandh’ on June 24 to protest the
arrest of Comrade Bhupesh ji and the fascistic repression unleashed against
the revolutionary movement by the ruling classes. This bandh would be
mainly observed in six states – Jharkhand, Bihar, West Bengal, Odisha,
Andhra  Pradesh  and  Chhattisgarh;  in  three  districts  of  Maharashtra  –
Gadchiroli, Chandrapur, Gondia; in the border districts of Uttar Pradesh
adjoining Bihar and in Balaghat district of Madhya Pradesh. There will be
protests in various forms in other states. Emergency services like health
care, examinations of students and interviews are exempted from the bandh.
Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

97

June  15,  2011

Fight back the new state offensive in

Chhattisgarh and Odisha

as part of Operation Green Hunt – Phase II!
Any fascist offensive aimed at looting this
country is bound to be defeated by the

courageous resistance of the self-respecting

people of India!

On 14-06-2011 the Union Home Minister P. Chidambaram had a high
level meeting with the chief ministers of Chhattisgarh and Odisha and
announced a new brutal offensive in these two states to contain ‘Left
Wing Extremism (LWE)’. In the guise of his oft-repeated two-pronged
mantra of ‘development and police action’, the HM promised full support
of the centre for these states in their cruel offensive and egged them on to
go ahead in full swing. Naveen Patnaik, the blood-thirsty CM of Odisha
whose hands are already stained with the blood of hundreds of people of
Odisha offered as human sacrifices for this ‘God of development’ right
from Kalinga Nagar to Niyamgiri is now asking for helicopters to bomb the
hapless adivasis. Raman Singh who would perhaps go down in history as
the saffron fascist who sounded the death knell for one of the most ancient
inhabitants in the world in Bastar, tried to cover up his growing alarm at the
increasing heroic armed resistance of the people in his state with high-
sounding rhetoric on how to go about decimating Maoists. A few days
back in the first week of June (within a  week of  another meeting with the
chief ministers of ‘Maoist affected’ states led by the PM and HM) an
announcement had already been made by the AP and Odisha governments
that a three-month long big offensive is ready to be launched on Andhra-
Odisha  Border  region  (AOB)  to  decimate  the  Maoists  there.  They
announced that they would use modern technology and new methods and
tactics of attacking utilizing ‘water, air and land’. They said paratroopers
may also be used. And now the whole country knows that the army had
98

already been deployed in Chhattisgarh under the pretext of ‘training’.

This announcement comes within days of the announcement of SAIL
to privatize Raoghat mines in Bastar (Chhattisgarh). This comes within
days of the stiff resistance of the Odisha people against the land grabbing
of POSCO for ‘the biggest foreign direct investment in India’ (read ‘one
of the biggest attempts in history to grab the natural resources in India’).
This also comes within days of a series of attacks by our PLGA (People’s
Liberation Guerilla Army) on the mercenary forces of the central and state
governments in Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra parts which constitute DK.
The ruling classes concentrating on the borders of the states where the
Maoist movement is strong and expanding so that there won’t be any
boundaries to their exploitation; so that he they could expand their loot
unbridled. (For example, between Odisha and Jharkhand; between West
Bengal and Jharkhand; Chhattisgarh and Mahararashtra; CG-AP-MR etc.
previously) The relation between the cause and effect is obvious for all to
see.

The actual reality is that this announcement comes in the backdrop of
firm rejection by the people of India from North to South, from East to
West and particularly in Central India of the ‘development model’ of the
comprador ruling classes. The growing resistance to almost every country-
selling and plundering ‘development’ project in throughout the country like
in Bihar-Jharkhand, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra,
West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, North-East etc is such a glaring
fact that only those wearing the visionless glasses of ‘development’ would
refuse to recognize them. Only those wearing the sound-proof ear-plugs
of ‘police action’ would refuse to hear the slogans of ‘Jal-Jungle-Zameen
Hamara Hai’ and ‘NO to this lopsided development’ renting the airs.

Every genuine patriotic citizen of this country would indeed be proud
of these bravest resistances - violent and non-violent, militant and peaceful,
armed and unarmed - offered by the poorest of the poor to save this country
from the vultures of MNCs and big comprador bourgeoisie and be humbled
by the sacrifices they are making for a life of dignity not only for their
children but for every citizen of this country. But the ruling classes of India
are feeling the opposite. They are angered, alarmed, feeling cornered and

99

filled  to  the  brim  with  hatred  towards  these  resistances  because  these
movements are hindering the implementation of the ‘promises’ these minions
made to their  imperialist masters and to the members of their class to
hoard all the riches of this country for peanuts. Their masters are breathing
down their necks to ‘show results’ for all the kickbacks they have been
gorging till their stomachs burst for paving ‘the path of development.’ So
they are going on launching new offensives in a desperate attempt to crush
the  resistances.

The first thing to realize is that we should not be fooled by their utter
lies that these offensives are launched only for crushing the Maoists. We
have to realize that these offensives are launched to crush the peasants,
adivasis and workers; the women, children, men and elderly; the democrats,
the patriots and the revolutionaries of these regions or in one word all those
citizens of this country who have the right over the resources of this country.
So, we must fight back these offensives as one person and in one voice to
defeat their conspiracies of selling our beloved country to the imperialists.
The questions to be asked are – who gave the right to these governments
to implement the ‘development model’ which has been absolutely rejected
by  the  very  people  in  whose  name  this  is  done?  What  right  do  these
governments have to spend the hard-earned money of the people of this
country to kill its own citizens in police actions and military offensives?
What right do these governments have to offer as cannon fodder the lives
of lakhs of armed forces in a war which is not fought for their interests or
any  betterment  of  their  lives  but  for  the  interests  of  the  imperialists,
comprador bureaucratic bourgeoisie and the feudals? Most importantly
what right do these governments have to perpetrate massacres, burning,
loots, rapes, fake encounters, lock-up deaths etc on the people fighting for
their livelihood and very existence?

To keep up the sagging morale of the armed forces who are facing
one attack after another in the Maoist areas, particularly in Chhattisgarh
recently, the HM said that the forces were facing the Maoists bravely and
had gunned down as many as 78 extremists in 125 encounters this year.
We want to bring to the attention of the people of this country and the
world that these figures do not convey the truth and we must realize that it
is actually hundreds of unarmed people (who may be sympathizers or
100

activists of the revolutionary movement or not) who have been killed in
cold  blood  in  fake  encounters  and  massacres  of  the  central  and  state
governments. ‘Maoists’ is just the alibi they are using to crush the genuine
people’s struggles including the ones led by Maoists and not just the ones
led by the Maoists.

The Andhra Pradesh government has been patted on the back in every
meeting of the gangster chief ministers and high-way robber DGPs for
crushing the Maoist movement in the state effectively. It took a blood-bath
of about four decades in an unprecedented series of fascist offensives
both on revolutionaries and the people, particularly on the Telangana people
for this to be ‘achieved’. And now every state government is urged to
follow this fascist model of AP. The AP greyhounds do not bother about
state boundaries and enter unchecked into Odisha and Chhattisgarh to
carry on attacks on the Maoists and the adivasi hamlets on the borders.
And the Special Intelligence Bureau (APSIB) is present behind every major
arrest and every fake encounter of Maoist leaders in all the states in the
country.  So now the three month long offensive in AOB to be implemented
with the coordination of the AP and Odisha governments with the full
support of central government may go down as one of the bloodiest in the
history of this country if we do not offer the stiffest resistance to stop it.
And the new offensive on Odisha and Chhattisgarh which are already
notorious for Salwa Judums, Santi Senas and all kinds of atrocities by the
security forces deployed there would also be most cruel as these states
have  been  the  theatre  for  the  bravest  armed  and  unarmed  resistances
against pro-imperialist policeis of the governments in this country. The
central government has now zeroed down on these two states and included
the AP borders region with these two states. It wants to finish off this vast
region of resistance first and go on to other regions. This doesn’t mean
there would be respite in other areas such as a Jharkhand or a West Bengal.
The  war  on  those  people  would  continue  severely.  It  is  just  that  the
concentration would be more on this region in this phase of the country-
wide ‘War on People’.

The people of the world and our country have stood with the fighting
people of India in their struggle for life and existence and their support is
very crucial in the face of these new fascist offensives planned by the
101

ruling classes. So we appeal to all the genuine democratic forces in our
country and in the world to expose the conspiracy of the Indian ruling
classes and fight back this War on the People of India in every possible
manner. Build movements across the country and the world to stop the
deployment of army in the movement areas and to stop the economic,
political, military and psychological offensives.

The CC of CPI (Maoist) calls upon the people of Chhattisgarh-Odisha
border, AP-Odisha border and Chhattisgarh-AP border to fight back this
latest fascist offensive unitedly. The entire Party and PLGA forces must
fight back the enemy offensive in all spheres and by intensifying armed
resistance involving the vast masses of this region.

 Stop the new fascist offensive on CG-Odisha, Odisha-AP and

CG-AP borders immediately!

 Stop Operation Green Hunt immediately!
 Stop land grab for POSCO and Raoghat railway line and mines!
 Condemn the brutal state repression on people agitating against

POSCO project!

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

102

June  18,  2011
Make success the protest week from July 4th

to 11th in the Central Region!

The Army Training School in Narayanpur

district ( in Maad area)

should be immediately scrapped !

The Indian Army is establishing a counter-guerilla training school in a
sprawling area of 750 sq.kms  in Narayanpur district of Chhattisgarh. This
area is home to an ancient Adivasi community. Since two decades the
government has been citing that these Adivasis are becoming an extinct
human society. At present,  establishing an army centre in a vast expanse
of  this  area  means  speeding  up  of  this  process.  Since  five  years  the
Chhattisgarh government has been propagating that top Maoist leaders
are taking shelter in these mountains and that they are openly carrying out
their activities and had turned this into a military camp. Since two years the
brutal Operation Green Hunt has been unleashed by it here. Due to the
establishment of the Army training camp the very existence of the Adivasis
here will be put in severe peril. In fact, looting the valuable mineral resources
from these areas is their actual goal behind all this. People are vehemently
opposing this. Now army has been deployed as part of suppressing this
severe protest. Our party is severely condemning this. Our party is calling
upon the people to intensify mass struggles against this.

Our party is calling upon the people to make success the protest week
to be observed in Central Region, i.e., in Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh,
Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh-Odisha border area from July 4th  to  11th
demanding the immediate scrapping of the Army training school in Maad
area. Our party is appealing to the entire Indian masses, democrats and
well-wishers of Adivasis to make success this protest week.

Our party is appealing to the Indian Army jawans not to make war on

103

Adivasi people for the interests of the exploitative ruling classes. We are
appealing to them not to carry on  firings on Adivasi people in the name of
Maoists.

  Anand

Secretary, Central Regional Bureau

     Abhay
Spokesperson,

      Central Committee,
          CPI (Maoist)

        Central Committee,

 CPI (Maoist)

104

June  20,  2011

Red Homage to

Comrade Pattipati Venkateswarlu,
a founder leader of the civil liberties

movement in Andhra Pradesh!

On  June  11,  2011  Pattipati Venkateswarlu,  a  people’s  lawyer  and
founder-secretary  of  the Andhra  Pradesh  Civil  Liberties  Committee
(APCLC) breathed his last in Hyderabad. With his death the oppressed
people of India, particularly the people of Andhra Pradesh have lost one of
their well-wishers, a people’s lawyer and a civil rights leaders who had
relentlessly fought for their rights. The CC, CPI (Maoist) is paying red
homage to Pattipati and is sending its deep condolences to his family, friends,
relatives and colleagues in the civil rights movement.

Pattipati was born in Tanguturu of Prakasam district in 1934. He was
one of those several mass organization leaders who came forward to work
for the rights of the oppressed masses and fighting people in our country in
the wake of Naxalbari and particularly in AP during the Srikakulam armed
struggle. With the notorious fake encounters which were intensified during
the Vengala Rao fascist regime to suppress the Srikakulam struggle and
the innumerable atrocities, arrests etc of revolutionaries and innocent people
perpetrated by the government mercenary police and paramilitary forces,
the need for a civil rights movement was felt more than ever in the 70s.
APCLC was formed in 1973 and Pattipati became its first secretary while
the legendary poet Sri Sri was its first president. Both of them had toured
the length and breadth of AP to build up a strong civil liberties movement
and their names became synonymous with this movement during this period.
Pattipati was known for his fiery speeches which exposed the cruelest and
fascist repressive face of the state. He strove like a one-man army to build
up the units of APCLC in all the districts to strengthen the organization.
Between 1970 and 1975 it was to him that the victims of state repression
turned to, both as a lawyer and as a firebrand civil rights leader who
passionately fought for them. His home in Isamiya Bazaar was one of the
105

few places in Hyderabad where the activists of mass organizations, victims
of state repression, people on whom false cases were framed, revolutionary
writers, civil rights activists etc congregated almost on a daily basis sharing
the meagre food, shelter and contemporary revolutionary thoughts with
him.

Pattipati would always be remembered for his memorable role in
fighting for the annulment of the death sentences of comrades Bhumaiah
and Kista Goud, the revolutionary peasant movement activists (pronounced
in 1974) and for turning it into a country-wide issue. He was instrumental
in involving leaders from various political parties in this campaign which
included Jaya Prakash Narayan, Chandra Rajeswara Rao, Bhupesh Gupta,
Vajpayee  and  George  Fernandes. A  committee  was  built  up  with  this
exclusive demand and he coordinated this from Hyderabad. His efforts in
building solidarity for this demand internationally merit special mention.
More than 300 intellectuals from all over the world (including Jean Paul
Sartre and Tariq Ali) demonstrated in various countries like France and US
in support of this demand. He argued their case and brought a stay when
the state tried to hang them the first time. He would always be remembered
by the movements which are being built the world over for a total ban on
death  sentences.

When emergency was declared on the midnight of June 25-26 in 1975,
Pattipati was the first political activist and civil rights leader to be arrested
in AP. During the time he was in jail his family had to undergo many trials
and tribulations as he was the sole breadwinner. As Pattipati continued
making phone calls, writing letters and sending telegrams even from jail to
coordinate civil rights work the government brought a special G.O. banning
such things. Between 1970 and 1977 as a lawyer he saved the lives of
many revolutionary leaders and hundreds of activists whenever they were
illegally arrested and were in the danger of being ‘encountered’ by the
state. After the emergency Pattipati continued as a lawyer and campaigned
hard for including the ‘Right to Work’ in the fundamental rights till his last
breath. He remained a people’s lawyer till the end.

Though Pattipati was not active in the civil rights movement after the
lifting of emergency, he continued to sympathize with the revolutionary

106

movement  and  believed  in  Marxism.  The  Central  Committee  of  CPI
(Maoist) pays red homage to Pattipati for his role in building the civil rights
movement in AP and his role as a people’s lawyer during one of the darkest
periods of repression in the state between 1970 and 1977. Our party sees
the struggle for democratic rights of the oppressed people by comrades
like Pattipati and civil rights organizations as an integral part of the overall
fight against feudalism, comprador bureaucratic capitalism and imperialism
for a new democratic society where all rights of the oppressed people are
guaranteed. At a time when an unprecedented country-wide multi-pronged
offensive in the name of Operation Green Hunt has been unleashed in the
form of ‘War on People’ by the fascist Indian ruling classes and every
single right won by the people and civil rights movements through years of
struggles are being curbed, it is necessary to remember the services rendered
by civil rights leaders like Pattipati who fought for these rights. At a time
when there is a need for the civil rights movement in the country to become
active more than ever, it is necessary to propagate the struggles and the
services rendered by organizations and individuals as part of it which went
into creating the present improved and greater democratic awareness about
the inalienable rights of the people. The CC is appealing to his family,
friends, colleagues in the civil rights movement and people’s lawyers to
propagate and emulate the services done by him for the oppressed masses
of this country so that the younger generation is inspired to work for the
rights of the people as inheritors of the struggle legacy.

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

107

June  22,  2011

Hail the heroic resistance of

the anti-POSCO agitators against a project
which not only grabs their land but also the

future of their children!

People of Odisha have the right to decide

what kind of projects they need,

not comprador despotic rulers like Naveen Patnaik or

Sonia-Manmohan-Jairam-Chidambaram combine!

Build widespread agitations in support of

anti-POSCO agitation all over India!

It has been one week since the people of India has been witnessing
one of the firmest, staunchest resistances in the history of modern India
against an imperialist MNC project in the form of anti-POSCO agitation in
Jagatsinghpur district of Odisha. CPI (Maoist) hails the people of Odisha
who are determined to stop the much-touted 52,000 crore ‘biggest foreign
direct investment’ in India and declares its full support and solidarity for
them.

The central government hastily cleared the POSCO project on 15
May 2007 and Manmohan himself had given full assurance to the South
Korean government that he would do everything for building the project in
the backdrop of people’s rage erupting in severe opposition to it. The MOEF
and the Odisha government have avoided compliance to the requirements
under the Forest Rights Act and the MOEF guidelines issued in August
2009. In fact this is the ground for the Ministry’s issuing stop work order
on 5th August 2010. The state government has been repeatedly denying
the existence of tribals in the proposed project area whereas subsequent
visit and fact finding by the Saxena committee and the Meena Gupta
committee has proved beyond doubt that there are other traditionally forest

108

dwellers in the proposed areas depending traditionally on the forests for
their livelihood, that sufficient documentary evidence is available which
shows the existence of forest rights and that the FRA is not implemented
by the state government in the area. The Central government the state
government of Odisha disrespected the resolution of more than 65 % of
the villagers who participated in both the Palli Sabhas of Dhinkia and
Govindpur which unequivocally rejected the proposal for diversion of land.
The government authorities deliberately suppressed facts and declared in
the government’s submission to the MOEF that such resolutions were fake!
There are number of such instances where the government is suppressing
the facts and figures and lying through the teeth. Based on the Meena
Gupta  committee’s  report  the  Forest Advisory  Committee  (FAC)  has
recommended withdrawal of forest clearance. But in violation of all this
and making a complete U-turn, environmental clearance was given by Mr.
Jairam Ramesh on May 2, 2011 and this proved to be the last straw. The
state government immediately deployed the police in June to grab the land.
This whole period saw severe opposition from the people to any kind
of land acquisition for the 12-million-tonne-capacity steel project, against
mining lease for its Khandadhar iron ore reserve in Sundargarh district and
the company’s private port near the proposed steel plant about 12 km from
the Paradip port. The fact is that both the central and state governments
conspired for this and the statements by Jairam that environmental clearance
doesn’t mean that land should be acquired forcefully or Congress rushing
to Govindpur supposedly to support the agitation are nothing but a big hoax.
Jairam is advising the Odisha government to acquire land ‘democratically’.
Going by recent evidence, his ‘democracy’ looks like it includes lying and
kickbacks from MNCs to keep shut. The only forms of democracy the
people  (mostly  Adivasis)  opposing  such  projects  could  see  are  fake
encounters, tortures and incarceration for years together in jails !

Union Home Secretary GK Pillai in a recent interview asked the people
to check the website of the Planning Commission and see the photos there
to know how rapidly ‘development’ is progressing in the form of roads,
anganwadi  and  school  buildings  coming  up  in  backward  (particularly
‘Maoist’) areas. He said ‘Photos speak for themselves’. One wonders if
the Pillai and his ilk have seen the photos of rows and rows of children,
109

women  and  elderly  persons  lying  on  their  land  in  Govindpur  area  of
Jagatsinghpur district under a hot sun or in pouring rains to save it from
being grabbed by the MNC shark POSCO with the muscle power of the
Naveen Patnaik’s fascist ‘licensed killers’. Do these photos speak anything?
Why are the thousands and thousands of anti-POSCO agitators fighting
a life and death struggle not to allow POSCO’s entry? Why is the number
of people who agitate against the governments’ policies swelling with each
attempt by the comprador rulers to sell this country’s resources to neo-
colonialists? Do the numbers speak anything?

Why is that there seems to be no end to these agitations involving a
sea of masses in Singur, Nandigram, Kalinganagar, Lalgarh, Narayanapatna,
Bhatta Parsaul, Srikakulam, Bastar, Lohardagga and scores of other villages
and towns in almost every state in this country? Does this long list of
militant agitations of the recent past speak anything?

Do the sacrifices and people thronging to the funerals of mass leaders
and agitators (from Tapasi Malik of Singur to Tabrez of Jaitapur, from the
13 adivasis in Kalinganagar to the peasants of Sompeta and Kakarapalli)
who fought and laid down their lives in such agitations speak anything?
Why are thousands of more people taking the place of these fallen heroes
with silent determination waving the flag of ‘Jal, Jungle, Zameen Hamara
Hai?’

For those who care to listen – the message is clear. The overwhelming
majority of this country’s population is rejecting the profit-centric pro-
imperialist development model and embracing the people-centric pro-people
development model. The message from the ruling classes is also brutally
clear. Whatever may be the ‘cost’ the people of India may have to pay –
the comprador ruling classes with the strong support and guidance of the
imperialists would continue with their plunder and pillage. This ‘cost’ would
include  not  only  loss  of  land,  water,  air,  seas,  ports,  natural
resources, forests, ecology, rare flora and fauna, ancient civilizations,
properties, limbs and not the least lives in the ‘material’ sense but
would  also  include  loss  of  self-respect,  sovereignty,  independence,
freedom, dignity and pride which are inalienable for our existence
as human beings.

110

The people of Jagatsinghpur are asking a simple question - So why
should we lose all these things and moreover who are you decide that we
lose these things? They are stating an obvious truth – it is the people who
have the right to decide what they need. They are posing a straight challenge
to the ruling classes – face the fury of the people, we are not the ones to
surrender.  They are declaring a principled fact for the world to hear – the
people of India refuse to be pushed into a slave-like existence.

We are afraid that sometimes even photos always do not speak for
themselves. For example, the photos of school buildings (in ‘Maoist areas’)
do not show the security forces which would be occupying them as soon
as they are ready for it. But agitations which are being carried on for
years together by lakhs of people putting everything at their stake
including  their  lives  do  speak  something.  They  speak  something
which  is  the  most  important  thing  to  be  spoken  or  heard  in  this
country at this point of time and one which would decide its future.
They are speaking the same truth which was spoken by the countless
peasant and adivasi struggles (mainly armed but also unarmed) which were
waged against the British colonial rulers in the 19th and 20th centuries, a
truth which seeks to end all kinds of colonial/neo-colonial exploitation and
oppression. The British tried to close their eyes and ears to this din of truth
opting instead to suppress them using brute force. The Indian ruling classes
are tracing their steps and they are bound to trace their steps to their own
graveyards too if they continue in their ‘unjust, brutal wars on people’ in
the name of development just like their imperialist masters. Whether it is
direct armed suppression by deploying police and paramilitary forces in
Moaist areas (and now the army too) in the name of Operation Green
Hunt or by deploying police and paramilitary forces in places like a Bhatta
Parsaul or a Govindpur all are for brutal suppression of genuine people’s
struggles. The killing of more than twenty-five many anti-mining activists
in fake encounters by Naveen Patnaik government since December 2010
and  the  recent  meeting  by  P.  Chidambaram  with  Naveen  Patnaik  and
Raman Singh for anti-Maoist operations to be carried on in Odisha and
Chhattisgarh in June point out how the central and state governments are
planning to suppress the people’s agitations.

The anti-POSCO agitation along with many other struggles being
111

waged against land grabbing and loot of natural resources of our country
has the potential to decide the fate of the many other foreign investments
coming unchecked into our country. The CC, CPI (Maoist) exhorts the
people of Odisha to go ahead firmly with stead fast determination in their
struggle and calls upon the people of India to build solidarity struggles in
support  of  this  brave  people.  While  it  is  necessary  for  the  people  of
Jagatsinghpur to take the support of every political and civil party or group
which is coming to them in solidarity, they should also be alert to the ploys
of some of them, particularly that of parliamentary parties to divert their
struggle into various kinds of compromises. It should not be forgotten that
almost all the parliamentary parties have been following or supporting such
pro-imperialist projects wherever they have been in power or have been
sharing  power  or  were  giving  tacit  support  even  when  they  were  in
opposition.

It is not only necessary to go to Jagatsinghpur in support of anti-POSCO
agitation but also to take up various forms of supportive propaganda and
agitational forms in every state in their support. CPI (Maoist) is calling
upon the people of India and the world to express the widest possible
solidarity to this courageous struggle. The need of the hour is for all such
struggles to broaden into a coalition of anti-imperialist struggles which would
not only fight for scrapping of projects like POSCO but would also fight for
kicking off all kinds of imperialist control and exploitation from our country.

 Stop land acquisition for POSCO project immediately!
 Withdraw all police and paramilitary forces from Jagatsinghpur
district and stop all kinds of intimidating tactics to cow down the
people!

 Scrap all country-selling MoUs signed with MNCs for looting the
natural resources of our country which rightfully belong to the
people and only to the people!

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

112

June  23,  2011

Red Homage To

Renowned Marxist Economist And
Great Friend Of Indian Revolution

Comrade Prof. R.S. Rao!

On June 17, 2011 Prof RS Rao (74), the renowned Marxist Economist
and great friend of Indian Revolution breathed his last in a hospital in New
Delhi. With his demise, the Indian people have lost one of their greatest
well-wishers and the Indian revolution has lost one of its greatest friends.
His death spread a wave of grief throughout the revolutionary camp and
the CC, CPI (Maoist) humbly pays red homage to this staunch Marxist
who has stood firmly with the oppressed people and the Maoist revolutionary
movement raging in this country ever since the Naxalbari days.

RS Rao, was born in Srikakulam of Andhra Pradesh but major part of
his life and work were spent in Sambalpur of Odisha. The fact that he has
chosen to work here as this area witnessed displacement due to big dams
and was an Adivasi area shows his deep concern for the most deprived
people of this country. This deep concern and sense of commitment for the
oppressed masses, particularly for the Adivasis continued till the end.
Naxalbari proved to be a turning point in his life and he deeply and firmly
believed that only a movement which can fight back the feudal exploitation
and oppression can liberate this country. In all his writings and speeches he
kept pointing towards the semi-feudal relations and the need to liberate our
country from them. Even as debates raged in the Marxist circles if capitalist
relations have entered India he analyzed the production relations in India
with a Marxist viewpoint and reiterated the semi-feudal nature of those
relations. That is why he consistently believed and wrote about the need
for new democratic revolution for this country as it would overthrow these
exploitative production relations. His book Towards Understanding Semi
Feudal Semi Colonial Society: Studies in Political Economy, and his other
works are a must read for all serious political activists working for new

113

democratic revolution. His lucid style of writing and usage of simple words
for explaining complex economic terms have been appreciated very much
by ordinary activists and public.

RS Rao was one of the first persons who questioned the imperialist-
dictated development model implemented by the Indian ruling classes and
brought  forth  the  concept  that  dark  shadows  lie  below  the  lamp  of
development even from the days when big dams like Bhakra Nangal and
Hirakud displaced people. When Nehru described big dams as ‘Modern
Temples’, he said that indeed they were modern temples which did not
allow entry to the ones who constructed them. His seminal work on this
concept  ‘Abhivrudhi Velugu  Needalu’  (The  bright  and  dark  sides  of
development) in Telugu continues to influence any serious debate about
the development model this country should follow. He had guided many
young researchers and encouraged them to take up study of the social and
economic changes occurring in the rural areas, particularly the changes in
the old Maoist movement areas. As a veteran Marxist he tried to study
things in their motion using dialectical method and tried to grasp their
essence.

Recently, he played a crucial role of as one of the three mediators
between the Odisha government and the CPI (Maoist) when Malkangiri
Collector Vineel Krishna and junior engineer Pabitra Majhi were abducted.
He was painfully aware of the fact that they could secure the release of
these two government servants but could not even extract information
from the government about the whereabouts of Comrade Seethanna leave
alone the fulfillment of the promises made by the government in the wake
of this abduction.

Since Naxalbari RS Rao has been a great friend and well-wisher of
the people and the Maoist movement in the country and stood unwaveringly
with the movement and Marxism in the face of all kinds of ideological
debates, particularly during the world wide reactionary and post-modernist
attacks on Marxism after the collapse of Soviet super power. The Maoist
movement feels honored by the fact that a sound Marxist like RS Rao has
always  looked  to  the  official  political  organs  of  CPI  (Maoist)  for  his
reference. The CPI (Maoist) hails RS Rao as a model pro-people intellectual

114

who should be emulated by any intellectual of this country who has people’s
interests at heart. They must use their intellect and writings to preserve the
interests of the oppressed people of our country and stand by them in spite
of all kinds of odds. This need is felt more than ever at this juncture when
the Indian state has launched a multi-pronged country-wide war on the
people to facilitate the indiscriminate loot of the natural resources of our
country. The oppressed people of India, particularly the Adivasis would
never forget the services rendered by Prof RS Rao and would always
fondly remember this gentle, soft-spoken intellectual who was always
scathing in his critique of the ruling class policies.

CC, CPI (Maoist) on behalf of the whole revolutionary camp sends its
deepest condolences to Bharatigaaru, family, friends, colleagues in the
various revolutionary and other mass organizations and appeals to them to
propagate his writings and the values he upheld in his life so that they can
be emulated by the younger generations who seek to liberate our country.
The support extended by intellectuals like RS Rao for the revolutionary
movement plays a crucial role in its survival and development and our
party warmly remembers all support and solidarity extended by such writers
and intellectuals. The real homage one could pay to RS Rao would be to
follow the ideals and values he had propagated and followed in his life, to
continue the study of the production relations of our country with a sound
Marxist viewpoint in order to change them and to stand firmly with the
movements which aim to liberate our country from the shackles of feudalism,
comprador bureaucratic bourgeoisie and imperialism. Our party sees the
efforts  of  all  such  intellectuals  as  part  of  the  whole  effort  for  a  new
democratic India. We appeal to all the friends and colleagues of RS Rao to
continue his efforts and ideals to fulfill his dream of genuine democracy
and development for the people.

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

115

June  24,  2011
The offer for peace talks by the President of

India is nothing but a ploy to divert the
people from the reality of OGH Phase -2 !
On  June  24,  the  President  Pratibha  Patil  who  came  on  a  visit  to
Chhattisgarh capital Raipur proposed that Maoists should abjure violence
and come for talks and that they should join the mainstream and work for
the development of Adivasis. This proposal came exactly at a time when
thousand Indian Army soldiers had entered Bastar to participate in the
Operation Green Hunt (OGH) against the poorest people of India. In the
backdrop of the signing of MoUs worth billions of rupees worth to loot the
natural resources of our mineral-rich country after many rounds of talks,
the President is talking about ‘peace talks’. She is proposing these ‘talks’
when already 750 sq kms of forest land where dozens of villages and
thousands of Mariya Adivasi community reside have been handed over
to the Army without any ‘talks’ whatsoever.

Pratibha Patil, incidentally the first woman President of India, is advising
us to abjure violence even before the wounds of women of Tadimetla,
Morpalli,  Pulanpadu  and  Timmapur  villages  at  the  southern  tip  of
Chhattisgarh have healed after the brutal atrocities and violence of the
government  forces  perpetrated  on  them.  She  is  advising  us  to  abjure
violence when state violence is a daily occurrence in Dandakaranya, Bihar-
Jharkhand, Odisha, Maharashtra and many other areas, particularly the
Maoist movement areas or Adivasi areas. In fact, state violence expresses
itself in many forms. It is carried on in various methods at various times.
For example, today it hiked the price of kerosene by two rupees, diesel by
three rupees and cooking gas by 50 rupees. This is one form of violence
which makes the lives of people even more unbearable. But the President
doesn’t have any issue with such kinds of ‘violence’.

The first citizen of India is even asking us to ‘join the mainstream’.
The ‘heroes’ of the ‘mainstream’ which she is referring to, i.e., the scamster
116

and gangster corrupt ministers, political leaders, corporate sharks, and their
comprador lackeys are facing the hatred of the people from Dilli to gully.
The  workers,  peasants,  Adivasis,  Dalits,  minorities  and  women  face
nothing but injustice, atrocities and insults in this so-called ‘mainstream’ of
hers.

Our party’s official spokesperson and Politburo member Comrade Azad
was killed in a fake encounter after he declared our stand to this kind of a
proposal for talks by this very government and Pratibha Patil is inviting us
for talks in this backdrop. Incidentally this invitation is being extended exactly
one  week  before  his  first  death  anniversary.  Exactly  one  year  back
Chidambaram and his killer intelligence-police dogs must have been giving
final touches to the conspiracy to kill him. The state headed by this President
responded by killing him when he clearly placed before the people of this
country and the world our party’s stand about talks. Later too many veteran
Maoist leaders were arrested and put in jails and this is a continuous process.
Even Maoist leaders as old as 60 or 70 years are also put in jails and
tortured apart from not providing them minimum medical treatment. False
cases are foisted on them in dozens of states and the state is conspiring to
keep them in jails lifelong.
Our heartfelt appeal to the people of our country !

Demand the President that the ‘War on People’ by the Indian State –
OGH be stopped immediately, that Army training in Bastar be stopped and
that Army  and  paramilitary  forces  be  withdrawn  from  all  the  Maoist
movement areas before the government proposes for any ‘Peace Talks’.
If the government is ready to implement this, then the counter-violence of
people done in self-defence would stop from the very next day!

Demand the President that all MoUs signed between the governments
and  the  MNCs  be  scrapped  before  the  government  talks  about
‘development’, that all projects which grab the lands of the people be
immediately stopped and that the government should accept that people
have the right to decide what kind of a development they want before the
government talks of ‘development’!

117

Demand the President that all the scamsters and corrupt politicians
should be arrested and punished, that all the black money stashed away in
foreign banks must be brought back to the country and that all ministers
and political leaders be stripped of their posts and publicly punished before
the government invites the Maoists to join the ‘mainstream’!

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

118

July  2,  2011
Immediately withdraw the death sentences

on Adivasi and dalit cultural artistes and

leaders Comrades Jeeten Marandi, Anil Ram,

Manoj Rajwar and Chhatrapati Mandal !
On  June  23,  the  Giridih  district  (Jharkhand)  sessions  court  judge
Indradeo Mishra pronounced death sentences to Jeeten Marandi, Anil Ram,
Manoj Rajwar and Chhatrapati Mandal in the Chilkari case where 19 people
were killed in 2007 and thus the state bared its fascist fangs one more
time.  Jeeten  Marandi  and  others  have  always  worked  openly  and  the
organizations  they  are  working  for  are  not  banned  organizations.
Pronouncing death sentences in a case with which they had no connection
whatsoever is a clear is nothing but an act of revenge on them as they are
standing firmly with the people using song and dance in all their anti-
imperialist and anti-feudal struggles, particularly against displacement. As
part of Operation Green Hunt launched to suppress the Maoist movement
in the country, particularly in Central and Eastern India, the central and
state governments have been resorting to the most brutal and heinous
atrocities one could imagine on the poorest of the poor – the Adivasis of
this country and these latest death sentences are one more proof of this.
The cruelest face of OGH could be seen in Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and
Odisha and that too in the Adivasi areas of these states where the Maoist
movement is stronger.

Jeeten Marandi is a well-known Adivasi cultural artiste and leader of
Jharkhand Abhen, a cultural organization of Jharkhand. He is a leader of
the All India League for revolutionary Culture and has toured the length
and breadth of India propagating revolutionary songs and culture. Anil Ram,
Manoj Rajwar and Chhatrapati Mandal are also Adivasi and Dalit cultural
artistes. Jeeten displayed his cultural talents since he was a child and
gradually developed himself into one of the finest artistes this country has

119

ever produced. It was only natural that as a conscious child he could not
ignore the plight of the Adivasi society of which he himself was a part. His
social investigation of the root causes for the poverty, exploitation and
oppression of Adivasis naturally led him to revolutionary politics and he
and his cultural organization propagated revolutionary politics to awaken
political consciousness among the people.

Propagating one’s ideas openly is not a crime and nobody can be
punished for that. The ruling classes of India are not ready to tolerate any
kind of dissent and have been resorting to all kinds of ploys to stifle the
voices of dissent to its pro-imperialist and anti-people policies aiming to
loot the natural resources and rich mineral wealth of the people. As true
people’s artistes they have been in the forefront in the anti-displacement
movement in Jharkhand which is giving one of the toughest resistances in
this matter. It is very clear that the state is punishing them for these political
activities and not for some Chilkari case which everybody knows is just
one of the dozens of false cases foisted on them. In the bitter class struggle
fought  against  feudalism  in  Bihar  and  Jharkhand  massacres  were
perpetrated by the land lords through their private armies on the peasantry,
particularly on the dalits. The peasantry had to resort to counter-violence
in self-defence and incidents like Chilkari are a part of it. The state instead
of looking into the root causes for such incidents and addressing them, is
trying to use them to foist false cases on mass organization activists to
stifle their voices of dissent.  Firstly they slapped a case of sedition on
Jeeten Marandi in 2007 with the allegation that he made inflammatory
speeches in front of Raj Bhavan in Ranchi on the issue of release of political
prisoners and have been harassing him ever since with incarceration and
false  cases.  Even  before  that  he  has  been  arrested  many  times  and
sometimes beaten brutally. This death sentence comes as a culmination of
all these conspiracies to stifle his voice forever. The state is so shameless
in its callousness that it has foisted some cases of Pirtand and Teesri P.S.
which happened when Jeeten was in jail!

This country has a 200 year long history of colonial rule under the
British which was consequently witness to countless Adivasi rebellions.
120

British imperialism sought to suppress these rebellions by using brute force
with the advantage of modern weapons they had and hanging of the rebel
leaders was one consistent tactic it had used. The comprador Indian ruling
classes which inherited this mantle of brute suppression from them are
following in their footsteps. Comrades Bhumaih and Kista Goud were the
first revolutionary peasant activists to be hanged in ‘independent India’
and later death sentences were pronounced on many revolutionary activists,
particularly on the revolutionary peasant activists in Bihar (which included
the present Jharkhand) implicating them in false cases. People’s lawyers
and  civil  rights  leaders  like  comrades  KG  Kannabiran  and  Pattipati
Venkateswarlu as part of their civil rights organizations have vehemently
fought against the death sentences pronounced on the revolutionaries both
in the courts and outside and built broad movements not only with the
immediate demands of annulling the death sentences in particular cases
but also for ending capital punishment. It is the necessary to continue this
fight on a broader scale as it is obvious that the state would resort to more
such fascist acts apart from the massacres, false encounters and atrocities
perpetrated  on  the Adivasi  hamlets  on  a  daily  basis.  Singanna  of
Narayanapatna was killed point blank in police firings, Lalmohan Tudu of
Lalgarh was killed in a ‘fake encounter’ and now comes this death sentence
on Jeeten Marandi of Jharkhand. This is all part of the conspiracy to kill
the people’s leaders who emerged from the people’s movements waged
against feudalism, comprador bureaucratic bourgeoisie and imperialism.
By rendering the movements leaderless they want to remove all hurdles to
their loot of natural resources in the Adivasi areas.

As Jeeten and other people present in the court sang in the court
immediately after the death sentences were pronounced – ‘that day would
definitely come’ when people would put an end to all these fascist acts of
the state with powerful mass upsurges. Neither death sentences nor false
encounters can kill the spirit of true leaders of the people and they would
fight to the end.

CPI (Maoist) demands that the death sentences of Jeeten Marandi,
Anil Ram, Manoj Rajwar and Chhatrapati Mandal be annulled immediately.
121

It  appeals  to  all  democratic  organizations,  civil  rights  organizations,
organizations for the rights of political prisoners and particularly to all cultural
and literary organizations and Adivasi cultural associations to build a vast
movement demanding the annulment of these death sentences and the
unconditional  release  of  these  people’s  artistes.  Let  us  broaden  this
movement for ending capital punishment altogether.

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

122

July  12,  2011
Hail the sacrifices of Martyrs who laid down

their lives for the cause of people!

Intensify the People’s War in the light of

the aims of martyrs!

Defeat Operation Green Hunt!!

Make success the Martyrs Week from July 28 to August 3!
The martyrs who have laid down their precious lives for the cause of
people’s liberation are models for entire human society. Oppressed people
are achieving many victories with the sacrifices of these great martyrs. In
the struggle for the victory of New Democratic Revolution in India waged
as part of the goal of establishing socialism-communism on this globe, more
than 260 leaders-members of our party, PLGA commanders and fighters,
leaders-members of various mass organizations, people’s militia fighters,
revolutionary and ordinary masses have laid down their lives in the past
one  year.  In  Dandakaranya  77  martyrs,  in  Bihar-Jharkhand-North
Chhattisgarh 78, in Odisha 29, In Andhra-Odisha border zone 16, in West
Bengal 7, in Lalgarh movement 36, in Chhattisgarh-Odisha border area 10,
in Maharashtra three and in North Telangana one martyr have laid down
their lives during this year. Among these martyrs more than 30 were women
comrades. All these comrades have sacrificed their lives fighting enemy
forces heroically with the aim of defeating the Operation Green Hunt in
the path of the protracted people’s war (PPW) paved by the great teachers
of Indian revolution, founders of our party and beloved leaders Comrades
Charu Mazumdar and Kanhai Chatterji. CC is giving a call to the party,
PLGA,  revolutionary  people’s  governments,  revolutionary  mass
organizations and masses to observe Martyrs’ Memorial Week in memory
of our beloved martyrs this year too starting from July 28.

The Indian ruling classes were shocked with the historic Mukaram
(Tadimetla-2) operation conducted by the PLGA against Operation Green
123

Hunt (OGH) launched with the aim of completely decimating the Indian
revolutionary movement with the guidance of imperialists, particularly US
imperialists. But within a few days the APSIB dogs hunted down our
beloved  leader  and  official  spokesperson  of  the  party  Comrade Azad
(Rajkumar) and journalist Hemchandra Pandey and killed them. Later OGH
phase-2 was launched by the ruling classes by intensifying their counter-
revolutionary offensive. In the process of fighting back this offensive and
in the process of expanding the People’s War to newer areas, the warm
blood of several comrades was spilled in the forests, plains and towns.
Among these comrades, 81 in Dandakaranya (DK), 53 in Bihar-Jharkhand-
North Chhattisgarh (B-J-N.CG), 25 in Odisha, 16 in Andhra-Odisha border
(AOB) area, five in West Bengal, 9 in Chhattisgarh-Odisha borders, three
in Maharashtra and one from North Telangana were martyred. More than
25 of these martyrs are women comrades. They realized that sacrifice is
an integral part of our revolutionary aim and that we cannot achieve our
aim without challenging death and have laid down their lives while bravely
fighting back the enemy forces to defeat the ‘War on People’, to defend
the people and to develop the budding new people’s power further in the
process of advancing the People’s War. The blood spilled by them is inspiring
the vast masses of our country and the world with a spirit of struggle.

In spite of the opposition from the people of various oppressed classes,
democrats, patriots, progressive social activists, environmental activists,
lawyers, writers, poets, artistes and various NGO organizations against
‘War  on  People’  (OGH),  the  ruling  classes  carried  on  indiscriminate
massacres with their mercenary police and counter-revolutionary gangs in
OGH phase-2. Fake encounters (Bhilai, Kotrapal, Vakulvahi, Timmapur in
DK, Burudhi in West Bengal, Hesia in Jharkhand etc) and massacres were
perpetrated in villages, fields and forests to damage the mass base of the
revolutionary movement and to terrorize the people. Countless firings and
mortar shelling were done on ordinary people (Savargaon in DK). Apart
from these, a large number of comrades were martyred due to poisoning
(on the banks of river Ganga in Munger of Bihar); ambushes on people
and people’s militia (Mettagudapara-Silinger, Gondumetta, Burgil in DK
and Cheruvuru in AOB) and encirclement offensives (East Champaran in
North Bihar, Kashipur etc in Odisha). In Padkipalli of Mahasamund district

124

on Chhattisgarh-Odisha borders six comrades were martyred in an enemy
ambush on a PLGA company which is working with the task of expanding
the revolutionary movement. Two villagers were also brutally killed by the
enemy in the wake of this incident.

Secret killer gangs of the enemy gang raped and brutally killed comrade
Chaithe,  the  member  of  DK  press  committee  in  Maad  division  (DK).
Counter-revolutionary PLFI (People’s Liberation Front of India) goons
have brutally murdered our party sympathizers and activist group members
in Kudroom, Kolebira Chowk, Ramjol Bazar Tand in Simdega district of
Jharkhand and some more comrades including our platoon commander
were killed in Ranchi distict by the goonda gangs of Dhanunjay.

Some comrades died in encounters with enemy forces (Barangbaru
and Samri in Gumla district of Jharkhand, Manjari in Banka district of
Bihar, the encirclement attack in Dharmaha village of East Champaran
district of Bihar, Kullenar in DK and others). Some comrades were martyred
in the courageous attacks carried out by our PLGA forces on the enemy
forces. Some comrades and people have gone missing in enemy repression.
Some comrades were martyred in some other incidents and accidents.

Among  the  martyrs  are  mass  leader  comrades  Umakant  Mahato,
Sasadhar Mahato, RC member Arun and another comrade Khokhan Mahato
of West Bengal; six comrades including one leaderhip comrade in Manjari
encounter under Katoria PS limits in Banka district of Bihar; Praful Naik,
Lakshman Munda, Gagri Kadeski in Odisha; striking company commander
com. Nitant (Central Military Instructor), Basadhara Division committee
member com. Ravi martyred in the Kashipur encirclement attack in Odisha,
com. Nagesh – the divisional commander-in-chief of North Bastar in DK,
Gondia  divisional  C-in-C  in  Maharashtra,  CCM  guard  and  platoon
commander  com.  Kosa  (Aitu)  martyred  in  Mahasamund  district  of
Chhattisgarh, revolutionary people’s teacher com. Chandana who was to
join the DK Education Development Committee and others. Along with
them, comrades Rajesh Munda, Bhuthnath, Salim Mahato of B-J-N.CG
and Arup Mochi of WB; area committee secretary com. Kishore (DK),
platoon commander com. Vikram Munda, section commander com. Ratan
Yadav (Bihar), AC/PPC level comrades Chaithe, Vikram, Keshal, Mangdu

125

of DK; com. Natasha in Mahasamund, two section/squad deputy comrades
(DK), supply department driver com. Badal (Madhu) in Odisha, DK special
action team member com. Prabhakar, division I-team member com. Ramesh,
27 PLGA (company, platoon, section/squad) members (six comrades in
DK including Prameela, Kosal, 11 comrades in BJ including com. Vijaydas,
five  comrades  in AOB  including  CRC  coy-3  member  com.  Sandeep,
Bangaruraju and Jyoti, five comrades in Mahasamund including Rajbatti
and Lachu, three comrades in Maharashtra including Manju and Mangu,
com. Jeevan Tudu in West Bengal); com. Ramaal, the president of village
RPC  (revolutionary  people’s  committee)  of  North  Telangana,  KKC
secretary com. Ramadhar (Bihar), sangam leaders – comrades Seethanna
and Singal in AOB, com. Dharamdev in Bihar, senior leader of KAMS
com. Vimala Devidas Kannake (DK), Jan militia squad commander com.
Korsa Sukkal (DK), Jan militia members – eight in DK, two in Jharkhand,
three activist group members (JH), 11 village defence people’s militia
members (AOB-six, DK-five) were also martyred.

In the attacks conducted by our PLGA forces on the enemy, section
commander com. Ratan Yadav in Kajara ambush in Bihar, Oyam Budru
and Vetti Hidamal in Usur ambush (DK), section deputy com. Muchaki
Ganga in Morpalli ambush, PPCM and communication person in PLGA
battalion com. Mangdu in Bejji ambush, Gondia C-in-C com. Nagesh, PLGA
comrades  Manju,  Mangu,  another  comrade  in  Kobramenda  (Gondia)
ambush, Platoon-7 commander com. Maharu and member com. Rajesh in
the courageous attack at Nargonda (Gadchiroli) where the notorious and
cruel people’s enemy Chinna Venta was wiped out had laid down their
lives. One comrade was martyred in Sulungi ambush.

More  than  50  ordinary  and  unarmed  revolutionary  masses  were
martyred  in  the  ‘War  on  People’  launched  by  the  central  and  state
governments in DK, B-J-N.CG, Lalgarh and Odisha. Among them are
Adivasi people who were part of the Lalgarh mass upsurge, anti-mining
and displacement activists who were in the forefront in Odisha, revolutionary
sympathizers and people in DK and B-J-N.CG. Police, paramilitary forces,
Harmad  Bahini  and  Gan  Pratirodh  Committee  goons  in  WB,  Koya
commandos, SPOs and Salwa Judum goons in DK have murdered them in
the name of ‘Maoists’. The massacres perpetrated at Palaibani, Siyarbani-
126

Kotwali, Tougveda-Bhulaveda, Bandarboni, Jhargram and Netai villages
in Lalgarh area by Harmad Bahini goons, at Kotali-Jamirdanga, Patgaja,
Gojra-Barikul, Hainhadugi-Barikul villages by Gan Pratirodh Committee
goons; massacres by central and state joint forces in some more places;
Kutrem, Rangaiahgooda, Kottapalli, Kolar, Madapa, Gurugutta, Gorukonda,
Singannaguda, Murunga, Morpalli, Timmapur, Kesmundi, Chinari, Mankeli,
Pullum, and Mechanar massacres in DK are stark witness to this. All
these massacres happened between August 2010 and June 2011.

Comrades Kannabiran, Pattipati Venkateswarlu, RS Rao and other
revolutionary intellectuals and civil rights movement leaders who have fought
on the side of oppressed masses for people’s democratic rights since many
decades  breathed  their  last.  Their  martyrdom  is  a  great  loss  for  the
democratic movements.

People are waging militant struggles against the ever intensifying
problem of displacement in our country and in the fascist police firings on
these agitations at Kalinganagar (Odisha), Sompeta, Kakarlapalli (AP),
Jaitapur  (Maharashatra),  Bhatta-Parsaul  (  UP)  etc.  many  activists  laid
down their lives. Anti-mining activists Gangul Tarangi, M. Subba Rao in
Koraput area, Madhav Singh Thakur, Ramesh Sahu in Bargad (Odisha)
and  anti-Raoghat  mining  activist  Sanavu  Kumeti  (DK)  were  tortured
severely and killed. 14 activists including district committee member com.
Ravi who were participating actively and leading the anti-displacement
movement in Odisha laid down their lives in the police massacres in Jajpur
district and Kashipur of Niyamgiri area. The sacrifices of Niyamgiri and
Mahasamund martyrs who have taken up the strategic task of expanding
People’s War to newer areas as part of defeating the country-wide offensive
launched  by  the  enemy  with  the  aim  of  completely  decimating  the
revolutionary movement, are invaluable.

In  the  present  phase-2  of  OGH  it  is  a  fact  that  brutality  of  the
mercenary police-paramilitary forces and counter-revolutionary gangs has
increased further. Along with the incidents mentioned above, the murders-
atrocities, burning and loot perpetrated at Chintalnar and the massacre at
Netai perpetrated with the support of central and state joint forces and
CPM goons in Lalgarh area are naked examples for this. The white terror

127

unleashed  by  Cobras,  Koya  commandos  and  Salwa  Judum  goons  in
Morpalli, Tadimetla, Pulanpad and Timmapur villages in Chintalnar area
(three murdered, six women gang raped, property worth crores of rupees
and grains burnt, 300 houses looted and then razed down) and the cordoning
off of the area for weeks together by police, paramilitary, Koya commando
forces stopping any kind of relief from reaching the area from outside
show the intensity of the counter-revolutionary offensive. Democrats all
over the country protested against this. Similar were the agitations raged
on a large scale in West Bengal against the massacre at Netai by social
fascist CPM goons. Apart from this, hundreds of local mass organization
and revolutionary people’s government activists and people were arrested
put in jails by booking them under black laws. Particularly, as part of damaging
our party leadership, in the man-hunts launched by enemy intelligence forces,
on April  29,  2011,  three  Central  Committee  members  and  Comrade
Bhupeshda in June and many other leadership comrades and activists were
arrested by the enemy. Dozens of cases were foisted on them in various
states to keep them in jails lifelong. The lives of people are in turmoil due to
the ‘War on People’ carried on by the enemy.

The traditions of sacrifices, valuable experiences, bravery, values and
ideals, displayed with democratic-communist consciousness by hundreds
of comrades who were martyred while fighting back the enemy repression
have brightened the path of our revolution. On the occasion of the martyrs’
memorial week the Central Committee is humbly paying red homage with
a heavy heart to our beloved leaders comrades CM, KC and to all the
known and unknown martyrs since Naxalbari. It is vowing that it would
fight untiringly for the fulfillment of their aims. On this occasion it is
expressing its deep condolences to friends, colleagues and relatives of all
the martyrs and is sharing their grief. It is appealing to all their beloved
colleagues to fulfill their loss. It is saluting the great consciousness displayed
by injured comrades and heart fully wishes that they would recover soon
and join the movement actively. CC is sending heartfelt greetings to all the
brave comrades who displayed courage, sacrifice in spite of cruel tortures
on them when they were arrested and are turning jails into an arena of
class struggles despite inhuman conditions prevailing there. It is sharing
the grievances of the lakhs of people who are suffering due to the repressive

128

OGH. It is appealing to the people to fight with increased class hatred till
final victory against the enemy who is the root cause for all their difficulties
and tears.

In the international arena, the Arab world is in turmoil with rebellions.
Though not led by revolutionaries, lakhs of Arab people are fighting militantly
against tyranny, corruption, unemployment and for democracy against their
lackey ruling classes of US imperialism. In these mass rebellions thousands
of people and people’s leaders have laid down their lives. On the occasion
of Martyrs’ Memorial Week, let us remember all the brave fighters who
have laid down their lives while fighting against all kinds of reactionaries
and imperialists for democracy, for national liberation and liberation from
class exploitation and oppression in various countries.
Comrades,

Guerilla warfare is intensifying in various areas of our country as part
of fulfilling our central task in response to the call of our party’s Unity
Congress-9th Congress. Due to the great sacrifices of our martyrs we are
advancing by achieving one success after another in People’s War. Without
the sacrifices of the martyrs, we cannot imagine any of the campaigns
taken up by the party in political, military, cultural, organizational, people’s
welfare spheres, campaigns for expansion into newer areas and newer
spheres  and  the  good  results  achieved  by  these.  In  spite  of  the  many
schemes and ploys of the enemy to stifle the movement through carpet
security and by increasing the police, paramilitary and commando forces,
the sacrifices of the martyrs are helping a lot in keeping the initiative in our
hands  in  the  movement.  The  enemy  is  establishing  stronger  informer
networks in perspective areas to stop us from expanding to vast new areas
in the country to confine our movement to limited areas. Despite this our
forces engaged in expansion of our movement are fighting face to face
with the enemy, making invaluable sacrifices in the tough guerilla warfare
and are playing their role in keeping People’s War alive.

In  the TCOCs  taken  up  by  our  party,  military  commissions  and
commands to defeat the OGH of the enemy, small and medium actions
have taken place. Particularly,  the Kajara (Lakhisarai) ambush in Bihar
and our counter operation that failed the enemy attack in Saranda last

129

year; one of the bravest ambushes conducted by our PLGA in Dhardharia
forests in Lohardagga district in the midst of severe repression in Jharkhand
this year; in DK - the Morpalli (Chintalnar) ambush, Borguda night ambush
(Kerlapal), Amamora (Gariyaband) ambush, Jharaghati frontal attack, the
night ambush at Gatam on MPV, the ambush nearby Bejji camp, the night
ambush at Kirandul, Sulungi (Koilibeda) ambush etc have checked the
aggressiveness of the enemy. Particularly, these attacks which happened
when  the  enemy  was  intensifying  the  process  of  deploying  army  in
Narayanpur district in DK have greatly alarmed the exploiting ruling classes
and the enemy forces. Similarly in Jharkhand, our PLGA forces have most
bravely fought back the enemy attacks on our central camps which were
conducted in military style with thousands of forces.

On the other hand, the Lalgarh and Narayanapatna movements are
continuing militantly and developing without surrendering to the enemy
despite severe repression. The anti-state, anti-feudal struggles have taken
up the correct line for seizure of political power and have become part in
PPW. The anti-displacement struggles in Kalinganagar, Niyamgiri, Mali-
Deomali in Odisha, Lohandiguda, Raoghat, Bodhghat, Pallemadi in DK,
Sompeta and Kakarlapalli, against mining of China clay in Dumriguda,
against mining of bauxite in Visakha district in AP are advancing further in
the same path. Movement for separate Telangana is becoming stronger
with each day with the support of a vast sea of masses and is advancing in
a militant manner. This has been possible only due to the blood spilled by
several agitators. In recent times, with the inspiration of Singur, Nandigram
and Kalinganagar struggles and that of Lalgarh and Narayanapatna mass
rebellions which were carried out with the participation of revolutionary
forces, anti-displacement struggles are erupting in several areas in our
country. The people are everywhere rejecting the ‘development model’ of
the imperialist and the comprador ruling class rich-corporates and agitating.
Wherever such struggles are erupting the intelligence dogs are sniffing
around them for their links with Maoists and are trying to portray all of
them as Maoist movements. This in itself shows how nervous the ruling
classes are about Maoists. On the other hand, the Maoist People’s War is
enthusing the democrats and progressive elements in our country very
much. The sacrifices of our martyrs are giving them the inspiration.

130

Comrades,

Due to the launching of ‘counter-revolutionary war on people’ in the
name of OGH to suppress the revolutionary movement which proved to be
a hurdle to the reactionary, anti-people, anti-national, pro-imperialist, pro-
corporate, expansionist economic, political, social and ecological policies
of the Indian comprador ruling classes, all social contradictions in our country
are sharpening. Due to this, great opportunities are coming forth for the
Maoist forces, progressive democratic forces, patriotic forces, the national
liberation movement forces, the vast socially oppressed communities like
Adivasis, dalits, religious minorities etc to unite and continue the mass
resistance on a wider scale. On the one hand, South Asia and Arab world
are simmering and on the other hand anti-imperialist struggles are flaring
up against loot of resources in Asia, Africa and Latin America and lakhs of
workers and unemployed youth who have been thrown on the roads due to
the closure of several industries as a result of the capitalist economic crisis
are agitating. Due to this all the basic contradictions in the world are
intensifying. In one word, the objective situation in our country and the
world has turned excellent. In such a situation, the task of defending the
leadership by fighting back all conspiracies, strategies and tactics of the
enemy to annihilate the leaders of movements, particularly the Maoist
leadership  has  assumed  greater  significance  than  before.  By  deeply
understanding the dynamism of the theory of Maoist People’s War with
proletarian thinking, in an impregnable manner to the enemy, by giving
importance  to  committee  work  methods  and  discipline,  by  preserving
ourselves and wiping out the enemy our party must serve as a model to the
entire revolutionary ranks. We must properly understand the strength and
strategic goal of the enemy. We must change our old tactics and functioning
methods and formulate new tactics and functioning methods. We must be
very firm in implementing the tactics formulated and secret functioning.
Thus  we  can  decrease  our  leadership  losses  and  prevent  unnecessary
losses.

 We must intensify and expand the guerilla warfare by continuously
conducting small, medium and big operations in a planned manner depending
on mass base in order to damage the initiative of the enemy forces which
are aggressively coming to attack us with the help of carpet security in our
131

movement  areas.  Our  plans  for  operations  should  be  such  that  they
guarantee  success.  We  must  creatively  use  combat  skills,  weapons,
grenades, mines, cocktails etc in coordination in our battle operations. We
must intensify anti-imperialist, anti-feudal, anti-state and anti-state violence
mass struggles and agitations in support of guerilla warfare. Mass agitations
must be developed into armed resistance struggles. We must expose the
deceptive LIC war of enemy aiming to decimate the revolutionary movement
by destroying its mass base. We must strengthen vast mass base around
the revolutionary movement by awakening the people. Appropriate attention
must be given to United Front apart from party and people’s army and
foundations must be laid for the building of strategic UF by mobilizing the
masses of four classes in various agitations, building tactical united forums
and strengthening them. Revolutionary People’s Committees (RPCs) which
are  the  form  of  strategic  UF  must  be  built  from  the  village  level  and
strengthened. We must advance towards building strategic UF by taking
RPCs all over the country as the base.
Comrades,

Our beloved comrades have sacrificed everything to fulfill the central
task decided by our Unity Congress and have transferred that responsibility
to us now. No revolution in this world can be victorious without great
sacrifices. The sacrifices of our martyrs would not go in vain. This is an
era of revolutions. Today our revolution is demanding that we prepare
ourselves for more sacrifices to achieve greater successes. Our martyrs
are inspiring us for that. History is teaching us that people are invincible if
they dare to fight. Let us advance with firm determination in the path of
people’s war by efficiently utilizing the excellent revolutionary conditions
holding high the international banner of proletariat which turned crimson
with the blood of the martyrs.
Comrades,

Celebrate Martyrs’ Memorial week on a huge scale in every village
and town all over the country with revolutionary spirit. Fight back the enemy
at every step with the aim of defeating OGH while holding high the sacrifices,
communist values, creativity, courage and bravery and dedication of our
martyrs. Publish the life histories of our ideal martyrs. Build martyrs’

132

memorial columns in every village. Propagate widely about the sacrifices
of martyrs in creative forms such as distributing pamphlets, pasting wall
posters, wall writings, tying banners etc. Conduct meetings and rallies
upholding their ideals. Make success the Martyrs’ Memorial Week in a
manner  which  would  fill  the  party,  PLGA,  mass  organizations  and
revolutionary masses with revolutionary spirit.

On the occasion of this year’s Martyrs’ Memorial Week, our CC is
giving a call to the entire party, PLGA, mass organizations and people to
fulfill the following tasks in the present concrete conditions as part of
fulfilling the aims of our martyrs.

· Expose the deceptive LIC war of the enemy which aims to decimate
the revolutionary movement by destroying its mass base, strengthen
the mass base by rallying the vast masses !

· Consolidate party and PLGA theoretically, politically and militarily
to take the place of the fallen heroes and to create new cadres on a
huge scale with the aim of developing PLGA into PLA. Develop
Maoist dynamism in order to get rid of non-proletariat trends. Avoid
unnecessary losses by implementing secret style of functioning with
proletariat discipline ! Do not hesitate to sacrifice !

· Conduct  tactical  counter-offensives  like  Mukram-Tadimetla,
Kongera,  Mamayil,  Silda,  Baiphariguda  (Mantriyamba),  Kajra-
Lakhisarai,  Saranda  counter  operation,  Lohardagge-Dhardharia,
Amamora, Gatam and Borguda on a huge scale with the participation
of people!

· Expand  the  Maosit  People’s War  to  vast  areas  according  to  the

wishes of the people with invaluable sacrifices !

· Create mass upsurges like Lalgarh, Narayanapatna, Kalinganagar,
Niyamgiri, Sompeta, Govindpur-Dhinkia of anti-Posco agitation etc
to end the exploitation and oppression of imperialists and the Indian
ruling classes. Advance such struggles with the aim of seizure of
political power !

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)
133

CONDEMN GRUESOME MUMBAI BOMB BLASTS!

July  17,  2011

Demand for an impartial and independent probe into

all the incidents of bomb blasts including Mecca Masjid,

Malegaon and Samjhauta Express blasts!

Communist Party of India (Maoist) severely condemns the bomb blasts
took place in Mumbai on July 13, 2011. These incidents of serial blasts are
inhuman in which at least 20 innocent people have lost their lives and
nearly 80 people were injured. Our Party also strongly condemns the devious
and baseless allegations of exploitative ruling classes and their police/
intelligence agencies who are trying to blame our Party without any clue of
who  might  be  responsible  for  these  bomb  blasts  and  even  before  the
investigation is started. The oppressed people of India know very well that
our Party which is fighting for the emancipation of people would never
commit such attacks aimed at innocent people putting their lives at peril.
Murderous ruling classes and their corporate media are deliberately blaming
us so as to depict our Party as a terrorist organization and our just people’s
movement as terrorist one, and thus to justify their brutal suppression
campaign  and  the Army  deployment  in  the  second  phase  of  ongoing
Operation Green Hunt — the War On People.

If we retrospect into the earlier incidents of bomb blasts took place till
this day in our country, we would never know the real culprits hidden
behind those who are being shown as offenders. It’s become a norm now
that whenever such incidents of bomb blasts take place, the pro-Hindu
fundamentalist Indian state, its intelligence/investigative wings and the
corporate media immediately claim that Muslims and so-called Islamic
terrorist organizations are responsible. In fact, as part of a conspiracy and
collusion of the Indian state which always try to blame Muslim society for
every attack of this kind and the top leaders of the ruling class parties like
Congress and BJP, the IB itself created an illusionary organization named
Indian Mujahiddin which is being held responsible for every incident of
bomb  blast  by  the  authorities.  Corporate  media  barons  and  bankrupt
intellectuals servile to the ruling classes are branding all those who ask for
134

proof of these allegations and who demand for comprehensive and impartial
probe as outright traitors and attacking them belligerently, irrationally and
frantically. Thus people are being kept at bay from knowing the truth. In
our so-called biggest democracy on the earth, the big joke is not asking for
incisive probe has become the touchstone for patriotism and the person
who asks for any probe is branded as traitor!

In  earlier  instances  of  bomb  blasts  in  Mecca  Masjid,  Malegaon,
Samjhauta Express etc. hundreds of innocent Muslims, particularly the
youths were arrested, tortured inhumanly and sent to jails. Many were
killed in fake encounters. Even after the obvious evidences came forth
that  the  Hindu  fanatics  belonging  to  the  right-wing  RSS  gang  were
responsible for those ghastly incidents, no justice was done to the Muslims.
No leader of the Hindu terrorist organizations like Abhinav Bharat, Hindu
defence  force,  Rashtriya  Jagaran Manch,  Bajrang  Dal,  Viswa  Hindu
Parishad has been punished until this day. At the same time, death sentence
given to Afzal Guru in the case of attack on Parliament and to 11 Muslims
in Godhra train carnage case recently on March 1 are some examples of
the anti-Muslim and pro-Hindutva character of the Indian State. While the
butchers like Narendra Modi whose hands have stained with the blood of
over 2,000 innocent Muslims are freely wandering in the corridors of power,
Muslims are being meted out stringent punishments by virtue of bizarre
and inadequate evidences. And this has been spreading the feeling of severe
frustration and fury among the Muslim masses.

It’s  an  obvious  fact  that  because  of  the  grisly  incidents  like  the
destruction of the Babri Masjid and Gujarat genocide, the Muslim community
in general, a large section of Muslim youth in particular, has become furious
and outrageous against the Indian ruling classes. Another irrefutable fact
is that this situation has given birth to some Islamic organizations. Exploiting
this situation and by taking organizations of this sort into their grip or by
misleading them in a deceitful manner or by even creating some new
organizations of this kind, both India’s and Pakistan’s intelligence agencies
like RAW, IB, ISI are engineering bomb blasts and other attacks in both
countries as part of serving their vested political interests. Failing to identify
their real enemies many a frustrated Muslim youths are stuck in this lattice
and taking part in acts of mindless violence of this kind. Thus they are
135

taking of the lives of innocent people. This is such a vicious cycle where
these youths don’t even know in whose hands are they acting and whose
vested interests are being fulfilled with such attacks in deed.

On the other hand, after it was clearly exposed that an organization
called Abhinav  Bharat  belonged  to  the  Sangh  gang  (i.e.  RSS)  was
responsible for bomb blasts of Malegaon, Mecca Masjid and Samjhauta
Express,  people  of  India  have  started  seeing  Saffron  terrorism  as  a
dangerous trend. When it became obvious that the Saffron terrorists are
responsible for Ajmer Sherif bomb blast also, the demand for a review of
all investigations done into the incidents of bomb blasts in various places of
our country has come forth. The Muslim youths of Malegaon and Hyderabad
have demanded that the government should apologize for the police atrocities
inflicted  on  them.  Despite  of  all  its  rhetoric,  the  Congress-led  UPA
government has been instigating Saffron terrorism as a part of promoting
its wicked political motives. The corporate media which act hand in glove
with Hindu fundamentalism in general, on the one hand, attack Muslims
and Islamic organizations aggressively without any clear evidence and on
the other hand, report as less as possible even when there is evident proof
is available that the Saffron terrorist organizations were responsible for
various incidents of bomb blasts.

If we see in this backdrop, we could arrive at the conclusion that
Saffron terrorist organizations or so-called Islamic militant organizations
sponsored by the very intelligence agencies like IB, RAW might have
committed these heinous acts of July 13 Mumbai bomb blasts. It’s also
likely that the mafia gangs hand in glove with police top brass and ruling
class political leaders could have committed these attacks. Whoever else
has done this, only the interests of ruling classes would be served with
such acts of mindless violence. Firstly, people’s attention could be diverted
from the issues like price rise, corruption, scams, black money, Swiss banks
accounts which have become burning issues in the country now. Secondly,
by posing terrorism as biggest danger, even more draconian laws could be
prepared and the teeth of State’s suppressive machinery could be sharpened
by importing arms and technology from imperialist countries on a massive
scale misusing trillions of rupees of hard earned people’s money. Thirdly,
by supporting directly or indirectly all invasive wars, attacks and intimidations
136

of US imperialism going on in the name of ‘Global War on Terror’ and thus
by acting as its junior partner in south Asia region, the Indian State could
go ahead reducing the country more servile to it by signing the treacherous
treaties like Homeland security, civil nuclear deal etc. Fourthly, using the
pretext of terrorism, public consent could be built for crushing the people’s
movements and growing Maoist revolutionary movement militarily which
are surging against anti-people and pro-imperialist neo-liberal policies of
the governments. Apart from this, consolidating Hindu vote bank by blaming
Muslims  and  Islamic  organizations  every  time  without  any  proof  and
diverting the people’s attention from the basic problems of our country like
food,  clothing,  shelter,  price  rise,  unemployment,  poverty,  starvation,
displacement etc. are necessary for both Congress and BJP and for the
feudal and comprador bourgeoisie classes whom they represent, so that
their exploitative rule can be carried on unchecked.

However, Communist Party of India (Maoist) believes that the real
perpetrators of Mumbai blasts could be traced only through an impartial
and  independent  probe.  Our  Party  humbly  appeals  the  masses  and
democrats  of  the  country  to  not  to  sway  away  with  the  malicious
propaganda, falsehood and prejudices unleashed by the ruling classes, their
intelligence agencies and the corporate media in a mad, one-sided and
irrational manner. Our Party demands to uncover the culprits responsible
for these blasts and punish them severely. At the same time, our Party
calls upon entire people of the country to demand the governments for
impartial and independent probes into all incidents of bomb blasts that took
place since 1992 and for unconditional release of Muslims and Christians
who are languishing in various jails with false cases. Our Party also calls
upon the people of the country to demand to punish all those Saffron terrorist
leaders who are responsible for all the attacks perpetrated on religious
minorities  including  the  Babri  Masjid  destruction,  Gujarat  genocide,
Kandhamal  (Odisha)  attacks  and  to  condemn  Hindu  religious
fundamentalism and all other religious chauvinisms.

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

137

August  19,  2011

Throw into the dust bin all the vicious

propaganda carried on

by the ruling classes and corporate media

against the Maoist leadership!

At present the Indian revolutionary movement is facing many hard
challenges and advancing through the process of victory-defeat and victory.
With the aim of completely wiping out the revolutionary movement, the
ruling classes are carrying on a cruel war of suppression with the full
support of the imperialists. Particularly by following the LIC strategy
formulated by the US imperialists, these fascists are carrying on this counter-
revolutionary war. Particularly from 2009 onwards the UPA government
in coordination with the state governments is carrying on a countrywide
suppressive war in the name of OGH. In this unjust war carried on against
the  people  under  the  leadership  of  the  Sonia-Manmohan  Singh-
Chidambaram-Pranab Mukherji gang, their strategy is said to be ‘suppression
and development’ (read suppression of the people and development of the
corporate houses). As part of this they are using psychological warfare as
a strategic weapon and vicious propaganda on revolutionary leadership is
a key component in this. Media is being used as one of the main instruments
in this psy-war. Media persons who represent corporate sector and pseudo
intellectuals  who  are  apologists  for  the  ruling  classes’  ideology  are
participating actively in this psy-war through foul-mouthed propaganda.

Counter-revolutionary  propaganda  is  as  old  as  the  revolutionary
movement. The German fascist propaganda minister Goebbels who said
that repeating a lie a hundred times would turn it into the truth has found
his Indian avatars in Sonia, Manmohan, Pranab Mukherji, Raman Singh,
Naveen  Patnaik,  Nitish  Kumar,  Kiran  Kumar  etc  and  their  faithful
spokespersons like Arnab Goswamis and Chandan Mitras are leading this
nasty campaign in various forms in the media. Right from the propaganda
that Marxism has become outdated to the propaganda that bitter differences
have  cropped  up  among  the  Maoist  leaders,  news  items  against  the

138

revolutionary movement and its leadership with utter lies and outlandish
fabrications, falsehoods and half-truths are being published and relayed
day in and day out. The single and foremost aim of this psy-war is to
spread confusion, disappointment and lack of confidence among the people
and the revolutionary ranks towards Maoist leadership by creating doubts,
prejudices and illusions about our party and its leadership. The ruling classes
and their lackey intellectuals are dreaming that by deceiving the people
they can carry on their exploitation and pro-imperialist economic policies
without any opposition whatsoever. Some of the journalists who come under
this category are hand in gloves with the intelligence officials and are
propagating  crap  about  the  Maoist  revolutionary  movement  through
corporate media houses. The white lie published under the title ‘Bitter
differences crop up between Maoist PW and MCC factions’ in Times of
India dated July 17, 2011 is undoubtedly part of this Psy-War.

This news item dictated by the Indian intelligence agencies and written
by Rakhi Chakrabarthy has not only targeted the Maoist leadership but has
also falsely created ‘PW and MCC factions’ and ‘severe differences of
opinions among them’ in the party. The unity of these two revolutionary
parties in accordance with the much-awaited aspirations of the oppressed
peoples of the world and our country and rich experiences of these two
parties by overcoming the most painful period named as “Black chapter”
by both of them in their histories has opened a glorious chapter in our
country’s revolutionary movement. Only genuine and selfless revolutionaries
can so accept their mistakes publicly and seek apology from the people
and work with steadfast determination not to repeat them. That is why this
genuine unity has enthused the oppressed people and revolutionary ranks
all over the world as much as it had spread anxiety and dread among the
Indian ruling classes and their imperialist masters. It is to be noted that the
faithful servant of the imperialists and the Prime Minister of India Manmohan
Singh began describing the Maoist movement as the biggest internal security
threat after this historic unity. It is also an undeniable fact that the ruling
classes have intensified their fascist offensive on massive scale against
the revolutionary movement only after this.

It is an age-old trick of the ruling classes to create illusionary divisions
among the top leaders of the revolutionary parties so that people would
139

come to believe that even these parties would not lead them properly with
such careerisms and divides among their leaders. Umpteen numbers of
such instances can be quoted from all over the world and this news item of
TOI is one such most vicious propaganda against our leaders who in fact
have spent decades of their lives in service of the people selflessly. Some
of them are now languishing in jails facing inhuman treatment from the
state without the minimum facilities or medical treatment at this old age.
The  callousness  of  the  state  towards  our  leaders  who  have  sacrificed
everything for the liberation of the oppressed people of our country is
reaching unprecedented heights with each day. In a way, this only indicates
that the state is scared about the increasing influence of revolutionary
politics and is resorting to all kinds of tricks to reduce it in vain. Our Party
is completely rejecting all these allegations leveled against our leadership
and is appealing to the oppressed masses and the revolutionary camp not
to believe even a word of it.

All genuine revolutionary parties have several differences of opinions
and shades of differences among their members in ideological, political,
organizational,  military,  cultural  etc  matters. Various  ideas  come  for
discussion and they are concluded with a majority after each and every
member has voiced her/his opinion on them. This is a democratic process
followed  by  the  revolutionary  parties  which  can  never  be  seen  in  or
understood by the ruling class parties. Only through such discussions and
criticism-self-criticism does a party sustain its revolutionary content and
not  by  blindly  following  any  one  leader  like  in  the  bourgeois  parties.
Revolutionaries steel themselves in the flames of class struggle and by
going  through  many  sessions  of  criticisms  and  self-criticisms.  The
intelligence agencies are trying to distort this healthy atmosphere inside the
party as exactly its opposite and trying to confuse the people and the ranks
by propagating that there are bitter differences inside the party and that
too on the lines of PW and MCC. We appeal to the oppressed people of
the world and our country, democrats and revolutionary ranks to condemn
this vicious propaganda, to stay alert to such tricks of the state, to throw
them into the dust bin and to stand firmly with the revolutionary movement
in solidarity.

Finally, regarding the so-called differences on ‘the lines of PW and

140

MCC’, we feel it would suffice if we reiterate what our party General
Secretary Comrade Ganapathy had said in an interview given to the media
in October 2010.

“....The struggle between correct ideas and wrong ideas is a continuous
process in the party. We would solve our differences of opinion by abiding
the principle of democratic centralism and in the light of Marxism-Leninism-
Maoism. This would only lead to the development of the party. We achieved
great unity with the merger of the two parties. Now any discussions or
conflict of ideas which takes place in the party would be in the form of
ideological and political discussions in a united party and not in the form of
differences between erstwhile MCCI and erstwhile CPI (M-L) (People’s
War). We categorically state that the differences would never ever take
the form of conflicts before the merger.”

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

141

September  24,  2011

Condolence message of CC, CPI (Maoist) to
the CC,  Communist Party of The Philippines

on the demise of

Gregorio “Ka Roger” Rosal

Dear Comrades,

Our CC felt deep sorrow when we heard the news of passing away
of Gregorio “Ka Roger” Rosal, spokesperson and chief of the Information
Bureau of your Party, the CPP. On behalf of the Indian revolutionary
movement and entire revolutionary masses of India, we send our heartfelt
condolences to the CPP, NPA and NDF, all near and dears of the departed
veteran of Filipino revolution. We share your grief. The demise of Ka
Roger is a great loss to entire Communist revolutionaries of the world.

Veteran Communist leader Comrade Roger greatly contributed to the
Filipino revolution ever since he joined into the revolutionary movement in
1972. Born in a poor peasant family in the countryside, he raised to the
level of the spokesperson of the Party. This would inspire every communist
across the world. From ‘Great Escape’, he played crucial role in expanding
and consolidating the Filipino revolution as well as armed struggle and
mass struggles. He strode unwaveringly against all odds faced in his personal
and political life. Understanding the significance of the propaganda work
in revolution he accrued immense experience in propaganda front striving
hard. The way your Party waged a relentless revolutionary propaganda
war in defeating the psychological war being carried out by the imperialists
and their lackey Benigno Aquino III is simply great. It’s been an immense
inspiration to our Party. Despite severe ill health, as a veteran communist
leader Ka Roger had been in touch with the Propaganda Bureau of the
CPP furnishing it with his invaluable suggestions till the end and thus he
handed over his legacy to his comrades so that the tasks of the revolution
could be carried on ceaselessly.

His demise is a huge loss  not only to the Filipino Revolution, but to the

142

World Socialist Revolution as well. He displayed enormous competence,
patience, straightforwardness, intelligence, patriotism and love for his nation
throughout his career as a revolutionary. Thus he presented himself before
the world people as a model of how communists should think about the
world.

The CC of CPI (Maoist) humbly bows its head in memory of this
Great Leader of the World Proletariat Ka Roger and vows to carry the
World Proletarian Socialist Revolution forward.

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

143

October 1, 2011

Separate telangana state must be

immediately formed!

MAKE SUCCESS “BHARAT BANDH” on October

11, 2011

in support of the “SAKALA JANULA SAMME”

(Entire People`s Strike)!

Telangana people’s aspiration for a separate state has turned into an
unprecedented upsurge. Unity of Telangana people is blooming. In the
“Sakala Janula Samme “ initiated by employees, Singareni, RTC, Electric
workers with students, lawyers and teachers being in the forefront - artisans,
auto drivers, unorganized workers, municipal workers, traders, priests and
peasants have joined. With the participation of all sections of people, artisans
and intellectuals the strike is intensifying with every day. The participation
of family members of the entire people right from old persons to women
and children indicates how widespread this strike has become. Worried
that they may become isolated from the people with this entire people’s
strike the ruling class parties like congress, TDP and BJP are vying with
each other to tender resignations which are any way rejected. Congress is
trying to show as if it is bringing pressure on the high command for Separate
Telangana. As the strike intensified congress leaders started immediate
consultations in Delhi with Gulam Nabi Azad. In his report to the Congress
high command, Azad has stated that it would take ‘some more time’ to
take any decision on Telangana issue and thus displayed his betrayal nature
once again. On the other hand all kinds of possible political alternatives are
coming to the fore. Congress high command is hands in glove with the
Seemandhra wealthy classes and is trying to bring to the fore pre-planned
moves. The conspiracy to separate Hyderabad from Telangana and making
it a Union Territory or to make it the common capital of two states is part
of this. They are propagating another proposal where Hyderabad would
144

be separated and a separate state would be formed by joining Kurnool
with the rest of Telangana. Telangana people would never accept any of
these proposals. That Hyderabad is an inseparable part of the Telangana is
an undeniable historical truth. Telangana people must stand united and
defeat  the  conspiracies  to  form  Separate  Telangana  state  without
Hyderabad.

Government is resorting to severe repression to suppress the entire
people’s strike which is raging like wild fire since 18 days. It is using ESMA
to suppress the rights of workers and employees; is turning factories, mines
and offices into police camps, lathi charging and firing rubber bullets on
processions, making illegal arrests and resorting to threats. On the other
hand it is trying to bring a divide between Telangana people and Andhra
settlers and trying to suppress the movement. As part of this, it is bringing
black legs into the strike and they are resorting to attacks on workers.
NGO leader Swami Goud was attacked as part of this. As part of this
conspiracy Lagadapati Rajgopal came to Hyderabad under the pretext of
a courtesy visit to RTC workers and was also in the forefront in trying to
fizzle out the strike by bringing in drivers on hire from Seemandhra. Governor
Narasimhan, Chief Minister Kiran Kumar Reddy and DGP Dinesh Reddy
are severely trying to suppress the entire people‘s strike under the orders
of the Central Government. Congress ministers from Hyderabad Danam
Nagender, Mukesh Goud and Owaisi brothers who are Majlis leaders are
working against the demand of Separate Telangana and have turned into
traitors of Telangana. Governments and ruling classes are controlling the
media following the suggestions given in the 8th chapter of Sri Krishna
Committee that this entire people’s strike going on at higher leval should
not be propagated in Andhra Pradesh and in other states of our country.
Thus they are trying to continue their rule by keeping the people of our
country in dark.
Beloved  people  of Telangana!

Carry on the entire people’s strike with more determination and intensify
it. Formation of a Separate Telangana state would be possible only by
preparing ourselves for bitter struggles. We cannot expect the ruling classes
which suppress even the basic rights of people to start the process of

145

formation of Telangana state so easily. When we look at the past history
too it can be seen how the Telangana people had to shed blood even for
fundamental rights. Preparing ourselves for long term, united and militant
agitations and advancing forward along the path of struggle is the only way
to achieve Telangana state by bending the Central Government. We all
know that the ruling classes and their leaders would try to fizzle out the
movement at the first chance by resorting to compromising agreements
always. We must expose these conspiracies from time to time and defeat
them.  When the movement rages for a long time, we must fight back the
vacillations occurring among the leaders and keep alive the movement.
TRS which believes strongly in achieving Telangana through lobbying is
participating in the entire people’s strike in an inevitable situation to save
itself from getting isolated from the people. But on the other hand it is
trying to get its candidate (who jumped from TDP to TRS) elected in
Banswada by-election and this is nothing but tactics to divert the people
from entire people’s strike. Congress which claims that it is committed to
Telangana had exposed its opportunism by contesting this election. TDP
which had always been opposing Telangana state announced that it would
not participate in elections till Telangana is formed and boycotted the
Banswada by-election. This is nothing but rank opportunism. The various
JACs must advance forward in accordance with the struggle unity coming
to the fore very strongly in the entire people’s strike in Telangana. They
must keep aside their vacillations and lead the militant agitation of the
people properly. This is the appeal of CPI (Maoist) to the various JACs at
this juncture.

The entire people’s strike is creating a great impact on the people of
our country. It is serving as a strong inspiration to movements for separate
states. It is an important task before the people of our country to stand in
support of the Telangana people at present. Our Party is whole heartedly
issuing an appeal to the people of Seemandhara to respect the aspirations
of the Telangana people which are blooming during the entire people strike
and stand in support of the separate statehood demand. We appeal to them
not to give in to the conspiracies of the exploiting ruling classes which are
scheming to create a divide between Telangana and Seemandhra people
and to welcome the democratic demand for Telangana state.

146

We demand that Separate Telangana State be immediately formed in
accordance with the strong aspirations of the people of Telangana and are
issuing a call for Bharat Bandh on October 11, 2011 in support of the entire
people’s strike. We appeal to workers, peasants, students, intellectuals,
women, democrats, progressive mass organisations, progressive elements,
poets, artistes and the vast masses to participate in observing the bandh
and make it a success. We appeal to the people of our country to shut
down offices, educational institutions, trade organisations etc completely
and show solidarity to the movement for separate statehood of Telangana.
Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

147

November  20,  2011
Let us intensify People’s War with the aim of

defeating “Operation Green Hunt” –

War on People !

Call of Central Military Commission, CPI (Maoist) on the

occasion of PLGA 11th anniversary

Beloved  people!

By December 2, People’s Liberation Guerilla Army (PLGA) would
complete eleven years. On this occasion Central Military Commission
(CMC) is giving a call to celebrate the 11th anniversary in all our guerilla
zones and red resistance areas with the determination to defeat Operation
Green Hunt (OGH) of the exploiting ruling classes. In the People’s War
ongoing for the liberation of toiling masses in India nearly 150 best daughters
and sons of the soil and ordinary people have laid down their precious lives
since December 2010 to September 2011. Let us pay revolutionary homage
to all the brave fighters. Let us vow to fulfill their aims.

In the past one year, hundreds of local mass organizations, revolutionary
people’s government activists and people were arrested, booked under
black laws and put in jails. To suppress the revolutionary cultural movement,
death sentences were pronounced on four cultural activists of Jharkhand
Abhen including Jeeten Marandi. It is necessary to build a strong people’s
movement to annul these death sentences. Particularly, as part of inflicting
losses on our party leadership in the dog hunt of the enemy intelligence
agencies on April 29, 2011 three Central Committee members and in July
comrade Bhupeshda and many other leadership comrades and activists
were  arrested  by  the  enemy.  The  enemy  is  making  conspiracies  to
incarcerate them in jails permanently. CMC is giving a call to the people to
build agitations everywhere for the release of these political prisoners.

In the operations conducted by our PLGA forces against fascist OGH
all over the country, 150 mercenary policemen were wiped out, 180 were
148

injured and seized 60 weapons all over the country successfully since
December 2010 to October 2011. Moreover, in the continuous single actions
conducted by the PLGA forces, 170 anti-people elements, were wiped
out. Particularly, the role of people’s militia forces is worth mentioning in
this.

The central and state governments have announced that the second
phase of the fascist OGH is ongoing. This unjust war (Green Hunt military
offensive) unleashed by the Sonia-Manmohan Singh-Chidambaram clique
against the people of this country from mid-2009, is nothing but a war to let
the comprador companies and MNCs to loot the mineral wealth in the
adivasi  areas.  In  order  to  brutally  continue  the  ‘War  on  people’  the
government deployed a brigade level army force in the name of training in
May end of this year. In fact, army officials have been guiding the counter-
insurgency operations of the paramilitary forces since six years with the
aim of wiping out the revolutionary movement which is proving to be a
hurdle to corporate loot. The army on its own established counter-terrorism
Jungle Warfare schools including the ones at Kanker of Chhattisgarh and
Ambicapur in North Chhattisgarh and is giving special training to police-
paramilitary forces. Army higher officials have conducted Bastar tours
several times. During the days when Salwa Judum was at the height of its
cruelty, American consulate officials have visited the Jungle Warfare School
in Kanker and had consultations with Raman Singh and police higher
officials in Raipur. All these undoubtedly prove that all this is happening
under the guidance of the US imperialists.

Attacks on people, murders, sexual atrocities on women, razing down
houses, loot, destruction of harvest and looting of hens, pigs and goats have
become commonplace in the fascist Green Hunt military offensive. The
Chintalnar murders-atrocities-razing of houses-loot, the massacre conducted
in Netai village (Lalgarh, PB) by the CPM with the help of central and
state Joint Forces and the massacre by PLFI goons in Jamgai village (Gumla
district, JH) are living examples for this. Ninety nine percent of the persons
killed by the reactionary Salwa Judum, Sendra, Nagrik Suraksha Samity,
Santi Sangams, government armed forces including several kinds of killer
gangs in Bihar and Jharkhand are unarmed people. The armed guerillas
dying in encounters and fake encounters will not be more than one percent.
149

This hugely indicates that this is a ‘War on the people’.

By portraying DK as a stronghold of Maoist guerillas, the Indian Army
stepped in DK in the name of ‘training’ by violating the laws banning land
transfer, PESA act and the acts giving all powers to the Gram Sabhas. But
the actual aim of the army is to chase the Adivasis away from their ages
old abode to wipe out the most ancient human community and their primitive
culture and to nip in the bud the Janatana Sarkars being established by the
adivasi people under the leadership of the Maoists. For this sake, the central
government gave all powers to the army to implement the majority aspects
in AFSPA and to go to any length in the name of self-defence. Indian
Army which is supposed to defend the borders of the country is now ready
to wage war on its own people in the heart of the country. All adivasi
communities all over the country must now agitate against the conspiracies
of the Indian ruling classes to safeguard the interests of the imperialists
and MNCs and to extend the atrocities and massacres carried on by the
Indian Army and paramilitary forces on Kashmir and North-East national
liberation struggles. People belonging to all classes and sections, democrats,
patriots and mass organizations must stand firmly in their support.
Beloved  people!

As a consequence of the distorted development of the imperialist LPG
policies, the impact of the world economic crisis is severe on our country
too.  Increase  in  corruption,  unemployment,  price  rise,  poverty  and
displacement and due to loss of lands, forests and water, the living conditions
of the oppressed working class, peasant and middle class people became
unbearable and they do not have anywhere to turn except towards revolution.
Material conditions are ripening for revolution. Strikes and agitations of all
sections of people are increasing. Economic struggles are turning into political
struggles. The political agitations of the backward adivasi peasantry are
intensifying. Struggles like Lalgarh, Kalinganagar, Narayanapatna, anti-
Posco, Niayamagiri, Mali, Deomali, Singareni, Open casts, Polavaram,
Sompeta,  Kakarapalli,  Jaitapur  and  Greater  Noida,  struggle  of  people
displaced due to urban development in Jharkhand, countrywide anti-SEZ
struggles, price rises, anti-corruption struggles, struggles on peasant issues
and the struggles of dalit and women indicate the political consciousness of
the people. People are rallying militantly for the formation of separate
150

Telangana state. The national liberation struggle of Kashmir is continuing
to rage. In order to divert the militant struggles of the people, NGOs run
with the guidance of imperialists and those under the leadership of persons
like Anna Hazare are bringing forth struggle forms like hunger strikes in
the  name  of  non-violence.  Fascist  repression  of  the  ruling  classes  is
increasing on our Maoist party which is serving as the beacon light of the
oppressed masses and also on working class, peasantry, middle class and
oppressed masses. The economic and political crisis is intensifying every
where and so vast masses must display revolutionary spirit and take up
political agitations with the slogan that we will fight till our last breath. We
must rally on a huge scale on daily issues and political issues. We must
realize that it is not possible for the economic interests of the oppressed
masses to be fulfilled without decisive political struggles and develop these
agitations to a higher level by linking it with the slogan that “Political Power
must be seized through People’s War”.
Call of the CMC

Beloved workers, peasants, adivasis, toiling masses, women, students,
youth and intellectuals! Thousands of people, particularly adivasi peasantry
are rallying into these struggles to defeat the ‘War on People’ conducted
by the central and state governments. All the toiling classes and sections of
the people must integrate into these struggles. Rally actively to stop the
brutal attacks of the mercenary police who are massacring hundreds of
adivasis and looting their properties, dignity and everything dear to them
like a pack of wolves attacking a flock of sheep, in the name of fighting
terrorism. Maoists are not advocates of violence. In fact, they would be in
the forefront among those who wish for peace. Do not believe a word of
the vicious propaganda unleashed by the bourgeois media on Maoists!
Stand firmly with the revolutionary movement! If we do not defeat this
enemy  offensive,  if  we  do  not  defeat  the  conspiracy  to  wipe  out  the
revolutionary movement, Maoist party, PLGA, alternate people’s power
organs and mass organizations, then all the valuable fruits won by the
revolutionary movement would be destroyed. So, play your role in isolating
and defeating the enemy! Join the PLGA in huge numbers, increase its
force  manifold  and  strengthen  it!  Integrate  with  the  deluge  of  mass
movements rising in several areas in our country with the slogans of land-
151

power-democracy-building of people’s army and self-reliance! Join hands
with them! Stand shoulder to shoulder with the armed resistance struggles
of  PLGA!  There  can  be  no  fundamental  change  without  completely
destroying the exploiting classes. The reforms thrown by them as bread
crumbs are useless and would only destroy the lives of the people further.
Let us advance for an alternative new democratic society by declaring
that reforms are part of the conspiracy to damage the unity of the people
and fight them back! Come! Dare to fight and ultimate victory belongs to
the people!

·

·

·

·

Let us develop PLGA into PLA and guerilla warfare into mobile
warfare  with  the  aim  of  developing  Dandakaranya  and  Bihar-
Jharkhand into Liberated Areas!
Let us oppose the deployment of army by the Indian ruling classes
for wiping out Maoist revolutionary movement!
Let us teach a lesson to the mercenary Indian Army which loots,
represses and suppresses the Indian toiling masses through our
glorious People’s War!
Long live the CPI (Maoist)!

Deoji,
For Central Military Commission
CPI (Maoist)

152

November  25,  2011

Condemn the brutal murder of

Comrade Mallojula Koteswara Rao,

the beloved leader of the oppressed masses,

the leader of Indian revolution and
CPI (Maoist) Politburo member!

Observe countrywide protest week
from November 29 to December 5 and

48-hour ‘Bharat Bandh’ on December 4-5!!

November 24, 2011 would remain a black day in the annals of Indian
revolutionary movement’s history. The fascist Sonia-Manmohan-Pranab-
Chidambaram-Jairam Ramesh ruling clique who have been raising a din
that CPI (Maoist) is ‘the biggest internal security threat’, in collusion with
West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, killed Comrade Mallojula
Koteswara Rao after capturing him alive in a well planned conspiracy.
This clique which had killed Comrade Azad, our party’s spokesperson on
July 1, 2010 once again spread its dragnet and quenched its thirst for blood.
Mamata Banerjee, who had shed crocodile’s  tears over  the  murder  of
Comrade Azad before coming to power, while enacting the drama of ‘peace
talks’ on the one hand after assuming office, killed another topmost leader
Comrade Koteswara Rao and thus displayed nakedly its anti-people and
fascist facet. The central intelligence agencies and the killer intelligence
agencies of West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh chased him in a well planned
conspiracy and killed him in a cowardly manner in a joint operation and
now spreading a concocted story of encounter. The central home secretary
R.K. Singh even while lying that they do not know for certain who died in
the encounter, has in the same breath announced that this is a big blow to
the Maoist movement. Thus he nakedly gave away their conspiracy behind
this  killing.  The  oppressed  people  would  definitely  send  to  grave  the
153

exploiting ruling classes and their imperialist masters who are day dreaming
that they could wipe out the Maoist party by killing the top leadership of the
revolutionary movement.

Comrade Koteswara Rao, who is hugely popular as Prahlad, Ramji,
Kishenji and Bimal inside the party and among the people, is one of the
important leaders of the Indian revolutionary movement. The tireless warrior
who never rested his gun while fighting for the liberation of the oppressed
masses since the past 37 years and who has laid down his life for the sake
of the ideology he believed in, was born in 1954 in Peddapally town of
Karimnagar district of North Telangana, Andhra Pradesh. Raised by his
father  Late  Venkataiah  who  was  a  freedom  fighter  and  his  mother
Madhuramma, who has been of progressive views, Koteswara Rao imbibed
love for his country and its oppressed masses since childhood. In 1969, he
had participated in the historic separate Telangana movement while he
was in his high school studies in Peddapally town. He joined the revolutionary
movement with the inspiration of the glorious Naxalbari and Srikakulam
movements while studying graduation in SRR college of Karimnagar. He
started working as an active member of the Party from 1974. He spent
some time in jail during the black period of the Emergency. After lifting up
of the Emergency, he started working as a party organizer in his home
district of Karimnagar. He responded to the “Go to Villages” campaign
call of the party and developed relations with the peasantry by going to the
villages. He was one of those who played a prominent role in the upsurge
of peasant movement popular as ‘Jagityal Jaitrayatra’ (Victory March of
Jagityal) in 1978. In this course, he was elected as the district committee
member of the Adilabad-Karimnagar joint committee of the CPI (ML). In
1979 when this committee was divided into two district committees he
became the secretary of the Karimnagar district committee. He participated
in the Andhra Pradesh state 12th party conference, was elected to the AP
state committee and took responsibilities as its secretary.

Up to 1985, as part of the AP state committee leadership he played a
crucial role in spreading the movement all over the state and in developing
the North Telangana movement which was advancing with guerilla zone
perspective. He played a prominent role in expanding the movement to
Dandakaranya  (DK)  and  developing  it.  He  was  transferred  to
154

Dandakaranya in 1986 and took up responsibilities as a member of the
Forest Committee. He led the guerilla squads and the people in DK. In
1993 he was co-opted as a member into the Central Organizing Committee
(COC).

From 1994 onwards he mainly worked to spread and develop the
revolutionary movement in Eastern and Northern parts of India including
West Bengal. Particularly his role in uniting the revolutionary forces which
were scattered after the setback of the Naxalbari movement in West Bengal
and in reviving the revolutionary movement there is extraordinary. He
mingled deeply with the oppressed masses of Bengal and the various sections
of the revolutionary camp, learnt Bangla language with determination and
left an indelible mark in the hearts of the people there. He worked tirelessly
in achieving unity with several revolutionary groups and in strengthening
the party. Comrade Koteswara Rao was elected as a Central Committee
(CC) member in the All India Special Conference of erstwhile CPI (ML)
(People’s War) held in 1995. He strived for achieving unity between People’s
War and Party Unity in 1998. In the Party Congress of erstwhile CPI
(ML)(PW) held in 2001 he was once again elected into CC and Politburo.
He took up responsibilities as the secretary of the North Regional Bureau
(NRB) and led the revolutionary movements in Bihar, Jharkhand, West
Bengal, Delhi, Haryana and Punjab states. Simultaneously he played a key
role in the unity talks held between erstwhile PW and MCCI. He served
as a member of the unified CC and Politburo formed after the merger of
the two parties in 2004 and worked as a member of the Eastern Regional
Bureau (ERB). He mainly concentrated on the state movement of West
Bengal and continued as the spokesperson of the ERB.

Comrade Koteswara Rao played a prominent role in running party
magazines and in the field of political education inside the party. He took
part in running ‘Kranti’, ‘Errajenda’, ‘Jung’, ‘Prabhat’, ‘Vanguard’ and
other party magazines. He had a special role to play in bringing out various
revolutionary magazines in West Bengal. He wrote many theoretical and
political  articles  in  these  magazines.  He  was  a  member  of  the  Sub-
Committee on Political Education (SCOPE) and played a prominent role in
teaching Marxism-Leninism-Maoism to the party ranks. In the entire history
of the party he played a memorable role in expanding the revolutionary
155

movement,  in  enriching  the  party  documents  and  in  developing  the
movement. He participated in the Unity Congress-9th Congress of the party
held in 2007 January, was elected as CC member once again and took
responsibilities of Politburo member and member of the ERB.

The political guidance given by Comrade Koteswara Rao to the Singur
and Nandigram people’s movements which erupted since 2007 against the
anti-people and pro-corporate policies of the social fascist CPM government
in West Bengal and particularly to the glorious upsurge of people’s rebellion
in Lalgarh against police atrocities is prominent. He guided the West Bengal
state committee and the party ranks to lead these movements and on the
other hand conducted party propaganda through the media too with initiative.
In 2009 when the Chidambaram clique tried to mislead the middle classes
in the name of talks and ceasefire, he worked significantly in exposing it.
He did enormous work in keeping aloft the importance of People’s War
and in taking the revolutionary politics into the vast masses. This great
revolutionary journey which went on for almost four decades came to an
abrupt end on November 24, 2011.
Beloved  People!  Democrats!!

Do condemn this brutal murder. It is the conspiracy of the ruling classes
to wipe out the revolutionary leadership and deprive the people of correct
guidance and proletarian leadership. It is a known fact that the Maoist
movement is the biggest hurdle to the big robbers and compradors who are
stashing millions in Swiss banks by selling for peanuts the Jal, Jungle and
Zameen of the country to the imperialist sharks. The multi-pronged, country-
wide brutal offensive named Operation Green Hunt of the past two years
is exactly serving this purpose. This cold-blooded murder is part of that. It
is the duty of the patriots and freedom-loving people of the country to
protect the revolutionary movement and its leadership like the pupil of their
eye. It’s nothing but protecting the future of the country and that of the
next generations.

Even at the age of 57, Com. Koteswara Rao led the hard life of a
guerilla like a young man and had filled the cadres and people with great
enthusiasm wherever he went. His life would particularly serve as a great
inspiration to the younger generation. He studied and worked for hours

156

together without rest and traveled great distances. He slept very little, led
a simple life and was a hard worker. He used to mingle easily with people
of all ages and with people who come from various social sections and fill
them with revolutionary enthusiasm. No doubt, the martyrdom of Comrade
Koteswara Rao is a great loss to the Indian revolutionary movement. But
the people of our country are very great. It is the people and the people’s
movements which gave birth to courageous and dedicated revolutionaries
like Koteswara Rao. The workers and peasants and the revolutionaries
who have imbibed the revolutionary spirit of Koteswara Rao right from
Jagityal  to  Jungle  Mahal  and  who  have  armed  themselves  with  the
revolutionary fragrance he spread all over the country would definitely
lead the Indian New Democratic Revolution in a victory path. They would
wipe  out  the  imperialists  and  their  lackey  landlord  and  comprador
bureaucratic bourgeoisie and their representatives like Sonia, Manmohan,
Chidambaram and Mamata Banerjee.

Our CC is appealing to the people of the country to observe protest
week from November 29 to December 5 and observe 48-hour ‘Bharat
Bandh’  on  December  4-5  in  protest  of  the  brutal  murder  of  Comrade
Koteswara Rao. We are appealing that they take up various programmes
like holding meetings, rallies, dharnas, wearing black badges, road blocks
etc  protesting  this  murder. We  are  requesting  that  trains,  roadways,
commercial and educational institutions be closed and that all kinds of trade
transactions be stopped as part of the ‘Bharat Bandh’ on December 4-5.
However, we are exempting medical services from the Bandh.

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

157

Revolutionary greetings from CPI (Maoist)

to the friends of Indian revolution and

January  13,  2012

well wishers

Comrades and Friends,

On 24 November, 2011 the Indian revolution lost its great leader and
the oppressed masses of India lost their most reliable servant. November
24 would remain a dark day in the history of the Indian revolution. On July
1, 2010 the Indian ruling classes had murdered our Politburo member and
spokesperson Comrade Azad. Within one and a half years, another Politburo
member Comrade Koteswarlu (who is popular among the people and party
ranks as Kotanna, Prahlad, Ramji, Kishenji and Bimal) was caught alive in
a covert operation, tortured inhumanly and was killed in a fake encounter.
In India which claims to be the largest democracy in the world, the feudal
and comprador bureaucratic bourgeois ruling classes, with the support of
the imperialists, particularly the US imperialists, are trying to suppress the
democratic, national liberation and revolutionary movements with iron heel.
Particularly, since 2009 they are carrying on an unjust war on the people in
the name of ‘Operation Green Hunt’. They are shamelessly violating even
the constitution and the laws formulated by themselves and are killing people,
activists and leaders of the movement. They are unsuccessfully trying to
justify all their unlawful murders in the name of a lie named ‘encounter’
tracing the footsteps of the British colonial rulers. Now it is an established
fact that ‘encounter’ anywhere in India means a conspiratorial murder by
the state.

Comrade Koteswarlu was born on November 26, 1954 in Peddapalli
town of Karimnagar district which has a legacy of the glorious Telangana
armed struggle. He led the Indian revolutionary movement for nearly four
decades. Comrade Koteswarlu was brought up by democratic thinking
parents and imbibed patriotic feelings and love for the oppressed people
since childhood. He was a top rank representative of the generation after
the glorious Naxalbari rebellion. Though the Naxalbari rebellion which
established Maoist Protracted People’s War as the path for the Indian
158

revolution was suppressed within a few years, it had a great impact all
over the country. Peasant rebellions arose in many areas following its model.
It awoke the students in colleges and universities. The slogan ‘Naxalbari
Ek  Hi  Rasta’  (The  Only Way  is  Naxalbari)    reverberated  all  over  the
country. It was this backdrop that turned Comrade Koteswarlu into a Maoist
revolutionary. Firstly, at the end of 1970s, he organized the peasantry against
deeply entrenched feudalism in his home district of Karimnagar and led
many struggles. He played a key role in the peasant movement popularly
known as ‘Jagityal Jaitrayatra’ (Victory March of Jagityal). In no time this
spread to the whole of North Telangana apart from Karimnagar and Adilabad
districts. Even while mobilizing peasants into anti-feudal struggles, he greatly
strove to attract students, writers, intellectuals, workers…all oppressed
classes and sections of people into the fold of revolutionary movement. In
this course, he worked as a party organizer at first, then as the district
committee secretary and was later elected as the secretary of the Andhra
Pradesh  Sate  Committee  and  won  the  accolade  of  the  people  and  the
party ranks. Since 1986, he played a crucial role in the development and
expansion of the revolutionary movement in central, eastern and northern
parts of India. He particularly concentrated on Dandakaranya for eight
years and on West Bengal for eighteen years.  Since 1993 till he breathed
his last he worked as a Central Committee member, later as Politburo
member member and held responsibilities for Northern and Eastern Regional
Bureaus. He contributed greatly in many spheres in the party such as
political education, magazines, propaganda and shone as a man of many
talents. He played a prominent role in enriching the party documents and in
developing party political-military line and policies. He represented the CC
in the meetings and bilateral talks held with various national liberation
organizations and Maoist forces in South Asia. He strove a lot to unite the
Marxist-Leninist groups and individuals that divided and scattered after
the setback of Naxalbari and particularly to achieve unity of the ML and
MCC organizations which continued as separate streams since Naxalbari.
Thus his role remains etched forever in the annals of the history of Indian
revolution.

At the end of 1970s, Comrade Koteswarlu played a crucial role in the
Jagityal peasant movement and in the first decade of the 21st century he
became the architect of the illustrious Lalgarh people’s upsurge. He was

159

an inspiring leader who never left the people and the cadres and who stood
firmly during many an ebb and flow in the Indian revolutionary movement
with courage and initiative. He was an organizer with initiative, a warrior
commander and a guide who imparted love and care. His very presence
proved to be a hard nut to crack for the enemy right from the beginning.
He successfully fought back several attacks and attempts to murder him.
He was a tireless warrior who fought incessantly and uncompromisingly
and never let go of any opportunity to attack the enemy politically and
militarily. That is why the ruling clique of this country led by Sonia-
Manmohan-Chidambaram-Pranab-Jairam colluded with the Chief Minister
of West Bengal Mamata Banerjee and killed him in the cruelest manner.
The brutal signs of torture on his dead body indicate the fascist nature of
the enemy, his cowardliness and his defeat. On the other hand he bore all
the inhuman tortures in the hands of the enemy and emerged victorious
even in the face of death. The crimson of the international red flag of the
proletarians turned deeper with the blood spilled by him in Jungle Mahal.
With  the  murder  of  Comrade  Koteswarlu  @  Kishenji  the  Indian
revolutionary movement lost a great leader. This is a huge loss for our
party. Our party has been continuously losing main leadership forces since
a few years and this loss cannot be surmounted under these circumstances.
However our party would fight firmly to advance the Indian revolution on
the path of victory by overcoming these losses. The exploitative ruling
classes  can  never  comprehend  the  truth  that  people  and  the  people’s
movements give birth to hundreds and thousands of leaders like Koteswarlu
and Azad and they continue daydreaming that they could suppress the
movements by killing the leaders. As long as there are exploitation and
suppression, people would continue to revolt. Leaders like Koteswarlu keep
on emerging. That is why the great struggles with sacrifices and the ideals
established by the thousands of great martyrs serve as an inspiration.

Our Central Committee pays red homage with bowed heads to the
great martyr Comrade Koteswarlu. Our CC is expressing deep empathy
to mother Madhuramma who was calling upon the people to follow the
footsteps of her son even while immersed in deep sorrow, to other family
members and friends of Comrade Koteswarlu. Our Central Committee
calls  upon  entire  Party,  PLGA,  activists  of  mass  organizations  and
revolutionary masses who are immersed in deep sorrow and agony with
160

the  brutal  murder  of  Comrade  Koteswarlu  to  overcome  the  grief  and
intensify the People’s War. Our CC calls upon the youth to join our Party
and PLGA in large numbers and to march forward in the footsteps of
Comrade Kotanna to fulfill his cherished dreams. Our party is sending
revolutionary greetings to the democrats and revolutionary sympathizers
who brought the deadbody of Comrade Koteswarlu from West Bengal to
Peddapalli and to all the people who participated in the funeral procession
on a huge scale to pay last respects to the fallen leader by overcoming
many restrictions and encirclements of the governments and police forces.
We humbly express our thanks to various mass organizations, civil rights
organizations, revolutionary parties, democrats, writers, journalists, media
friends,  artistes  and  the  agitators  of  Separate Telangana  struggle  who
condemned the brutal murder of Comrade Kishenji. Our red salutes to all
those  writers  and  intellectuals  who  have  written  articles  and  reports
unequivocally condemning this killing. Our CC is sending revolutionary
greetings to all the revolutionary parties and democratic organizations of
several countries that condemned the murder of Comrade Kishenji and the
war unleashed by the Indian government on its people and sent condolence
messages to our party.

Our CC is firmly taking the vow once again on behalf of the entire
party, PLGA, revolutionary mass organizations and the revolutionary masses
of India that we would advance by overcoming all the hurdles in the path
of accomplishment of New Democratic Revolution of India with the aim
of  achieving  socialism  and  communism  and  that  we  would  carry  the
unfulfilled aims of the thousands of martyrs including Comrade Kishenji till
their fulfillment. It is assuring the oppressed masses of India as well as
entire world that it would not rest until feudalism, comprodor bureaucratic
bourgeoisie and imperialism are sent to the grave and all kinds of reaction
are put to an end.

 Long Live Comrade Kishenji!
 Long Live Marxism-Leninism-Maoism!
 Long Live Proletarian Internationalism!

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)
161

March  2,  2012

Condemn the arrests and torture of Maoist

activists in Kolkata and Mumbai!

In the last week of February 2012, the police have arrested activists
of our Party including some senior cadres from Kolkata and Mumbai. On
the specific intelligence inputs provided by the murderous APSIB, joint
forces of police and STF of AP, Maharashtra and West Bengal have raided
the shelters of our comrades in Kolkata and Mumbai suburbs and arrested
at least nine comrades including two women comrades. Comrades Sadanala
Ramakrishna, Deepak Kumar Pargania, Sukumar Mandal, Bapi Mudi and
Sambhu  Charan  were  arrested  from  Kolkata  while  Comrades  Dinesh
Wankhede, Aasimkumar Bhattacharya, Suman Gawde and Paru Patel were
picked up from Thane in Maharashtra. Comrades Sadanala Ramakrishna
alias Santosh (62) and Aasimkumar Bhattacharya (65) were the seniors
among  the  arrested.  Senior  comrade  Sadanala  Ramakrishna  has  been
working for the revolution for at least four decades. He has been ailing
with serious health problems for so many years. A mechanical engineer
graduated in prestigious Regional Engineering College (REC) of Warangal
from  where  martyr  leaders  like  Surapaneni  Janardhan  and Azad  were
emerged as great revolutionaries of their times, Comrade Ramakrishna
sacrificed his bright life for the cause of liberation of the downtrodden.

Both the two women comrades arrested - Vijaya and Suman - have
been undergoing medical treatment for some time staying in the shelters
outside the struggle zones. Particularly, comrade Vijaya has been suffering
from serious heart problems.

The police forces, better known for worst kind of cruelty, have been
torturing these comrades mentally and physically in custody. They have
foisted several false cases against these comrades so that they could be
languished behind the bars forever.

On one hand the ruling classes are asserting that these arrests are a
big success for them and on the other hand, they are trying to portray our
comrades as dangerous criminals claiming that they have recovered huge
amounts of cash and other material that is used for making arms.
162

These arrests are nothing but a part of Operation Green Hunt (OGH),
i.e.  the  ‘War  on  People’,  which  has  been  underway  since  2009. The
comprador ruling classes in connivance with their imperialist masters,
particularly with the US imperialists, have unleashed this brutal war of
suppression in the poorest parts of India so that their neo liberal policies of
plunder of resources could get going unhindered. They are particularly
targeting the revolutionary leadership and eliminating them. As the Pentagon
itself claimed recently, the US Special Forces are not only actively involved,
but also assisting their Indian counterparts on the ground in the counter-
insurgency operations aimed at eliminating the revolutionary leadership.
This fact also shows us that the US has been patronizing in the ongoing
OGH making the values such as freedom, independence, and sovereignty
of our country a joke. The exploiting rulers of our country are daydreaming
that this movement can be suppressed if its leadership is wiped out.

Revolutionary movement cannot be crushed with arrests and murders.
The bars of the dungeons can not restrict the revolutionary ideas from
spreading among the vast masses.

The CC of CPI (Maoist) strongly condemns these arrests and inhuman
torture being inflicted to them. We demand immediate and unconditional
release of these comrades, as well as all of the political prisoners languishing
in various jails in all corners of our land. We also demand to lift all the false
cases foisted against these comrades.

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

163

May  2,  2012

Scrap the Proposal for the Formation of
Anti-people, Tyrannical and Fascist NCTC!
On May 5, 2012, a meeting was planned by the Central government
with the state Chief Ministers to take final decision on the formation of
National Counter-Terrorism Center (NCTC) and to make some changes
in  the  police  and  intelligence  structures.  NCTC  is  an  outright  fascist
institution that is going to be formed with the advice, guidance of the
imperialists, particularly the US imperialists, following their model. The
motive of the Indian ruling classes behind the formation of NCTC is to
crush with more centralized methods the people of our country fighting on
their issues and for democratic rights, the Muslim minorities who are
protesting in various forms and resisting the attacks of the Hindu chauvinists
and Hindu fundamentalism, the nationality movements fighting for the self-
determination  of  the  nationalities  including  the  right  to  secession  and
particularly the Maoist movement that is rejecting the government’s sham
development model and building people’s alternative development model
and fighting for the liberation of all the oppressed masses of India through
New Democratic Revolution. This institution that is to be formed based on
the provisions in UAPA that curbs the democratic rights of the people
more cruelly than all the previous repressive laws and gives arbitrary powers
to  the  Indian  armed  forces,  is  going  to  be  the  ‘biggest  threat  to  the
sovereignty, peace, security, freedom, democracy and right to live of the
citizens of this country’.

The Central Home Minister Chidambaram suggested while putting
the proposal for the formation of NCTC in 2009 December the bifurcation
of the MHA separating law & order and investigation so as to allow the
Home Minister to concentrate his full energy to the crucial function of
internal security keeping in view the imperatives and challenges in internal
security at present and in the coming 5 to 10 years. He said that the security
architecture must be radically restructured at the national level. All the
internal security challenges that he mentions are in fact nothing but the
hurdles that the imperialists, feudal lords and the comprador bureaucratic
bourgeoisie (CBB) are facing in indiscriminately looting the natural resources
164

and riches of our country. These challenges are the struggles waged by
the most poor and most oppressed masses of our country to stop the selling
of our country to corporate companies. Particularly, the armed resistance
put up by the workers and peasants, the majority of whom are Adivasis
and Dalits, under the leadership of CPI (Maoist) against exploitation and
oppression  on  them  is  prominent  among  these  challenges. After  the
introduction of New Economic Policy that opened wide the doors of our
country to the imperialists and in accordance with the imperialist LIC
strategy, a restructuring of all spheres in our country is going on. This
proposal to restructure the security architecture at the national level is also
part of it. The sole aim of this restructuring in all the spheres is to secure
super profits for the imperialist MNCs and the CBB companies. Any thing
that  proves  to  be  a  hurdle  to  these  profits  is  to  be  crushed  under  the
juggernaut of the ruling classes – whether it is democracy, sovereignty of
our  country  or  the  rights  won  by  the  people  through  struggles.  The
characteristic feature of this restructuring is more fascization and more
centralized powers – in all spheres and in all aspects.

This proposal would make the Home Minister an unopposed emperor
of internal security. All the intelligence agencies would be put under this.
This would tear the veil of even the namesake federalism written in the
constitution and would give full powers to the centre. This would be a
pocket borough of the centre to completely control the states. This would
control and coordinate all the counter-terrorist operations. Functionaries of
the state government (including police) must provide information, documents
and reports to NCTC. The Defence and Finance ministries all also supposed
to  depute  their  representatives  to  the  NCTC.  They  want  to  bring  any
institution that participates in suppressing the so-called terrorism under the
oversight of NCTC to the extent they deal with ‘terror’. Since NCTC
would be under the IB, this would give arbitrary powers to the IB and
NCTC director. The HM mentioned that his director would be the single
person accountable to the country on all matters relating to internal security.
Intelligence, investigation and operations would also come under this. With
many more arbitrary powers the ruling classes are forming this as an opaque,
most tyrannical institution above the constitution that is not answerable to
any and thus violating even the namesake democratic principles written in
their own constitution. More alarmingly, the ruling classes are portraying
165

all kinds of political movements as ‘terrorist’. They are focusing ‘terrorism’
as a monster to divert the attention from the basic issues of the people and
burning  problems  such  as  displacement,  nuclear  projects,  SEZs  etc
implemented as part of the pro-imperialist policies. So, bringing all counter-
terrorism operations under it means suppressing all political movements by
terming them ‘terrorist’.

Such centralized powers are in fact ridiculing the law & order that is
a state government subject. It is on this point that non-congress Chief
Ministers like Mamta Banerji, Naveen Pattanayak, Narendra Modi, Prakash
Singh Badal and Jayalalitha are creating a ruckus that this would curb the
rights of the state governments and violates federalism. Are they really
worried about federal principles? Not at all. And there is not a single word
from them that NCTC would lead to further suppression of the people. In
fact, the Congress party and the non-Congress ruling parties are all blood-
sucking dictators. The history of each of these dictators is one of soaking
the people’s movements in blood and murdering the people’s leaders who
are the daughters and sons of the soil and wiping out the revolutionary
movement’s  leaders. All  of  them  kowtow  in  front  of  the  corporate
companies, stash away the millions they earn as kickbacks, tie their interests
tightly with that of the corporate classes and go to any end to remove all
kinds of democratic and revolutionary forces that resist this. So, why this
hullabaloo as if they are opposing the NCTC? Their actual grievance is
that their bandit leader Chidambaram is violating their agreements on
distribution of booty and rights and entering their arena and trying to usurp
their repression powers too. These CMs who rule like despots in their
states without being accountable to anybody are worried that they may
have to be now accountable to the home ministry to that extent. This is just
like a squabble between the robbers while distributing the booty. The most
undemocratic manner in which they all passed the amendments to the
UAPA in December 2008 unanimously, without any discussion or opposition
in the parliament would suffice to understand that they are in the same
boat. And it is on these arbitrary powers of the UAPA that this NCTC is
based. Without any doubt all these bandits would solve their so-called
‘differences’ ‘smoothly’ in a ‘friendly’ atmosphere on May 5th and would
appear on the screen more ‘united’. That this unity is to intensify in a more
‘united’ manner the ‘War on People’ goes without saying.
166

Beloved people and Democrats!

Already as part of Operation Green Hunt, the ‘War on People’, the
democratic rights of people are getting curbed with each passing day. The
government armed forces are crushing all kinds of resistance (both unarmed
and  armed)  under  their  iron  heels.  If  NCTC  is  formed  every  fighting
organization would be banned just as our party and other organizations
have been banned under UAPA. Every protest of the people would become
a crime. Every struggle would be termed illegal. All movement areas would
turn into concentration camps. India would turn into Germany under Hitler.
Particularly, the intervention of US would increase further in all matters
related to internal security.

So, our CC, CPI (Maoist) is giving a call to build a huge movement
demanding the scrapping up of the proposal by the ruling classes to set up
NCTC as a naked fascist institution to sell our country to the MNCs and to
completely wipe out all the organizations that are proving a hurdle to the
implementation of hundreds of MoUs signed with them. NCTC formed by
replicating the Homeland Security Act of US and tying the interests of our
country to the security and intelligence agencies of US would try to wipe
out any king of people’s resistance to corporate loot by banning fighting
organizations  in  the  name  of  ‘War  on Terror’  and  by  suppressing  the
democratic rights of the people. This is bent upon annihilating the leaders
of the people’s movements, particularly that of revolutionary movements
so that such people’s resistance can be made leaderless. Our CC is calling
upon the workers, peasants, students, intellectuals, writers, journalists,
professionals, media friends, women, minorities, Adivasis, Dalits, democrats,
progressives, patriots and one and all to grasp the conspiracy behind NCTC
and demand that the proposal for its formation be withdrawn to fail that
conspiracy. It is appealing to the people to rally on a huge scale demanding
that UAPA that is taken as the basis for NCTC and other repressive laws
such as AFSPA, CGSPSA, MCOCA etc should be annulled immediately.
Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

167

May  10,  2012

Revolutionary Greetings from CPI (Maoist)
To the NPA for seizing 66 weapons in the

Butuan Raid

The New People’s Army Front under Front 4 under the NPA North
Central Mindanao Command successfully conducted a raid on an arms
storage facility being maintained by a security agency in Butuan City in the
Mindanao island of Philippines on April 22, 2012 and seized 66 assorted
high-powered firearms. CPI (Maoist) congratulates the NPA commanders
and  the  red  fighters  for  conducting  this  successful  raid.  The  caché  of
firearms seized by the NPA is composed mostly of AK-47 assault rifles,
several sniper rifles and hand pistols.

NPA  seized  these  modern  weapons  from  the  Earthsaver  Security
Agency’s office that the mining companies had established in Barangay
Libertad,  Butuan  City.  This  brave  raid  enthused  the  people  and  the
revolutionary forces of Philippines a lot. This raid served as a model to the
NPA forces all over Philippines. The people and the NPA hailed the NPA
forces in the North Central Mindanao Command. Many young women
and men who were motivated by this raid are coming forward to join NPA.
They are readying themselves to advance the armed agrarian revolution in
their country. Our party, the CPI (Maoist) is sharing this elation along with
you.  This  incident  very  much  inspired  the  advancing  revolutionary
movements in Philippines, India, Turkey and other countries.

In  the  past  few  years,  the  NPA  revolutionary  guerillas  led  by  the
Communist Party of Philippines conducted hundreds of tactical counter
offensives on the counter-revolutionary police (APP) and military forces
(AFP). They seized hundreds of weapons. These offensives played a crucial
role in advancing the People’s War in Philippines. At present, the Philippines
revolution is striving to advance in a planned manner from the stage of
strategic  self-defence  to  the  stage  of  strategic  stalemate.  The  NPA
revolutionary forces conducted the Butuan raid as part of this. Within a
few days of this incident, on April 25, 2012, in a brave ambush conducted
168

by the NPA in Ifugao, eleven soldiers including battalion operations officer
of the 86th Infantry Battalion were wiped out. This is another big blow to
the Philippines Army this year.

Comrade Mao has repeatedly taught us that wiping out the enemy
and seizing of weapons play the most crucial role in establishing the New
Democratic society by overthrowing the exploiting society. The task of the
revolutionaries all over the world who are following the path of Protracted
People’s War is to wipe out the enemy in huge numbers on the one hand
and on the other hand build revolutionary people’s armies with the weapons
seized from the enemy forces, train them, further advance the People’s
War and establish alternative people’s political power. At present, it is
necessary to conduct many more raids like Butuan for the advance of the
World Socialist Revolution. Through such raids we must build the people’s
political power, strengthen it and expand it. Our party is sending revolutionary
greetings to the NPA and CPP for placing a model in front of the world
revolutionaries through this Butuan Raid. Communist revolutionary parties,
groups and revolutionaries following the path of People’s War formulated
by Comrade Mao would definitely advance forward by emulating the model
of Butuan Raid.

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

169

May  11,  2012
Chidambaram has no moral right to talk about

‘kidnaps’ by Maoists While incarcerating
thousands of Adivasis and agitators in jails
On 9-05-2012 Home Minister P. Chidambaram while replying in Rajya
Sabha said - Maoists ‘kidnapping’ young collectors, elected representatives
and foreigners indicates a clear shift in the nature of the Maoist extremism
and shows that Maoists are resorting to ‘terror’ tactics to bend the state
government to their demands and that Maoists seek to stop development in
those districts. He reiterated his government’s resolve to continue the anti-
naxal operations by following a two-pronged strategy of development and
security related strategies to face this challenge.

Chidambaram was obviously referring to the recent ‘kidnaps’ of the
Italian tourists and Jhina Hikaka (MLA) in Odisha and collector Alex Paul
Menon in Chhattisgarh. This statement also comes in the backdrop of the
centre pushing hard for the formation of the NCTC. The government wants
to put each and every just struggle under the head of so-called ‘terrorism’
and suppress the movements that they are part of. With the May 5th meeting
with the Chief Ministers not reaching a decisive conclusion on the formation
of NCTC, P. Chidambaram even while trying every trick in his basket to
form it, is fast weaving his vicious web to create opinion that would push
every action taken by the people for their genuine demands into the so-
called ‘terrorism’ vat and consequently makes every citizen who participates
in these struggle forms a so-called ‘terrorist’.

Firstly, we want to state that these are not ‘kidnaps’ done for ransom,
vendetta, personal demands or settling scores. People are ‘arresting’ them
and putting the genuine long-standing collective demands of the oppressed
people, particularly the Adivasis in those areas in front of the government.
All the demands are pertaining to the severe excruciating state repression
that has been unleashed on them, particularly for the release of thousands
of Adivasis incarcerated in the jails and their leaders. 3000 Adivasis are in
jails in Chhattisgarh while 6000 Adivasis are in jails in Jharkhand. Thousands
more are jailed in Punjab, Uttarakhand, Bihar, Maharashtra, Odisha, West
170

Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Tamilnadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and other
states  for  fighting  against  displacement  and  for  Jal-Jungle-Zameen.
Peasants fighting the land lords with the slogan ‘Land to the tiller’ and
fighting police atrocities have been put in jails in large numbers in areas
like Narayanapatna and Lalgarh. They had been implicated under false
cases and denied bails in the most unjust manner. Many had been arrested
in front of the jail gates after being granted bails and again put in jails after
foisting more false cases on them. In fact, most of them would have been
released even if they had been sentenced. Such is the callousness of the
Indian state towards the Adivasis and the poor of our country and the
reason for this is to pave the way for corporate loot of natural resources in
the mineral rich forest areas of our country.

The  sole  reason  for  such  ‘arrests’  is  not  any  so-called  ‘terrorist
tendencies’ among the people or the CPI (Maoist) leading them but the
Indian State. If at all it had delivered justice to the people at any point of
their life, people would not have been forced to take up such struggle
forms to get their demands fulfilled. A people crushed under the iron heels
of the State are very rarely taking up such forms after taking up all kinds of
struggle forms like dharnas, bandhs, rallies, protest marches, hunger strikes
- in one word every kind of collective struggle form involving hundreds and
thousands of people for days, weeks, months or even years together to get
their people (ranging from juveniles to very elderly persons) released. The
Indian state always answered with bullets, more arrests, more beatings,
more custodial deaths, more false cases and more ‘abductions’ of these
agitators. The police, paramilitary, judiciary, civil administration, bureaucracy
etc that constitute the Indian State are acting like the tentacles of a giant
Octopus  and  entangling  the  people  and  making  them  breathless.  The
struggles of political prisoners in the jails are also being crushed most brutally.
The rights to which prisoners are entitled are also violated most blatantly.
It is this suffocating situation inside and outside jails that is leading to arrests
of government representatives by people.

With all doors closed for justice, such struggle forms are taken up to
find some respite from the umpteen numbers of violations of human rights
of the Adivasi people by the central and state armed forces. In a country
where media corporations are in cahoots with the interests of the imperialists,
171

MNCs and the big land lords and do not lend their voice or space to the
poor people, sometimes such struggle forms are being used by the people
to even bring the genuine demands of theirs to the attention of the citizens
of this country.

A quick perusal of the main demands put forward during such arrests
would give anybody a fair idea about the ordeal of people under Operation
Green Hunt (OGH). They are demanding the release of ordinary Adivasis
who were ‘kidnapped’ by the state and have been traceless since then or
were put in jails under fabricated charges and they are demanding the
release of their leaders. On such occasions, they are also focusing the
demand to end the multi-pronged country-wide offensive named OGH but
in reality a ‘War on People’ - on the toiling masses of our country, most of
whom are Dalits and Adivasis and half of whom are invariably women.

The  young  collectors  that  Chidambaram  is  speaking  of  are
implementing the ‘development’ part of the two-pronged strategy and this
development leads to nothing but the impoverishment and displacement of
the hundreds of thousands of Adivasis and is nothing but the other side of
the coin that has repression on one side. And the foreigners he is speaking
of were taking objectionable photos of Adivasi women as part of tourism
that the Indian state wants to promote at the cost of the dignity of the
Adivasi  people.  There  is  no  need  to  write  much  about  the  ‘elected
representatives’ that are part of the rotten parliamentary system reeking
of corruption, nepotism and is implementing nothing but anti-people policies
as dictated by their imperialist masters. These representatives have done
nothing to get the poor Adivasis released from the jails and deliver justice
to them in all the years of their tenure. In fact, they are very much part of
the implementation of OGH in their areas.

So we appeal to all democrats and citizens of this country to truly
distinguish who the real ‘terrorists’ are – is it the poor Adivasis led by their
party the CPI (Maoist) resorting to some struggle forms for their genuine
demands or the Indian State that is unleashing ‘terror’ day in and day out
on the disadvantaged destitute of our country? We appeal to the Indian
masses to support the genuine demands put forward by the people
during such arrests and fight for their fulfillment by joining hands
with them. Our party firmly believes that a broad united struggle of
172

the  Indian  masses  is  compulsory  and  necessary  for  getting  the
indisputable  democratic  rights  of  the  deprived  to  be  realized  in
practice.

It is the democratic right of the people to take up various struggle
forms for fulfilling their genuine demands or even to propagate them when
every inch of democratic space is being gradually but rapidly occupied by
the giant octopus that is the Indian State. When this space is getting shrunk
with each passing day due to the marching of the security forces in their
hamlets and villages and now with the formation of a fascist institution like
the NCTC, it is the inalienable right of the people to resort to various
struggle forms including arrests of this kind. No struggle form is anathema
to the fighting people as long as they adhere to mass line and class line as
taught by our Marxist Teachers.

Chidambaram is saying that formation of NCTC is the ‘need of the
hour’. Through this fascist institution modeled on the NCTC of US, the
Indian ruling classes and the imperialists, particularly the US imperialists
backing  them  wish  to  crush  every  democratic  aspiration  and  genuine
demand of the people. The ‘need of the hour’ is to fight back such fascist
attempts by the Indian State to crush every political struggle and struggle
form in the name of so-called ‘terrorism’. The Indian people would definitely
defeat the two-pronged strategy of ‘development’ and repression (two
sides of the same coin) of the central and state governments by creatively
inaugurating  a  rainbow  of  myriad  struggle  forms. Yes,  of  course,  Mr.
Chidambaram! The people led by the CPI (Maoist) definitely wish to put a
stop  to  your  anti-people,  pro-imperialist,  undemocratic  and  repressive
‘development’ model. They categorically reject it and are very clear about
it.  They  would  prove  with  their  uncompromising  struggle  for  New
Democratic Revolution that true ‘development’ is what they aspire for
while having the interests of their children and their ecology at heart and
not what the ruling classes want to impose on them while having the interests
of the MNCs and the big land lords at heart.

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

173

May  14,  2012
60 Years of Parliamentary rule in India meant

Impoverishment & displacement for the

people, particularly the Adivasis, Servitude to
imperialists for the country, Prison house for

the nationalities and Insecurity &
discrimination for the minorities,

Dalits and women

The Parliament of the world’s ‘largest democracy’ celebrated 60 years
of  its  existence  with  much  fanfare  in  May  2012.  The  Prime  Minister
Manmohan Singh unabashedly waxed eloquent about Progress, Peace and
Development achieved and to be achieved under the Parliamentary system.
The Indian Parliament is one of the most rotten institutions in the whole
world and parliamentary democracy is a big lie. It is a thin cover for the
autocratic rule representing the dictatorship of comprador bureaucratic
bourgeoisie (CBB) and feudal classes subservient to imperialism. Its very
birth was a result of collusion between the imperialists, the big land lords
and the CBB and it was imposed by British imperialism from above. It was
an absolute deception of the Indian people and sell-out to the imperialists.
In its 60 years of existence it had absolutely fulfilled the purpose for which
it was formed – facilitating and exacerbating the exploitation, oppression
and discrimination of the toiling masses by the exploiting classes and selling
of our country’s resources and riches to the imperialists for peanuts.

What Progress can be achieved when the workers and peasants who
produce the riches of our country are being exploited and oppressed in the
most inhuman manner? Peasants who feed this country with their sweat
and blood are committing suicides in their lakhs. Due to pro-imperialist
agricultural policies of the governments, agriculture became a burdensome
occupation and the overwhelming majority of the Indian population that
depends on land for livelihood is increasingly and rapidly becoming landless.

174

Agri business corporations are guzzling the water that is essential for
irrigating the lands and the vast number of MoUs signed by the governments
for SEZs and other useless-for-people projects are displacing the peasants
on a huge scale. Workers who fulfill every need of the citizens through
their toil are progressively being denied all the hard-won rights at work
place and are forced to work 12 to 18 hours a day like in 18th century
Europe. Strikes are banned, demonstrations are fired upon, protests are
crushed  and  agitators  are  jailed.  Retrenchments,  forceful  retirements,
closures of factories, evictions of slums, unemployment, backwardness,
uneven development, price rises, deaths due to malnutrition or malaria,
inflation, illiteracy, female foeticide, lack of housing or safe drinking water
facilities, utter paucity of medical care in the villages…the list of the ‘gifts’
bestowed by the stinking Parliament to the Indian people can go on. It is
obvious that no viable solution of the fundamental problems of the people
can be sought through this Parliament. Progress does not mean anything
without ‘Land to the tiller’ in India. And the pigs fattening on the sweat and
blood of the workers and peasants of the country have the audacity to
declare that their pigsty of a Parliament represents Progress, Freedom and
Self-respect!

What Peace can we expect to have with the unprecedented swelling
of armed forces and whopping increases in defence budgets all of which
are meant for targeting the poor people of our country? The Indian Army
is marching wreaking havoc in its footsteps in the North-East, Kashmir
and now in the heartland of India fighting the nationalities, Dalits and
Adivasis who are perceived as the ‘biggest enemies’ by the rotten heartless
system known as the Indian Parliament. If Peace means loot, destruction,
rapes, massacres, fake encounters, mayhem, arson, abductions, missing
cases, incarcerations, tortures, custodial deaths, false cases, denial and
violation of human rights then we have a horrendous abundance of it. The
revelation that Special Forces of the US are already present in India also
comes with a ‘Peace’ tag. The blood-sucking man-eaters sitting in the
Parliament would want us to believe that even the land mines of hundreds
of MoUs signed between the governments and the MNCs and planted in
the mineral-rich regions of our country all set and ready to blast the very
existence of the indigenous communities and their age-old cultures are

175

meant for Peace. They would also like us to believe that all the draconian
laws they got as a legacy from their British masters or those they formulated
or amended in the Parliament are also for Peace and if these happened to
maim and wreck the lives of lakhs of people we just have to understand
that as ‘collateral damage’ accompanying Peace by taking a leaf from the
Bushes and Obamas.

What development can we expect under this Parliamentary system
that had spent its whole 60 years of existence formulating laws, Acts and
amendments  to  the  constitution  surrendering  to  arm-twisting  by  the
imperialists, particularly the US imperialists? Parliament served the interests
of big land lords, CBB and imperialists whether it followed the ‘mixed
economy’ model or adopted New Economic Policies. It widely opened the
doors  for  corporate  loot  of  our  country  and  shamelessly  placed  the
sovereignty of our country at the feet of the imperialists. All that this
‘development’ gave to the people, particularly the Adivasis is displacement
due to big dams, SEZs, mining projects, nuclear power plants etc and
impoverishment.  It  is  paving  the  way  for  the  intervention  of  the  US
imperialists behind every policy making decision that decided the fate of
our people in economic, political, social and cultural spheres. It is serving
the expansionist interests of the Indian ruling classes by trying to coerce
and control the South-East Asian countries through various treaties.

The Indian Parliament completely served the Indian ruling classes in
turning the country into a prison house of nationalities and Manmohan did
not forget to compliment the Parliament for achieving this feat. The just
struggles of the nationalities for self-determination including the right to
secession are being crushed by it in the most brutal manner. The Indian
Parliament has done little to end the horrible plight of Dalits, minorities and
women of our country in these sixty years. On the contrary, it is playing a
crucial role in perpetrating oppression, exploitation and discrimination on
them due to its Brahminic, patriarchal and Hindu communal nature. It is
deliberately trying to divide the people and rule using caste, religion, ethnic,
nationality and other differences.

Whether it is the ruling parties/coalitions or the opposition parties sitting
in the Parliament – all are working hand in gloves in intensifying the

176

repression on the toiling masses. Wasting huge amounts of public exchequer,
parliamentarians are making a mockery of democracy and several of them
are stashing away billions of dollars through scams and kickbacks from
imperialists. Most of them are billionaires and came to power throwing
huge amounts of money and using muscle power. Several of them have
criminal records including allegations of rape. Manmohan said that this
was not a perfect democracy but a functioning democracy. So much for its
‘functioning’! If the kowtowing to the US imperialists is absolute, then it
would be ‘perfect’ for this spineless PM who wails whenever there is
even namesake opposition to US dictated policies brought forth by him.

CPI (Maoist) has always called for a boycott of the sham Parliament
and the elections for it. It is once again appealing to the Indian people to
realize the exploitative, oppressive and repressive nature of this instrument
of the State and reject it outright. As Lenin said almost a century back,
“Elections  are  held  to  decide  once  every  few  years  which  member  of
the ruling class is to repress and crush the people through parliament—
such  is  the  real  essence  of  bourgeois  parliamentarism,  not  only  in
parliamentary-constitutional  monarchies,  but  also  in  the  most
democratic  republics.”

 It firmly reiterates one more time that only New Democratic Revolution
with armed agrarian revolution as its axis following the path of protracted
people’s war can smash this Parliament and the semi-colonial, semi-feudal
Indian State that it is part of and pave the way for a genuine democratic
state of the four revolutionary classes (the proletariat, peasantry, the urban
petty-bourgeoisie, and national bourgeoisie) based on worker-peasant unity.
Only such a state can ensure an end to all kinds of regressive, reactionary,
counter-revolutionary characteristics that the present Parliamentary system
blatantly represents.

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

177

June  4,  2012

Condemn the proposal to ban world-

renowned writer Jan Myrdal’s visits to India

by the Central Government

Comrade Jan Myrdal belongs to Sweden and is a world-renowned
writer. He visited several countries including People’s China and is writing
since six decades in support of the oppressed masses of the world and on
several subjects including art, culture, history, environment etc. He visited
India at the ripe age of 82 years to attend some democratic program and
toured the revolutionary movement area led by the CPI (Maoist) and wrote
a book “Red Star Over India”. He met the top leadership of CPI (Maoist).
Again he visited India and went to several cities including the capital Delhi
for the inaugural meetings of this book and shared his views with several
writers, democrats, students and journalists. All his tours and publications
are happening in public view with everybody’s knowledge. Similarly, his
views are also clearly known to everybody. He clearly stated that he was
a communist. He has been clearly observing since more than three decades
the long-term repressive measures on the revolutionary movement by the
exploiting ruling classes in India. He toured Andhra Pradesh in the early
1980s and wrote a book “India Awaits”. The supports he has been giving
recently to those who mobilize democratic forces all over the world in
support of the Indian democratic revolutionary movement are praiseworthy.
He stood on the side of the oppressed masses and is fearlessly stating his
anti-imperialist, democratic and communist views using his pen effectively.
It is known world over that US imperialism has imposed indirect ban on
him  from  entering  US  by  imposing  stringent  regulations.  The  Indian
government trying to ban his visits to India tracing the footsteps of the neo-
fascist US state uncovers its democratic facade completely and exposes
its  fascist  nature  and  its  fear  towards  revelation  of  truth.  Our  party
unequivocally condemns the fascist treatment of the world-renowned writer
by the Indian state. It appeals to the intellectuals, democrats, writers, artistes,
students, journalists and people from all walks of life to condemn the

178

tyrannical stand taken by the Indian government.

Apart from Jan Myrdal, his father Gunnar Myrdal and mother Alva
Myrdal had close relations with India. Both of them were Nobel Laureates
and his mother had served as Sweden’s ambassador in India for about five
years between 1955 and 1961. The Indian government felicitated the couple
with the Jawaharlal Nehru International Understanding Award. Their son
Myrdal is frequently giving speeches on several issues in Delhi University.
Thus he has been in touch with our country since a long period, knowing
about the issues and difficulties of the oppressed masses here and putting
them in writing to his full ability. The stand taken by the Indian government
to stop such a great friend of India from coming is most shameful. The
Indian government that is giving red carpet welcome to MNCs and big
bourgeoisie to indiscriminately loot the most valuable riches of India is
being  intolerant  towards  those  who  are  opposing  them  with  genuine
democratic  and  progressive  views.  The  Indian  government  is  inviting
international big corporate sharks like Enron, Dow Chemicals, POSCO,
Monsanto, Vedanta and Areva and so many others. It is hugely supporting
Jindal, Mittal, Esssar, Tata and Ambani that are colluding with these and
serving them. The Adivasis are fighting a life and death struggle to preserve
the most valuable lands, forests, hills, waters, minerals and all kinds of
other  natural  resources  in  the  vast  areas  of  our  country  from  their
exploitation. The central and state governments have deployed lakhs of
police and paramilitary forces in the forests and rivers of blood are flowing
due to its cruelest Green Hunt military offensive of the past three years.
Green Hunt offensive has extended to towns and cities and the ruling
classes are harassing, arresting, interrogating, inhumanely torturing and
implicating in false cases, the democrats, revolutionaries, Adivasi well-
wishers, people’s writers, artistes and journalists in various manners. The
proposed ban on Jan Myrdal’s visits to India is an express example of the
fact  that  at  present  Green  Hunt  offensives  have  crossed  the  country’s
borders. The Indian government is all set and ready to deploy the Indian
Army at any second apart from the armed forces that were deployed to
crush the revolutionary party that is leading the revolutionary movement.
Our  party  is  absolutely  hopeful  that  people’s  writers,  poets,  artistes,
democrats and Adivasi well-wishers, in other words all those who side

179

with the oppressed masses would stand firmly in support of Comrade Jan
Myrdal  who  himself  stood  firmly  with  the  oppressed  masses  and  the
revolutionary movement by exposing the most dangerous trends of the
imperialists and fight against this proposed ban.

It is not new for the ruling classes of this country to deal artistes,
writers, journalists, film producers and directors in a fascist manner. There
are several writers and democrats who have been implicated in countless
conspiracy cases and put in jails in this country. Even recently on July 1,
2010 a Delhi based journalist named Hem Chandra Pandey was shot dead
in a fake encounter by the Andhra Pradesh police. Well-known writer
Arundhati Roy was sentenced under the Indian Penal Code for supporting
the just struggle of the Kashmir people. The communal goons beat Supreme
Court lawyer Prasant Bhushan. The state that killed Safdar Hashmi in the
past, recently sentenced people’s artiste Jeeten Marandi to death and later
withdrew  it  due  to  popular  pressure.  Recently  the  Bengal  neo-fascist
Empress, Chief Minister Mamta Banerji got Professor Abhishek Mahapatra
arrested with the ire that he drew a cartoon on her. The Jadavpur University
students who questioned this were harassed in the name of Maoists. Thus
the fascist attacks of the ruling classes are increasing and spreading by the
day and exposing the cruelest face of Green Hunt. During the British rule,
several writers, artistes and revolutionaries were hanged for displaying
their patriotism. The Indian state is obediently following the steps of those
imperialists, particularly the US imperialists at present and is intensifying
its suppression measures. Our party is appealing to one and all to condemn
the above, to build a broad and strong solidarity movement that would give
more strength to the pen of Comrade Jan Myrdal and to fight till the Indian
government revokes the proposal to ban his visits to India.

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

180

July  10,  2012

Punish the perpetrators of Basaguda

Massacre !

Demand the immediate withdrawal of all

paramilitary and military forces from Bastar !
On  28-6-2012  in  one  of  the  most  brutal  massacres  till  date  in
Chhattisgarh’s Bastar region 17 innocent, ordinary, unarmed villagers were
killed by about a thousand blood-thirsty CRPF-CoBRA, state police forces
and Koya Commandos and SPOs. These mercenary forces surrounded a
gathering of villagers discussing about their harvest and related festivals in
Sarkinguda on that night and killed several people in an indiscriminate, one-
sided cold-blooded firing reminding one of the Jallianwalabagh massacre.
Many more villagers were injured. Nine of the dead were juveniles between
12 and 16 years of age. There were children, women and elderly persons
among the injured too. The mercenary forces wreaked havoc the whole
night and shot dead some more villagers, looted their homes and resorted
to sexual abuses on women. They threatened the villagers who tried to
help the injured that they too would face the same fate. On the same day
two more Adivasi peasants were murdered by the same fascist government
armed forces in Simlipenta, a nearby village taking the toll to 19.

This massacre was perpetrated by the mercenary forces as part of
the second phase of Operation Green Hunt (OGH) launched by the Indian
ruling classes with the full support and aid of the imperialists, particularly
the US imperialists since mid-2009. The blue-print for this well-planned
massacre was prepared under the auspices of the notorious ruling clique
of  Sonia-Manmohan-Chidambaram-Jairam  Ramesh  and  their  ‘reliable
lieutenants’ at the centre and in Chhattisgarh (CG) – secretary for Home
RK Singh, CRPF DG Vijaya Kumar-Raman Singh-Nankiram Kanwar-
Longkumer-Anil Navani-Ramnivas et al., who are carrying on this country-
wide, multi-pronged, counter-revolutionary massive military offensive on
the  Maoist  movement  areas  in  the  most  atrocious  manner  and  where
massacres of ordinary villagers has come to be one of the most common

181

forms of repression in this “War on the People”. The statements by Raman
Singh and Nankiram Kanwar about a massive offensive on Maoists to be
launched in June in CG forewarned about what was in store because as
any keen observer of these ‘offensives on Maoists” is well aware – it is
most common for ordinary people to become victims in fake encounters,
lock-up deaths and massacres in such ‘offensives on Maoists’.

In Dandakaranya (DK) starting from Singaram massacre in January
2009 several massacres of Adivasis have been carried on by the state and
central mercenary forces like in Vechapad, Singanamadugu, Palachelima,
Gompad, Gumiapal, Kokavada, Takilod, Ongnar and massive destruction
and murders as in Tadimetla-Morpalli-Chintalnar etc., and none of the
perpetrators – neither the ‘Generals’ like Sonia, Manmohan, Chidambaram,
Raman Singh, Nankiram Kanwar, Vijay Kumar, Longkumer or a Kalluri
nor the actual police-paramilitary officers and ‘foot soldiers’ who carried
out their orders - of these massacres have been booked or punished till
date. All the culprits are roaming scot-free in the corridors of power in
New Delhi and Raipur and the off the hook police-paramilitary forces are
ruthlessly  going  about  their  daily  routine  of  mayhem,  murder,  loot,
destruction, arson and rapes in the heart of India.

The  Basaguda  massacre  is  all  the  more  bizarre  for  the  utter  lies,
distortions, twisting of facts and the lower depths the ruling classes could
stoop to justify their unscrupulous deed. Firstly, they for the umpteenth
time repeated the routine story that armed Maoists had attacked them and
that these ‘Maoists’ were killed when they retaliated. They even lied that
they had seized weapons and explosives from the site. Six injured jawans
were shown as ‘proof’ of the fact that an exchange of fire took place.
Herr Chidambaram could not hide his glee at the death of ‘twenty Maoists’
and in a moment of truth announced that ‘this was a pre-planned attack’
based on information. Later this Indian avatar of Goebbels had to eat his
foul lexis as every fact pointed out to a cold-blooded massacre and even
the Congress in CG was forced to form a committee on this after the
people of the village and neighboring villages came on the roads and stated
the facts for the entire world to hear. In spite of the facts put forward by
the entire people of the village and his own party, Chidambaram conveniently
and shamelessly ‘passed the buck’ to the Raman Singh government saying
that it is for the state government to decide if an enquiry is needed or not
182

and that the central government had nothing to do with this. Shedding
crocodile tears he had the audacity to say that he regretted if innocent
people  had  died  even  while  self  contradicting  himself  that  this  was  a
‘transparent and upfront’ attack. Raman Singh not even caring if any sane
person believed him, once again spun the same old bull-shit theory that
Maoists used the ordinary people as human shields and so they died! Like
a pet dog more faithful than the master Nankiram Kanwar went to the end
of saying that whoever is with the Maoists is also a Maoist implying that
those villagers could be (or deserved to be) killed as ‘they were with
Maoists’.

The stark fact is that there were no Maoists with the villagers and no
exchange of fire had taken place. The mercenary forces just surrounded
the villagers from all sides and fired upon them and some were pulled out
of their homes and shot dead. Even the so-called injuries of the jawans
must have been a hoax as in some earlier instances or they might have
been injured in their own cross-fire.

This massacre happened in the backdrop of the deployment of Indian
Army in Bastar in the name of training and the attacks already being
launched by the Air Force in the pretext of logistical support and self-
defense. It is like a curtain-raiser to the things in store and let nobody
make the mistake of seeing this massacre as a mistake of the government
forces in the field. As every concerned democratic citizen in this country is
increasingly realizing and as our party has stated several times, this “War
on People” is being perpetuated with the sole aim of the plunder of the rich
natural resources of our country and to crush every kind of force that
proves to be a hurdle to it. The people led by the CPI (Maoist) and the
party are perceived by the imperialists and the Indian ruling classes as the
most formidable ‘hurdle’ (read biggest threat to the ‘internal security’ of
the plunderers) to the loot of our country and particularly that of Adivasi
areas by the imperialists, comprador bureaucratic bourgeoisie and the big
landlords of our country which explains this massive military offensive on
our movement areas. In the name of crushing Maoists the ruling classes
are crushing all kinds of democratic and patriotic forces in this country and
we once again appeal to the people to realize that this is not just an offensive
on the Maoists but a “War on the People”. This is what lies behind massacres
like the one at Basaguda.

183

The lives of ordinary citizens and Adivasis of this country hold no
value for the ruling classes is something that has been proven hundreds of
times in police firings and such massacres. The only new thing is that now
they are shouting this fact from the roof-tops openly. The convoluted logic
that whoever is with the Maoists deserved to be killed or could be killed
should be thoroughly exposed and condemned as this is nothing but a thinly
veiled threat to the lives of the citizens of this country and particularly the
Adivasis in the Maoist movement areas. The full scale preparations for
drone attacks and the future deaths of Adivasis in these attacks would also
be justified with the same logic of ‘collateral damage’ as in Afghanistan or
a Pakistan. Already in Peda Kedwal and Chinna Kedwal villages of Bastar
the government forces conducted an aerial operation in December 2011
using more than a dozen helicopters for deployment of forces. In all the
massive military operations conducted recently in Dandakaranya, Bihar,
Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh-Odisha Border and Andhra-Odisha Border areas
involving Brigade level of forces, UAVs were used. They had openly
declared that this is how future attacks would be conducted in Maoist
areas.

We appeal to all citizens of this country, democrats, patriots, well-
wishers of Adivasis and all civil liberties organizations to condemn the
Basaguda  brutal  massacre  in  no  uncertain  terms  and  demand  severe
punishment for the perpetrators. Demand the immediate withdrawal of all
paramilitary and military forces from Bastar. We particularly appeal to the
media persons to bring the facts about this massacre into light as some
pro-government corporate media persons are trying to hide the facts and
falsely portray this massacre as ‘people being crushed between government
forces and Maoists’. We appeal to one and all to build a vast and united
agitation  all  over  the  country  with  these  demands. We  appeal  to  all
revolutionary and democratic forces in the country and the world to condemn
this massacre, to oppose the deployment of UAVs to crush the Maoist
movement in India and to demand an end to “War on People” – the Operation
Green Hunt.

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

184

July  16,  2012

CC, CPI (Maoist) out rightly rejects

all the vicious, baseless and sham allegations
made by Sabyasachi Panda In cahoots with

the ruling classes And expels him

from the party for his betrayal

Sabyasachi  Panda,  the  secretary  of  our  Odisha  State  Organizing
Committee released a 16-page letter addressed to the General Secretary
of our party, Comrade Ganapathy to the media on 14-07-2012. In cahoots
with  the  ruling  classes  he  spit  venom  on  the  CPI  (Maoist)  and  the
revolutionary  movement  led  by  it  and  hurled  several  baseless,  sham
allegations and fabricated lies. He released this letter with the evil intention
of liquidating the party and the revolutionary movement, discarded the
ideology of Marxism-Leninism-Maoism and left the vanguard party of the
proletariat. He openly declared that he is completely disassociating himself
from the People’s War line and revolutionary practice and exposed his
modern revisionist face. In the most abominable, crooked and conspiratorial
manner he betrayed the party and revolution and the great cause of the
toiling masses, particularly of the oppressed masses of Odisha and proved
himself to be a renegade

Sabyasachi Panda worked for some period in the CPI (M) and later in
the  CPI  (ML)-Liberation.  He  was  influenced  by  the  revolutionary
movement and joined the erstwhile CPI (ML) [PU] in 1998 leaving the
right opportunist Liberation party. Due to the merger of parties he continued
to work in the erstwhile CPI (ML) [PW] and latter in CPI (Maoist). He
worked as a member of the AOBSZC between 2003 and 2005, as a member
of Odisha State Organizing Committee from 2005 and as its secretary
since 2008. In his 15 year long practice, though he worked in a revolutionary
party he failed to transform himself into a genuine proletarian revolutionary
and had been criticized several times by his colleagues, cadres and the CC
comrades for his anti-revolutionary opportunist political views, stands and

185

practice. Even in the state level Special Plenum held in December last
year, when he was criticized he accepted only some of his mistakes that
too for namesake and escaped answering some of them. This coward ran
away leaving the revolutionary movement instead of sincerely realizing
and rectifying his mistakes like a true proletarian revolutionary.

His 16-page letter is full of rotten lies, distortions and twisting of facts
and there is not an iota of truth in them whatsoever. They were hurled with
the most awful intention of liquidation and destruction of revolutionary
movement in Odisha and damaging the image of our party that is serving
as a ray of hope for the toiling masses and renowned for dedication to a
great cause, the cause of liberation of our country and selfless unparalleled
sacrifices. It is an open secret that he hurled them with the evil and appalling
intention of fulfilling his selfish political motives that serve the ruling classes.
Ruling classes bring to the fore people like Panda to gain legitimacy for the
foul propaganda they carry on about the revolutionary movement and such
phenomena occur frequently in history. The enemy has been hurling such
fabricated lies on several of our leaders like comrades Charu Mazumdar
and Kanhai Chatterji, on our party and the revolutionary movement ever
since the launch of the revolutionary movement by keeping opportunists
like Panda in the front.

Before going into the allegations made by Panda and the reasons behind
them, we want to clearly state the fact that our party conducts meetings,
plenums and conferences in order to correct and improve our practice and
to advance with higher tasks. It realizes its mistakes and corrects them
through criticism – self-criticism, reviews and rectification campaigns taken
up specifically. This is a continuous process. Panda’s evil intentions can be
gauged from the fact that in spite of knowing all these things he placed
before the people his 16-pages of sham allegations. The actual fact is that
he decided to leave the party as he was not ready to rectify himself in such
a process.

The list of Mr. Panda’s filthy and foul-smelling allegations is long enough,

some of the allegations he hurled prominently are as follows :

1. Violence for no reason and killings of innocent persons has become
the norm for the Maoists; cadres are being ordered to kill innocent and
unarmed policemen indiscriminately 2. There is domination of Telugu and
186

Koya comrades in the Party. 3. Adivasis are exploited the most by the
Maoists, they are made to cook and carry luggage; cadre are not allowed
to meet their families even during festivals; Adivasi women are being
exploited  sexually  by  the  Maoists  4.  Ganapathy  wants  to  establish  a
dictatorship based on terror and fear.

State suppresses people fighting for their rights with all kinds of weapons
available with it. And if that fight is for the liberation of the people i.e., for
the  political  power  of  the  toiling  masses,  the  state  suppresses  it  most
severely. Its police, paramilitary and military carry on this offensive from
the front while all its other components participate most cruelly in the
offensive in a planned, coordinated and conspiratorial manner. So it becomes
absolutely necessary for people to resort to armed struggle. Anybody who
knows ABC of Marxism would know about this fundamental and primary
principle about revolutionary violence. Nobody would think that Panda did
not know about this party line when he left the right opportunist CPI (ML)-
Liberation party, accepted the line of the revolutionary party and joined the
party and when he accepted the line of the Unity Congress. However as
Panda wanted to disassociate himself from the party, he is spitting venom
that Maoists resort to violence for no reason and that they are killing innocent
people. He is trying to show that he is opposing all this so that the Indian
state  takes  a  benevolent  attitude  towards  him.  Class  enemies  like
Laxmananand and Jagbandhu, government armed forces and officers who
carry on the state repression and participate in it, who severely torture the
people, destroy their lives in all aspects and resort to killings, are suddenly
being perceived as innocents by Panda. He is displaying more faith than
the master to kowtow before the ruling classes and is surpassing the enemy
foul propaganda in uttering lies.

Panda is resorting to the age-old cheap ‘divide and rule’ tactic of the
British colonialists and the Indian ruling classes who are retracing their
steps  by  making  the  allegation  that Telugu  and  Koya  comrades  are
dominating in Odisha. The revolutionary movement led by CPI (Maoist)
follows the path of Protracted People’s War and builds the revolutionary
movement to finally seize political power all over the country by spreading
from smaller areas to vaster areas, isolated areas to all over the country,
and by developing from a small force to a mighty force. From the beginning

187

with a strategic outlook it deploys its forces in various areas accordingly
and carries on the work. It develops local mass base, develops party and
army and establishes area-wise political power. By following this line, it
brings a change in the strength of forces, finally surrounds the cities and
captures political power all over the country. Keeping this in view, every
member of our party must be prepared to go to any part of the country to
work. Moreover, as internationalists communists must be prepared to go
any country or area and work shoulder to shoulder with the people there
for their liberation. The entire history of Indian revolution indicates that
revolutionary movement spread to various parts of the country due to the
determined and revolutionary efforts of comrades who left their areas and
states and went to other areas and states to work. Such comrades learnt
the languages, respected the cultures of the people there and integrated
themselves with them. The movements built in new areas are proof of this
collective effort of comrades. Due to his narrow-minded regionalism not
just today, but Panda could never accept the fact that comrades from other
states  are  coming  and  working  in  Odisha.  Instead  of  appreciating  the
selflessness of those comrades he continuously and conspiratorially tried
to create a divide between them and the Odiya comrades by resorting to
factionist methods. Panda displayed narrow-minded regional chauvinism
towards comrades from other states who came to work in Odisha according
to the needs of the movement and behaved in a domineering, undemocratic
and sectarian manner with them. The fact is Odiya people and the Odiya
comrades have happily welcomed and accepted the fact that comrades
from Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh are coming to work for
them and with them. We hope that those handful of cadres who are with
Panda would rethink about the People’s War path, see through the lie and
expose him by realizing his conspiracies.

Nothing could be more deceiving than Panda shedding crocodile tears
like the ruling class butchers and hurling accusations about the ‘exploitation
of Adivasis’ by the Maoists even while discarding the aim of liberating the
Adivasis as part of people’s revolutionary movement. For Panda who never
participated in collective works while he was in the party, the striving of
Adivasi comrades for revolution by bringing out their energy to the full
voluntarily and with the highest level of revolutionary consciousness is
looking like ‘exploitation by Maoists’ after he wore the glasses of the ruling
188

classes. And, who are Maoists? Who are Adivasis? Are not all the Adivasi
comrades inside the party Maoists? We are not at all surprised that the
individual labor necessary in the daily life of a revolutionary movement, the
collective labor necessary in military, technical, production-development,
welfare and other fields and the various kinds of labor that people do in the
course of people’s movements looks like ‘exploitation by Maoists’ to this
brand new opportunist who left the revolution and became an apologist for
the ruling classes. In a proletarian party everybody does one’s own work
as part of daily life. Everybody participates in collective works and carries
luggage too. Patients, physically weak persons and those with special
responsibilities are extended help by other comrades. A people’s army
itself means that apart from participating in war it does its works like
cooking and carrying luggage that are an integral part of it on its own.
Everybody must inevitably do all these works as part of People’s War with
no discrimination based on nationality, gender, region etc. This has happened
in all the guerilla zones in our country and is still continuing. In fact, the
culture in a Maoist party is a democratic, socialist culture that does not
discriminate between man and woman, literate and illiterate and cadres
and leaders. This is one of the major factors in attracting a huge number of
Adivasis towards our party. It is this kind of culture that our party strives to
spread among millions of people.

The allegation that Maoists are raping and sexually harassing women
in the party/Adivasi women has been hurled repeatedly by the state. In
what other manner can we expect the newly turned renegade to attack the
Maoists than in the heinous manner of the ruling classes? The answer
given by our party several times in the past is the answer to this allegation
now too. But the best answer to this allegation is being given by the hundreds
of women comrades who are joining the party, the thousands-lakhs of
members in revolutionary women’s organizations along with the women in
our movement areas and the hundreds of women martyrs who had laid
down their lives for the liberation of the toiling people in the past 45 years
since Naxalbari.

Since communist party was formed in India in 1925 till now, in the
more than 90 years of Indian communist movement’s history, it is not an
exaggeration to say that never before had the communist party integrated

189

itself with the people, their culture and all the aspects relating to people’s
lives as in the past 25 years. Not only had our party integrated but it is also
holding aloft all the progressive elements in the political and cultural lives
of the people, imbibing them, developing them and revolutionizing them.
The revolutionary masses would anyway not believe the allegation by Panda
who worked as a state secretary that party is not allowing activists to go
home even for festivals. This is just another instance of an opportunistic
attack by him to make those who are not familiar with the realities of the
revolutionary movement to believe that the revolutionary party is so horrible
as to not send activists home even for festivals.

The allegation that Ganapathy wants to establish a dictatorship based
on terror and fear is so ridiculous that it in fact does not even deserve an
explanation. CPI (Maoist) is not at all any bourgeois party. Its immediate
aim is to overthrow the present semi-colonial, semi-feudal system in our
country and establish new democratic revolutionary rule, i.e., the democratic
dictatorship of four classes – workers, peasants, petty-bourgeoisie and
national bourgeoisie under the leadership of the proletariat and based on
worker-peasant unity. Its ultimate goal is the establishment of socialism
and  communism.  Panda  is  fully  aware  of  this.  Panda  is  making  false
allegation on comrade Ganapathy and our party with the selfish motive of
gaining a place through compromise in the dictatorship of the comprador
bureaucratic bourgeoisie and the land lords that are in collusion with the
imperialists and carrying on an unprecedented despotic rule wearing the
mask of parliamentary democracy.

In reality, it was Panda who was trying to establish his dictatorship
inside Odisha. After seeing the reviews and decisions made in the Special
Plenum he realized that the party cadres are no longer prepared to accept
his  domination.  They  criticized  his  bureaucratic  behavior  and  his
undemocratic and sectarian attitude towards comrades from other states.
Realizing that he can no longer carry on his bureaucratic methods, this
opportunist decided to quit the party and doubled his preparations for the
same since then.

In  fact,  Panda  stopped  contacting  the  Odisha  state  in-charge  CC
comrade since the completion of the state level Special Plenum. Since
then, for nearly half a year he went on spitting venom on the party in
190

interviews and statements. This created political and organizational problems
in the party and caused severe damage to the Odisha movement as he was
taking stands that were against the decisions of the Special Plenum, party’s
political line and policies. He resorted to downright opportunistic methods
during the arrest of Italian tourists under his leadership. He declared a
one-sided seize-fire for the entire state of Odisha. But in fact, it was not
correct on his part to declare so when two different state border party
committees are working in considerable parts of Odisha and its borders
and he had no right to dictate terms to the other two party committees. He
not only openly criticized AOB comrades for arresting a MLA and killing a
SI after he had declared his one-sided seize fire but even went to the
extent of saying that it had become a fashion for AOB comrades to kill.
Keeping aside the reviews made by the entire party under Odisha
SOC, he declared that the annihilations of class enemies Laxmananda and
Jagbandhu were not correct. He began a malicious campaign by giving
statements in the name of comrade Nikhil, trying to create divide between
comrades hailing from various communities and states. It is not a coincidence
that when stories were being published continuously in the media about
Panda leaving the party and forming a new group, Panda who always
stays in touch with the media did not release any explanation. It is clear as
the day that since the completion of the Special Plenum, Panda had been
planning to desert the party and resorted to all these opportunistic methods
and liquidationist activities. Finally he quit the party as a culmination of his
degeneration.

Panda took a right opportunist stand regarding some political issues
that came to the fore in the course of the Odisha movement and finally
degraded into a revisionist who rejects the line of Protracted People’s
War.  His  sectarian,  bureaucratic,  ultra-democratic,  factionist  attitudes,
careerism, craving for name and fame and organizational indiscipline caused
severe damage to the Odisha party and the movement. He sought an easy
life and was not hard-working. This opportunist utilized the situation where
Odisha party and the State Organizing Committee that were in the course
of consolidating faced severe losses and the enemy offensive was seriously
concentrated on the CC, to carry on his disruptionist activities. The root for
all this lies in his spilling over individualism which keeps the individual at

191

the centre. Apart from this, there has been a considerable change in the
counter-revolutionary war carried on by the Indian ruling classes with the
full support of the imperialists, particularly US imperialists since mid-2009
in the name of Operation Green Hunt. Panda’s degeneration and betrayal
must be seen in the context of the country-wide, multi-pronged massive
military offensive that is being carried out on our movement since then.
Party suffered serious losses all over the country in this offensive. Even
Odisha state where class struggle is still weak had to bear the brunt and it
suffered serious losses from end-2010. The offensive is bound to intensify
in this state too. The reason for the intensification of this massive offensive
is the MNC and our country’s comprador corporate interests that want to
crush every organization and the people that prove a hurdle to their plunder
of natural resources and raw materials in backward countries like India.
As the financial crisis that is engulfing the world economy intensifies, the
offensive on the revolutionary party, its leadership, movement and the
oppressed and toiling masses would also be intensified in proportion by
them in order to come out of it. In such a backdrop, to lead the revolutionary
movement is like walking a sword’s edge for any leader of the revolutionary
party. Any true party leader would strive to utilize the excellent revolutionary
material conditions in the country and the world to politically prepare the
people,  to  develop  the  People’s War  and  turn  the  tide  in  favor  of  the
revolution.  It  requires  commitment  towards  revolutionary  ideology,
tremendous grit, courageous decision-making, mobilizing the party, people’s
army and the people in a unified way, and sacrificing nature to fulfill this
task. It requires a steely will to transform oneself and the party according
to the needs and tasks of the revolution. Those who do not display these
qualities either fail to give leadership to the revolution or lose their capacity
to lead. Some among them run away like cowards from the battlefield or
join the enemy ranks. These opportunists and renegades take the side of
the ruling classes and resort to all kinds of allegations to cover up the fact.
There have been such renegades not only in our party history but also in
the revolutions of various countries in the past and Panda would not be the
last one.

Keeping all these things in view, our Central Committee began putting
special efforts to rectify him by placing all allegations on Panda in front of
him in a political manner and giving him a chance to rectify. But since the
192

completion of the state level Special Plenum, he cut his contacts with the
CC in-charge comrade and went on attacking our party, movement and
the leadership openly and in a series. As a culmination of all this, he released
this letter to the media and proved himself to be a renegade. So our CC is
expelling Sabyasachi Panda from the party and declaring the fact to our
party  comrades  in  Odisha,  the  entire  revolutionary  masses  and  the
revolutionary camp in our country.

We are appealing to the Odisha comrades, mass organizations of Odisha
and the revolutionary-democratic masses to condemn Panda’s enemy-like
opportunistic stand towards our party, movement and leadership and the
pro-ruling class, anti-people stands taken by him and to completely reject
him and his rotten modern revisionist politics and his allegations. History
has proven several times that renegades such as Panda who boast about
themselves as the heroes of revolution and who are focused as such by the
ruling  classes  would  be  relegated  to  the  dustbin  and  that  the  true
revolutionary party, its leaders and the revolutionary masses led by it would
advance en-route for victory in the midst of great storms and whirlwinds
with undaunted courage and bravery. It is people who are makers of history
and not sham revolutionaries like Panda. Our party is fully confident that
the revolutionary masses of Odisha would certainly reject traitors like Panda
who try to be in the limelight in the name of Odisha and immerse themselves
in the service of the ruling classes to their heart’s content and that the
Odisha comrades and the vast toiling masses would follow the revolutionary
path under the leadership of the CPI (Maoist).

Anand
PBM, Central Regional Bureau Secretary
For  Central Committee
CPI (Maoist)

193

July  29,  2012

Red Salutes to

Veteran of Srikakulam Struggle &

Epitome of Staunch Communist Commitment

Comrade Goru Madhava Rao

The revolutionary movement in our country has lost another great
fighter. The communist fighter Comrade Goru Madhava Rao who arose
from the flames of Srikakulam armed struggle died on July 18, 2012 in his
native village Jinkibhadra due to old age. He stood steadfast with the
oppressed masses and greatly served the revolutionary movement for nearly
five decades since he joined the ‘Tegimpu Sangham’ (revolutionary peasant
organization) as a youth and till he breathed his last. He stood as a huge
pillar of support for the movement and his martyrdom left a void for the
revolutionary movement.

Comrade Madhava Rao was born in a poor family in Jinkibhadra village
(Sompeta Mandal, Srikakulam district). As the communist movement was
strong in that area, he imbibed revolutionary ideas since his childhood. The
impact of the movement led by popular revolutionary leader Comrade
Tamada Ganapathy and other comrades in that area was strong on him. In
those days ‘Tegimpu Sanghams’ were formed in each village. The young
Madhava Rao joined the Sangham of his village and became its activist.
Soon he developed into a communist party member.

Madhava  Rao  got  married  while  working  in  the  movement  and
introduced revolutionary politics to his life partner Comrade Muthyalu too.
He paid attention in teaching communist politics to her as he believed them
with all his heart. They had two girl children.

The  Naxalbari  armed  peasant  rebellion  led  by  Comrade  Charu
Mazumdar showed the path for the revolutionaries in our country and in
Srikakulam too genuine revolutionaries rejected the modern revisionism of
CPM and chose the path of armed struggle. When the question whether to
start armed struggle in Srikakulam or not arose, the right opportunists tried
194

to  postpone  the  armed  struggle  by  resorting  to  several  excuses.  The
communist revolutionaries argued that armed struggle must be launched
immediately. Comrade Madhava Rao stood on the side arguing for the
launch of armed struggle and displayed clear understanding regarding
revolutionary line from the beginning. Thus the effort put by Comrade
Madhava Rao and all the Srikakulam revolutionaries in those days in
rejecting modern revisionism and in breaking its back and later in defeating
right opportunist politics and holding aloft the line of armed struggle was
very crucial in establishing correct revolutionary line in our country. This
would serve as guidance for practice for generations of revolutionaries to
come.

As soon as armed struggle was launched in the district, Comrade
Madhava Rao responded to party’s call and joined it as a professional
revolutionary. Comrade Muthyalu welcomed his decision. He joined the
guerilla squad led by the legendary woman commander Comrade Pachadi
Nirmala.  He  stood  in  the  forefront  in  several  revolutionary  activities
conducted by that squad. With the information provided by an informer, the
mercenary police and paramilitary forces surrounded their squad early in
the morning on December 22, 1969 and cruelly shot dead comrades Nirmala,
Ankamma,  Saraswathi, Tamada  China  Babu,  Subbarao  Panigrahi  and
Ramesh Chandra Sahu after torturing them inhumanly. Comrade Madhava
Rao who was in the squad when this happened could escape from the
enemy dragnet. Later he worked along with comrades Dr. Chaganti Bhaskar
Rao and Devineni Mallikarjuna Rao in Uddanam area. Comrade Madhava
Rao was arrested in 1971, was given life sentence based on false evidences
and put in Visakhapatnam jail. He again began working as a professional
revolutionary since his release from jail in 1979. Comrade Muthyalu also
worked as a PR and till 1990 both of them fulfilled several technical needs
of the party.

Madhava Rao participated as a delegate in Andhra Pradesh State 12th
Conference held in 1980 September and the AP State 13th  Conference
held in 1987 of the erstwhile CPI (ML) [People’s War]. He conducted
proceedings as the President in the 12th Conference and unfurled the Party
Flag in the 13th Conference.

When fascist repression intensified on the revolutionary movement
195

and centers of revolutionary publications and sales like ‘Kranti Publications’
and ‘Peace Book Center’ were targeted by the state, Comrade Madhava
Rao served as one of the centers for publication of revolutionary literature
in AP. He published banned literature that the ruling classes wanted to stop
from reaching the people and earned the ire of the state. He published
several books belonging to erstwhile CPI (ML) [PW] and later CPI (Maoist)
with  his  address  and  played  a  great  role  in  propagating  revolutionary
literature. Though the state threatened him with arrest if he published naxalite
literature, he did not dither and went on publishing revolutionary literature
and  continuously  transmitted  revolutionary  ideas  to  the  people.  This
revolutionary commitment of Comrade Madhava Rao is worth emulating.
He participated in various people’s struggles, in movements of students,
youth and women, in united front activities of the people and put efforts for
their advancement as much as he can.

Comrade Madhava Rao had immense confidence in the party line.
Though the Srikakulam armed struggle suffered a setback, though Pulla
Reddy, Nagi Reddy groups tried to liquidate the revolutionary line with
right opportunism, though Pyla Vasudeva Rao who was elected the party’s
State Secretary after the martyrdom of Comrade Adibhatla Kailasam joined
hands with Satyanarayana Singh and turned into a liquidationist and though
liquidationists  like  Choudary Tejeswara  Rao  tried  to  divide  the  party,
Comrade Madhava Rao did not leave the party or the party line. Comrade
Madhava Rao was one of those few revolutionaries who held aloft the
revolutionary line when the Srikakulam movement suffered several losses
and damage and when several revolutionaries were leaving the revolution
and running away. He stood staunchly with the revolutionary side during
his incarceration in jail too. He always strongly criticized the methods of
right opportunists that tried to cause damages to the revolutionary line. He
was very much inspired with the deluge of revolutionary peasant movement
that began from the end of 1970s in AP. He imparted the experiences of
Srikakulam  armed  struggle  to  the  delegates  of  the  new  generation  of
revolutionaries who attended the 12th State Conference and inspired them
a lot.

When Satyamurthi and Kondapalli Seetharamaiah created internal crisis
in the party in 1985 and 1991 respectively, Comrade Madhava Rao stood
196

firmly with the revolutionary movement. Though the AP movement suffered
a setback in 2006-2007, he held aloft the party flag in AP and continued his
revolutionary practice. He imparted party’s message to the revolutionary
ranks and people inside the state and by traveling to several areas in the
country and strove hard to further increase confidence in them towards
the revolutionary movement.

As Comrade Madhava Rao and his life partner Comrade Muthyalu
worked in the movement they had no private property whatsoever. When
he  went  underground  during  the  Srikakulam  movement,  she  bravely
withstood several difficulties with their young daughters. Even in those
difficult days, she looked after the revolutionary activists who came to her
home like a mother with lot of affection. She was a party member too. The
couple rejected feudal values while raising their girl children. Comrade
Muthyalu breathed her last on June 30, 1993. Comrade Madhava Rao led
a very simple life. He was born in an utterly poor family and imbibed
communist ideals. That was why his simplicity was reflected in the manner
he maintained the several dens according to the needs of the movement.
There was never any pretense or show put-up in his manner or words.
Though  he was  one of the most senior comrades in the revolutionary
movement and fulfilled several responsibilities according to the needs of
the movement as assigned by the party, he never gave a thought as to what
his level in the party was. Such was his unselfish nature. The den he
maintained in Kolkata served as a reliable center for the erstwhile MCC
party during merger talks between revolutionaries in India as he was a
veteran of Srikakulam movement and had enormous faith in the party line.
The erstwhile MCC stream of comrades had enormous confidence and
respect on him.

The lessons imparted by the Naxalbari and Srikakulam movements
are very valuable for the present history. Similarly, the practice of Naxalbari
generation of revolutionaries like that of Comrade Madhava Rao, their
uncompromising  struggle  with  modern  revisionism,  left  and  right
opportunisms, their staunch commitment towards the liberation of the
oppressed masses and unflinching confidence on the line of the revolutionary
party are also most valuable to the next generations and worth emulating in
practice. It is not only the younger generation of revolutionaries but also
197

every democrat and intellectual who wishes to liberate our country from
feudal, comprador bureaucratic bourgeois and imperialist exploitation and
oppression that must learn from the life and practice of Comrade Madhava
Rao, a veteran of Indian revolutionary movement. In the backdrop where
some persons are leaving the revolutionary path showing various reasons
and excuses as they are not able to withstand the ups and downs, difficulties
and travails and enemy repression in the course of revolutionary movement,
the ideal of comrades like Madhava Rao who continued in the revolutionary
movement till the end through decades of practice must be held aloft,
followed and propagated widely.

With the martyrdom of Comrade Goru Madhava Rao, the party and
the revolutionary masses have lost a great revolutionary fighter who held
aloft  the  party  line  for  more  than  five  decades.  CPI  (Maoist)  Central
Committee pays revolutionary homage to him with bowed heads on behalf
of the entire revolutionary ranks. It pledges to carry forward his aspirations
till they are fulfilled.

Abhay,
Spokesperson, CC, CPI (Maoist)

198

