CPI (Maoist) completes its much-awaited historic Unity 
Congress-9th Congress 

A Turning-Point in Indian Revolution 

The successful completion of the Unity Congress-9th Congress of the CPI(Maoist) in January-
February 2007 is an event of historic significance for the oppressed masses of India and the 
world people at large. It achieved a higher level of unity throughout the Party and marked the 
completion of the unity of the two great streams of the Indian revolution-the CPI(ML) and the 
MCCI-that took place on September 21, 2004. It resolved the disputed political issues in the 
Party through lively, democratic and comradely debate and discussion. The present Congress, 
held after a period of 36 years since the 8th Congress in 1970, stands out as another milestone in 
the long history of the Communist movement in India and has great significance in the history of 
the Maoist movement in India. 

The Unity Congress-9th Congress of the Communist Party of India (Maoist) was held deep in the 
forests of one of the several Guerrilla Zones in the country. Under the protective umbrella 
provided by three Companies of the PLGA, with several sentry posts keeping round-the-clock 
vigil around the venue of the Congress—Comrades CM-KC Commune—with Patrolling Teams 
continuously scouring for enemy movements, and with the people in the surrounding villages 
acting as the eyes and ears of the Party, the Congress was completed successfully foiling all the 
attempts of the reactionary ruling classes to obstruct it. A few days prior to the Congress, 
Comrade Chandramouli alias Naveen, a member of the Central Committee and the Central 
Military Commission of the CPI(Maoist), his life-partner and Divisional Committee member 
comrade Karuna, were arrested, tortured cruelly and murdered by the APSIB goons. These two 
comrades stood steadfast in the torture chambers and gave up their lives placing the interests of 
the people and the Party above all else thereby contributing to the success of the Congress. The 
Congress Hall was aptly christened as comrades Karam Singh-Chandramouli Hall after comrade 
Chandramouli and another martyr comrade and PB member, comrade Shamshersingh Sheri alias 
Karam Singh, who passed away in October 2005. 

The Congress was held amidst massive enemy encirclement with the government setting up a 
special cell to foil the Congress. All the Guerrilla Zone areas were placed under the intelligence 
scanner with special surveillance on unusual movements in and around these zones. The media 
had even speculated on the probable dates of the Congress. Yet, amidst this extensive 
encirclement, over one hundred delegates from 16 States, comprising the core of the Maoist 
leadership of India, wound their way to the venue. 

The inauguration of the Congress was done by the outgoing general secretary of the Party, Com 
Ganapathi. Com Kishan welcomed the entire gathering; wreaths were laid at the Martyr’s 
Memorial column and glowing tributes were paid to the great martyrs comrades who had laid 
down their lives in the period since the 8th Congress. This was followed by a procession that 
converged at the Karam Singh-Chandramouli Congress Hall where the delegation began the 
deliberations. 

This historic Congress adopted the five basic documents of the unified Party— Hold High the 
Bright Red Banner of Marxism-Leninism-Maoism; the Programme of the Party; the 
Constitution; the Strategy and Tactics of the Indian Revolution and the Political Resolution on 
the current International and Domestic situation—after thoroughgoing and intense discussions in 
a free and frank manner. It also focused its attention on a review of the past practice of the two 
erstwhile Maoist parties since their formation in 1969, the three-year post-Congress review of the 
erstwhile PW from 2001 to 2004 and also the 2-year practice of the newly formed party. Besides, 
it passed resolutions on the important political issues of the day — both international and 
domestic — made the necessary organisational changes and elected a new central committee. 
The Congress was the culmination of the process that has been going on throughout the Party 
over the last two years where the documents were discussed in depth and Conferences were held 
at the area, district, regional and the State level and hundreds of amendments were sent to the 
Congress from below. 

The Unity Congress reaffirmed the general line of the new democratic revolution with agrarian 
revolution as its axis and protracted people’s war as the path of the Indian revolution that had 
first come into the agenda with the Naxalbari upsurge. It further enriched the politico-military 
line of the Party. It set several new tasks for the party with the main focus on establishment of 
base areas as the immediate, basic and central task before the entire party. It also resolved to 
advance the people’s war throughout the country, further strengthen the people’s army, deepen 
the mass base of the party and wage a broad-based militant mass movement against the neo-
liberal policies of globalization, liberalization, privatization pursued by the reactionary ruling 
classes under the dictates of imperialism. 

The significant additions/development to the party documents were: the pin-pointing of the 
specific character of Indian feudalism/semi-feudalism as being deeply interwoven with the caste 
system and Brahaminical ideology; an assessment of the changes taking place in the agrarian 
situation especially in Punjab within the semi-feudal framework and its impact on our tactics; 
more clarity on the Comprador Bureaucrat Bourgeoisie (CBB) in the Indian context; a deeper 
understanding of the concepts of Guerrilla Base, Base Area, Dual Power, etc particularly in the 
Indian context; advancing the people’s war and turning the PLGA into PLA, guerrilla war into 
mobile war, and the Guerrilla Zones into Base Areas; the importance and significance of work in 
the working-class, the United Front and other such important issues. 

The Congress also passed a number of political resolutions on numerous current events like: 
world people’s struggles, support to the nationality struggles, against Indian expansionism, on 
post-Khairlanji Dalit upsurge and against caste oppression, against Hindu fascism, against SEZs 
and displacement, etc. Resolutions were also passed on the strengthening of the three magic 
weapons of the Party, People’s Army and the United Front. The two-year financial balance sheet 
of the unified Party was presented to the House. After that the outgoing CC presented its 
collective self-criticism, pin-pointing the main areas of its weakness and invited the Congress 
delegates to present their criticisms. After this process a new CC was elected, which then re-
elected Com Ganapathi as the General Secretary of the Party. 

The Congress was completed amongst great euphoria with a Call to the world people Rise up as 
a tide to smash Imperialism and all its running dogs! Advance the Revolutionary war throughout 

the world!! The Unity Congress-9th Congress of the CPI(Maoist) finally called on the people of 
India to come forward in large numbers to support the ongoing people’s war in the country and 
the embryonic power emerging, to build a truly democratic society built on justice, equality, free 
from the chains of imperialism and semi-feudal bondage. 

Ganapathi, 
General Secretary, 
CPI(Maoist) 
Feb 19, 2007 

 

