 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

March 1, 2014 

 

Condolence Message of CC, CPI (Maoist)  

On the demise of Comrade S.A. Rauf,  

A leader of Indian Revolution 

 
Comrade S.A.Rauf, a leader of Indian revolution passed away on the night of February 9, 2014 due 
to severe ill-health. He was in his eighties. Kadiri town of Anantapur district in Andhra Pradesh is his native 
place.  He  studied  law.  He  joined  the  Indian  communist  movement  in  the  1950s.  Comrade  Rauf  was  one 
among those who fought ideologically against the revisionism of CPI and neo-revisionism of CPI (M). The 
CC, CPI (Maoist) humbly pays homage to Comrade S.A.Rauf with bowed heads.  

The armed peasant revolution that began in Naxalbari in 1967 is a great turn in the history of the 
Indian revolution. It was Naxalbari that was the beginning for the armed peasant revolution that is ongoing 
as a continuation of the revolutionary legacy of the heroic Telangana armed struggle that was waged from 
1948 to 1951, the Punapra, Vayalar and Tebhaga movements and that began consciously with a concrete aim 
under the guidance of Marxism-Leninism-Mao Thought (Maoism at present). The Naxalbari struggle burst 
forth as a result of the sharp ideological struggle waged inside the party after rebelling against the revisionist 
leadership. It was the struggle that brought the Telangana armed struggle of the past once again into the 
agenda in India. Before Naxalbari it was never theoretically accepted in the Communist Party of India the 
central  and  crucial  task  of  the  revolution  is  to  win  a  countrywide  victory  through  the  path  of  protracted 
people’s war (PPW) that builds base areas in the vast rural areas where the enemy is weak, that expands 
gradually from isolated areas to wider areas and finally surrounds the cities and captures power. This was 
the first blow of the axe for the entrenched revisionism in our country. It was with this that the foundations 
of revisionism were shaken. The Naxalbari peasant revolution inspired the oppressed masses of all over our 
country  and  to  an  equal  degree  it  worried  the  exploitative  classes.  Gradually  the  understanding  that  the 
Naxalbari path is the only way for the liberation of the peasantry developed among the oppressed peasantry. 
Along with the workers-peasants that are suffering from increasing unemployment and economic crisis, the 
middle classes were inspired as never before in the Indian revolutionary history. Within a short span the 
spark  that  was  lighted  in  Naxalbari  spread  to  several  areas  in  India.  The  armed  peasant  struggles  in 
Srikakulam, Mushahari, Birbhum, Gopivallabhpur, Lakhimpur and Kheri terrified the exploiting classes all 
over the country.  

Comrade Rauf is one of those communist revolutionaries who led the revolutionary movement in 
Andhra  Pradesh  state  by  rebelling  against  the  revisionist  leadership  strongly  supporting  the  Naxalbari 
upsurge and declaring that Naxalbari is the only path. Comrade Rauf who till then he worked as a lawyer 
and worked in open activities, left his profession and went underground. He firstly joined the AICCR that 
was  formed  in  1968  under  the  leadership  of  comrade  Charu  Mazumdar  and  was  a  State  Coordinating 
Committee member of the Andhra Pradesh state unit. He participated in the meeting held in Guthikonda 
Bilam  under  the  leadership  of  comrade  Charu  Mazumdar  with  the  leadership  representatives  of  Andhra 
Pradesh and was elected as a member of the Andhra Pradesh State Organizing Committee. Later he was 
present in the CPI (ML) that was formed on April 22, 1969. He was one of those prominent comrades who 
waged  a  ideological,  political  struggles  against  the  right  opportunist  revisionist  theories  of  Nagireddy, 
Devulapalli and Pullareddy. He attended the state conference of the CPI (ML) in Andhra Pradesh that was 

held in May 1970 and was elected as a State Committee member. When the party split in 1972, he stood on 
the side of the Central Organizing Committee and the CPI (ML) and was a member of the Andhra Pradesh 
Provincial Committee (State Committee). In 1973, he was arrested in Bengal. In 1977, Comrade Rauf left 
the party opposing the August Resolution formulated as tactics by the Andhra Pradesh Provincial Committee 
(APPC)  according  to  the  changing  conditions.  Though  the  APPC  and  particularly  the  Rayalaseema 
comrades appealed to him to carry on two-line struggle inside the party by putting his opinions regarding 
tactics for discussion, comrade Rauf rejected and left the party. He formed another revolutionary party in 
Andhra Pradesh state. With this a split occurred in the party.  

In 1979, comrade Rauf along with CPI (ML) Kerala State Committee became a part of the launching 
of Central Reorganizing Committee (CRC), CPI (ML). In that he was a member of the CRC Committee. The 
CRC was one of the three founding members of the Internationalist Communist Movement (RIM). The other 
two  founding  members  were  the  Peru  Communist  Party  and  the  Revolutionary  Communist  Party  (USA). 
Though the CRC made several attempts to build armed struggle in Andhra Pradesh in the 1980s it could not 
get appropriate results as it could not develop its mass base. As the party failed in going into the people the 
party  could  not  expand  and  the  movement  was  damaged.  Comrade  Rauf  opposed  the  right  opportunist 
revisionist theory of Venu, the General Secretary of CRC, CPI (ML), cut his relations with it and took the 
revolutionary path.  

In 1987, comrade Rauf became a part of rebuilding that party as CPI (ML) Red Flag and continued 
as  its  CC  member  till  1998.  He  fought  against  the  right  opportunist  revisionist  path  brought  by 
Ramachandran who was its General Secretary and united the revolutionaries in that party around the correct 
revolutionary path. Later MUC joined with CPI (ML) Maharashtra and Kerala units and emerged as CPI 
(ML)  Naxalbari  in  1999.  Comrade  Rauf  worked  as  the  General  Secretary  of  this  unified  party  till  2008. 
Comrade Rauf put efforts to establish that as a revolutionary party. This party was a founder member of 
CCOMPOSA  (Coordination  Committee  of  Maoist  Parties  and  Organizations  of  South  Asia).  This  party 
played a good role in carrying on revolutionary propaganda. Internationally, it played a major role in RIM 
and CCOMPOSA in exposing the revisionist paths brought to the fore by Bob Avakian, the leader of RCP 
(USA)  and  by  Prachanda  and  Bhattarai  in  UCPN  (Maoist)  in  Nepal.  Since  2008,  comrade  Rauf  suffered 
from severe ill-health. 

Comrade  Rauf  worked  with  the  aspiration  and  confidence  that  at  some  point  of  time  the 
revolutionaries  should  unite  around  a  correct  Maoist  path  in  India.  He  did  not  care  the  several  ups  and 
downs in the movement and the state repression and with unflinching commitment towards the revolution, 
steely determination and resolve he stood as a great revolutionary leader till the end. He worked tirelessly to 
realize the PPW for the victory of the New Democratic Revolution in India. He was martyred while working 
for the realization of unity of genuine revolutionaries in India by uniting the party he built around Maoist 
revolutionary path. He strongly believed in the slogan - “Naxalbari Ek Hi Raasta.” 

The  CC,  CPI  (Maoist)  upholds  the  martyrdom  of  comrade  Rauf  and  is  expressing  its  deep 
condolences at his demise. It shares the grief of his family members. It is vowing one more time on this 
occasion  that  we  would  fight  till  the  end  to  fulfill  the  aim  of  New  Democratic  Society-Socialism-
Communism he dreamt of. 

 
 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, CPI (Maoist) 

 

