COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

June 4, 2012 

 

Condemn the proposal to ban world-renowned writer 
Jan Myrdal’s visits to India by the Central Government 
 

Comrade Jan Myrdal belongs to Sweden and is a world-renowned writer. He visited several 
countries  including  People’s  China  and  is  writing  since  six  decades  in  support  of  the  oppressed 
masses  of  the  world  and  on  several  subjects  including  art,  culture,  history,  environment  etc.  He 
visited  India  at  the  ripe  age  of  82  years  to  attend  some  democratic  program  and  toured  the 
revolutionary movement area led by the CPI (Maoist) and wrote a book “Red Star Over India”. He 
met the top leadership of CPI (Maoist). Again he visited India and went to several cities including 
the capital Delhi for the inaugural meetings of this book and shared his views with several writers, 
democrats, students and journalists. All his tours and publications are happening in public view with 
everybody’s knowledge. Similarly, his views are also clearly known to everybody. He clearly stated 
that he was a communist. He has been clearly observing since more than three decades the long-
term repressive measures on the revolutionary movement by the exploiting ruling classes in India. 
He toured Andhra Pradesh in the early 1980s and wrote a book “India Awaits”. The supports he has 
been giving recently to those who mobilize democratic forces all over the world in support of the 
Indian democratic revolutionary movement are praiseworthy. He stood on the side of the oppressed 
masses and is fearlessly stating his anti-imperialist, democratic and communist views using his pen 
effectively.  It  is  known  world  over  that  US  imperialism  has  imposed  indirect  ban  on  him  from 
entering US by imposing stringent regulations. The Indian government trying to ban his visits to 
India tracing the footsteps of the neo-fascist US state uncovers its democratic facade completely and 
exposes its fascist nature and its fear towards revelation of truth. Our party unequivocally condemns 
the fascist treatment of the world-renowned writer by the Indian state. It appeals to the intellectuals, 
democrats, writers, artistes, students, journalists and people from all walks of life to condemn the 
tyrannical stand taken by the Indian government. 

Apart  from  Jan  Myrdal,  his  father  Gunnar  Myrdal  and  mother  Alva  Myrdal  had  close 
relations with India. Both of them were Nobel Laureates and his mother had served as Sweden’s 
ambassador in India for about five years between 1955 and 1961. The Indian government felicitated 
the  couple  with  the  Jawaharlal  Nehru  International  Understanding  Award.  Their  son  Myrdal  is 
frequently giving speeches on several issues in Delhi University. Thus he has been in touch with 
our country since a long period, knowing about the issues and difficulties of the oppressed masses 
here and putting them in writing to his full ability. The stand taken by the Indian government to stop 
such a great friend of India from coming is most shameful. The Indian government that is giving red 
carpet welcome to MNCs and big bourgeoisie to indiscriminately loot the most valuable riches of 
India  is  being  intolerant  towards  those  who  are  opposing  them  with  genuine  democratic  and 
progressive views. The Indian government is inviting international big corporate sharks like Enron, 
Dow  Chemicals,  POSCO,  Monsanto,  Vedanta  and  Areva  and  so  many  others.  It  is  hugely 
supporting Jindal, Mittal, Esssar, Tata and Ambani that are colluding with these and serving them. 
The Adivasis are fighting a life and death struggle to preserve the most valuable lands, forests, hills, 
waters, minerals and all kinds of other natural resources in the vast areas of our country from their 
exploitation.  The  central  and  state  governments  have  deployed  lakhs  of  police  and  paramilitary 

forces in the forests and rivers of blood are flowing due to its cruelest Green Hunt military offensive 
of the past three years. Green Hunt offensive has extended to towns and cities and the ruling classes 
are  harassing,  arresting,  interrogating,  inhumanely  torturing  and  implicating  in  false  cases,  the 
democrats, revolutionaries, Adivasi well-wishers, people’s writers, artistes and journalists in various 
manners. The proposed ban on Jan Myrdal’s visits to India is an express example of the fact that at 
present Green Hunt offensives have crossed the country’s borders. The Indian government is all set 
and ready to deploy the Indian Army at any second apart from the armed forces that were deployed 
to crush the revolutionary party that is leading the revolutionary movement. Our party is absolutely 
hopeful that people’s writers, poets, artistes, democrats and Adivasi well-wishers, in other words all 
those who side with the oppressed masses would stand firmly in support of Comrade Jan Myrdal 
who himself stood firmly with the oppressed masses and the revolutionary movement by exposing 
the most dangerous trends of the imperialists and fight against this proposed ban. 

It is not new for the ruling classes of this country to deal artistes, writers, journalists, film 
producers and directors in a fascist manner. There are several writers and democrats who have been 
implicated in countless conspiracy cases and put in jails in this country. Even recently on July 1, 
2010 a Delhi based journalist named Hem Chandra Pandey was shot dead in a fake encounter by the 
Andhra Pradesh police. Well-known writer Arundhati Roy was sentenced under the Indian Penal 
Code for supporting the just struggle of the Kashmir people. The communal goons beat Supreme 
Court lawyer Prasant Bhushan. The state that killed Safdar Hashmi in the past, recently sentenced 
people’s artiste Jeeten Marandi to death and later withdrew it due to popular pressure. Recently the 
Bengal  neo-fascist  Empress,  Chief  Minister  Mamta  Banerji  got  Professor  Abhishek  Mahapatra 
arrested  with  the  ire  that  he  drew  a  cartoon  on  her.  The  Jadavpur  University  students  who 
questioned this were harassed in the name of Maoists. Thus the fascist attacks of the ruling classes 
are increasing and spreading by the day and exposing the cruelest face of Green Hunt. During the 
British rule, several writers, artistes and revolutionaries were hanged for displaying their patriotism. 
The  Indian  state  is  obediently  following  the  steps  of  those  imperialists,  particularly  the  US 
imperialists at present and is intensifying its suppression measures. Our party is appealing to one 
and  all  to  condemn  the  above,  to  build  a  broad  and  strong  solidarity  movement  that  would  give 
more strength to the pen of Comrade Jan Myrdal and to fight till the Indian government revokes the 
proposal to ban his visits to India. 

 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

