      COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

      CENTRAL COMMITTEE  

 

Press Release 

9-9-2017 

 

Strongly condemn and protest against the assassination of                                     

journalist Gauri Lankesh by Hindutva-terrorist Sangh Parivar goons! 

Intensify the countrywide united people’s movement                                               

against Brahmanical Hindu-fascism! 

 

 
Well-known  journalist,  social  activist,  political  commentator  and  translator  Gauri 
Lankesh  was  shot  dead  by  motorcycle-borne  assailants  at  around  8.30pm  on  5  September 
near her home in Bangaluru when she was returning from work. Three bullets hit her chest 
and head and she died instantaneously. The Central Committee, Communist Party of India 
(Maoist),  condemns  this  heinous  murder  in  strongest  possible  terms  and  conveys  its 
condolences to her relatives and friends. Our Party holds Brahmanical Hindu-fascist goons of 
Sangh Parivar led by Mohan Bhagwat & co. to be directly responsible for this assassination. 
This is not only a blatant attack on free speech and freedom of the press but an assault on all 
revolutionary, democratic, progressive, secular and rational dissenting voices of the country.  
In  this  context,  we  emphatically  reject  and  strongly  condemn  the  patently  false 
insinuation  made  by  some  leaders  of  Rashtriya  Swayamsevak  Sangh  (RSS)  and  BJP 
suggesting that our Party might be behind this murder. This is nothing but a futile attempt to 
divert the growing mass anger against the Sangh Parivar. The CC of our Party calls upon the 
oppressed classes and the people of the country, the religious and national minorities, Dalits, 
Adivasis, women, students and youth, intellectuals, artists, advocates and other democratic 
sections – particularly the journalists working in the print and electronic media – to strongly 
protest against the murder of Gauri Lankesh, to demand prompt and stringent punishment of 
the  perpetrators  and  to  intensify  the  united  countrywide  people’s  movement  against 
Brahmanical Hindu-fascism.  
Gauri  Lankesh  was 

the  progressive  Kannada 
newsmagazine Lankesh which was established by her father P Lankesh in the 1980s. After 
his death, her daughter took up the responsibility of continuing the magazine’s publication 
without diluting or abandoning its progressive and democratic character which opposed the 
regressive  and  decadent  social  forces.  The  magazine  and  Gauri  Lankesh’s  writings 
courageously challenged the most reactionary and right-wing faction of India’s ruling classes 
represented by the Brahmanical Hindu-fascist RSS and its parliamentary face, the BJP. The 
last issue of Lankesh, for instance, carried an expose of embezzlement involving the former 
Karnataka  Chief  Minister  and  BJP  strongman  Yediyurappa.  Similarly,  she  had  recently 
translated and published journalist Rana Ayyub’s book Gujarat Files on the Gujarat pogrom 
of  2002  that  implicated  Hindutva  leaders  including  Narendra  Modi  and  Amit  Shah.  Gauri 
Lankesh participated in the efforts to bring the untold history of the oppressed people to light 
like  that  of  Prof.  M  M  Kalburgi  who  established  that  the  religion  of  the  Lingayats  was 
different  from  Brahmanical  Hinduism  and  was  never  a  part  of  it.  She  supported  the 
democratic aspirations of the oppressed Kannada nationality which has been fighting against 
various forms of national oppression including the imposition of alien language and culture.  
Apart from using her pen and her magazine as effective weapons against Hindutva-
fascism,  she  organised  and  participated  in  protests  against  the  combined  attack  of  the 
dictatorial  Indian  state  and  the  Hindu  communal  forces  on  the  people  –  be  it  workers, 

the  editor  and  publisher  of 

peasants,  urban  middle  classes,  religious  and  national  minorities,  Dalits,  Adivasis,  women, 
LGBT and other oppressed sections of the society. She fearlessly opposed fake encounters 
and  other  forms  of  state  terror  against  the  country’s  revolutionary  and  democratic 
movements. She condemned mob lynching and physical attacks on Muslims and Dalits by 
self-proclaimed  ‘cow  protectors’  and  other  Hindutva  gangs.  She  came  forward  to  vocally 
protest against the murder of Prof. M M Kalburgi by the Hindu-fascist forces who wanted to 
silence his irrepressible voice against Brahmanism and Hindu majoritarianism.  

Through  all  these  and  in  many  other  ways,  using  her  writings  and  social  activism, 
Gauri Lankesh contributed to the building up of public opinion and united resistance against 
the  bigoted  Hindutva  reactionary  forces,  particularly  in  Karnataka  which  has  become  the 
advanced post of Brahmanical Hindu-fascism in South India. These RSS-affiliated forces felt 
threatened  by  the  growing  democratic  opposition  to  their  communal-fascist  agenda, 
particularly at a time when assembly elections are just round the corner and BJP is desperate 
to come back to power in the state. In fact, she had been receiving death threats and was also 
subjected  to  abuse  in  the  social  media  by  these  forces  for  quite  some  time.  But  she  had 
refused to be cowed down by these vile tactics of intimidation and bravely carried on with her 
work. The RSS goons therefore decided to eliminate her through one of its numerous terrorist 
outfits as per a conspiracy. In addition to silencing one of its most vocal critics, the Hindutva-
fascists  want  to  send  out  a  clear  warning  through  the  murder  of  Lankesh  to  the  country’s 
revolutionary, democratic, progressive and secular individuals, organisations and movements 
that anyone who dared to put up a real opposition (and not fake, parliamentary ‘opposition’) 
to the fascist juggernaut of Modi-Shah-Bhagwat ruling clique will meet a similar fate.  

In  fact,  this  is  not  the  first  murderous  attack  on  the  country’s  journalists  by  the 
Hindutva terrorists operating under the guidance from RSS headquarters in Nagpur. As per 
one report, as many as nine journalists have been killed in the country since Modi-led BJP 
government  came  to  power.  Many  of  these  murders  have been  carried  out  by  RSS-related 
outfits or individuals as a means of eliminating their critics. While a number of the staunchest 
anti-Hindutva  journalists  are  being  silenced  in  this  way,  others  are  being  persecuted  in 
various other ways – arrests, jail terms, physical attacks, abuse, cutting down of government 
financial support, etc. Quite a significant number of journalists in the corporate media have 
been  co-opted  or  bought  into  championing  RSS’s  Hindutva  agenda  and  becoming 
spokespersons  for  the  Modi  government,  while  the  majority  are  being  suppressed,  and 
hounded  out  or  silenced.  Thus,  committed  journalists  have  become  a  prime  target  of 
Hindutva terror along with other oppressed classes, sections and communities in the society. 

Just  as  the  violent  attacks  by  the  Hindutva-fascist  gangs  are  becoming  much  more 
blatant,  virulent  and  frequent  with  each  passing  day  of  Modi  government,  the  people’s 
movement  against  Hindutva-fascism  too  is  becoming  more  and  more  widespread.  People 
from  different  walks  of  life  affected  directly  by  Hindutva-terror  or  indirectly  by  the  anti-
people  policies  of  the  Hindu-fascist  BJP  government  are  resisting  in  various  forms.  The 
Sangh Parivar knows that it is not so easy to perpetrate its crimes on the people and get away 
without  facing  the  consequences.  That  is  why  its  leaders  like  Modi  are  making  public 
pronouncements about their belief in non-violence, while instigating their storm-troopers in 
different  ways  to  carry  out  large-scale  fascist  violence.  The  duplicity,  hypocrisy  and 
deceptiveness  of  the  Hindutva  forces  need  to  be  clearly  identified  to  build  an  effective 
democratic counter-offensive against them.  

The fear of  people’s anger and their united protests have forced RSS to pronounce 
public condemnations against the murder of Gauri Lankesh and to float the white lie that the 
Maoists  might  be  behind  her  killing.  Such  misinformation  is  being  spread  by  the  Sangh 
Parivar and the BJP to divert the mounting indignation of the people from themselves on the 
one hand and to mislead the ongoing probes on the other. Such lies will of course convince 

 

2 

no one and their attempt to absolve themselves of the crime will end in utter failure. This is 
one  more  proof  that  these  fascist  forces  have  feet  of  clay  when  it  comes  to  facing  the 
organised resistance of the masses, no matter how strong and invincible they may appear.  

This  is  a  time  when  the  shadow  of  fascism  over  the  country  and  its  people  is 
darkening. The Hindutva forces are bent on strengthening their comprador-feudal fascist rule 
by  using  all  means  at  their  disposal.  They  are  twisting  the  truth  through  Goebbelsian 
propaganda  and  trying  to  instil  fear  and  terror  among  each  and  every  person  who  dare  to 
think critically by unleashing violence. At a time like this, it becomes all the more important 
to come out strongly and unitedly against the fascist attack on the country’s conscientious, 
democratic and progressive journalists and intellectuals. This will be an important part of the 
broad-based united people’s movement that is building up against the Brahmanical Hindu-
fascist forces that are on a rampage against all oppressed classes and sections and all kinds of 
people’s movements. There are only two choices before us – either we get silenced by the 
Hindutva-fascist  forces  and  directly  or  indirectly  collude  with  them  to  stand  against  the 
people, or stand with the people to unitedly fight back these most regressive and degenerate 
forces of reaction. Incidents like the murder of Gauri Lankesh have made this choice even 
more urgent for those who are yet to take their side.  

At every crucial juncture of history, revolutionary and progressive forces challenges 
like this. Only those forces which remain at the forefront of battle to face these challenges 
can lead the masses in defeating the reactionaries. This is one such juncture in the history of 
our country, and this is one such occasion to stand firm in struggle. The Hindutva-fascists 
may kill some of us, jail many of us and scare a larger number into silence temporarily. But 
they certainly cannot suppress the people forever and turn the wheels of history backwards. 
They will certainly be thrown into the dustbin of history by the masses who alone are the 
makers of history. 

 
 

 

(Abhay) 

Spokesperson 

Central Committee 

CPI(Maoist) 

 

 

3 

