 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

 

Press Release:  January 9, 2009 

 
 

Condemn the brutal aggression of Gaza 

by the Israeli Zionist terrorists backed by the 
biggest international terrorist, US imperialism! 

 
 
 
The  Zionist  terrorist  gangsters  ruling  Israel  had  unleashed  a  brutal  war  of  aggression  against  the 
Palestinian people living in Gaza  Strip. Backed by the international terrorist George Bush and endorsed 
by  the  new  President-elect,  Barack  Obama,  the  Zionist  terrorists  led  by  Ehud  Olmert  have  created  an 
unprecedented  humanitarian  crisis  in  Gaza  Strip  through  their  nonstop  aerial  bombardment  for  over  a 
fortnight and ground invasion since a week using countless battle tanks and heavy artillery. Hundreds of 
multi-storey  structures  have  been  razed  to  the  ground,  entire  infrastructure  of  Gaza  has  been  destroyed 
and the entire population of Gaza has been held captive without access to food, water, medicine and other 
basic necessities. Officially, over 700 Palestinians, most of them civilians, were killed in the last fortnight 
and  over  3000  wounded.  Unofficial  toll  is  far  higher.  And  there  is  no  count  of  people,  particularly 
children, dying due to lack of medicine, food and basic needs. In spite of all-round condemnation by the 
world people the Israeli  Zionists have continued their cruel, inhuman blood-bath with the  support of the 
imperialists, particularly the American and British imperialists. 
 
 
The Israeli Zionist gang has been trying to justify its war of aggression and incessant bombardment of 
densely-populated areas of Gaza  under the pretext of protecting its own  citizens  in southern  Israel from 
rocket  attacks  by  Hamas  fighters.  The  Anglo-American  imperialists  have  also  joined  the  chorus 
describing  the  brutal  bombardment  by  Israel  as  a  legitimate  response  to  the  rocket  attacks  by  Hamas. 
These biggest international terrorists had blocked all attempts by other countries in the Security Council 
calling for immediate, unconditional halt to the Israeli aggression. The fact is, the Zionist Nazis of Israel 
have  been  preparing  for  the  attack  for  several  months.  That  they  had  taken  up  the  attack  due  to  rocket 
attacks  by  Hamas  is  a  big  white  lie.  The  rocket  attacks  themselves  are  a  legitimate  response  to  the 
mindless massacres of Palestinians by Israeli Zionists and their inhuman blockade of Gaza during the so-
called  cease-fire.  Moreover,  hardly  a  handful  of  Israelis  were  killed  due  to  the  Hamas  rockets  whereas 
several  hundred  Palestinians  were  killed  and  thousands  wounded  by  the  inhuman  attacks  by  the  Zionist 
fascists. The imperialist powers, the progeny of slaveholders of yesteryears, always aspire and conspire to 
enslave the entire world and to hold the world people as their slaves. Whoever resists their conspiratorial 
designs  for  hegemony  are  branded  as  terrorists  and  are  sought  to  be  crushed.  The  Israeli  terrorists  have 
been occupying the Gaza Strip since 1967 illegally not heeding world opinion. 
 
 
The Palestinian President  and stooge of US imperialists, Mohamud Abbas,  and  the  spineless  servile 
governments  of  the  Arab  countries  led  by  Egyptian  president,  Hosni  Mobarak,  have  conspired  to  allow 
Israel to bomb and destroy Gaza since all these agents of the imperialists wish to weaken Hamas that has 
been spearheading the national liberation struggle against Israeli and American imperialist aggression and 
hegemony  in  the  region.  People  of  Arab  countries  will  certainly  rise  up  against  their  comprador  ruling 
classes  who  had  betrayed  the  Palestinian  cause  and  are  shamelessly  stooping  before  the  Israeli 
expansionists and American imperialists. 
 

  History has proved time and again that no nation, however strong and powerful, can subdue forever a 
weak and poor nation. Israeli expansionists had tasted this truth in Lebanon when the Hizbollah fighters 
taught an unforgettable lesson to the Israeli aggressors by driving them out through heroic resistance. In 
Gaza too, Israeli Zionists can never achieve their aim of subduing the Palestinians and hold them down as 
servile  subjects.  However  great  the  cost  in  human  lives  may  be,  Palestinian  fighters  will  teach  a  fitting 
lesson  to  the  aggressors  by  turning  Gaza  into  a  burial  ground  for  the  Israeli  Zionist  aggressors  if  they 
continue their occupation and brutal attacks. 
 
The CC, CPI(Maoist) condemns this inhuman, cruel and most savage war of aggression unleashed by 
 
the Israeli terrorist state on the people of Palestine. It calls upon the people of the entire world to wage a 
united  struggle  to  bring  pressure  on  their  respective  governments  to  sever  diplomatic  relations  with  the 
Israeli  Zionist  state,  and  to  launch  attacks  on  Israeli  and  American  assets  and  their  diplomatic  missions 
throughout the world. 
 
 
(signed) 
Azad, 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI(Maoist) 
 
 
 

[From: CPI(Maoist) Information Bulletin, #6, Nov. 5, 2008.] 

 

