COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release
 

March 2, 2012 

Condemn the arrests and torture of Maoist activists 

in Kolkata and Mumbai! 

In the last week of February 2012, the police have arrested activists of our Party including some senior 
cadres from Kolkata and Mumbai. On the specific intelligence inputs provided by the murderous APSIB, joint 
forces  of  police  and  STF  of  AP,  Maharashtra  and  West  Bengal  have  raided  the  shelters  of  our  comrades  in 
Kolkata  and  Mumbai  suburbs  and  arrested  at  least  nine  comrades  including  two  women  comrades.  Comrades 
Sadanala Ramakrishna, Deepak Kumar Pargania, Sukumar Mandal, Bapi Mudi and Sambhu Charan were arrested 
from Kolkata while Comrades Dinesh Wankhede, Aasimkumar Bhattacharya, Suman Gawde and Paru Patel were 
picked  up  from  Thane  in  Maharashtra.  Comrades  Sadanala  Ramakrishna  alias  Santosh  (62)  and  Aasimkumar 
Bhattacharya (65) were the seniors among the arrested. Senior comrade Sadanala Ramakrishna has been working 
for the revolution for at least four decades. He has been ailing with serious health problems for so many years. A 
mechanical  engineer  graduated  in  prestigious  Regional  Engineering  College  (REC)  of  Warangal  from  where 
martyr leaders like Surapaneni Janardhan and Azad were emerged as great revolutionaries of their times, Comrade 
Ramakrishna sacrificed his bright life for the cause of liberation of the downtrodden. 

Both the two women comrades arrested - Vijaya and Suman - have been undergoing medical treatment for 
some time staying in the shelters outside the struggle zones. Particularly, comrade Vijaya has been suffering from 
serious heart problems. 

The police forces, better known for worst kind of cruelty, have been torturing these comrades mentally and 
physically  in  custody.  They  have  foisted  several  false  cases  against  these  comrades  so  that  they  could  be 
languished behind the bars forever. 

On one hand the ruling classes are asserting that these arrests are a big success for them and on the other 
hand,  they  are  trying  to  portray  our  comrades  as  dangerous  criminals  claiming  that  they  have  recovered  huge 
amounts of cash and other material that is used for making arms. 

These arrests are nothing but a part of Operation Green Hunt (OGH), i.e. the 'War on People', which has 
been underway since 2009. The comprador ruling classes in connivance with their imperialist masters, particularly 
with the US imperialists, have unleashed this brutal war of suppression in the poorest parts of India so that their 
neo  liberal  policies  of  plunder  of  resources  could  get  going  unhindered.  They  are  particularly  targeting  the 
revolutionary leadership and eliminating them. As the Pentagon itself claimed recently, the US Special Forces are 
not only actively involved, but also assisting their Indian counterparts on the ground in the counter-insurgency 
operations  aimed  at  eliminating  the  revolutionary  leadership.  This  fact  also  shows  us  that  the  US  has  been 
patronizing  in  the  ongoing  OGH  making  the  values  such  as  freedom,  independence,  and  sovereignty  of  our 
country a joke. The exploiting rulers of our country are daydreaming that this movement can be suppressed if its 
leadership is wiped out. 

Revolutionary movement cannot be crushed with arrests and murders. The bars of the dungeons can not 

restrict the revolutionary ideas from spreading among the vast masses. 

The CC of CPI (Maoist) strongly condemns these arrests and inhuman torture being inflicted to them. We 
demand  immediate  and  unconditional  release  of  these  comrades,  as  well  as  all  of  the  political  prisoners 
languishing in various jails in all corners of our land. We also demand to lift all the false cases foisted against 
these comrades. 

 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

