 

 
 

 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

 

Press Release: May 8, 2009 

Condemn the savage bombing of Afghan civilians 

by Obama’s mercenary army! 

 

Isolate and defeat the hegemonic designs of American imperialism 

in South and Central Asia! 

 
 
The inhuman bombing in Farah Province on May 3rd causing the deaths of over a hundred civilians, 
 
mostly  children and women, shows the  extent of madness and desperation of the Obama  administration 
which is finding it increasingly difficult to subdue the Afghan people and keep them under their colonial 
rule. The series of humiliating defeats suffered by the occupation forces of NATO and US in Afghanistan 
at  the  hands  of  Taliban  particularly  in  the  past  one  year  and  the  latter‟s  expansion  into  neighbouring 
Pakistan  at a rapid pace has unnerved the rulers  who control the biggest  war-machine in the  world. The 
aerial  bombing  of  civilians  in  Farah  was  preceded  by  the  killing  of  six  civilians  in  Kunar  province  on 
April  13  and  five  civilians  on  April  7  in  Khost  province  by  US  drones.  Killing  of  unarmed  Afghans, 
particularly  children  and women, has become a daily feature under the aegis of the new war criminal in 
Washington, Barack Obama. 
 
 
President  Obama  has  not  merely  continued  the  inhuman  policy  of  his  predecessor,  George  Bush,  in 
Afghanistan by  indiscriminately bombing residential localities and killing  women  and children, but  also 
stepped  up  this  savage  campaign  by  deploying  several  thousand  more  US  troops  to  intensify  these 
barbaric acts on unarmed civilian population of Afghanistan. 
 
  Obama had sent 21,000 additional troops to Afghanistan since January 20 after he succeeded George 
Bush  as  the  Chief  Persecutor  of  the  world  people  on  January  20.  Over  the  next  few  months,  the  total 
number of US occupation forces in Afghanistan is set to reach almost double the existing strength—from 
38,000 to 68,000—and, together with the 32,000-odd NATO troops the occupation force would touch the 
figure  of  one  lakh  troops.  Despite  this  massive  increase  of  troops,  the  ground  forces  waging  the  unjust 
war  against  the  Afghan  people  are  still  so  nervous  that  their  top  commander  in  Afghanistan,  Lt.  Gen. 
David McKiernan,  has requested another 10,000 combat troops to be sent to Afghanistan. The military-
industrial  complex  ruling  America  has  its  evil  eyes  focused  on  the  oil-rich  central  Asian  region,  and 
Barack  Obama,  as  the  chief  representative  of  this  tiny  elite,  has  promised  to  increase  the  US  troops  in 
Afghanistan  even  as  they  get  bogged  down  and  buried  in  the  country‟s  quicksands.  At  least  after  the 
blood-bath  in  Farah,  American  people  should  realize  that  Barack  Obama  is  no  different  from  George 
Bush but for the label of a Democrat; they should demand and agitate for the immediate withdrawal of the 
occupation forces from Afghan soil. 
 

The Washington war-mongers have also announced that they consider Afghanistan and Pakistan as a 
 
single  war  theatre  or  operational  territory  for  all  practical  purposes  in  their  “war  against  terror”  and 
deployed  a  special  envoy  to  Afghanistan  and  Pakistan.  They  carry  out  aerial  bombardment  testing  their 
latest  missiles,  chemical  and  biological  weapons  on  the  Afghan  people,  and  established  their  military 
bases  on  both  sides  of  Afghan  border.  Both  the  special  envoy  Richard  Holbrooke  and  Admiral  Mike 
Mullen, head of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff, have been exerting pressure on Pakistan to launch attacks on 
Taliban  portraying  the  latter  as  a  dangerous  monster  that  is  rapidly  advancing  towards  Islamabad  and 
capable of taking over power along with nuclear weapons in Pakistan. A fear psychosis of a Taliban take-
over of the nukes in Pakistan is created in order to justify America‟s indiscriminate killings of civilians in 
Afghanistan and Pakistan through aerial bombardment. 
 
 
Indiscriminate  bombing  of  towns  and  villages  and  killing  of  unarmed  civilians,  most  of  them 
children,  has  become  a  general  feature  rather  than  an  exception  in  Pakistan  too.  Under  Barack  Obama 
these bombings have been stepped up further. There were more than 35 drone missile attacks in Pakistan 
in the last eight months killing 340 people, most of them civilians. The April 4 attack in North Waziristan 
that  killed  13  people  including  children  and  women,  drew  severe  criticism  of  the  American  policy  in 
Pakistan.  Entire  tracts  in  the  autonomous  FATA,  Baluchistan  and  North  West  Frontier  Province  have 
been bombed rendering lakhs of people into refugees. 
 
  Not content with its unilateral strikes in Pakistan the Obama administration has been pressurizing the 
Pakistani government to unleash brutal suppression of the Taliban in its  western frontier.  The  IMF bail-
out money  was given  to Pakistani rulers on  condition that they  would brutally suppress  the Taliban and 
quell  any  revolt  by  their  people  against  the  US  forces.  Already  more  than  half  a  million  people  were 
driven out of their homes by the Pak offensive. It has now unleashed the most brutal war on the people of 
Swat  Valley  driving  out  the  entire  population  from  their  homes  to  please  their  mentors  in  Washington 
who  were  angry  with  the  concessions  given  to  Taliban  regarding  Shariat  law.  All  this  would  no  doubt 
lead to an unprecedented escalation of Islamic militancy. 
 
 
The brutal war of aggression in Afghanistan and attack on even the nominal sovereignty of Pakistan 
by unilateral bombing of Pakistani villages has brought forth wide condemnation from the people of the 
two countries besides others. Even the President of Afghanistan, Hamid Karzai, a puppet installed by the 
US,  is  compelled  to  condemn  the  indiscriminate  bombardment  by  the  US  drones.  He  knows  that 
increasing  civilian  deaths  in  the  drone  attacks  by  US  drives  more  people  into  the  fold  of Taliban  while 
isolating his own regime completely. 
 
 
Likewise,  every  attack  by  the  US  in  Pakistan  turns  the  population  against  the  US  and  its  servile 
government  in  Islamabad. While  the  servile  rulers  in  Pakistan  deny  it,  people  know  that  their  spineless 
rulers  had  permitted  the  US  to  establish  a  secret  CIA  base  in  Pakistan  from  where  the  drone  missile 
attacks  are  launched  on  Pak  territory.  As  the  Pakistani  rulers  get  more  and  more  involved  in  America‟s 
dirty  war  of  aggression  in  Afghanistan  and  use  their  own  soldiers  as  cannon-fodder  for  the  strategic 
interests of the US in Central Asia, the ruling regimes will be isolated from the population at large while 
strengthening fundamentalist forces like Taliban and other anti-US, anti-govt forces. Suicide bombings as 
in  Lahore  and  Islamabad  carried  out  by  FATA-based  pro-Taliban  group,  Tehreek-e  Taliban  Pakistan 
(TTP) led by Baitullah Mehsud will increase drastically. 
 
 
The  CC,  CPI(Maoist),  calls  upon  the  people  of  India  to  fight  against  the  growing  servility  of  the 
Indian rulers to US imperialism in exchange for the latter‟s recognition of its status as a regional power in 
South Asia and a „global strategic partner‟ of US. It warns the Govt of India to sever its relations with 
the  US  puppet  regime  of  Karzai  in  Afghanistan  which  is  responsible  for  the  increasing  massacres  of 
Afghan  people  by  the  US  occupation  forces.  It  also  calls  upon  the  people  of  Pakistan  to  wage  a  united 
struggle against their servile rulers who are allowing indiscriminate aerial attacks on Pak territory by the 

US forces and also using their own forces as canon-fodder in the dirty war of aggression waged by the US 
in Afghanistan with the strategic goal of capturing oil-rich Central Asia. 
 
 
** Carry out strikes against US economic-political targets all over South 
Asia to counter its indiscriminate air-strikes in Afghanistan and Pakistan! 
 
** Isolate and defeat the designs of US imperialism in South and Central 
Asia! 
 
** Support the just struggle of the Afghan people for their liberation from 
US-NATO occupation! 
 
** People of South Asia should unite to wage a massive struggle to throw 
out US imperialism from the sub-continent! 
 
sd/- 
Azad, 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI(Maoist) 

 

 

[From: CPI(Maoist) Information Bulletin, #8, May 15, 2009, pp. 53-54.] 

