COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release 
May 1, 2011 

 
 

Condemn the arrests of CC members of CPI (Maoist) Comrades V. Subramanyam 
(Vimal/Shrikant), Vijay Kumar Arya (Jaspal ji), Punendu Shekhar Mukherjee  (Saheb da) and 
others by central intelligence agencies and APSIB! 
 
Demand to produce all arrested comrades before the court immediately! 
 
The central intelligence agencies and the notorious APSIB goons arrested our three CC comrades—V. 
Subramanyam, Vijay Kumar Arya, Punendu Shekhar Mukherjee along with some other comrades and 
sympathizers in Katihar district of Bihar on precise information. In fact, comrade Subramanyam has been 
under surveillance by APSIB since so many months. They had even planned to assassinate him. But 
because of exposure of their conspiracy before the people, they couldn't kill him. The licensed killers of 
APSIB and other Indian intelligence wings trained by CIA and Mossad have been targeting the leaders of 
Indian Revolution as part of their 'War on People' for a long time. Beloved leaders of Indian people like 
Azad, Patel Sudhakar, Shakhamuri Apparao, Prasad and BK were killed by these killers by the orders of 
Sonia-Manmohan-Chidambaram ruling clique, hand in glove with their imperialist masters. Some other 
leaders and activists were arrested and put in dungeons of  various jails. 
 
The Indian ruling classes on the one hand have been selling out the nation to MNCs and Big Business 
signing hundreds of MoUs with them, on the other hand they have been trying to crush the revolutionary 
movement so as to make sure that no resistance is put up against their anti-people and pro-imperialist 
policies. As our Party is in the forefront of mass struggles against this corrupt, oppressive and exploitative 
system, Indian ruling classes are using every repressive tool at their disposal so as to leave Indian masses 
leaderless. 
 
CC, CPI(Maoist) condemns the illegal arrests and mental and physical torture subjected to these 
comrades. We call upon the workers, peasants, students, intellectuals and all oppressed sections of our 
country to condemn the unjust war of ruling classes against people and come forward to advance the 
Indian New Democratic Revolution wiping out feudalism, comprador bureaucratic bourgeoisie and 
imperialism.  
 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 
 

