 

 
 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

 

Press Release:  Circa March, 2006 

 
 
Condemn the brutal state-sponsored Salwa Judum terror campaign 

against the Maoists and the revolutionary masses of Chattisgarh! 

 

Our retaliation is only against the police-paramilitary-Congress-

BJP gangster combine that is perpetrating gory massacres of 

innocent adivasis!! 

 
 
  On 28 February, in the attack by the people’s militia and the PLGA  led by CPI(Maoist),  around 25 
Salwa Judum activists were killed near Errabore village in Konta block of Dantewara district. The central 
and state governments, the police bosses, Mahendra Karma—the leader of the criminal gangsters carrying 
on brutal terror in the name of Salwa Judum—and the media unleashed a campaign that the Maoists had 
killed  innocent  adivasis.  Unfortunately  some  civil  rights  organizations  too  fell  prey  to  this  false 
propaganda  and  had  described  the  attack  as  an  attack  on  innocent  tribals  without  even  conducting 
minimum investigation. Though there  were two or three civilians among the dead for which we express 
our  heartfelt  regrets,  our  attack  was  targeted  entirely  against  the  Salwa  Judum  activists  and  the  special 
police forces who have been running amok burning entire villages considered to be the strongholds of the 
Maoists,  destroying  houses  and  property  of  the  activists  of  sangams,  murdering  the  adivasis  who  are 
active  in  the  revolutionary  movement,  raping  women,  forcing  entire  villages  to  be  evacuated  and 
organizing  forced  surrenders  of  the  sangam  members.  In  the  preceding  fortnight  our  heroic  PLGA 
annihilated almost a dozen personnel of the notorious Naga Battalion and injured several more in various 
incidents  in  Dantewara  district.  None  but  the  spokespersons  of  the  exploiting  classes  can  think  that  we, 
the  real  representatives  of  the  adivasis  and  the  oppressed  people,  can  ever  launch  attacks  on  these  very 
same  people.  We  appeal  to  those  genuine  but  misinformed  sections  to  conduct  investigation  at  the 
grassroots level and declare the truth to the world. 
 
 
The irrefutable truth is that the so-called Salwa Judum campaign is not a campaign organized 
by  the  adivasis  for  peace,  not  a  revolt  against  the  Maoists,  but  a  consciously  organized  terror 
campaign  by  the  UPA  government  at  the  Centre  and  the  BJP  government  in  Chattisgarh  and 
directly  led  by  Chief  Minister  Raman  Singh,  Home  Minister  Ramvichar  Netam  and  the  ex-
Congress  Minister  and  opposition  leader,  Mahendra  Karma.  Eight  Battalions  of  central  forces  are 
mustered along with a massive police force in the state to conduct this peace march. Ruias of Essar Steel, 
Tatas,  Mittals  and  several  comprador  houses,  big  contractors  and  the  feudal  forces  had  poured  in  huge 
funds for the campaign. The worst type of anti-social lumpen elements, rapists and murderers who were 
punished  in  the  people’s  courts,  some  tribal  elders  who  had  lost  their  traditional  privileges  due  to  the 
awakening  of  the  adivasis,  the  big  traders,  and  the  people  from  the  villages  that  fall  outside  the 
organizational influence of the Maoists have been mobilized in this brutal war against the adivasis in the 
interior villages that are the strongholds of the Maoists for over two decades. 
 

1 

 

 

The atrocities committed by these criminal gangs are indescribable. During the past nine months since 
 
June, when this state-sponsored terror campaign began, over 60 villages were burnt to ashes and 20,000 
people  were  forced  into  the  concentration  camps  maintained  by  the  government  in  the  name  of  relief 
camps. The plan is to create Vietnam-type strategic hamlets with a view to flush out the fish from water. 
At least 150 adivasis  were murdered in the  most brutal manner by the CRPF-Naga  Force and the Salwa 
Judum  gangs  led  by  Mahendra  karma.  50  women  were  raped.  The  media,  which  today  cries  foul  when 
some Salwa Judum activists are killed by the Maoists, has maintained criminal silence when these savage 
acts were going on. We cite a few of these ghastly crimes committed by the Salwa Judum-police gangs. 
On August 28, Naga Jawans and Judum goondas cut the head of a 12-year-old boy in Aakva village. On 
September 2, they shot dead 10 people, including a 12-year-old boy, who were hiding in the jungle near 
Arial village 2 km from Mirtul. On October 10, a 14-yearold boy, Barsa Sonu, was caught and shot dead 
after brutal torture in Paralnar village by the police. On October 3, they murdered Koval, president of 
Janathana Sarkar of Mankeli village, and abducted his 14-year-old son Raju, whose whereabouts are still 
not known. Even more  gruesome is the murder of two women in the village of Mukavelli. One of them 
was pregnant and the savage police-judum goondas, not content with killing them, tore open the womb of 
the woman and pulled out the foetus. A 1 1/2 –year-old baby nearby was also shot by Insas rifle. One 
Anganwadi  worker,  Soniya,  was  beaten  up  by  the  Naga  Jawans,  tied  up  with  ropes  and  dragged  to  the 
police station. There are several such bizarre stories of police-judum atrocities. If in one village a young 
boy’s head is chopped off and hanged on the door-post of his house, in another village the beheaded body 
of  an  old peasant  is  exhibited  in  the  village  centre,  with  a  note  warning  that  the  same  fate  would  befall 
those  who  do  not  surrender.  Thus,  anyone  suspected  of  being  a  supporter  of  Naxalites  or  a  Sangam 
member is brutally tortured, beaten and in many cases killed. 
 
 
The Salwa Judum is thus a campaign of mass terror conducted with the aim of facilitating the 
plunder  of  the  natural  resources  of  Chattisgarh  by  the  big  comprador  business  houses  and  the 
imperialist  MNCs.  It  is  a  campaign  aimed  at  smashing  the  organs  of  people’s  democratic  power 
popularly  known  as  Janathana  Sarkar  that  have  come  into  existence  in  hundreds  of  villages  in 
Dandakaranya and to reestablish in their place the old oppressive institutions and the exploitation 
by the feudal forces, forest officials, bureaucrats, contractors and the police, which  were uprooted 
by  the  Maoist  movement.  It  is  a  campaign  to  create  divisions  among  the  adivasis  and  pit  one  section 
against the other, to create police informers among the adivasis as the percent support the Maoists enjoy 
among the adivasis has made it almost impossible for the police to undertake their suppression campaigns 
successfully until this day. To hide these real aims they are trying to paint this campaign as one led by the 
adivasis. Mahendra Karma and his gang are as much representative of  adivasis aspirations as the 
neo-liberal Tony Blair and his gang for British labour. And, likewise, the Salwa Judum campaign is 
as much a campaign for peace as is the global campaign of terror unleashed by butcher Bush. Just 
as there are criminals, sadists and deliberate liars who aggressively support Bush’s wars of aggression in 
the name of global peace, so are there criminals, sadists and liars who call this terror campaign of Salwa 
Judum a peace campaign. 
 
 
The dubious role of the media controlled by the big financial barons, is exposed before the people by 
its criminal silence on the atrocities committed by the police-Judum goondas and concoction of lies that 
Salwa Judum is a ‘spontaneous uprising’ of the adivasis and about the alleged killings and abductions by 
the Maoists. The media personnel hold interviews with people in  stage-managed shows  arranged by  the 
police (reminding us of the embedded journalists during US invasion and bombardment of Iraq) in the so-
called  relief  camps  and  churn  out  stories  against  the  Maoists  day  in  day  out.  Depiction  of  the  incidents 
such  as  happened  in  Kotrapal  and  Taadimendry  on  last  June  18  and  19  respectively  as  massacres  by 
Maoists when hardly anyone was killed in these incidents will make even the master liar-Goebbels-turn in 
his grave. 
 

2 

 

 

The  CC,  CPI(Maoist)  calls  upon  the  democratic  organizations  and  individuals  and  the  entire 
 
oppressed  people  of  the  country  to  condemn  the  state-sponsored  Salwa  Judum  terror  campaign  in 
Dantewara, Bastar and Kanker districts of Chattisgarh and to support the just resistance of adivasi masses. 
We  call  upon  the  people  of  these  districts  to  resist  the  Salwa  Judum  goondas  and  the  police  and 
paramilitary who force them to participate in this terror campaign. We appeal to the media to investigate 
the  facts  and  not  base  on  the  lies  and  stories  fabricated  by  the  police,  paramilitary  and  Raman  Singh 
government that will only encourage and justify their brutal terror campaign. We warn once again that our 
retaliatory  actions  and  defense  war  will  further  intensify  if  the  police,  paramilitary  and  Salwa  Judum 
goondas do not stop their mass terror. It is the central and state governments that are entirely responsible 
for the bloody consequences. 
 
Ganapathi, 
General Secretary, 
CC(P), CPI(Maoist). 
 
 
 

[From: People’s March, vol. 7, #5, May-June 2006, pp. 35 & 34.] 

 

 

3 

