COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

May 10, 2012 

Revolutionary Greetings from CPI (Maoist)  

To the NPA for seizing 66 weapons in the Butuan Raid 
The New People’s Army Front under Front 4 under the NPA North Central Mindanao Command 
successfully conducted a raid on an arms storage facility being maintained by a security agency in Butuan 
City in the Mindanao island of Philippines on April 22, 2012 and seized 66 assorted high-powered firearms. 
CPI (Maoist) congratulates the NPA commanders and the red fighters for conducting this successful raid. 
The caché of firearms seized by the NPA is composed mostly of AK-47 assault rifles, several sniper rifles 
and hand pistols. 

NPA  seized  these  modern  weapons  from  the  Earthsaver  Security  Agency’s  office  that  the  mining 
companies had established in Barangay Libertad, Butuan City. This brave raid enthused the people and the 
revolutionary forces of Philippines a lot. This raid served as a model to the NPA forces all over Philippines. 
The  people  and  the  NPA  hailed  the  NPA  forces  in  the  North  Central  Mindanao  Command.  Many  young 
women  and  men  who  were  motivated  by  this  raid  are  coming  forward  to  join  NPA.  They  are  readying 
themselves to advance the armed agrarian revolution in their country. Our party, the CPI (Maoist) is sharing 
this  elation  along  with  you.  This  incident  very  much  inspired  the  advancing  revolutionary  movements  in 
Philippines, India, Turkey and other countries.  

In the past few years, the NPA revolutionary guerillas led by the Communist Party of Philippines 
conducted  hundreds  of  tactical  counter  offensives  on  the  counter-revolutionary  police  (APP)  and  military 
forces  (AFP).  They  seized  hundreds  of  weapons.  These  offensives  played  a  crucial  role  in  advancing  the 
People’s  War  in  Philippines.  At  present,  the  Philippines  revolution  is  striving  to  advance  in  a  planned 
manner from the stage of strategic self-defence to the stage of strategic stalemate. The NPA revolutionary 
forces conducted the Butuan raid as part of this. Within a few days of this incident, on April 25, 2012, in a 
brave ambush conducted by the NPA in Ifugao, eleven soldiers including battalion operations officer of the 
86th  Infantry  Battalion  were  wiped  out.  This  is  another  big  blow  to  the  Philippines  Army  this  year.  At 
present, it is necessary to conduct many more tactical counter-offensives like the above for the advance of 
Philippines revolution as part of the World Socialist Revolution. 

Comrade Mao has repeatedly taught us that wiping out the enemy and seizing of weapons play the 
most crucial role in establishing the New Democratic society by overthrowing the exploiting society. The 
task of the revolutionaries all over the world who are following the path of Protracted People’s War is to 
wipe out the enemy in huge numbers on the one hand and on the other hand build revolutionary people’s 
armies with the weapons seized from the enemy forces, train them, further advance the People’s War and 
establish alternative people’s political power. Through such raids we must build the people’s political power, 
strengthen it and expand it. Our party is sending revolutionary greetings to the NPA and CPP for placing a 
model  in  front  of  the  world  revolutionaries  through  this  Butuan  Raid.  Communist  revolutionary  parties, 
groups and revolutionaries following the path of People’s War formulated by Comrade Mao would definitely 
advance  forward  by  emulating  the  model  of  Butuan  Raid  and  taking up  several  tactical  counter-offensive 
campaigns.  

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

