 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

September 20, 2012 

Condemn US Cultural Imperialism Hurting  
Religious Sentiments of the Muslims Worldwide 

 

A  video  film  named  ‘Innocence  of  Muslims’  made  in  the  USA  by  a  team  of  anti-Muslim 
reactionary Christian religious jingoists and made available on various video-sharing sites in the Web hurt 
the religious sentiments of the Muslims worldwide by insulting the Prophet. This led to massive protests 
by  Muslims  all  over  the  world  cutting  across  regions  starting  from  Libya,  Tunisia  and  spreading  to 
Thailand, Indonesia, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Kashmir to India, and particularly in North Africa, West Asia 
and  the  Arab  World.  The  CC,  CPI  (Maoist)  is  strongly  condemning  this  cultural  onslaught  of  the  US 
imperialists on the religious sentiments of the Muslims and demands unconditional apology from the US 
government and makers of the film to the Muslims all over the world.  

Since 9/11, the US imperialism has been increasingly targeting the Muslims all over the world in 
the name of so-called ‘War on Terror’ and this offensive has not only been in the political, military and 
economic spheres but also in social and cultural spheres. This cultural imperialism of the US and its allies 
ranges  from  rabid  Christian  religious  chauvinism  and  the  horrors  of  the  Abu  Ghraib  type  tortures  to 
insulting the Prophet and the Quran and other religious symbols of Muslims in cartoons and films in the 
name of freedom of expression. This cultural onslaught is aimed at maiming the psyche of the Muslims 
and making them feel inferior so that they would not resist the imperialist aggression and raise against the 
atrocities committed on them as part of the so-called ‘War on Terror’. But the US imperialists gravely 
miscalculated. Every insult that is being intended to break the Muslims is boomeranging into a massive 
protest. Accordingly, the above film has given rise to the biggest protests the world has ever witnessed 
over  a  cultural  issue  ranging  from  huge  demonstrations,  protest  marches,  destruction  and  burning  US 
flags, property and other symbols to attacks on US embassies and killing of their diplomats. 

One  must  understand  that  this  unprecedented  pouring  of  anger  is  not  just  in  response  to  the 
insulting of the Prophet, but is also part of the pent up hatred against all kinds of atrocities committed by 
the  US  imperialists  on  the  Muslim  population,  particularly  in  Iraq,  Afghanistan  and  Pakistan  and  its 
blatant support to the atrocities on Palestinians by the Zionist Israel. These protests should be seen in a 
broad sense as part of the anti-imperialist struggles being waged by the people all over the world in all 
spheres  including  culture  and  not  just  as  protests  by  a  religious  community  concerning  an  exclusively 
religious  issue.  The  wars  of  aggression  US  and  NATO  waged  to  occupy  the  countries  and  grab  oil 
resources in the gulf region and the neo-colonial exploitation and plunder of the resource rich Arab and 
North African countries are the main reason behind the hatred for the US. This assumed religious tones 
chiefly due to the premeditated and deliberate anti-Islam propaganda and measures taken by the US to 
break the resistance of the overwhelmingly Muslim majority population in these countries.   

The comprador ruling classes in power in the countries where these protests are raging, true to 
their character, are trying to suppress the protestors with bullets, tear gas, lathi charges, and arrests. Since 
decades these ruling classes have been running dogs of the imperialists on the one hand and on the other 

die-hard  dictators  over  their  own  people.  Even  as  US  drones  are  pounding  the  Afghan  villages  and 
killings innocent people on a daily basis and the entire Muslim world is erupting in protest against the US 
cultural onslaught in the form of this film, Karzai is issuing statements that the ‘War on Terror’ must go 
on  and  pleading  with  Obama  not  to  wage  this  war  in  Afghan  villages.  Such  puppets  are  equally 
responsible  for  the  innumerable  atrocities  being  committed  on  the  Muslims  all  over  the  world  by  the 
imperialists.  They  will  never  uphold  the  dignity  of  the  Muslim  people  in  the  face  of  such  cultural 
onslaughts  and  would  instead  suppress  them.  It  is  for  the  people  to  expose  the  true  faces  of  these 
collaborators.  

Stunned by the scale of protests the US government belatedly spent more than 70,000 dollars on 
advertisements featuring Obama and Hillary Clinton giving messages that US had always respected all 
religious faiths in a futile attempt to stem the torrent of anger. In the first place, the film was not made by 
some individual due to his whims and fancies. It is but an integral part of the entire gamut of anti-Islam 
propaganda that the US government and its allies have sponsored, supported and encouraged overtly and 
covertly as part of the ‘War on Terror’. It is but the current instance of a series of intentional acts to insult 
like the burning of the Quran in Afghanistan by US soldiers. If not for this backdrop, such films would 
not have been so easily made nor found their way to release.  

Taking into consideration the huge surveillance system of the US government, believing that the 
US government was ignorant about the making of this film or its release would at best be innocence and 
at worst pure deception of self. Even after massive protests the US government has still not taken any 
steps to arrest the filmmakers, to stop its release or cared to issue an apology to the Muslims. It is trying 
to  buy  time  and  deceive  people  by  issuing  namesake  and  vague  condemnations  and  statements  about 
respecting  all  religious  faiths.  History  bears  witness  to  the  opposite.  Moreover  it  is  sending  its  troops 
directly into countries like Libya violating their sovereignty on the pretext of protecting its citizens from 
the protestors.  

The Muslim population is not so inexperienced with the malicious tricks of the US imperialism so 
as not to see through the ruse and that is why with each passing day peaceful as well as violent protests 
are erupting all over the world against the US and its Western allies. The irresponsible and callous attitude 
of the Western imperialists, the imperialist era Neros, towards Muslim religious sentiments can be gauged 
from the fact that even as the world is burning over the film, a magazine published 20 cartoons insulting 
the Prophet in France and it close down its embassies in 20 countries as a forewarning. With leaders like 
Hassan  Nasrallah  of  Lebanon  with  a  reputation  for  having  successfully  resisted  a  US-backed  Israeli 
invasion of Lebanon and having anti-imperialist credentials calling for fresh and wide protests against the 
insulting of the Prophet, the world is witnessing fresh waves of protests.  

Every secular-minded person and democrat must participate in these protests and condemn the 
cultural imperialism of the US and the European imperialists particularly targeting the followers of Islam. 
Hurting religious sentiments is but one part of this cultural imperialism. The various other tentacles of this 
cultural imperialist octopus that is trying to strangle the native culture (languages, dialects, eating habits, 
attire, housing – what not?) in Asia, Africa and Latin American countries must be exposed as part of the 
protests. Along with demanding an unconditional apology from the US government and the film makers, 
these protests must turn into broad anti-imperialist struggles, particularly against the US imperialism that 
is targeting the Muslims in the third world to further its geo-political interests and to grab the oil and other 
natural resources of those countries.  

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, CPI (Maoist) 

