 

 

 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

DANDAKARANYA SPECIAL ZONAL COMMITTEE 

 

 

Press Release April 28, 2009 

 

Red salutes to the fighting masses who boycotted the sham elections 

confronting the state’s wide-spread violence and repression! 

 
 
 
The first phase of the 15th  Lok  Sabha polls  has  come to an end. As far as Chattisgarh  is  concerned 
polling has been completed for all the 11 seats in the state. It is to be noted that of the 124 constituencies 
for which polling was conducted in the first phase of elections on April 16, the majority are the areas of 
Maoist people’s war. The media, which relentlessly boasts that our country is “the biggest democracy in 
the world’ and that these sham elections are the “the biggest chapter of the democracy’, maintained a deep 
silence  regarding  state  violence,  especially  on  the  people  of  the  struggle  areas.  And  it  limited  itself  to 
publish  the  news  of  the  ‘violence’  of  the  Maoists.  Actually  in  Chattisgarh,  in  keeping  view  of  the 
elections, 250 additional companies have been sent in addition to the already existing thousands of police 
and  paramilitary  forces.  80  percent  of  these  forces  have  been  deployed  in  our  struggle  areas  only.  In 
Gadchiroli district of Maharashtra, an additional 25 companies of Para-military forces were deployed. It 
is clear that the sole aim of deploying the forces on such a large scale is to foil the ‘election boycott’ and 
to  make  desperate  attempts  to  retain  the  steadily  sagging  image  of  so-called  parliamentary  democracy. 
With this aim, the state’s armed forces committed innumerable atrocities on the fighting masses. Many 
people were killed in fake encounters. Many villages were raided and houses burnt down. In many places 
women were gang-raped. The irony is that all these happened in the name of conducting the elections in 
an ‘impartial’ and ‘peaceful’ manner. What better example can one give to understand the notorious and 
repressive history of this fake democracy? 
 
In  Gadchiroli  district  of  Maharashtra,  the  local  police,  C-60  Commandos  and  the  Central  Para-
 
military forces have unleashed brutal attacks on the people and carried out a suppression campaign on a 
large  scale  in  the  name  of  ‘operation  parakram’.  The  ‘operation  parakram’  was  in  fact  a  campaign  of 
gang  rape  of  women  and  the  murders  of  innocent  tribals  in  the  name  of  encounters.  According  to  the 
reports available till now, 10 tribal women were gang-raped by the state’s forces. In Pavarvel village, one 
woman was gang raped by five police men and later sent to jail by branding her as a ‘naxalite’. She was 
threatened to keep mum. 
 
  On  March  23,  the  beasts  of  C-60  Commando  force  under  the  leadership  of  notorious  SI  Munna 
Thakur entered the Hallepal village of Manpur area in Chattisgarh, and gang raped a woman. In the first 
week of March one Sukku, a resident of Goddalvai village in Dhanora tehsil was killed in cold blood and 
announced that one naxal commander was killed in an ‘encounter’ that lasted for an hour-and-half. In fact 

Sukku  was  a  young  tribal  and  ordinary  resident  of  that  village.  Apart  from  this,  dozens  of  tribals  from 
many villages were arrested and sent to jail under false cases. 
 
  According  to  the  decision  taken  in  the  meeting  of  the  Chief  Ministers  of  four  States  in  Delhi  in 
February,  a  joint  operation  was  started  in  Maharashtra  and  Chattisgarh.  Under  this,  thousands  of 
additional armed forces were deployed in Rajnandgaon  and Kanker districts of Chattisgarh. New camps 
were  opened  in  Panabaras,  Vasidi,  Khadgav,  Kandaadi  and  Sitagav  of  Mohala-Manpur  areas  in 
Rajnandgaon  and  Kapsi  and  Kodapadha  in  Kanker  districts,  by  deploying  hundreds  of  armed  forces. 
These  state  forces  are  touring  the  villages  in  the  name  of  patrolling  and  are  creating  terror  amongst  the 
people.  Misbehaving  with  women  and  looting  poultry  and  liquor  from  the  villagers  has  become  a 
common  feature.  With  the  approach  of  the  elections,  the  cycle  of  repression  has  further  increased 
throughout Dandakaranya. The police raided the Kulli village of Badgaav area in Kanker  district (North 
Bastar) on 27th March 2009 and burnt down the house and barn of Mr. Mansingh, a peasant. On the same 
day they raided Katnar village of Koilbeda area and beat up the villagers and arrested 10. On April 5, in 
Lohar village of Koilbeda area they created terror and severely beat up 9 villagers. Many people left their 
houses  and  ran  away  to  the  forest  after  seeing  the  police  forces.  Police  broke  the  locks  and  looted  the 
houses also. Due to the merciless beatings of the police, a 60 year old tribal peasant, Sammu Darro, met 
with  an  instantaneous  death.  Police  left  the  deceased  there  itself.  The  ruling  classes,  which  make  big 
claims  of  conducting  ‘free’  and  ‘impartial’  elections  are  in  fact  spreading  violence,  murders,  rapes  and 
terror. 
 
 
In  spite  of  this  extensive  terror  created  by  the  state’s  forces,  the  people,  especially  in  our  struggle 
areas, took part in ‘poll boycott’ on large scale by rejecting this fake parliamentary democracy. In Bastar 
constituency  there  was  not  a  single  vote  polled  in  almost  50  polling  centers.  In  spite  of  the  presence  of 
hundreds of police forces not a single vote was polled in Gollapalli of South Bastar and in Kishtaram only 
2 votes were polled. In Kanker and Rajnandgaon areas also, majority of the people boycotted the polls in 
our  struggle  areas.  In  fact,  the  government  itself  changed  the  86  polling  centers  in  Dantewada,  Bijapur 
and Narayanapur to road side villages. During the repolling at 25 centres on 27 April many people did not 
vote.  In  2  centers  zero  percent  polling  was  recorded.  Wherever  the  polling  took  place,  the  state’s 
repressive  forces  had  the  main  ‘role’  in  it.  The  people  who  refused  to  vote  were  threatened  that  they 
would be killed by branding them as naxalites, that ration supplies to the villages would be stopped, and 
that  they  will  not  be  allowed  into  weekly  bazaars  and  so  on.  People  made  the  poll  boycott  campaign  a 
success  without  heeding  these  threats.  The  same  state’s  forces  slaughtered  the  democratic  right  of  the 
people not to vote. There were many instances of thrashing of people to make them vote. In spite of all 
this, people accepted the alternative of building the revolutionary people’s power by boycotting these fake 
elections. Our Special Zonal Committee, Dandakaranya offers its red salutes to all the fighting masses. 
 
  On  the  occasion  of  the  elections  our  PLGA  made  heroic  attacks  on  terrorist  ……  armed  forces  by 
braving  the  state  repression.  Especially  through  accomplishing  actions  like  Chintagupha,  Maruki, 
Mungner, Bijapur and annihilating the murderer like Channuram Karma the PLGA tried its best to protect 
the  people  from  the  murderous  attacks  of  the  enemy  forces.  On  this  occasion  we  red  salute  to  heroic 
commanders and red soldiers. 
 
  We express our regrets for the sorrowful incident at Kamkasur in which five innocent civilians 
were killed 
 
  With the intention of punishing the terrorist police and para-military forces one of our PLGA’s units 
planned  an  attack  near  Kamkasur  which  falls  under  Khadgaon  area  of  Rajnandgaon  district.  But  by 
mistake our comrades blew up a vehicle which was carrying employees on election duty instead of police. 
In this incident five innocent people were killed and two seriously injured. They were mainly forest and 
education  department  employees.  According  to  the  information  we  received  from  the  concerned 

committee, there  was a  grave mistake on part of our comrades in  identifying the  vehicle  and the people 
traveling in it. We express our deep sorrow and sympathy to the families and friends of the bereaved. And 
we  also  wish  the  speedy  recovery  of  the  injured.  We  request,  from  the  bottom  of  our  hearts,  the  entire 
people of Chattisgarh to forgive us for this grave mistake. We promise to take all precautions not to repeat 
this  type  of  incidents  in  future.  We  also  promise  to  train  our  comrades  in  this  direction.  And  also  we 
condemn the mis-propaganda of the government that we killed the people deliberately. 
 
 

 

(Gudsa Usendi) 
Spokes Person 
Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee 
CPI (Maoist) 
 

 

 

[From: CPI(Maoist) Information Bulletin, #8, May 15, 2009, pp. 48-50.] 

