 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

 

 
Press Release: April 8, 2010 
 
Hail the daring and the biggest ever guerrilla attack on the hired 
mercenaries of the Indian State carried out by the heroic PLGA 
guerrillas in Chhattisgarh! 
 
Sonia-Manmohan-Chidambaram-Pranab gang is solely responsible 
for the loss of lives of CRPF jawans used as cannon-fodder in their 
dirty war on behalf of a tiny parasitic corporate elite!! 
 
 
The heroic PLGA guerrillas led by the CPI (Maoist) have created history by wiping out an entire 
Company of the central paramilitary force in Dantewada district of Chhattisgarh. The PLGA had wiped 
out over 80 CRPF mercenaries—a part of the huge armed mercenary force of over 60 battalions sent by 
Chidambaram to Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Orissa, West Bengal, Bihar and Maharashtra to carry out the 
genocide of adivasis. Several more mercenaries were injured in India’s biggest ever guerrilla attack till 
date. A huge cache of highly sophisticated arms and ammunition was seized from these mercenaries that 
include mortars and LMGs. The CC, CPI (Maoist) sends its heartiest revolutionary greetings to the brave 
warriors of PLGA who have given a fitting reply to fraud Chidambaram and nailed his unabashed naked 
lie that his brutal Operation Green Hunt is a myth invented by the media. 
 
The Dantewada ambush is a logical culmination of the unending terrible provocation by the uniformed 
goondas sent by Chidambaram and Raman Singh to the adivasi areas to create a brutal reign of terror. In 
just eight months, 114 innocent unarmed adivasi people were abducted, tortured and murdered in cold 
blood by these uniformed goondas.Several women were gang-raped by these lawless goons. Neither they 
nor their khadi-clad bosses have any respect for the Indian Constitution. They have an unwritten licence 
to abduct, torture, rape and murder any adivasi or Maoist without any questions being asked. This 
dehumanization of the police and paramilitary forces is consciously encouraged by Chidambaram, Raman 
Singh, Vishwa Ranjan and others, notwithstanding their holy chants of peace and ahimsa. Behind their 
sophisticated-looking rhetoric lie the raw, beastly, cannibalistic passions that devour human beings for 
establishing their absolute control over the resources and lives of the people. Their vision goes no farther 
than that of a local daroga, as aptly pointed out by a JD (U) spokesperson referring to Chidambaram. And 
their tactics fare no better than those of a street rowdy. As long as their fascist mind-set refuses to see 
the socio-politico-economic roots of Naxalism and continue to treat it as a disease or a problem 
while the oppressed people see it increasingly as a remedy and a solution to their problems, 
Dantewada-type attacks will continue to take place at an even greater frequency and intensity. 
 
The atrocities committed by these forces, along with the state-sponsored Salwa Judum goons, Koya 
commandos and SPOs in Dantewada and Bijapur, make one shudder (leaving out Chidambaram and his 

 

1 

 

animal species of cobras, jaguars, greyhounds etc) with horror and repugnance. Besides tales of unending 
abductions, horrifying torture, gruesome gang-rapes, and ghastly massacres of ordinary adivasis, the so-
called “security forces” have kept in their illegal custody at least 20-30 adivasis from every village. 
Whenever they feel the need to show some success over the Maoists in terms of body count some of these 
hapless adivasi captives are bumped off with the claim that the “security forces” had killed Maoist 
guerrillas in “fierce encounters”. And to prove their claim to the world these Chidambaran liars put on 
military uniforms on the dead bodies of poor adivasis. With such a bizarre drama enacted by those 
supposed to be the guardians of law, then what other option do the Maoists and the adivasi masses have 
but to retaliate for their own self-defence? 
 
Now the war-mongering hawks in the Union Home Ministry and various state governments, the political 
leaders and spokespersons of the parliamentary parties, the so-called defence analysts, police top brass 
and their agents employed in the media are yelling that an all-out war should be declared and the Maoists 
should be wiped out. The fact is, an all-out war has already been declared and executed in the most 
ruthless manner. What these vultures want is perhaps bombing of entire areas under Maoist control and 
achieving the peace of the graveyard. If they indulge in such mindless barbaric acts, the Maoist 
revolutionary counter-violence will take on new and deadly forms which these apologists 
of state terror and state-sponsored terror cannot even imagine. 
 
The BJP and its saffron gang of Hindu fascist terrorists have been yelling like lunatics that Maoists had 
declared a war on India and that the BJP would endorse every move of the Congress to finish off the 
Maoists. In reply to these saffron terrorist gangsters we assert once again that ours is a war waged by the 
real India—the India of the oppressed, suppressed and depressed sections of society; the India of the 
hungry, impoverished, undernourished masses—against the India that shines for a handful of parasitic 
corporate elites, imperialist agents deriving enormous commissions and kickbacks through nefarious 
deals, real estate mafia gangs who grab the land of the poor in the name of SEZs and various projects, 
unscrupulous contractors and mining syndicates who run a parallel state, horribly corrupt and degenerate 
political leaders and bureaucrats, licensed murderers in police uniforms who are infamous for the worst 
crimes against humanity, and such other traitors. Ours is a revolutionary war on the saffron gang of 
terrorists who are armed to the teeth and dream of transforming our country into a Hindu fascist state by 
enacting Gujarat-type genocides of religious minorities. Ours is a genuine People’s War for achieving the 
real liberation of the people from all types of oppression and exploitation, and to establish a genuine 
people’s democratic India. It is not a war on India but a war for the liberation of India from the clutches of 
rapacious plunderers. 
 
The sole responsibility for the death of the CRPF men in Dantewada lies with Sonia-Man Mohan-
Chidambaram-Pranab gang and the saffron terrorist Raman Singh regime in Chhattisgarh who are 
recruiting young boys and girls in a massive way and using them as cannon-fodder in their dirty counter-
revolutionary war against Maoist revolutionaries, against the Maoist model of development, and in their 
greed hunt for the mineral wealth of the adivasi regions. The CC, CPI (Maoist), while offering its heart-
felt condolences to the bereaved families of the dead jawans, appeals to the state and central paramilitary 
personnel to realize that they are being used as cannon-fodder in this war waged by the exploiting ruling 
class in the interests of a tiny parasitic elite against the poor and oppressed people of our country led by 
CPI (Maoist). 
 
We appeal to all peace-loving, democratic-minded organizations and individuals in India to understand 
the context in which the Maoists are compelled to annihilate the so-called security forces who are creating 
a virtual reign of terror in adivasi areas armed with mortars, LMGs and grenades. When dacoits try to 
loot your house you have to fight back. And that is what the masses led by the Maoists are doing in 
all these areas. When the CRPF dacoits enter and loot the houses of adivasis is it not justified to hit 
back? The daring attack by our heroic PLGA on a superior enemy force in terms of fire-power became 

 

2 

 

possible through the enormous mass support the Party and guerrillas enjoy. With the intelligence inputs 
from the people who are our eyes and ears and with their active participation we are confident of 
defeating the brutal enemy offensive in the name of Operation Green Hunt. There is no short-cut for 
achieving peace. Only the most ferocious, most resolute, and the most heroic resistance on the part 
of the people can defeat the warmongers and bring democratic space and peace for the people.  
 
Azad,  
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee,  
CPI (Maoist) 
 
 

 

3 

