Parliamentary Democracy is an illusion for the masses! 

Revolution is their Reality! 

To be radical is to grasp the root of the matter. 
--Marx  

 

Once  again  the  great  Indian  fraud  is  on—the  spectacle  of  the  farce  of  parliamentary  elections.  Even 
apologists of parliamentary democracy in India are quick to call it the most fragmented election ever to be 
fought. In this make believe world of the so-called largest ‘democracy’, even those who vouch by the system 
is  not  ready  to  say  who  their  friends/foes  are  in  this  sham  of  representation.  And  this  wisdom  of  the 
predicament ahead or the predicament of the wisdom of parliamentary ‘democracy’ in 21st century India is 
best summed up by none other than Lalu Prasad—one of the PMs in waiting—when he wryly observes that 
“when  all of us want  to  win  why contest separately?” If in  the pre-poll scenario  the running theme is the 
wisdom of Lalu to avoid multi-corner contests and hence fragmentation of votes, then the circus of musical 
chair that ensue the post poll scenario is as fluid as the craving needs of an abusive drunkard short of money. 
Anyone who has more than thirty seats in the next Lok Sabha elections will be a strong contender for the 
PM’s post in the dog-eat-dog world of Parliamentary politics. 
  
Fully aware of the complete loss of face of a process that has hardly evoked confidence in the average citizen 
of the ‘republic’ all  the  parliamentary parties right from  Congress, BJP to the parliamentary  ‘Marxists’ are 
harping on the need for every citizen to cast their vote failing which they are set for doom. The electronic 
and print media are abuzz with a variety of advertisements exhorting every voter the need to utilize a non-
existent  weapon—their  vote.  Thousands  of  crores  are  being  spent  by  central  and  state  governments, 
politicians  and money  bags to  instil a sense of urgency and belonging in  every  voter as if their ‘right’ vote 
would lift the sinking ship—the Indian republic. Sixty years after the transfer of power by the British to their 
servile counterparts in the subcontinent it has become inevitable for the comprador Indian ruling classes to 
conjure  up  some  legitimacy  among  the  masses,  every  five  years,  under  the  smokescreen  of  elections  for 
their right to loot and plunder. 
 
Elections or the politics of charcha, parcha and kharcha 
Official estimate of expenditure on  present  elections is a whopping Rs.10000 crores.  This does not include 
the  advertisements  indulged  in  by  various  ruling  parties  using  the  people’s  money.  A  cursory  look  at  the 
recently concluded elections to Kashmir assembly shows how much money is illegally routed by the state to 
manufacture consent from a people who have been consistently raising their voice for  Azadi. It is an open 
secret that every new aspirant candidate in J &K was given ten lakh rupees by the Indian state. The Election 
Commission, a  toothless  wonder, can do  little is evident when  we look into  the last  assembly  elections in 
Karnataka. Media reported that on an average each candidate of the BJP, Congress and JD (S) spent in their 
regions at least 5-6 crores. Most notably, for nine seats in the iron ore rich Bellary district and in almost all 
urban centres money spent by each candidate was to the tune of 15-18 crores. A conservative estimate of 
major  contenders  in  all  the  224  constituencies  put  the  expenditure  at  a  massive  Rs.4000  crores.  The  big 
mining mafia of Bellary along with the real estate dons played a key role in bankrolling thousands of crores 
for the BJP. The real estate dons also became candidates for the BJP.  Besides, liquor also played a key role in 
inducing voters from the economically and socially weaker sections.  
 
In AP, just before the  day  of  declaration  of  election  schedule, the loyal babus of YSR  government  worked 
through  the night  at  the secretariat  literally  burning the midnight oil  with  lights off  to sign 3000  predated 
GOs doling out benefits to various sections. Not to be left behind the techno savvy former CM Chandrababu 
raised the jackpot by dishing out 1 crore colour TVs to the poor besides several such sops.  So much for the 
triumph of the Indian democratic process! 
 

 The  dubious  role  of  black  money  and  money  bags  in  the  every  day  life  of  the  great  Indian  democracy  is 
evident  from  the  number  of  scams  that  have  graced  parliament  since  80s:  Lakhubhai  Pathak  cheating 
scandal,  Bofors  Scandal,  St.  Kitts  forgery  scandal,  JMM  bribery  scandal,  hawala  scandal,  telecom  scam, 
coffingate, defence procurement scandal, cash for query scam, MPLADS scam, human trafficking scam, cash 
for vote scam. Due to want of space one is restrained to go into further details. 
 

The Parliamentary Marxists 
The most dubious role in legitimising the farce of parliamentary process lies with the so-called ‘mainstream’ 
left. The CPI participated in elections even before the transfer of power, gaining British colonial legitimacy. 
They  have since graduated  from  being reformist to  ruling class parties with  the CPI  (M) turning into social 
fascists. Their new partner this time is CPI (ML) (Liberation) the entrant to the electoral fray in the early 80s. 
Notwithstanding their radical pretensions they stand exposed as the most degenerate as they keep changing 
their partners in their eagerness to feel the gaddi. Liberation which made a song and dance of the CPI and 
CPM for their servility to imperialists and comprador big business houses like the Tatas, Jindals, Dove etc by 
brutally  suppressing  the  people’s  protests  and  handing  over  land  and  wealth  to  these  sharks  in  Singur, 
Nandigram, Salboni, Lalgarh etc. has joined hands with the same parties in Bihar to fight elections! Liberation 
had tried similar truck desperately with SP, LJP and even RJD in Bihar before.  
 
But  for  the  support  of  the  social  fascists  the  imperialist  stooge  Manmohan  Singh  could  not  have  passed 
several  anti-people  policies  and  anti-national  acts  in  the  parliament.  Thus  after  four  years  of  hobnobbing 
with the UPA they had to pull out to save the last straw of eyewash of opposing the UPA in the nuclear deal. 
The  third  front  that  they  managed  with  all  crooks  and  gangsters  like  Chandrababu  Naidu,  Mayawati  and 
Jayalalitha, Deve Gowda will collapse due to its own contradictions as the race to the government formation 
starts.  The  politics  of  convenient  alliances  just  to  get  to  the  gaddi  or  to  be  a  dominant  partner  has  really 
brought out the opportunistic and anti-people nature of the parliamentary left—even their anti-communal 
pretensions.  When  it  comes  to  the  real  problems  of  the  people  their  subservience  to  imperialist  interests 
have hardly made them different from the Congress and BJP.  
 
The emerging scenario 
Whether  it is the Congress  led  UPA  with or  without the support of CPM or the erstwhile BJP led  NDA, all 
combinations  of  the  parliamentary  circus  have—a  mute  testimony  of  their  comprador  nature—very 
faithfully  implemented  the  Structural  Adjustment  Programme  (SAP)  dictated  by  the  IMF  and  WB 
euphemistically called LPG. The outcome of this ‘shining India’ is for everyone to see.     
 
As the world economy is reeling under the worst ever crisis since the Great Depression, India has been ever 
more deeply embedded in the imperialist web, particularly the US which has hit the nadir with the largest 
budget and trade deficits, the dollar hitting an all time low. The dominance of foreign capital is more than 
ever before.  Even  the  smallest trough  in  the Western  economies has deep  repercussions in  a semi-feudal, 
semi-colonial  country  like  India  as  40  percent  of  her  GDP  comes  from  exports  and  imports.  The  stock 
exchanges that are in the vice like grip of FIIs have been devastated. With the FIIs withdrawing $ 13 billion 
(Rs. 62,880 crores) from the country in 2008 investors in the Indian stock market lost Rs.36,50,000 crores in 
nine months. The ninety percent drop in real estate stocks and 80 percent in Mutual Funds where much of 
middle-class savings are put have further worsened the crisis.  
 
In the equity of the comprador big business houses, share of foreign capital has gone up from an average of 
about 6  percent  to  about  25  percent.  Even  for its credit,  the bulk of big  business is dependent on  foreign 
borrowings  (in  the  form  of  ECBs,  etc)  as  interest  rates  are  much  less  abroad.  The  bourgeois  media  has 
unequivocally  pointed  out  that  total  investor  wealth,  in  terms  of  market  capitalization,  of  all  limited 
companies  together  dipped  from  Rs.73,00,000  crore  in  Jan  2008  to  Rs.36,50,000  crore  in  Oct.2008.  Since 
then it has dropped further. Today, half of the 2,699 quoted companies are below the book value. For the 

first  time  in  15  years  industrial  output  fell  by  0.5  percent  in  January  2009.  The  signature  Indian  economy 
such as the car market, export industry (leather, textiles,), IT and ITES have slumped drastically.  

The learned PM and the erudite FM have sought to take us deeper into the vortex of the imperialist beast as 
they  reduced  the  restrictions  on  Participatory  Notes,  raised  the  interest  rates  on  NRI  loans; increased  the 
equity  capital  allowed  in  insurance  from  26  to  49  percent;  allowed  the  take-over  of  India’s  largest 
pharmaceutical company, Ranbaxy, by a Japanese TNC; the list lingers. The policies being adopted—be it the 
Congress,  BJP,  CPM,  TDP  R/JD,  BSP,  SP,  AGP,  NC  or  any  of  their  ilk—are  nothing  but  a  prescription  for 
disaster for the people of this subcontinent, a prop for the imperialists (and their comprador agents within 
the country) to help them shift the burden of their crisis on the peoples of the backward countries like India. 

 
Agrarian distress—awaiting a social explosion 
The violent brutality of the policy of LPG consummates in the story of more than 180000 peasants who have 
committed  suicide  in  the  last  ten  years  due  to  the  mounting  agrarian  crisis  when  the  Vajpayees  and 
Manmohans  were  shamelessly  pedalling  the  story  of  ‘Shining  India’.  Annual  growth  rate  in  agricultural 
production  has  further  dipped  from  3.8  percent  in  2006-07  to  2.6  percent  in  2007-08  owing  to  criminal 
neglect ala India Shining where prime agricultural land is allotted for the  real estate bubble and bio-diesel 
production. Centre’s expenditure on agriculture has fallen by 20 percent between 1990-91 and 2004-05; on 
irrigation and flood control by 15 percent. The neglect of various governments is despite the fact agriculture 
still provides 70 percent of employment while the service sector which accounts for 55 percent of the GDP 
gives  only  a paltry  0.5  percent  of employment.  This  shift in  priority  is also  in  the interest of multinational 
agri-based industries that have seen a burgeoning market in the world food crisis. Today over 70 percent of 
our people live in the rural areas in utter backwardness and penury weighed down by varied forms of feudal, 
semi-feudal  and  now  ‘modern’  forms  of  exploitation  and  loot.  As  per  a  study  sixty  years  of  the  ‘largest 
democracy’ have done little to over 77 percent of the population who live on Rs. 20/day on average. 
 
Land grab, displacement and destruction in the name of development 
The  600  odd  SEZs  which  are  all  set  to  grab  a  massive  1750  sq  km  of  land  will  displace  1.14  lakh  farming 
households  and  82000  labouring  households  i.e.  a  minimum  of  one  million  people  thus  pushing  the  rural 
population to the brink. Further, hundreds of thousands of MoUs on mining,  mega-dams, super highways, 
etc. signed with imperialist and comprador capital is nothing but total sell out of valuable resources of the 
people  while  displacing  lakhs  and  lakhs  of  them  from  their  livelihoods.  The  opening  up  of  the  huge  retail 
market  in  India  for  multinational  retail  giants  like  Walmart  will  displace  4-6  lakh  families  from  their 
livelihoods.  
 
Fleecing the people  
The masses are the worst hit under the policies of LPG. In these two decades all political parties blamed each 
other  for  the  ills  of  the  economy  while  faithfully  implementing  policies  of  LPG  without  any  discontinuity 
which  saw  the  rich  getting  richer  and  the  lives  of  the  poor  going  from  bad  to  worse.  The  policy  of 
industrialization tailor made for the coffers of the comprador bourgeoisie have largely concentrated incomes 
in  a few hands of  top  promoters and majority  shareholders.  The share of corporate sector in  the national 
income shot through the roof as it rose by 290 percent in the last five years.    
 
This  model  of  development  has  created  billionaires  like  Mukesh  Ambanis,  one  lakh  millionaires  and  a 
parasitic upper class eating off the crumbs of the super rich. India has the dubious distinction of having the 
largest  number  of  poor  in  the  world  while  at  the  same  time  also  housing  the  second  largest  number  of 
billionaires.  
 
The  rupee declined  by  as  much  as 15  percent  in  the few weeks ending October 2008.  If we also  take into 
account retail prices especially of basic necessities, the double digit inflation that was persistent throughout 
–actually around 20 percent—wreaked havoc among the poor and middle class. The near blind faith of the 
policy pundits on jobless growth could not be sustained with the worst decline in employment opportunities 

including  absolute  decline,  slashed  wages/salaries  and  unprecedented  price  rise.  Do  any  of  the 
parliamentary parties approaching for vote have a concrete solution for this whirlpool of crisis that they are 
party to? The answer is in the air.   
 
Repression on the people 
The UPA government was little different from NDA in unleashing a reign of terror on various sections of the 
people.  Fake  encounter  killings  of  Maoists,  innocent  Muslims,  and  struggling  nationalities  like  Kashmiri 
Muslims, Assamese, Nagas and Manipuris were on the rise. Muslims continued to be targets of witch hunt as 
every  party  vied  the  other  in  their  favourite  game—to  appease  the  Hindu  majority;  to  create  a  sense  of 
insecurity  to  resort  to  fascist  methods  to  suppress  all  just  and  democratic  struggles  of  the  people.  Hindu 
fascist  gangs  and  saffron  terrorists  like  BJP-RSS-VHP-Bajrang  Dal-Shiv  Sena-RJM-Abhinav  Bharat,  etc.  are 
allowed a free run in inciting anti-Christian riots and massacres while Muslim organizations such as SIMI are 
banned.  
 
The  people  of  Kashmir  had  poured  into  the  streets  in  lakhs  demanding  Azadi  despite  unprecedented 
measures of curfew and force resorted to by the military might of the Indian state. The panic stricken Indian 
state could only respond with force by killing and maiming the defiant masses.  
 
Salwa  Judum  is  a  gruesome  reminder  of  such  an  assault  of  the  state  on  the  revolutionary  masses  of 
Chhattisgarh who have opposed tooth and nail the policies of loot and plunder. Moreover, the authoritarian 
fascist methods of the state came out in sharp relief through new draconian laws and even without it.  
 
When people protest against such blood thirsty policies they are brutally suppressed  through the barrel of 
the  gun.  The  barrel  of  the  gun  again  returns  to  the  same  battlegrounds—Kashmir,  Assam,  Manipur, 
Chhattisgarh, Bihar-Jharkhand—albeit now to elicit the consent of the people as vote to loot them further! 
Did anyone say the battle of the ballot? 
 

The democratic alternative as emerging in Dandakaranya 
What then would a real democracy entail? It would involve a genuine assertion of peoples’ power from the 
grass  roots.  People  themselves  will  determine  their  future.  All  wings  of  the  state—parties,  political 
institutions, bureaucracy, judiciary, et al—will be answerable to the people; they having the right to recall. It 
would  usher  a  society  where  all  are  educated  and  are  conscious  of  their  duties  as  well  as  their  rights. 
Moreover, a system where every single person has the minimum—food, cloth and shelter. 

The  initiative  of  the  masses  of  Chhattisgarh  under  our  party  the  CPI  (Maoist)  is  a  definite  step  in  this 
direction. Organised under the Janatana Sarkar they have fought the efforts of the state to implement the 
pro-imperialist  model  of  development  in  their  immediate  social  formation.  In  Dandakaranya,  this  struggle 
started with the establishment of Gram Rajya Committees (GRC) as the primary units of power and today it 
has  taken  deep  roots  in  the  form  of  Revolutionary  People’s  Committees  and  the  Revolutionary  Peasant’s 
Committees as the embryonic forms of people’s assertion at the village level, block level and division level. It 
is  through  these  organs  of  political  power  that  the  revolutionary  masses  have  successfully  destroyed  the 
reactionary power of the oppressive and exploitative ruling classes in an extensive area under the leadership 
of the CPI (Maoist) party thus ensuring the production and reproduction of everlasting methods of equitable 
distribution of resources and produces. 

The 8 departments under the sarkar are:  

(i) Development (ii) Defence (iii) Justice (iv) Forest protection (v) Culture & Education (vi) Health (vii) Finance 
(viii) Public Relations (ix) Mass Organizations. 

And  remember  these  sarkars  are  run  by  adivasis—once  illiterate—now  educated  by  the  party  and  have 
become politically conscious through class struggle. These RPCs are taking shape in our guerilla zones playing 
an effective role, where a strong party capable of leading people’s war with a battle hard PLGA and its three 

consolidated forces have organized the people of the area in  the form of mass organizations and people’s 
militia. The leadership  of village party  organizations are established  up to  the village level.  This embryonic 
people’s  governments  with  four  class  united  front  in  the  guerilla  zones  is  unflinchingly  fighting  the  white 
terror of the reactionaries and destroying its armed forces wiping out its power. It is through this organized 
resistance the genocidal attempt of  Salwa Judum on  the adivasi population—by  the murderous rulers like 
Manmohan Singh to Raman Singh—was beaten back. 

The  RPCs  have  enabled  the  people  evolve  a  better  living  by  new  farming  techniques,  water  management 
through small check dams, bio-fertilizers, seed sharing and preservation, soil conservation, poultry farming, 
fish  farming,  health  education,  prevention  of  all  curable  diseases  like  malaria,  tubercholosis,  malnutrition, 
etc.  The  underlying  principle  is  equitable  distribution  sans  disparities/unevenness.  The  lives  of  the  people 
have  considerably  transformed.  The  role  of  superstitions  in  their  lives  has  considerably  reduced  with 
education playing an important role. The struggle to decide their own destiny has become their world view; 
songs; stories.    

Relative  to  all  the  state  powers  so  far  formed  in  India,  these  RPCs  are  the  highest  and  truly  democratic 
systems  that  would  unleash  the  initiative  of  the  broad  masses  of  peasantry,  develop  their  creativity  and 
collectiveness in the people’s war. These will work towards establishing the joint dictatorship of all the anti-
imperialist, anti-feudal, anti-Comprador Bureaucratic Bourgeois forces based on the worker-peasant alliance 
under the leadership of the working class through out the area with the aim of New Democratic Revolution. 

With  the  financial  crisis  fast  engulfing  the  Indian  subcontinent  India is  moving  towards  a  social  explosion. 
None of the political parties have a definite answer for this imminent spectre. Rest assured, they might be 
overconfident, complacent and numb as even without a crisis they could kill more than one and a half lakh 
farmers,  displace  millions  through  their  warped  development  policies,  reduce  the  health  conditions  of 
masses  to  silent  deaths,  massacre  thousands  through  state  terrorism  on  revolutionaries,  nationalities, 
Muslims, dalits and all struggling people. The toiling masses of India have only one path. The robust road of 
revolution!  To  paraphrase  Mao,  the  masses  of  the  Indian  subcontinent  have  to  be  practical  and  do  the 
impossible!       

 

Azad, 
Spokesperson 
Central Committee, 
Communist Party of India (Maoist) 
12.03.09 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

