COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

 

 

 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

 

Press Release: April 2, 2009 

 
 

Parliament is an instrument of oppression and terror in the hands of  

the reactionary ruling classes, Boycott the Parliamentary election!  

Advance the people’s war to establish organs of genuine  

people’s revolutionary-democratic power!! 

 
 
  After  five  years  of  unbridled  loot  of  the  country’s  resources  and  sucking  the  blood  of  the  vast 
oppressed  masses  of  our  country  the  vultures  have  once  again  come  to  the  people  seeking  votes  in  the 
Parliamentary elections to be held in April-May this year each trying to outwit the other by promising a 
heaven  on  earth.  The  shameless  crooks  masquerading  under  attractive  labels  like  “united  progressive 
alliance”, “national democratic alliance”, “third front”, “samajwadi” , “UP-Bihar Front”, “prajarajyam” 
(people’s state), and so on are trying to come to power by any means. Dog-fights among these reactionary 
parties  have  assumed  such  serious  proportions  that  none  of  the  alliances  or  parties  can  boast  of  any 
stability  whatsoever:  breakups  and  defections  have  become  a  characteristic  feature  of  every  party  and 
alliance.  Fronts within fronts such as the  Lalu-Mulayam-Paswan’s UP-Bihar front  within  the UPA have 
emerged. Even the most loyal apologists of parliamentary democracy in  India are compelled to describe 
Election-2009  as  the  most  fragmented  election  ever  fought  in  the  country.  And  every  Party  that  is  a 
participant  in  this  over  Rs.  10,000  crore  mega-fraud  is  desperately  using  the  most  obnoxious  means—
whipping  up  communal  passions,  caste  and  patriarchal  prejudices,  regional  feelings,  money  power  and 
muscle  power—in  order  to  grab  power  by  hook  or  by  crook.  And  the  real  drama  will  begin  after  the 
results  are  declared  with  even  more  opportunistic  shifts  in  alliances.  Such  is  the  sordid  drama  of 
Parliamentary elections unfolding before the people of the so-called largest democracy in the world. 
 
The Congress, which has been in power and did nothing for the  aam admi except giving them more 
 
unemployment  and  poverty,  inflation  and  insecurity,  displacement  and  homelessness,  starvation  and 
suicide  deaths,  disease  and  misery,  has  shamelessly  come  up  with  several  freebies  to  the  people  if  it  is 
voted back to power. Under the Congress-led UPA regime more than one crore people have been thrown 
out  of  jobs  in  the  export  sector  and  the  same  awaits  several  lakhs  more.  Thousands  had  committed 
suicide. Lakhs of people were evicted from their land and homes due to handing over of vast territories of 
land to the corporate elite in the name of SEZs. Thousands have been imprisoned, killed and maimed all 
over  the  country—in  Kashmir,  Chattisgarh,  Andhra  Pradesh,  Bihar,  Jharkhand,  West  Bengal,  Orissa, 
Gujarat  and  elsewhere.  Hindu  fascist  gangs  and  saffron  terrorists  like  BJPRSS-VHP-Bajrang  Dal-Shiv 
Sena-RJM-Abhinav Bharat etc are allowed a free hand to enact pogroms and persecution of Muslims and 
Christians while Muslim organizations like SIMI are banned. Prices of essential commodities have gone 
out of reach of the common people. At the same time more billionaires and millionaires were produced in 
the five-year-rule of the UPA even as tens of millions of people slid into the ranks of the poor. 

 
 
The saffron gangs led by BJP have further  spread the flames of communal passions in all the states 
where they or their allies are in power. Besides Muslims, people belonging to the Christian minority too 
have  become  the  targets  of  their  wrath  particularly  in  the  past  two  years.  They  have  unleashed  their 
election  campaign  on  their  age-old  communal  card,  inflaming  passions  and  religious  chauvinist  frenzy, 
even  threatening  to  chop  off  the  hands  of  Muslims  who  speak  against  Hindus.  They  are  unleashing 
murderous attacks on Muslims and Christians all over the country. They had converted the states ruled by 
the BJP and its allies into Hindutva laboratories for ethnic cleansing of the minorities. Utilising the 26/11 
attacks in Mumbai these fascists have been campaigning for ruthless suppression of the Muslims at large 
and  to  bring  in  more  draconian  acts  such  as  POTA.  The  saffron  gangs  have  also  unleashed  the  cruelest 
state-sponsored  and  state  attacks  on  the  revolutionaries.  In  Chattisgarh,  the  fascist  Raman  Singh 
government  which  came  back  to  power  for  the  second  time  in  December  last  had  bared  its  fangs  even 
more viciously murdering 19 adivasi people in a single incident in Singaram in January this year. It is a 
continuation  of  the  savage  state  terrorist  war  against  the  adivasis  and  the  Maoist  revolutionaries 
eliminating  in  Chattisgarh  which  saw  the  massacre  of  over  700 people, burning  and  destruction  of  over 
700 villages, displacement of over 1.5 lakh adivasis from their homes, rape of hundreds of hapless adivasi 
women,  and  snatching  away  all  the  fundamental  rights  guaranteed  by  the  Indian  Constitution.  The 
Congress is hand in glove with the BJP in unleashing this brutal campaign. 
 
 
Thus  both  the  Congress-led  UPA  and  the  BJP-led  NDA  have  become  the  greatest  threat  to  the 
integrity of India and the security of its people; they are traitors who sell out the interests of the country 
and the people to the imperialists, the big comprador corporate sharks, and the mafia gangs; they whip up 
religious  frenzy  and  persecute  Muslims  and  other  religious  minorities  through  overt  and  covert  means; 
they  impose  draconian  acts  to  suppress  the  people’s  struggles,  massacre  revolutionaries,  national 
liberation fighters and religious minorities in fake encounters, trample upon the fundamental rights of the 
citizens; in short, they are birds of  the same feather in pursuing  anti-people, pro-imperialist policies  and 
maintaining the status quo. Their hype about the so-called welfare of the people, aam admi, India shining 
and so on are mere trash to dupe the people and seek their mandate to exploit and loot them for another 
five years. 
 
 
The  so-called  Left  parties  such  as  CPI  and  CPI(M)  have  become  a  laughing  stock  in  the  Indian 
political scene. After supporting the UPA for almost four years they are now hob-nobbing with notorious 
leaders  like  Chandrababu  Naidu,  Jayalalitha,  Mayavati,  and  others  in  the  name  of  a  Third  Front.  These 
unprincipled,  unabashed  pseudo-Marxists  have  become  the  trusted  managers  for  imperialist  and 
comprador capital in West Bengal such as Tatas, Jindals, Dove etc., and had once again shown their anti-
people  stance  through  their  brutal  suppression  of  the  militant  mass  struggles  in  Nandigram,  Singur, 
Salboni, Lalgarh and other places. 
 
 
Parliamentary  elections  in  India  are  a  big  fraud  enacted  to  dupe  and  divert  the  people  from  seeking 
real  solutions  to  their  burning  issues.  They  are  intended  to  wean  them  away  from  the  path  of  their  real 
liberation. As pointed out correctly by comrade Lenin almost a century ago, elections are held “To decide 
once  every  few  years  which  member  of  the  ruling  class  is  to  repress  and  crush  the  people  through 
parliament—such  is  the  real  essence  of  bourgeois  parliamentarism,  not  only  in  parliamentary-
constitutional monarchies, but also in the most democratic republics.”  And in the present  semi-colonial 
semi-feudal system in India Parliament and Assemblies cannot bring about an iota of change in people’s 
lives but will only further impoverish and enslave the masses. They are merely a safety valve meant to let 
out  the  fury  and  frustration  of  the  masses  by  placing  before  them  the  Hobson’s  choice  of  choosing 
between  various  evils.  Knowing  well  that  their  much-taunted  parliamentary  institutions  and  various 
political  parties  stand  thoroughly  discredited  in  the  eyes  of  the  people  at  large  the  ruling  classes  are 
spending  hundreds  of  crores  of  rupees  in  advertisement  campaigns  calling  upon  the  people  to  exercise 
their  votes.  The  CC,  CPI(Maoist),  calls  upon  the  people  of  the  country  oppressed  and  suppressed  by 

imperialism,  feudalism  and  comprador  bureaucrat  capitalism  to  boycott  the  elections  to  the  Lok  Sabha 
and  also  various  state  Assemblies  which  bring  nothing  but  greater  impoverishment,  starvation,  suicides 
and misery to the vast majority of the Indian population and result in a mere replacement of one band of 
dacoits with another. It calls upon the people to assert their inalienable right to boycott the elections and 
warns the reactionary ruling classes against using brute force to enact the election farce. 
 
 
The real alternative to the farce of the so-called democratic parliamentary institutions are the people’s 
revolutionary-democratic institutions (janathana sarkars) that had emerged and are fast-spreading in the 
vast tracts of central India (Dandakaranya) and which genuinely represent the aspirations of the oppressed 
people. These janathana sarkars, with various administrative departments like development, culture and 
education,  health,  forest  protection,  finance,  defense  (local  militias),  mass  organizations  and  public 
relations,  and  justice,  have  become  shining  models  of  functioning  democracy  in  the  country  thereby 
earning  the  wrath  of  the  reactionary  rulers  and  imperialists  who  have  unleashed  a  brutal  war  on  the 
adivasi population that had dared to take their destiny into their own hands. 
 
 
The CC, CPI(Maoist), calls upon the people of the entire country to reject the farce of parliamentary 
democracy  by  boycotting  the  elections  and  to  strive  to  establish  alternative  revolutionary-democratic 
organs of people’s power throughout the  country.  It  is only by participating and advancing the people’s 
war  to  greater  heights  and  expanding  it  throughout  the  country  that  it  is  possible  to  overthrow  this 
exploitative system under the dictatorship of a tiny feudal-comprador elite and, in its place, establish and 
consolidate real people’s democratic power in the country. It calls upon the entire Party ranks, the heroic 
fighters of PLGA, and the members of all revolutionary mass organizations to mobilise the masses into a 
mass political campaign to boycott the elections, teach a befitting lesson to the leaders and representatives 
of the reactionary parliamentary parties who come begging votes from the people, and to deliver effective 
blows  on  the  police  and  para-military  forces  that  are  sent  to  enforce  the  election  farce  on  the  masses  at 
gun-point. 
 
 
Azad, 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI(Maoist) 

 

 

 

 

[From: CPI(Maoist) Information Bulletin, #7, April 15, 2009, pp. 49-51.] 

