 
 
From The Times of India, May 2, 2009 
 

Crores on propaganda shows rulers desperate: Azad, 
CPI(Maoist)) 

Comrade Azad, spokesperson, central committee, CPI (Maoist), talks about why his party has 
called for an election boycott, how it plans to implement it, why Left-led Third Front government 
is out of the question as they are trying to brand themselves secular only to grab power. Azad 
spares no one, whether it is L K Advani, Congress, Mayawati or Prakash Karat, calling them 
opportunists.  
 
This is one of the biggest elections with about a billion voters participating. Don't you see it 
as people's growing faith in parliamentary democracy?  
Certainly not. Every day, media, central and state governments and all contesting parties are 
dinning into the ears of people to exercise their vote. This shows the desperation of the ruling 
classes. Crores are being spent on propaganda alone. They are so scared that they cannot imagine 
allowing voters the minimum democratic right to reject parties and candidates contesting the 
elections. 
 
Your party has called for poll boycott. But involvement of people in elections seems to be 
growing.  
There is neither any interest nor involvement of people in the elections. Even the narrow base of 
some parties has taken a beating this time. Contrary to images you see on TV, the involvement of 
people has declined compared to earlier elections. Hence, the desperate attempt by rulers to rope 
in film stars, cricketers and popular personalities into publicity campaigns to educate people 
regarding the virtues of parliamentary democracy, and about the great responsibility of citizens 
in casting their votes. 
 
Left parties are trying to build a non-BJP, non-Congress alternative at the Centre. What is 
your view on the Third Front?  
The Third Front forged by CPI and CPM as a secular democratic front comprising non-Congress, 
non-BJP forces is actually a congregation of self-seeking discredited opportunists, all of whom 
have proved to be hypocrites and double-dealers in their respective states. Who needs to be 
taught about the infamous history of a Chandrababu Naidu, a Jayalalitha, a Mayawati, a Deve 
Gowda, a Naveen Patnaik? These leaders and their parties, who had, at one time or the other, 
shared power with the Hindu chauvinist BJP, are being given secular-democratic image by the 
Left. 
 
The Karats, Yechuris and other power brokers of the so-called Left had churned out the slogan of 
anti-communalism to justify their alignment with the most loyal agent of imperialists, Congress, 
during the 2004 elections. Now, these opportunists see anti-communalism in parties like TDP, 
BSP, AAIDMK, JD(U) and BJD, all of whom had never really demarcated themselves from 

communal BJP, and have no compunction in striking an alliance with it if it gave them a share in 
power. For our Marxist ideologues, all these forces have suddenly become secular. One should 
not be surprised if they once again become the tail of Congress after the election. 
 
Why do you say that?  
Just see. They found secularism, anti-imperialism and democratic moorings among parties such 
as TDP, a party which was first to transform a state into a laboratory of the World Bank and is 
responsible for the murder of over 2,000 Maoist revolutionaries besides the high-level of 
corruption of the regime led by Chandrababu Naidu. There are other opportunists such as 
Jayalalitha's AIADMK that had become infamous for the scale of corruption, abuse of power and 
fascist suppression of people's struggles in TN; Naveen Patnaik's BJD has sold the state to 
imperialists and proved itself to be executioner for the imperialists by massacring adivasis in 
Kaliga Nagar, POSCO, etc, besides protecting saffron hoodlums as they went about killing, 
raping and persecuting Christians. Deve Gowda's JD(S) shared power with BJP and broke with it 
only when the latter wanted a greater share of power; you have Mayawati who would do 
anything to grab power whether it be power-sharing with the BJP on rotational basis, or striking 
an alliance with Brahmins and subordinating Dalits to upper-caste Hindus, besides crushing all 
opponents ruthlessly.  

 
The Third Front has certainly weakened the two major alliances, NDA and UPA, and has led to 
further fragmentation of Indian polity. 
 
How will you take your boycott campaign to the people?  
We began after EC declared the poll schedule. Our stand has been made clear to people through 
circulars, press statements, interviews, leaflets, posters, wall writings. Cultural teams stage 
performances among the people. We will carry this out till the last phase of elections. It also 
includes questioning candidates and party members, gheraoing them, making them confess their 
misdeeds before the people. 
 
Then there is active boycott where we prevent candidates from carrying out their campaigns in 
villages and smaller urban centres in our areas. We warn the parties not to venture out into our 
areas. When they do not heed our warnings, we stop their campaign, beat them up if they are 
notorious elements, burn their vehicles, conduct people's courts where possible and make the 
party representatives confess the misdeeds of their respective parties and seek apology from the 
people. They are let off after they agree not to come to the villages again. We carry out counter-
offensive actions against police and central forces who are used by the reactionary rulers to 
enforce elections at gun-point. Basically our active boycott too is a political campaign though we 
undertake some actions aimed at destroying enemy forces. 
 
What about the growing impact of regional parties?  
The elections this time are the most complex, most crisis-ridden and most fragmented. Extreme 
instability and contradictions plague every party and candidate. No party or candidate seems to 
be certain of the poll outcome. Hence they are resorting to all sorts of gimmicks to attract the 
apathetic voter. The desertion by the Left, Lalu's RJD, Mulayam's SP, Paswan's LJP, Ramdoss's 
PMK have left Congress and the UPA in a pathetic condition. Likewise, BJP and its NDA allies 

have lost support of strong allies like BJD, AIADMK and several smaller parties. Neither BJP 
nor Congress is in a position to hold their respective alliances together and centrifugal tendencies 
will continue to weaken these further. 
 
What is the alternative Maoists are offering to parliamentary democracy?  
The alternative is people's democracy where it is the people, and not a few moneybags, who 
decide the destiny of the country and their own lives. It is genuine democracy as seen from the 
grassroots level to the top and not vice versa. You can see e grassroots democracy at work in the 
vast tracts of Dandakaranya where Maoists are running a parallel government. There, people are 
supreme and decisions are made through gram sabhas, assemblies of the people and not by 
invisible hands. The people's courts, of course, will be refined further but the content remains the 
same, deliverance of real and speedy justice by taking the side of the oppressed, persecuted 
people. 

Times of India 
 

