COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

July 16, 2012 
 

CC, CPI (Maoist) out rightly rejects all the vicious, 
baseless and sham allegations made by Sabyasachi Panda  

In cahoots with the ruling classes  

And expels him from the party for his betrayal 

 
Sabyasachi  Panda,  the  secretary  of  our  Odisha  State  Organizing  Committee  released  a  16-page  letter 
addressed to the General Secretary of our party, Comrade Ganapathy to the media on 14-07-2012. In cahoots with 
the ruling classes he spit venom on the CPI (Maoist) and the revolutionary movement led by it and hurled several 
baseless, sham allegations and fabricated lies. He released this letter with the evil intention of liquidating the party 
and  the  revolutionary  movement,  discarded  the  ideology  of  Marxism-Leninism-Maoism  and  left  the  vanguard 
party of the proletariat. He openly declared that he is completely disassociating himself from the People’s War 
line  and  revolutionary  practice  and  exposed  his  modern  revisionist  face.  In  the  most  abominable,  crooked  and 
conspiratorial manner he betrayed the party and revolution and the great cause of the toiling masses, particularly 
of the oppressed masses of Odisha and proved himself to be a renegade  

Sabyasachi Panda worked for some period in the CPI (M) and later in the CPI (ML)-Liberation. He was 
influenced  by  the  revolutionary  movement  and  joined  the  erstwhile  CPI  (ML)  [PU]  in  1998  leaving  the  right 
opportunist Liberation party. Due to the merger of parties he continued to work in the erstwhile CPI (ML) [PW] 
and latter in CPI (Maoist). He worked as a member of the AOBSZC between 2003 and 2005, as a member of 
Odisha  State  Organizing  Committee  from  2005  and  as  its  secretary  since  2008.  In  his  15  year  long  practice, 
though he worked in a revolutionary party he failed to transform himself into a genuine proletarian revolutionary 
and had been criticized several times by his colleagues, cadres and the CC comrades for his anti-revolutionary 
opportunist political views, stands and practice. Even in the state level Special Plenum held in December last year, 
when he was criticized he accepted only some of his mistakes that too for namesake and escaped answering some 
of them. This coward ran away leaving the revolutionary movement instead of sincerely realizing and rectifying 
his mistakes like a true proletarian revolutionary. 

His 16-page letter is full of rotten lies, distortions and twisting of facts and there is not an iota of truth in 
them whatsoever. They were hurled with the most awful intention of liquidation and destruction of revolutionary 
movement in Odisha and damaging the image of our party that is serving as a ray of hope for the toiling masses 
and  renowned  for  dedication  to  a  great  cause,  the  cause  of  liberation  of  our  country  and  selfless  unparalleled 
sacrifices. It is an open secret that he hurled them with the evil and appalling intention of fulfilling his selfish 
political motives that serve the ruling classes. Ruling classes bring to the fore people like Panda to gain legitimacy 
for the foul propaganda they carry on about the revolutionary movement and such phenomena occur frequently in 
history. The enemy has been hurling such fabricated lies on several of our leaders like comrades Charu Mazumdar 
and Kanhai Chatterji, on our party  and  the revolutionary  movement  ever since the launch of the revolutionary 
movement by keeping opportunists like Panda in the front.  

Before going into the allegations made by Panda and the reasons behind them, we want to clearly state 
the fact that our party conducts meetings, plenums and conferences in order to correct and improve our practice 
and  to  advance  with  higher  tasks.  It  realizes  its  mistakes  and  corrects  them  through  criticism  –  self-criticism, 
reviews and rectification campaigns taken up specifically. This is a continuous process. Panda’s evil intentions 
can be gauged from the fact that in spite of knowing all these things he placed before the people his 16-pages of 
sham allegations. The actual fact is that he decided to leave the party as he was not ready to rectify himself in such 
a process.  

The list of Mr. Panda’s filthy and foul-smelling allegations is long enough, some of the allegations he 

hurled prominently are as follows : 

1. Violence for no reason and killings of innocent persons has become the norm for the Maoists; cadres 
are being ordered to kill innocent and unarmed policemen indiscriminately 2. There is domination of Telugu and 
Koya comrades in the Party. 3. Adivasis are exploited the most by the Maoists, they are made to cook and carry 
luggage; cadre are not allowed to meet their families even during festivals; Adivasi women are being exploited 
sexually by the Maoists 4. Ganapathy wants to establish a dictatorship based on terror and fear. 

State suppresses people fighting for their rights with all kinds of weapons available with it. And if that 
fight is for the liberation of the people i.e., for the political power of the toiling masses, the state suppresses it 
most  severely.  Its  police,  paramilitary  and  military  carry  on  this  offensive  from  the  front  while  all  its  other 
components participate most cruelly in the offensive in a planned, coordinated and conspiratorial manner. So it 
becomes  absolutely  necessary  for  people  to  resort  to  armed  struggle.  Anybody  who  knows  ABC  of  Marxism 
would know about this fundamental and primary principle about revolutionary violence. Nobody would think that 
Panda did not know about this party line when he left the right opportunist CPI (ML)-Liberation party, accepted 
the  line  of  the  revolutionary  party  and  joined  the  party  and  when  he  accepted  the  line  of  the  Unity  Congress. 
However  as  Panda  wanted  to  disassociate  himself  from  the  party,  he  is  spitting  venom  that  Maoists  resort  to 
violence for no reason and that they are killing innocent people. He is trying to show that he is opposing all this so 
that the Indian state takes a benevolent attitude towards him. Class enemies like Laxmananand and Jagbandhu, 
government armed forces and officers who carry on the state repression and participate in it, who severely torture 
the people, destroy their lives in all aspects and resort to killings, are suddenly being perceived as innocents by 
Panda.  He  is  displaying  more  faith  than  the  master  to  kowtow  before  the  ruling  classes  and  is  surpassing  the 
enemy foul propaganda in uttering lies.  

Panda is resorting to the age-old cheap ‘divide and rule’ tactic of the British colonialists and the Indian 
ruling  classes  who  are  retracing  their  steps  by  making  the  allegation  that  Telugu  and  Koya  comrades  are 
dominating in Odisha. The revolutionary movement led by CPI (Maoist) follows the path of Protracted People’s 
War and builds the revolutionary movement to finally seize political power all over the country by spreading from 
smaller areas to vaster areas, isolated areas to all over the country, and by developing from a small force to a 
mighty force. From the beginning with a strategic outlook it deploys its forces in various areas accordingly and 
carries  on  the  work.  It  develops  local  mass  base,  develops  party  and  army  and  establishes  area-wise  political 
power. By following this line, it brings a change in the strength of forces, finally surrounds the cities and captures 
political power all over the country. Keeping this in view, every member of our party must be prepared to go to 
any part of the country to work. Moreover, as internationalists communists must be prepared to go any country or 
area  and  work  shoulder  to  shoulder  with  the  people  there  for  their  liberation.  The  entire  history  of  Indian 
revolution indicates that revolutionary movement spread to various parts of the country due to the determined and 
revolutionary efforts of comrades who left their areas and states and went to other areas and states to work. Such 
comrades learnt the languages, respected the cultures of the people there and integrated themselves with them. 
The  movements  built  in  new  areas  are  proof  of  this  collective  effort  of  comrades.  Due  to  his  narrow-minded 
regionalism not just today, but Panda could never accept the fact that comrades from other states are coming and 
working in Odisha. Instead of appreciating the selflessness of those comrades he continuously and conspiratorially 
tried to create a divide between them and the Odiya comrades by resorting to factionist methods. Panda displayed 
narrow-minded regional chauvinism towards comrades from other states who came to work in Odisha according 
to the needs of the movement and behaved in a domineering, undemocratic and sectarian manner with them. The 
fact is Odiya people and the Odiya comrades have happily welcomed and accepted the fact that comrades from 
Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh are coming to work for them and with them. We hope that those 
handful of cadres who are with Panda would rethink about the People’s War path, see through the lie and expose 
him by realizing his conspiracies.  

Nothing could be more deceiving than Panda shedding crocodile tears like the ruling class butchers and 
hurling accusations about the ‘exploitation of Adivasis’ by the Maoists even while discarding the aim of liberating 
the Adivasis as part of people’s revolutionary movement. For Panda who never participated in collective works 
while he was in the party, the striving of Adivasi comrades for revolution by bringing out their energy to the full 
voluntarily  and  with  the  highest  level  of  revolutionary  consciousness  is  looking  like  ‘exploitation  by  Maoists’ 
after he wore the glasses of the ruling classes. And, who are Maoists? Who are Adivasis? Are not all the Adivasi 
comrades inside the party Maoists? We are not at all surprised that the individual labor necessary in the daily life 
of  a  revolutionary  movement,  the  collective  labor  necessary  in  military,  technical,  production-development, 
welfare and other fields and the various kinds of labor that people do in the course of people’s movements looks 
like ‘exploitation by Maoists’ to this brand new opportunist who left the revolution and became an apologist for 
the  ruling  classes.  In  a  proletarian  party  everybody  does  one’s  own  work  as  part  of  daily  life.  Everybody 
participates in collective works and carries luggage too. Patients, physically weak persons and those with special 
responsibilities are extended help by other comrades. A people’s army itself means that apart from participating in 
war it does its works like cooking and carrying luggage that are an integral part of it on its own. Everybody must 

inevitably do all these works as part of People’s War with no discrimination based on nationality, gender, region 
etc.  This  has  happened  in  all  the  guerilla  zones  in  our  country  and  is  still  continuing.  In  fact,  the  culture  in  a 
Maoist party is a democratic, socialist culture that does not discriminate between man and woman, literate and 
illiterate and cadres and leaders. This is one of the major factors in attracting a huge number of Adivasis towards 
our party. It is this kind of culture that our party strives to spread among millions of people.  

The  allegation that Maoists are raping and sexually harassing women in the party/Adivasi women has 
been hurled repeatedly by the state. In what other manner can we expect the newly turned renegade to attack the 
Maoists than in the heinous manner of the ruling classes? The answer given by our party several times in the past 
is the answer to this allegation now too. But the best answer to this allegation is being given by the hundreds of 
women  comrades  who  are  joining  the  party,  the  thousands-lakhs  of  members  in  revolutionary  women’s 
organizations along with the women in our movement areas and the hundreds of women martyrs who had laid 
down their lives for the liberation of the toiling people in the past 45 years since Naxalbari. 

Since  communist  party  was  formed  in  India  in  1925  till  now,  in  the  more  than  90  years  of  Indian 
communist  movement’s  history,  it  is  not  an  exaggeration  to  say  that  never  before  had  the  communist  party 
integrated itself with the people, their culture and all the aspects relating to people’s lives as in the past 25 years. 
Not  only  had  our  party  integrated  but  it  is  also  holding  aloft  all  the  progressive  elements  in  the  political  and 
cultural lives of the people, imbibing them, developing them and revolutionizing them. The revolutionary masses 
would  anyway  not  believe  the  allegation  by  Panda  who  worked  as  a  state  secretary  that  party  is  not  allowing 
activists to go home even for festivals. This is just another instance of an opportunistic attack by him to make 
those who are not familiar with the realities of the revolutionary movement to believe that the revolutionary party 
is so horrible as to not send activists home even for festivals.  

The allegation that Ganapathy wants to establish a dictatorship based on terror and fear is so ridiculous 
that it in fact does not even deserve an explanation. CPI (Maoist) is not at all any bourgeois party. Its immediate 
aim is to overthrow the present semi-colonial, semi-feudal system in our country and establish new democratic 
revolutionary  rule,  i.e.,  the  democratic  dictatorship  of  four  classes  –  workers,  peasants,  petty-bourgeoisie  and 
national bourgeoisie under the leadership of the proletariat and based on worker-peasant unity. Its ultimate goal is 
the establishment of socialism and communism. Panda is fully aware of this. Panda is making false allegation on 
comrade  Ganapathy  and  our  party  with  the  selfish  motive  of  gaining  a  place  through  compromise  in  the 
dictatorship  of  the  comprador  bureaucratic  bourgeoisie  and  the  land  lords  that  are  in  collusion  with  the 
imperialists and carrying on an unprecedented despotic rule wearing the mask of parliamentary democracy. 

In  reality,  it  was  Panda  who  was  trying  to  establish  his  dictatorship  inside  Odisha.  After  seeing  the 
reviews  and  decisions  made  in  the  Special  Plenum  he  realized  that  the  party  cadres  are  no  longer  prepared  to 
accept  his  domination.  They  criticized  his  bureaucratic  behavior  and  his  undemocratic  and  sectarian  attitude 
towards  comrades  from  other  states.  Realizing  that  he  can  no  longer  carry  on  his  bureaucratic  methods,  this 
opportunist decided to quit the party and doubled his preparations for the same since then.  

In fact, Panda stopped contacting the Odisha state in-charge CC comrade since the completion of the state 
level Special Plenum. Since then, for nearly half a year he went on spitting venom on the party in interviews and 
statements.  This  created  political  and  organizational  problems  in  the  party  and  caused  severe  damage  to  the 
Odisha movement as he was taking stands that were against the decisions of the Special Plenum, party’s political 
line and policies. He resorted to downright opportunistic methods during the arrest of Italian tourists under his 
leadership. He declared a one-sided seize-fire for the entire state of Odisha. But in fact, it was not correct on his 
part to declare so when two different state border party committees are working in considerable parts of Odisha 
and  its  borders  and  he  had  no  right  to  dictate  terms  to  the  other  two  party  committees.  He  not  only  openly 
criticized AOB comrades for arresting a MLA and killing a SI after he had declared his one-sided seize fire but 
even went to the extent of saying that it had become a fashion for AOB comrades to kill.  

Keeping aside the reviews made by the entire party under Odisha SOC, he declared that the annihilations 
of  class  enemies  Laxmananda  and  Jagbandhu  were  not  correct.  He  began  a  malicious  campaign  by  giving 
statements  in  the  name  of  comrade  Nikhil,  trying  to  create  divide  between  comrades  hailing  from  various 
communities and states. It is not a coincidence that when stories were being published continuously in the media 
about Panda leaving the party and forming a new group, Panda who always stays in touch with the media did not 
release any explanation. It is clear as the day that since the completion of the Special Plenum, Panda had been 
planning to desert the party and resorted to all these opportunistic methods and liquidationist activities. Finally he 
quit the party as a culmination of his degeneration. 

Panda took a right opportunist stand regarding some political issues that came to the fore in the course of 
the Odisha movement and finally degraded into a revisionist who rejects the line of Protracted People’s War. His 
sectarian,  bureaucratic,  ultra-democratic,  factionist  attitudes,  careerism,  craving  for  name  and  fame  and 

organizational indiscipline caused severe damage to the Odisha party and the movement. He sought an easy life 
and was not hard-working. This opportunist utilized the situation where Odisha party and the State Organizing 
Committee that were in the course of consolidating faced severe losses and the enemy offensive was seriously 
concentrated  on  the  CC,  to  carry  on  his  disruptionist  activities.  The  root  for  all  this  lies  in  his  spilling  over 
individualism which keeps the individual at the centre. Apart from this, there has been a considerable change in 
the  counter-revolutionary  war  carried  on  by  the  Indian  ruling  classes  with  the  full  support  of  the  imperialists, 
particularly  US  imperialists  since  mid-2009  in  the  name  of  Operation  Green  Hunt.  Panda’s  degeneration  and 
betrayal must be seen in the context of the country-wide, multi-pronged massive military offensive that is being 
carried out on our movement since then. Party suffered serious losses all over the country in this offensive. Even 
Odisha state where class struggle is still weak had to bear the brunt and it suffered serious losses from end-2010. 
The offensive is bound to intensify in this state too. The reason for the intensification of this massive offensive is 
the MNC and our country’s comprador corporate interests that want to crush every organization and the people 
that prove a hurdle to their plunder of natural resources and raw materials in backward countries like India. As the 
financial  crisis  that  is  engulfing  the  world  economy  intensifies,  the  offensive  on  the  revolutionary  party,  its 
leadership, movement and the oppressed and toiling masses would also be intensified in proportion by them in 
order to come out of it. In such a backdrop, to lead the revolutionary movement is like walking a sword’s edge for 
any  leader  of  the  revolutionary  party.  Any  true  party  leader  would  strive  to  utilize  the  excellent  revolutionary 
material conditions in the country and the world to politically prepare the people, to develop the People’s War and 
turn the tide in favor of the revolution. It requires commitment towards revolutionary ideology, tremendous grit, 
courageous decision-making, mobilizing the party, people’s army and the people in a unified way, and sacrificing 
nature to fulfill this task. It requires a steely will to transform oneself and the party according to the needs and 
tasks of the revolution. Those who do not display these qualities either fail to give leadership to the revolution or 
lose their capacity to lead. Some among them run away like cowards from the battlefield or join the enemy ranks. 
These opportunists and renegades take the side of the ruling classes and resort to all kinds of allegations to cover 
up the fact. There have been such renegades not only in our party history but also in the revolutions of various 
countries in the past and Panda would not be the last one.  

Keeping all these things in view, our Central Committee began putting special efforts to rectify him by 
placing all allegations on Panda in front of him in a political manner and giving him a chance to rectify. But since 
the completion of the state level Special Plenum, he cut his contacts with the CC in-charge comrade and went on 
attacking our party, movement and the leadership openly and in a series. As a culmination of all this, he released 
this letter to the media and proved himself to be a renegade. So our CC is expelling Sabyasachi Panda from the 
party and declaring the fact to our party comrades in Odisha, the entire revolutionary masses and the revolutionary 
camp in our country. 

We  are  appealing  to  the  Odisha  comrades,  mass  organizations  of  Odisha  and  the  revolutionary-
democratic  masses  to  condemn  Panda’s  enemy-like  opportunistic  stand  towards  our  party,  movement  and 
leadership and the pro-ruling class, anti-people stands taken by him and to completely reject him and his rotten 
modern revisionist politics and his allegations. History has proven several times that renegades such as Panda who 
boast about themselves as the heroes of revolution and who are focused as such by the ruling classes would be 
relegated to the dustbin and that the true revolutionary party, its leaders and the revolutionary masses led by it 
would  advance  en-route  for  victory  in  the  midst  of  great  storms  and  whirlwinds  with  undaunted  courage  and 
bravery.  It  is  people  who  are  makers  of  history  and  not  sham  revolutionaries  like  Panda.  Our  party  is  fully 
confident that the revolutionary masses of Odisha would certainly reject traitors like Panda who try to be in the 
limelight in the name of Odisha and immerse themselves in the service of the ruling classes to their heart’s content 
and that the Odisha comrades and the vast toiling masses would follow the revolutionary path under the leadership 
of the CPI (Maoist). 

 
(Anand) 
PBM, Central Regional Bureau Secretary 
For Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 
 

 

