CPI(Maoist): 9th Congress 
 
 

Resolution on Farmers’ Suicides 

 
      The number of peasants committing suicides has increased 
phenomenally. This is particularly so in Vidarbha, AP & Punjab. 
In past 10 years several thousand peasants all over the country 
have committed suicide. In Maharashtra alone the number is 
almost 7000. From June 2006 to end of December, 900 peasants 
had committed suicide. Cotton cultivators have been particularly 
affected. 

      The Central and State Governments are diverting attention by 
placing the blame on loans for wasteful expenditure, poor 
crop/output, family and other psychological tensions. The financial 
package announced by PM Manmohan Singh is nothing but a 
cunning attempt of the finance department to befool the masses. 
While the peasants did not get a paisa the money went to 
cooperative banks. Hence rate of suicides has increased. 

      The real cause for these suicides is the pro-imperialist 
globalisation, liberalisation and privatisation policies pursued by 
the governments together with the continuing backward semi-
feudal relations. These policies have led to the reduction of 
subsidies for agricultural inputs and low prices for agricultural 
products. Facing losses, peasants were forced to take loans, first 
from banks. When banks stopped giving loans they turned to 
money-lenders. More than 60% of loans are from private money 
lenders charging exorbitant interest rates. Failure of MNC 
Monsanto's BT Cotton Seeds was the final straw. A section of 
farmers’ leaders like Sharad Joshi had already betrayed the 
peasants by supporting globalisation. Disheartened farmers have 

turned to suicides. These are in reality killings by a government 
acting in the interests of the imperialists. 

      Unity Congress-9th Congress of CPI (Maoist) strongly opposes 
the pro-imperialist policies of the government and expresses its 
heartful sympathies with the peasants and appeals to them not to 
resort to self-destruction but to wage militant struggle, to organise 
and refuse to repay all debts and to join the ongoing revolutionary 
peasant war. 

      This Congress calls upon peasants to demand that all debts of 
peasantry be waived, agricultural subsidies be restored, 
investments in irrigation and other agricultural needs be increased, 
proper prices for agricultural products and ban on MNCs like 
Monsanto and their GM Seeds, and opposes the policies of 
liberalisation, privatisation and globalisation. 

      Only New Democratic Revolution will solve the problems of 
the peasantry. While struggling on immediate demands we pledge 
to organise the vast masses of the peasantry to intensify the armed 
struggle to overthrow this semi-colonial, semi-feudal system. 

