 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

 

Press Release

 

 

January 15, 2011 

UNITE AND FIGHT AGAINST PRICE-RISE, SCAMS AND 

STATE TERROR! 

Make Success Country-wide Protests From 4 to 6 February 

And Bharat Bandh on February 7 

 

The latest addition to the  already long-list of sufferings of the people of our country  is the new rise in 
food inflation to 18.5 percent with prices touching the sky. On top of this petrol prices have been hiked (Rs 
2.50  per  litre)  from  the  midnight  of  15  January  which  would  again  lead  to  more  price-rise  in  all  items 
particularly  in  food  items.  The  life  of  'Aam  Aadmi'  would  become  even  more  miserable  with  the  prices  of 
onion, mirchi, atta, pulses, vegetables soaring.   Though price-rises have become an integral part of our life 
since  decades,  this  kind  of  price-rise  in  the  conditions  where  more  than  90  percent  of  the  workforce  is 
employed in unorganized sector and where 83 percent of the people live on less than 20 rupees daily income, 
the connotations are grave and disturbing. Add to it the continuous loss of employment of even white collar 
jobs  of  the  middle  classes  due  to  the  world  wide  economic  crisis  and  the  picture  which  emerges  is  even 
bleaker.  

 
It  is  one  thing  to  put  up  with  this.    But  how  should  one  also  put  up  with  the  most  inhuman,  cruel, 
insensitive  and  callous  statement  of  the  person  in  the  highest  post  in  our  country,  that  too  a  person  who  is 
supposed  to  administer  this  country  efficiently  so  that  the  lives  of  the  people  turn  for  better?  While  the 
people and particularly the children of this country are dying in their lakhs each year just due to lack of food 
and nutrition, this person had the audacity to declare that the present price-rise is due to the increase in food 
consumption of the poor people! This is the zenith of shamelessness one can ever reach. It is not our fault if 
this  sounds  like  an  echo  of  what  an  equally  if  not  a  more  barefaced  person  named  Mr.  Bush  (Junior)  said 
some days back accusing the people of countries like China and India of consuming more, leading to a crisis! 
At  least  one  could  understand  the  contempt  a  President  of  the  imperialist  country  (US),  the  number  one 
enemy of the world people, would have for the people of third world countries. But Mr. Manmohan Singh! 
You have out stepped all the limits of decency and humanity in expressing such contempt for the people of 
the  country  you  are  supposed  to  lead.  The  blood of  every  patriot  boils  and  the  face  of  every  citizen  burns 
with indignity to hear this from the high offices of this country. Surely our beloved country and its dignified 
people do not deserve this shabby treatment. 

 
It is under the aegis of this Prime Minister that  a Mukesh  Ambani builds a Mahal worth  3,500 crores, 
ministers  function  on  a  daily  basis  from  five-star  hotels,  trillions  of  rupees  are  guzzled  in  scams  by  every 
single  person  who  is  even  a  bit  of  somebody  in  his  parliament  or  his  administrative  mechanism  and 
army/police/forest  services  (the  1,76,000  crore  2G  Spectrum  scam  is  still  fresh  in  public  memory)  not  to 
mention their billions of dollars stacked away safely in Swiss banks! All the future trading, hoarding, black 
marketing,  faulty  PDS  which  have  become  the  trademark  of  the  'independent'  India  have  all  been  brazenly 
pushed  aside  as  the  possible  reasons  for  this  appalling  inflation  rate  and  the  poor people who  are  breaking 
their backs in conditions which can be compared to the medieval times  (again a fallout of the LPG policies 
gifted to us since 1991 by this reliable  servant of IMF and World Bank) and are  not even able to have one 
square meal in a day have become the culprits. Wah ! Great Economics indeed, worth a Nobel Prize! This is 
not  just  a  cruel  joke  on  the  poor  people  of  our  country  (whom  he  doesn’t  represent  at  all)  but  also  an 
unabashed  attempt  to  cover  up  the  scams  and  hoarding  of  the  richie  rich  people  of  our  country  and  the 
imperialist  countries (whom he  represents  so well) and  to divert  the  attention of the people from the actual 
causes of inflation and burning problems at present. 

 
What is the actual condition prevailing? On the one hand, people are tragically suffering with this price-
rise while on the other hand a new scam is rising on the horizon along with the sun every day. The price-rise 
is  closely  linked  with  the  scam-rises  of  the  ministers  and  high-rises  of  the  comprador  bureaucratic 

bourgeoisie  along  with  the  rise  in  their  bank  accounts  in  the  Swiss  banks.  (Remember?  India  refuses  to 
reveal  the  names  of  those  persons  who  have  amassed  billion  of  dollars  in  these  banks?)  The  recent  2G 
Spectrum scam has exposed the back door deals of the big players of the corporate world, ministers and hi-fi 
media  people  while  the  series  of  scams  which  came  to  light  have  uncovered  the  brash  pillage  by  all  the 
parliamentary  parties  of  the  resources  rightfully  belonging  to  the  people.  The  BJP  which  had  stalled  the 
proceedings  of  the  Parliament  for  a  whole  session  with  the  demand  of  instituting  a  JPC  on  2G  Spectrum 
scam is desperately trying to masquerade as a 'clean party' hiding its own set of scams, one of the major of 
these  happening  in  Karnataka  under  BJP  Chief  Minister  Yedyurappa.  The  close  relations  which  Congress 
and BJP, including the leader of opposition Ms. Sushma Swaraj have with the notorious mining mafia bosses 
Reddy  brothers  are  well  documented.  There  is  another  purpose  too.  With  Aseemanand  singing  in  police 
custody  and  the  unearthing  of  other  evidences,  the  direct  involvement  of  the  saffron  terrorists  in  the 
Samjhauta Express, Malegaon and Mecca Masjid blasts stands exposed and the JPC probe demand and the 
uproar about price-rise are aimed at diverting the attention of the people from the heinous criminals involved 
in those blasts. The UPA government dumped A. Raja, of course after lot of hullabaloo due to inescapable 
evidence implicating him, in the 2G spectrum scam in order to save the skin of the Prime Minister and Sonia 
who are the directors of this  sky-scraping scam and  without  whose involvement such  a  spectacle  would be 
impossible.  The  names  of  highest  level  ranking  generals  in  the  army  have  also  come  up  in  scams  not  to 
mention the bureaucrats. The mother of all scams but which is not so visible is the stockpiling of thousands 
of  crores  of  rupees  by  the  likes  of  Naveen  Patnaik,  Raman  Singh,  YSR  (now  dead),  Yedyurappa,  Nitish 
Kumar, Narendra Modi, Vilasrao Deshmukh and Ashok Chavan in the form of commissions earned through 
the MoUs they are signing with the MNCs and imperialists.  YSR had alone earned nearly 60,000 crores of 
rupees in his term as CM and one can imagine how many billions of rupees of the hard earned money of the 
common people is filling the coffers of all these super gangsters.  

 
The  people  of  our  country  are  not  sitting  quite  while  these  scamsters  and  gangsters  are  pillaging  our 
wealth.  In  every  corner  of  our  country  people  are  agitating  at  various  levels  and  in  different  forms  against 
corruption, all kinds of anti-people policies, price-rise and loot of natural resources. Of all these resistances, 
the most organized and militant struggle is waged by our party the CPI (Maoist). That is why it was  named 
the  biggest  internal  security  threat  by  the  Sonia-Manmohan-Chidabaram  gang  and  an  unprecedented 
countrywide multi-pronged offensive was launched on it in the name of Operation Green Hunt (OGH). The 
intensification  of  the  anti-people,  pro-imperialist  policies  which  give  rise  to  scams  and  price-rise  and  the 
repression  on  CPI  (Maoist)  are  directly  proportional  and  this  became  particularly  obvious  in  the  past  two 
months.  The  Prime  Minister  and  Home  Minister  are  conducting  series  of  meetings  to  crush  the  Maoist 
movement  and  in  the  latest  meeting  held  in  January  first  week  with  higher  level  officers  of  police  and 
paramilitary forces of six states, they laid emphasis on  synergy between  intelligence agencies, paramilitary 
and  the  police.  This  insistence  on  synergy  is  not  an  innocent  proposal  but  is  aimed  at  perpetrating  more 
massacres,  mopping  up  campaigns  and  clearing  the  adivasis  and  Maoists  from  the  forests.  Some  more 
billions of rupees were allotted for this War on People. 

 
In  West  Bengal,  the  social  fascist  CPM  in  collusion  with  the  central  government  has  increased  the 
number of camps to 140 in Jangal Mahal and Lalgarh and filled them with police, paramilitary and its own 
counter-revolutionary  Harmad  Bahini  goons,  with  an  eye  on  the  upcoming  elections.  That  the  ongoing 
atrocities and repression on the people of these areas would increase is anybody's guess and the massacre by 
CPM/Harmad cadres of eight people and injuring many more in Lalgarh area in the first week of January are 
an indication of the terrible things in store. On December 3, 2010, the police arrested the West Bengal state 
secretary  of  our  party  Com.  Sudeep  Chongdar,  state  committee  members  Kalpana  Maiti,  Barun  Sur,  Anil 
Ghosh  and  some  other  comrades  while  another  state  committee  member  Com.  Dwijen  Hembram  was 
arrested earlier.  They  were  cruelly tortured and false cases  were foisted on them. Particularly,  the  insulting 
and inhuman treatment meted out to Com. Kalpana is denigrating the dignity of a woman.  

 
In Bihar and Jharkhand arrests, tortures, barbarous attacks and murders of Maoist cadres are continuing. 
In  Andhra  Pradesh  despite  the  claims  of  the  ruling  classes  that  they  have  suppressed  the  Maoists,  fake 
encounters  and  attacks  on  the  people  haven’t  stopped.  On  17  December,  2010,  in  an  encounter  in 
Visakhapatnam district four comrades including three women were killed. People fighting against seizure of 
their  lands  for  SEZs,  thermal  power  plants  and  for  a  separate  Telangana  state  are  being  fired  upon 
indiscriminately. 

 
In an unprecedented severe offensive on Maoist areas in Odisha in the past two months nearly 25 Maoist 
cadres  and  ordinary  people  were  killed  and  most  of  these  'encounters'  were  fake.  Five  Maoists  in 
Kalinganagar area on January 2, nine Maoists in Niyamgiri area on January 9 and two Maoists in Keonjhar 
area on January 12 were killed in so-called encounters. Right in the beginning of this year two villagers were 
killed in cold-blood in Bargarh district and the police claimed it was an encounter.  

 
On 8 October, in Savargaon of Gadchiroli district of Maharashtra (Dandakaranya), the ITBP forces had 
fired mortars shells on a school leading to the death of 6 people including two school children and injuries to 
eight more. On the next day on 9 October, in a fierce encounter in Mahasamund district of Chhattisgarh (CG) 
six comrades were martyred and the police killed two innocent villagers mercilessly in the same incident. On 
23  November,  the  CRPF  had  massacred  nine  villagers  near  Jegurugonda  in  Dantewada  district.  The  CG 

government  is  suppressing  dissent  in  the  most  reactionary  manner  by  arresting  democratic  intellectuals, 
putting  them  in  jails  and  pronouncing  harsh  punishments  on  them.  The  recent  conviction  of  CPI  (Maoist) 
Politburo member Narayan Sanyal, Human Rights activist Dr. Binayak Sen, trader Piyush Guha and editor-
writer  Asit  Sengupta  is  a  blatant  example  of  this.  Though  this  offensive  is  obviously  directed  against  the 
Maoists, in reality this is directed against all those individuals and organizations that are resisting the policies 
of the government. 

 

Beloved people of India! 
 

This is  not the time to cry over the  depths of despair and degradation  the ruling classes are forcing  us 
into. The need of the hour is for all the people to come together and fight back the anti-people, repressive and 
pro-imperialist policies of the state and to direct our fight against scamsters, hoarders, black marketeers and 
forces of the repressive state.  

 
Our Central Committee appeals to all the people to observe protests from 4 to 5 February and one-day 
Bharat  bandh  on  7  February  against  price-rise,  scams  and  state  terror.  We  are  making  it  clear  that  there 
would  be  no  bandh  during  the  protest  days  and  that  Bharat  bandh  would  be  observed  in  six  states  –  West 
Bengal,  Jharkhand,  Bihar,  Odisha,  Chhattisgarh,  Andhra  Pradesh  and  three  districts  in  Maharashtra  – 
Gadchiroli, Gondia, Chandrapur and one district in Madhya Pradesh – Balaghat. Medical services and people 
attending examinations and interviews will be excluded from the bandh activities. 
 
 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

