 

CPN(M) - Worker #10 
 
The Worker, #10, May 2006, pp. 41-50 
Interview 
 

SOUTH ASIA IS INDEED BECOMING A  

STORM CENTRE OF WORLD REVOLUTION  

 

Comrade Ganapathy 

General Secretary, CPI (Maoist) 

 
 
Comrade  General Secretary, would you  please  mention  how you are analyzing the 
particularities of present world situation?  
 
GP: The particularities of the present situation are: Politically, the absence of a socialist 
base  for  the  world  revolution;  the  growth  of  strong  anti-Communist  ideologies  such  as 
post-modernism and the NGO philosophy; rise of the US as the sole superpower after the 
collapse  of  the  Soviet  superpower  in  the  beginning  of  the  1990s  and  the  grave  threat 
posed  by  US  imperialism  to  the  people  of  the  world,  especially  after  the  September  11 
attacks on the WTO tower and the Pentagon; the fascist offensive throughout the world 
against  revolutionary  movements,  national  liberation movements  and  defiant regimes  in 
the  name  of  containing  so-called  terrorism;  and  the  growth  of  a  strong  anti-war,  anti-
globalization movements all over the world.  
 
Economically, the integration of the so-called socialist economies, the state bureaucratic 
capitalist  economies  directly  into  world  capitalist  system;  the  ascendance  of  neo-liberal 
economic  policies  of  LPG  or  Globalization,  some  important  changes  in  the  production 
system and further intensification of neo-colonial plunder, exploitation, control of semi-
colonial  and  semi-feudal  and  neo-colonial  countries;  change  in  the  role  of  IMF,  WB 
[World  Bank]  and  emergence  of  WTO  as  powerful  world  imperialist  economic  bodies; 
tremendous  technological  revolutions  in  information  technology  and  bio-technology; 
important  changes  in  economic  strengths  and  positions  of  big  imperialist  powers  in  the 
share of world market and emergence of some new economic powers; and acute crisis in 
the world capitalist economy.  
 
Thus  all  the  fundamental  contradictions  in  the  contemporary  world  have  been  getting 
more and more acute making the situation highly favorable for revolution.  
 
While such is the objective condition, the particularity of the subjective condition is that 
there  is  no  organized  challenge  to  the  imperialists  and  the  biggest  bully  of  all,  the 
American  imperialists.  With  the  restoration  of  capitalism  in  China  after  the  revisionist 
take-over  following  the  demise  of  Mao,  the  world  proletariat  and  the  oppressed  people 
and  nations  have  no  leadership  or  guidance.  The  weak  organized  strength  and  lack  of 

 

1 

 

leadership  for  the  world  people  has  made  the  imperialists  more  aggressive  and 
oppressive. Today, in every country the Communist Party has to make revolution almost 
without  any  substantial  help  from  other  countries,  say,  like  the  situation  prior  to  the 
October Revolution, in a way.  
 
There  is  one  big  difference,  however.  After  the  setbacks  and  defeats  in  the  world 
proletarian  revolution,  we  are  able  to  understand  more  deeply  the  problems  of  socialist 
construction,  and  think  of  ways  and  means  to  overcome  such  setbacks  in  post-
revolutionary  societies.  We,  as  Marxists,  not  only  see  the  setbacks  and  defeats  in  the 
world  revolution  but  also  the  continuous  struggle  of  the  oppressed  nations  and  people, 
learn valuable lessons from past mistakes and limitations in the construction of socialist 
society.  We,  not  only  see  the  enemy's  successes  and  strengths  but  also  see  the  reasons 
behind  it,  his  weaknesses  and  the  acuteness  of  the  fundamental  contradictions  in  the 
contemporary  world,  which  will  ultimately  lead  to  his  defeat  and  the  victory  of 
proletariat.  
 
Whatever be the particularity of the present situation, one should not forget the protracted 
nature of the world proletarian revolution, the direction of development process of human 
society, and the historical task of international proletariat.  
 
Do you think there have been changes or new developments on the specificities that 
Marx, Lenin and Mao had synthesized concerning capitalism and imperialism in the 
erstwhile situation? If so, do you think the overall development of MLM is necessary 
to face the challenges emerging from the new situation?  
 
GP: Yes, our Party thinks there have been some significant changes or new developments 
in  the  specificities  concerning  capitalism  and  imperialism  from  what  has  been 
synthesized  by  Marx,  Lenin  and  Mao.  However,  regarding  the  character  of  the  present 
era, our Party thinks there is no fundamental change and it is still the era of imperialism, 
and proletarian revolution.  
 
First  of  all,  we  know  that,  our  great  international  proletarian  revolutionary  teachers  and 
leaders—comrades  Marx,  Lenin  and  Mao—lived 
in  different  stages/phases  of 
capitalist/imperialist  society,  and  in  those  times  there  were  many  great  changes—
qualitative  or  most  significant  in  all  spheres  of  society.  Taking  into  consideration  the 
developments in various sciences, and the advances made in the realm of class struggle 
and revolutionary practice, they developed proletarian science. MLM was established and 
developed in three stages. MLM too develops further like any other science, enriches the 
proletarian science through creative and concrete application to the changing conditions. 
There  is  always  the  need  for  the  creative  application  of  the  universal  truth  of  MLM  to 
face the new challenges emerging from the new situation.  
 
But  it  is  yet  another  thing  to  say  that  it  is  necessary  to  develop  MLM  to  face  the  new 
situation. I do not know of any Marxist teacher or genuine proletarian Party or leader who 
had  placed the  question  in this  manner  or  that  MLM  had  developed in  this  way  by  any 
one genius or Party in the past. Nor will it develop so in future. I do not think Marx or 

 

2 

 

Lenin  or  Mao  had  posed  the  question  this  way,  or  declared  that  it  was  their  task  to 
develop  proletarian  science.  MLM  had  developed  in  the  course  of  advancing  the  class 
struggle and solving the multifarious problems confronting the world revolution.  
 
So, in this context let me remind you the changes after Mao as I mentioned in my answer 
to  your  first  question.  Let  every  genuine  Maoist  Party  independently,  and  all  genuine 
Maoist  Parties  collectively,  strive  to  face  the  new  changes  and  challenges  in  the 
international  arena.  It  is  in  the  course  of correctly  solving  the  problems  confronting  the 
revolution  that  the  revolutions  in  the  various  countries  and  the  world  revolution  will 
advance by overcoming the present difficult situation. The development of theory  might 
take place in one or a few aspects or in a more comprehensive way through this struggle 
and  revolutionary  process.  Any  Party,  or  Parties  and  their  leaders  might  contribute 
significantly for the development of the theory in the course of advancing the revolution 
and  understanding  the  objective  development  of  other  sciences.  The  world  proletarian 
revolution advances in this way.  
 
South  Asia  is  becoming  a  storm  centre  of  revolution,  what  are  the  objective  and 
subjective bases for this?  
 
GP: As analysed by the Parties of CCOMPOSA, South Asia is indeed becoming a storm 
centre of world revolution. There are certain objective and subjective bases for this.  
 
Firstly, all the countries of South Asia are semi-colonial and semi-feudal countries once 
ruled by the British imperialists. Hence they have many similarities and inter-relations in 
historical, economical, political, social, religious, cultural and geographical conditions.  
 
Secondly,  we  must  keep  in  mind  first  the  geo-strategic  location  of  South  Asia  and  the 
immense interest of the imperialists in the region. The US imperialists, in particular, want 
to  use  South  Asia  as  a  counter-weight  to  China  which  is  fast  becoming  a  major 
economic-military-political power.  
 
Third,  it  is  the  most  populated  region  in  the  world  accounting  for  a  fifth  of  the  world's 
population  which  is  larger  than  China.  It  has  a  vast  market  and  has  been  an  important 
region of rivalry between the various imperialist powers who vie for greater share of the 
South Asian markets.  
 
Fourth,  Indian  expansionism  is  a  powerful  enemy  of  the  people  and  nationalities  and  a 
big threat to the development of the New Democratic Revolutions (NDRs) and national 
liberation struggles of this region; the revolutionary situation objectively and subjectively 
in Nepal is more matured than anywhere in present day world and the NDR is advancing 
with tremendous success under the leadership of CPN(Maoist); The NDR in India is in a 
more advantageous position than ever before and it is advancing under the leadership of 
CPI(Maoist)  and  its  great  significance  in  the  world  socialist  revolution;  existence  of 
Maoist  Parties  in  Bangladesh  and  newly  formed  Maoist  Party  in  Bhutan;  the  Maoist 
Parties of India, Nepal and Bangladesh are having proletarian revolutionary consistency, 
spirit, vigor and traditions in high holding the red banner of MLM since the days of great 

 

3 

 

debate  under  the  leadership  of  Comrade  Mao  and  Naxalbari;  since  the  great  Naxalbari 
uprising  to  contemporary  PPW  in  Nepal  and  India,  the  revolutionary  movements  are 
creating great impact in every country of South Asia.  
 
Since  mid-90s  there  have  been  good  relations  between  all  these  Maoist  parties  with  a 
strategic  approach,  specific  policies  and  tactics  to  deal  with  the  contradictions  in  South 
Asian  Region  to  advance  the  revolutions  and  democratic  struggles  of  oppressed 
nationalities in every country and entire region. The support for revolutionary forces and 
democratic  people  in  world  is  increasing  day  by  day.  So,  anybody  can  say  there  is  an 
objective  and  subjective  condition  in  South  Asia  to  become  a  storm  centre  of  world 
revolution.  
 
Would you please shed light on the theoretical concept of CCOMPOSA and the role 
it  is  playing?  Now  do  you  think  it  should  develop  to  face  the  emerging  new 
challenges regionally?  
 
GP: As the name itself indicates, CCOMPOSA is basically a coordination committee of 
the Maoist parties and organizations of the region. The chief purpose for which we had 
formed  this  is  to  achieve  better  coordination  between  the  Maoist  forces  in  the  Sub-
Continent  in  order  to  wage  united  struggle  against  Indian  Expansionism.  Towards  this 
end, it is necessary to unite all the forces, particularly the various nationality movements, 
in  the  common  front  against  Indian  expansionism  and  imperialism.  The  Maoist  forces 
should act as the core of this front and provide the leadership.  
 
However, we do not think the role of the CCOMPOSA is limited to fight against Indian 
expansionism. We should strive to achieve more ideological-political cohesion among the 
Maoist forces of the region, exchange the experiences and assist one another in the spirit 
of proletarian internationalism.  
 
Ideologically  we  analyzed  concretely  the  historical,  economical,  political,  social, 
religious, cultural and geographical conditions to correctly understand the inter-relations 
between, problems facing, contradictions operating in the South Asian Region in general 
and  concretely  analyzed  the  expansionism  of  Indian  ruling  classes  in  particular.  And 
basing on the above understanding, we politically formulated our strategic approach and 
tactics and specific policies to deal with the situation of this region. Thus struggle against 
Indian  expansionism;  and  mutual  help  in  this  struggle  and  in  the  advancement  of 
revolutions  are  the  objectives  of  the  CCOMPOSA  and  it  was  with  this  ideological  and 
political  understanding  that  both  our  Parties—[CPN  (Maoist)  and  CPI  (Maoist)]—
initiated to form it.  
 
Yes,  surely  the  CCOMPOSA  is  as  an  important  instrument  of  Maoist  Parties  and 
democratic  fighting  forces  to  face  the  emerging  new  challenges  regionally.  But,  its 
development will depend on the successes and advancements in revolutions of this region 
in  general  and  Nepal  and  India  in  particular  and  also  the  role  played  by  the  Parties 
concerned in it and also on the political situation in this Region and world over.  
 

 

4 

 

The unity between two revolutionary parties in India, the CPI(ML)(PW) and MCCI 
has  inspired  very  much  the  masses  world  over  and  South  Asia  in  particular.  But 
there are still several revolutionary and Marxist-Leninist-Maoist Parties outside  of 
this process. Does this process still continue?  
 
GP:  I  agree  with  you  regarding  the  impact  of the merger  of two  Maoist  Parties and  the 
formation  of  CPI  (Maoist)  in  India.  And  I  also  agree  that  there  are  still  several 
revolutionary and  Marxist-Leninist-Maoist Parties outside of this process. This fact was 
taken cognizance  of  by  the  Joint meeting  of  the  CCs  of  the  two erstwhile  parties at  the 
time  of  the  merger.  The  CC  of  our  new  Party  has  correctly  assessed  that  there  are  still 
some (not several as you say) revolutionary forces outside the Party and decided to take 
up the unity task by the new central committee as one of its urgent tasks. Our new Central 
Committee  in  its  first  meeting  has  decided  to  start  immediately  the  unity  process  with 
other  revolutionary  and  Marxist-Leninist-Maoist  Parties  and  revolutionary  individuals. 
We are making serious efforts to realize this task in a principled manner. Regarding the 
unity of  genuine revolutionary forces,  I  want to clarify that  there must be an agreement 
on basic ideological, political, organizational, military issues which will ensure the unity 
on  the  Party  line  for  the  unity  with  any  revolutionary  Party.  And  also  our  Central 
Committee is giving very much importance to the practice of any revolutionary Party to 
correctly judge its genuineness.  
 
In order to correctly asses the words and deeds of any revolutionary Party, we are asking 
for  the  review  of  its  practice.  For  principled  unity  we  need  the  review  of  any  Party  in 
Indian  context  and  lessons  gained  in  the  history  of  revolutionary  movement  of  India. 
With  this  unity  effort,  we  are  already  getting  some  positive  results  also.  But, 
unfortunately  some  parties  have  not  responded  positively.  In  spite  of  their  negative 
approach, we are still waiting for their positive response. I believe that this revolutionary 
situation itself forces all the genuine revolutionaries to unite. Their responsibility lies in 
their consciousness.  
 
Would  you  please  mention  the  basic  theoretical  and  political  concept  of  unity 
between revolutionary parties?  
 
GP: Basically, theoretical and political unity on the following questions must be essential 
for the unification of revolutionaries in India: Our ideology of MLM, nature of the Indian 
society,  state  character,  major  and 
fundamental  contradictions  and  principal 
contradiction;  Stage  of  the  revolution,  strategy  of  the  revolution  and  path  of  the 
revolution; Political, organizational and military line and basic tactics of PPW; Position 
on  the  questions  of  Caste,  Nationality,  Women  and  Religious  minorities;  International 
situation  and  the  fundamental  and  principal  contradictions  in  the  contemporary  world, 
domestic  situation,  and  so  on.  Along  with  the  theoretical  and  political  unity  on  these 
questions,  it  is  very  important  to  take  into  consideration  the  historical  evaluation  of 
practice of the parties that wish to unite, as well as their current practice.  
 
To  think  of  unity  based  only  on  the  basic  documents  related  to the ideological-political 
line of the parties and not taking into account the practice of the parties, is fraught with 

 

5 

 

inherent  danger  since  no  party  can  be  genuinely  revolutionary  if  its  practice  does  not 
match  its  theory.  We  should  oppose  some  of  aspects  proposed  by  the  RIM  for  the 
unification of Maoist Parties in a country.  
 
How  have  been  the  activities,  situation  of  the  movement  and  influence  after  party 
unification?  
 
GP:  Unification  of  the  two  Maoist  Parties  has  had  a  tremendous  influence  on  the 
oppressed  masses  of  the  country  and  the  various  revolutionary  forces.  The  Party 
organization now spans across the length and breadth of the country, from Assam-Tripura 
in the east to Gujarat in the west, and from Punjab in the north to Kerala in the south. We 
now have presence in almost every state though it is weak in some states. The merger of 
the  two  Parties  has  strengthened  the  organization  specially  in  Bihar,  Jharkhand,  West 
Bengal, UP, Orissa and Chhattisgarh and to a smaller degree in eight other states.  
 
The merger at the central level was immediately followed by the merger at the state level 
which took almost 6 months. This has been one of the main activities during the period 
after  the  merger.  We  have  also  taken  up  the  Assembly  Election  Boycott  Campaign  in 
Bihar, Jharkhand during the month of  February this  year.  It had a good political impact 
and there was virtually no campaigning by the parliamentary parties in most of our areas. 
Some of the armed tactical offensives as in Chandauli of UP in November last in which 
17  policemen  were  killed,  the  annihilation  of  the  SP  of  Mungyr  district  in  Bihar, 
ambushes in West Bengal, Maharashtra, series of attacks in  Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and 
AP had demonstrated the increased striking power of the PLGA after the merger of the 
two Parties and the two guerilla armies.  
 
As  regards  political  offensive,  attempts  are  going  on  to  build  a  strong  anti-imperialist, 
anti-repression movement. We are now in a position to build mass organizations having a 
really  All India character and proceed in the direction of building united front at the all 
India level.  
 
The  impact  of  the  merger  is  felt  even  more  by  the  exploiting  ruling  classes  who  have 
been yelling loudly that the new Party poses a grave danger to the internal security and 
the unity and integrity of the country and that all efforts should be made to stamp out the 
Red  Corridor  stretching  all  the  way  from  Nepal  to  Kerala  in  the  south.  Meetings  of  the 
Chief Ministers, DGPs, Chief Secretaries and so on of 13 states are having meeting after 
meeting devising plans to suppress the people's war led by the CPI (Maoist).  
 
A considerable section of Indian population has been concentrating in the cities and 
industrial  sectors.  The  nature  of  contradiction  automatically  brings  about  changes 
in  the  form  of  movement.  Looking  at  it  from  this  angle,  how  do  you  see  the 
possibility  of  insurrection  in  the  cities?  If  so,  have  you  thought  about  the  need  to 
develop military line that connects the protracted people's war with insurrection?  
 
GP:  Almost  a  third  of  the  Indian  population  resides  in  urban  areas.  The  size  of  the 
working class in India is quite huge. Though as a percentage of the total population it is 

 

6 

 

not very high as in the capitalist countries, in numbers it is very significant. For instance, 
the  strength  of  the  organized  working  class  itself  is  more  than the  population  of  Nepal, 
not to speak of the unorganized working class which is four times more. It is important to 
take this fact into consideration when formulating tactics.  
 
The weightage of the working class and the urban area in the overall revolution is greater 
than what it was in pre-revolutionary China. The uprisings of the working class and the 
urban population play an important role in the latter stages of the Indian revolution. We 
have to adopt diverse tactics for mobilizing the urban masses into the revolution, take up 
their  political-economic-social-cultural  issues,  give  more  importance  especially  to  work 
among the various sections of the urban population, expose and isolate the revisionist and 
bourgeoisie  TU  leadership,  build  a  united  revolutionary-democratic  movement  of  the 
working  class,  build  strong  anti-imperialist  and  anti-CBB  political  movement,  and 
concentrate  on  the  key  sectors  of  the  economy.  We  must,  no  doubt,  prepare  the  urban 
masses for insurrection but they must be first trained to integrate with the peasantry and 
to  lead,  participate  and extend  solidarity  to  the armed  agrarian  revolutionary  movement 
and thus lay a strong basis for worker-peasant unity.  
 
The protracted people's war strategy includes the aspect of insurrection in the cities which 
generally  takes  after  the  liberation  of  the  vast  backward  countryside.  However,  in  the 
urban areas in and around the Base Areas and the guerilla zones, uprisings do occur much 
earlier  and  there  will  be  continuous  tussle  between  the  revolutionary  armed,  forces  and 
the enemy's armed forces for the control over these urban areas for a long period of time. 
The line of PPW in India has its own specific characteristics. From the very beginning of 
our  work  in  urban  areas,  we  must  give  emphasis  to  building  a  self-defence  movement, 
should inter-link the armed activity with the guerilla war in the sub-urban areas and with 
the armed agrarian revolutionary war in the countryside.  
 
With the above strategic outlook our Party will further develop our political and military 
line in practice by summing up the experiences and the changes in conditions.  
 
Strong  national  movements are being  waged in the different parts  of India. Would 
you please explain in brief the contradiction and inter-relation existing between the 
new democratic revolution and the national movement? Also how are you charting 
plans to win over the national movements in the fold of new democratic revolution? 
What are the ideological and political problems you are facing while doing so?  
 
GP:  Nationality  movements  have  become  an  inseparable  aspect  of  the  Indian  political 
scene,  and  however  much  the  reactionary  ruling  classes  of  India  have  been  trying  to 
suppress  them,  or  buy  over  their  leadership,  they  are  rising  up  again  and  again  like  a 
phoenix.  
 
In  the  opinion  of  our  Party,  national  movements  are  an  integral  part  of  the  New 
Democratic Revolution. The demands of the various oppressed nationalities in India also 
form part of the agenda of the NDR. The just and legitimate right of the nationalities to 
self-determination, including  their  right  to  secession,  is  supported  by  our  Party  and  this 

 

7 

 

important democratic right is included in our Party programme. Thus theoretically, there 
is no contradiction between the new democratic revolution and the nationality movement 
as the latter's aim is to achieve liberation from imperialism and reflects the aspirations of 
the  vast  masses,  including  the  national  bourgeoisie,  which  is  also  part  of  the  new 
democratic front at this stage of the democratic revolution.  
 
However,  there  are  serious  limitations  on  the  part  of  the  leadership  of  most  of  the 
nationality  movements.  They  do  not  have  a  clear  anti-imperialist  orientation  and  often 
capitulate to imperialism. There is lack of consistency and there is vacillation. There is no 
ideological-political  clarity  regarding  the  national  programme.  This,  obviously,  poses 
some serious problems and hence we see some of the nationality movements capitulating 
to the machinations of the reactionary ruling classes and the imperialists.  
 
The  working  class  party  has  to  make  conscious  effort  to  impart  ideological-political 
education to the leadership of the nationality movements; orient their movements against 
imperialism, CBB and feudalism; help them formulate a democratic programme so as to 
reflect  the  aspirations  of  the  broad  masses;  and  achieve  effective  coordination  between 
the armed agrarian revolutionary struggles and the national movements.  
 
The armed struggles waged by the nationalities are an important component of the Indian 
new  democratic  revolution  and  our  Party  will  make  all  effort  to  give  them  a  correct 
revolutionary orientation and to achieve coordination against the common enemies.  
 
How  are  you  evaluating  the  present  political  situation  in  India?  In  the  present 
context,  would  you  please  let  us  know  about  the  immediate  tactical  program  of 
military and political offensive within the present stage of strategic defensive?  
 
GP:  The  present  political  situation  in  India  is  extremely  favorable  for  advancing  the 
people's  war  in  the  country,  more  so  in  the  context  of  the  merger  of  the  two  Maoist 
Parties  in  September  last  year.  The  crisis  is  quite  acute  in  the  economic,  political  and 
social spheres, all the fundamental and major contradictions are becoming more and more 
acute day by day and the various sections of the people are waging militant struggles on 
their  demands,  often  clashing  with  the  Indian  state  and  the  armed  struggle  of  some 
oppressed nationalities are continuing.  
 
Our  Party  has  been  trying  to  utilize  this  favorable  situation  by  taking  up  political  and 
military  offensive.  Our  TCOCs,  which  have  been  taken  up  as  well-coordinated 
campaigns  at  various  levels,  have  had  a  good  impact.  We  have  been  taking  up  such 
tactical  offensives  to  seize  arms  and  ammunition  from  the  enemy  forces  and  arming 
PLGA,  to  establish  organs  of  people's  political  power,  and  to  stall  the  offensive 
operations of the enemy forces, and also during the PLGA anniversary week every year, 
and during the elections to parliament and assemblies.  
 
Politically, we are trying to intervene in the various types of situation in the states where 
we are strong, utilize the contradictions within the ruling classes, and build broad-based 
militant  mass  movement  against  state  repression,  imperialist  globalization  and  its  ill-

 

8 

 

effects, Hindu communal-fascist offensive and religious fundamentalism of all types. But 
given the vast size of India and the weakness of our subjective forces, we are not yet in a 
position to effectively intervene at the Central level and our intervention is still largely at 
the state and lower levels. We do have plans to politically intervene at the Central level in 
a significant way in the near future.  
 
As  a  practitioner  of  proletarian  internationalism  and  an  immediate  neighbor,  you 
are  definitely  studying  in  depth  the  People's  War  in  Nepal.  What  do  you  see  as 
important  achievements  for  the  world  communist  movement  acquired  from  the 
development  of  10  years  of  People's  War  in  Nepal?  Do  you  have  any  suggestions 
that you would like to provide in order to advance the Nepalese revolution further?  
 
GP:  Yes.  We  have  been  definitely  studying  the  People's  War  in  Nepal  right  from  its 
initiation.  As  a  firm  adherent  of  proletarian  internationalism,  our  Party  had  always 
maintained good fraternal relations with your Party in Nepal, tried to study the ongoing 
people's war and, as you are aware, tried to assist in whatever way possible long before 
the initiation of people's war in your country. We have had several rounds of discussions 
during  1995-1996  when  the  people's  war  was  initiated  and  during  the  period  after  the 
initiation. During these discussions we had exchanged our views on  several issues such 
as: the concept of Gonzalo Thought and the understanding regarding 'ism', Thought and 
Path,  nature  of  the  revolution  in  the  21st  century,  concept  of  South  Asian  Socialist 
Federation, role of RIM, experiences of Peru, question of Comrade Stalin, and so on. The 
discussions between our two Parties have been quite useful and helped in understanding 
one another better.  
 
As a Party leading the revolution in India, we made special effort to study the advances 
made  by  the  people's  war  in  Nepal.  The  development  of  a  decade  of  people's  war  in 
Nepal  has  a  great  impact  on  the  world  revolution  and  has  provided  rich  and  varied 
experiences for the revolutions in other countries. The world communist movement and 
the Indian communist movement have greatly benefited from the experiences of the PW 
in Nepal.  
 
As  for  concrete  achievements,  I  think  the  comrades  in  Nepal  had  very  effectively  and 
creatively  combined  the  universal  truth  of  MLM  with  the  concrete  practice  of  the 
Nepalese  revolution.  This  creative  application  of  MLM  to  the  concrete  conditions  of 
Nepal in the context of the contemporary world situation by the CPN (Maoist) is itself an 
achievement.  This  is  because  dogmatism  is  still  a  strong  trend  in  the  world  communist 
movement at present even though the right opportunism or right revisionism continues to 
be the principal trend. Hence the breakthrough achieved by the CPN (M) by the creative 
application of MLM will be an eye-opener to many of these dogmatic Maoists.  
 
Another significant achievement of your Party, as I see, is the effective use of tactics. The 
CPN  (M)  has  been  able  to  change  its  tactics  swiftly  and  boldly  in  accordance  with  the 
changes in the situation, without any hesitation, about what others would say. We can see 
this effective use of the weapon of tactics throughout this ten-year period and our Party 
appreciates the boldness and the creativity of your Party leadership in such a flexible use 

 

9 

 

of the weapon of tactics.  
 
The  advances  made  by  the  people's  war  in  Nepal  has  also  proved  that  initiation  of 
people's  wars  and  rapid  advances  are  possible  in  backward  countries  if  the  proletarian 
party  is  equipped  with  a  correct  revolutionary  line  based  on  MLM  and  the  leadership 
effectively  combines  theory  with  practice  and  creatively  develops  appropriate  tactics 
without any rigidity.  
 
As for our suggestions, we have been continuously placing them before your leadership 
during our bilateral discussion with CPN (M). We found that there is a certain degree of 
overgeneralization with regard to some of the achievements of the people's war in Nepal, 
such  as  attributing  universality  to  some  things  that  are  basically  a  feature  of  the 
revolution in an extremely backward country. And while it is a good thing that your Party 
has been taking up tactics quite boldly, there is also the problem of oversimplification of 
some  situations  and, at times,  taking  tactics  based  on an  overestimation  of  the  situation 
such as the intensity of the contradictions between India, China and the US.  
 
The Nepalese People's War has entered into the stage of strategic counter-offensive. 
This  situation  in  itself  is  the  phase  of  central  political  and  military  intervention 
against  the  enemy.  It  is  clear  that  the  reactionaries  the  world  over  in  general  and 
Indian  expansionism  in  particular  are  assisting  the  despotic  Gyanendra  regime 
openly  and  even  preparing  for  open  intervention.  What  do  you  think  the  role  of 
your  party should  be  on  behalf  of the justice-loving Indian  masses to  prevent such 
intervention?  
 
GP: I shall try to answer both the questions together as both are closely related.  
 
It is a fact that the reactionary ruling classes of India and Nepal, aided and abetted by the 
imperialists, particularly the US imperialists, have been working together to suppress the 
people's wars in both these countries. The victory of the revolution in any country in the 
world  is  intolerable  for the  reactionaries  of  the  world  who  have  been  spreading  vicious 
propaganda  and  unending  myths  about  the  "final  defeat  of  communism"  and  the  "final 
triumph  of  capitalism",  that  there  is  no  alternative  to  capitalism,  and  such  trash.  The 
spectre of communism is haunting them again with the rapid advances in the people's war 
in Nepal and India.  
 
The Red Corridor or the Compact Revolutionary  Zone, which is the name given  by the 
ruling  classes  to  the  region  stretching  all  the  way  from  the  revolutionary  Red  Bases  in 
Nepal  to the  guerilla  zones  of  AP  and  further  south,  has  become a  nightmare  for them. 
The  further  advancement  of  the  revolutionary  guerilla  war  in  this  vast  region,  the 
strengthening  of  the  PLGA  and  its  transformation  into  PLA,  and  the  establishment  of 
Base  Areas  in  this  strategic  region,  will  bring  about  a  qualitative  transformation  in  the 
people's  war  and  the  entire  political  scenario  in  the  country.  The  faster  we  can  realize 
this, the greater will be the help that we can render to the revolution in Nepal.  
 
The  relations  between  our  two  Parties—CPI  (Maoist)  and  CPN  (Maoist)—have  to  be 

 

10 

 

further strengthened, no doubt. Particularly when the revolution in your country is in the 
strategic counteroffensive, it is necessary to have better coordination. We must think of 
proper methods to maintain these relations regularly.  
 
At  the  present  juncture,  when  the  Indian  expansionists  are  trying  to  bolster  the  rotten 
reactionary  monarchy  of  Gyanendra  and  even  contemplating  to  openly  intervene,  our 
Party  will  strive  to  mobilize  the  vast  Indian  masses  into  a  broad  political  movement 
against the intervention and aid by the Indian government to the Gyanendra regime, along 
with stepping up our armed campaign against the reactionary Indian state.  
 
How  have  you  summed  up  the  negotiations  that  took  place  between  CPI  (Maoist) 
and Andhra [Pradesh] State Government?  
 
GP: Till now our CC did not sum up the negotiations between AP State Committee of our 
Party  and  the  Andhra  State  Government.  But  recently,  in  last  February,  our  Central 
Regional Bureau has summed up these negotiations basing on the policy and guidelines 
of  our  Party.  Earlier  we  had  formulated  our  policy  and  guidelines  on  this  question  by 
applying MLM to the concrete conditions, i.e., the political situation and our movement.  
 
The CRB summed up the negotiations as our war in the political front that had brought 
positive political-organizational gains to the Party. "To sum up, the initiative taken by our 
Party  in  AP  in  forcing  the  government  to  declare  a  cease-fire  and  drag  it  to  the 
negotiating  table,  is  a  good  example  of  political  intervention  on  the  part  of  the 
revolutionaries.  Though  there  are  some  shortcomings  and  mistakes  during  this  period, 
positive  aspect  is the  principal  feature  of  our  political  initiative.  During  this  period,  our 
Party  had  gained  much  more  popularity,  legitimacy  and  credibility  in  the  eyes  of  the 
people. We had placed our revolutionary politics boldly before the people and undertook 
massive political mobilizations by utilizing the period of cease-fire. Yet, there is a wide 
gulf between the Party's political influence and organizational strength."  
 
On the negative side, there arose some legalist trends in a section of the Party cadre and 
leadership. There was an overemphasis in practice on legal meetings and rallies instead of 
orienting  the  masses  towards  militant  struggles  mainly  on  the  political  demands.  There 
was lack of necessary military preparation on our side by the time the enemy began his 
offensive in January '05. 
 
After our CC reviews the experiences of our tactics of negotiations in AP, we shall place 
whatever is needed before the people.  
 
How  is your  party  looking  at  the  role  that  the  RIM  has  been  playing  ideologically 
and politically in the contemporary international communist movement?  
 
GP:  Our  Party  has  a  positive  and  critical  approach  towards  RIM.  On  the  one  hand,  we 
recognize the positive ideological-political role played by RIM on certain questions such 
as its analysis of the counter-revolution in China after the demise of Mao. This certainly 
helped those revolutionary parties that had some confusion regarding the developments in 

 

11 

 

China.  
 
On the other hand, our Party also has differences on some ideological-political questions 
such as the question of assessment of Stalin, concept of a new International, question of 
democratic  centralism,  and  the  problems  in  the  functioning  of  CoRIM  and  so  on.  The 
manner in which RIM has been dealing with the question of Stalin is only creating more 
differences within the Maoist camp. We are debating with CoRIM on all such questions.  
 
Our  Party  has  adopted  the  correct  method  of  unity-struggle-unity  in  resolving  our 
differences  with  RIM.  We  must  adopt  this  method  in  solving  the  problems  confronting 
the ICM.  
 
What do you think is the main subjective problem within the communist movement 
at  present?  How  should  the  ideological  and  political  struggle  be  conducted  against 
this?  
 
GP:  You  mean  the  problem  of  leadership  of  Maoist  Parties  of  various  countries  in  the 
ICM  at  present.  I  suppose  there  may  be  some  problems  in every  genuine  Maoist Party. 
We can understand this problem in the backdrop of the situation in the ICM and complex 
situation of the world. There is an urgent need for waging healthy struggles by the Maoist 
Parties on the ideological-political problems confronting the world revolution.  
 
To achieve this, the struggle in Maoist Parties can be waged in two ways, from inside and 
outside, principally inside. To achieve good results in inner-Party struggle, any party can 
take  fraternal  Party's  suggestions  and  any  fraternal  party  may  give  suggestions.  To 
achieve  good  results  in  international  debate  or  struggle,  it  is  incumbent  upon  the 
concerned  Parties  which  initiate the  debate  to consult  genuine  Maoist  Parties  and chalk 
out the problems that are to be solved in order to serve the world socialist revolution. Any 
genuine inner-Party struggle or ideological struggle at the international level can help the 
Parties mutually. We must follow the methods based on MLM in conducting inner-Party 
struggle or international debates on ideological-political matters. If we fail to follow this 
method, we will not be able to achieve the desired goal.  
 
There  is  also  another  type  of  struggle,  that  is,  the  struggle  between a  revolutionary  and 
revisionist  Party  or  between  revolutionary  and  revisionist  camps  internationally.  Any 
genuine  Maoist  party  should  not  mix  this  type  of  struggle  with  the  struggle  between 
genuine Maoist Parties and should be cautious not to use the same method for both types 
of struggles.  
 
How  has  your  experience  been  in  building  and  strengthening  a  proletarian 
communist  party  within  the  framework  of  non-proletarian  thinking  that  crops  up 
from the semi-feudal and semi-colonial relations?  
 
GP: I feel it is not only the problem of any semi-colonial and semi-feudal society, but a 
problem  confronting  the  proletarian  Party  of  every  country  including  all  the  imperialist 
countries in  general.  But  this  problem  has  its  own  specific  characteristics  depending  on 

 

12 

 

the  concrete  conditions  of  that  country.  It  also  implies  to  all  countries  in  the  course  of 
revolution and at the time of socialist transformation or socialist construction.  
 
India's  specificity  is  that  it  is  semi-feudal  and  semi-colonial  and  hence  non-proletarian 
thinking  crops  up  continuously  in  the  Maoist  party  in  India  due  to  these  specificities. 
Most of the cadres in the party hail from the peasantry and, as we know, we have to make 
conscious effort to transform the thinking of the peasantry.  
 
Not only the peasantry, non-proletarian thinking crops up in virtually every section of the 
population in India due to the predominance of semi-feudal, semi-colonial relations and 
culture  which  affects  the  entire  society.  Factors  such  as  patriarchy,  caste  feelings  and 
even  discrimination,  nationality  sentiments  and  prejudices  etc.,  have  some  impact  even 
on the cadre hailing from the working class.  
 
In  the  erstwhile  PW,  we  had  two  serious  inner-Party  struggles  in  1985-87  and  1991-92 
against  SM-VS  liquidationist  clique  and KS  clique  respectively.  In  both  these  struggles 
the  Party  acquired  rich  experience,  its  ideological-political  line  was  enriched,  and  a 
higher unity of thought and action was achieved in the course of these struggles.  In the 
erstwhile  MCCI  there  was  an  inner-Party  struggle  against  Bbarath-Badal  clique  which 
helped  in  the  Party's  growth  and  in  achieving  further  clarity  on  ideological-political 
questions.  
 
The Rectification campaigns taken up by the erstwhile PW in the various states and at the 
central  level  after  its  Congress,  had  helped  greatly  in  ideologically  remoulding  the 
outlook of the Party rank and file and overcoming the non-proletarian trends within the 
Party.  
 
Marxism  asserts  that  everything  is  illusion  without  State  Power.  How  are  you 
planning  to  establish  People's  Power  in  the  areas  where  you  have  a  stronghold? 
What  are  the  problems  you  are  going  to  face  when  you  take  this  question  onto 
immediate agenda?  
 
GP:  Every  genuine  Marxist  believes  that,  "everything  is  illusion  without  State  Power." 
Hence, our Party's basic line is formulated based on the Maoist principle—"The seizure 
of  power  by  armed  force,  the  settlement  of  the  issue  by  war,  is  the  central  task  and 
highest form of revolution. But while the principle remains the same (for all countries), 
its application by the Party of the proletariat finds expression in various ways according 
to  the  varying  conditions."  Hence,  in  accordance  with  the  above  understanding,  we  are 
propagating  the  politics  of  seizure  of  power  and  establishment  of  organs  of  people's 
power  and  Base  Areas  from  the  very  beginning  of  our  work  in  any  area.  And  for 
establishing  the  Base  Areas,  we  are  basically  concentrating  on  the  vast  backward  rural 
areas with favorable terrain. This is based on the laws of protracted people's war in India, 
which envisage that, in order to confront an enemy who is far more superior in strength, 
the revolutionary forces will have to select areas, in which the enemy is relatively weaker 
and  which  are  favorable  to  the  revolutionary  forces,  and  develop  the  revolutionary  war 
there.  Our  country  has  many  such  areas  that  are  strategically  important  for  the  people's 

 

13 

 

war  where  Liberated  Areas  can  be  established.  These  Bases  will  act  as  the  lever  or 
fulcrum for coordinating and advancing the people's war in the country, and for seizing 
political power countrywide.  
 
We  have  selected  such  areas  and  advanced  the  armed  agrarian  revolutionary  war  by 
confronting  the  local  feudal  forces  and  the  State's  armed  forces.  After  several  armed 
confrontations with the armed forces of the Indian state, we have been able to establish 
organs  of  people's  political  power  in  some  of  these  areas.  Establishing  Base  Areas  and 
organs of people's power is on our immediate agenda and we have taken this as our basic 
principal and immediate task.  
 
At present, the revolutionary movements are advancing in the vast belt encompassing the 
extensive  area  of  Jharkhand,  Dandakaranya,  Andhra  Pradesh,  Bihar,  Orissa,  UP,  etc. 
These  have  a  great  strategic  significance.  We  are  planning  to  build  these  areas  into  a 
contiguous  area  of  armed  struggle,  with  each  area  influencing  the  other.  As  these  areas 
get  consolidated,  we  will  be  able  to  utilize  their  impact  on  the  surrounding  areas  and 
develop them into guerilla zones thus expanding the area of armed struggle. We have the 
aim of developing the revolutionary movement in strategic areas of various states as our 
subjective forces gain strength.  
 
However, although we are establishing organs of people's power in our strongholds, it is 
not an easy thing to establish stable bases for quite some time, given the vastly superior 
strength  of  the  Indian  state.  Besides  unleashing  white  terror  on  the  people,  the  Indian 
ruling classes have also taken up reforms in the areas of armed struggle in order to divert 
the  masses  and to  win  over  a  section  to their  side.  Hence,  along  with  strengthening  the 
PLGA and transforming it into PLA, we have to arm the masses in a big way and prepare 
the masses mentally, imparting ideological and political consciousness to them from the 
beginning. In spite of these efforts, the scale and magnitude of enemy attack might force 
us  to  retreat  from  some  of  our  strongholds  and  developments  like  a  base  area changing 
into a guerrilla zone cannot be ruled out. The transformation of a guerilla zone changing 
into  a  base  area  or  the  vice  versa  will  occur  depending  on  the  state  of  the  enemy's 
offensive, successes or defeats in the war, the state of our subjective forces, the spread of 
the people's war, and on the domestic and international situation. 

 

14 

