Telangana Today

Ganapathy steps down as Maoist chief

Ganapathy replaced by Namballa Keshava Rao as General Secretary of CPI-Maoist. 
Change of guard anticipated ever since party’s Central Committee meeting in Feb 2017.

By AuthorK Srinivas Reddy  |  

Published: 5th Nov 2018  11:55 pm Updated: 6th Nov 2018  1:00 am

The 71-year-old veteran Ganapathy is replaced by Namballa Keshava Rao (63), who is also known as Baswaraj.

Hyderabad: One of the chief architects of the Indian revolutionary movement, Muppala Laxmana Rao, more 
popular with his nom de guerre Ganapathy, has stepped down as the general secretary of the CPI (Maoist), 
paving the way for the younger leadership to take the reins of the most secretive organisation that continues to 
wage a relentless protracted armed struggle based on the Marxist-Leninist-Maoist ideology.

The 71-year-old Ganapathy, reliable sources say, is replaced by Namballa Keshava Rao, aka Baswaraj, aged 
about 63 years. Incidentally, both the leaders hail from the Telugu States. While Lakshmana Rao is from Beerpur
village of Jagitial district in Telangana, Keshava Rao is from Jiyannapet village of Srikakulam district in Andhra 
Pradesh.

The change of guard has been anticipated ever since the Maoist party’s Central Committee meeting held in 
February 2017, passed a resolution on ‘veteran comrades’ asking senior leadership to voluntarily step down from
their responsibilities because of their age. The central committee resolution spoke about forming special squads 
to protect these veteran leaders and in case it is difficult to provide security to them in forest areas, they should 
be moved to towns of cities with ‘due protection’.

The confirmation of Keshava Rao taking over as general secretary of the CPI (Maoist) was confirmed by a 
senior naxalite leader who surrendered himself with an AK-47 in Chhattisgarh recently, officials monitoring the 
naxalite movement in the country disclosed to this correspondent. The change in guard is meant to infuse a fresh 
lease of life into the fighting capabilities of the Maoist party, which has been in the ‘setback’ stage all over the 
country. Several Maoist documents point to the party’s failure in attracting youth and the leaders’ inability to 
spread the movement to urban areas.

Namballa Keshava Rao, was heading the Central Military Commission (CMC) and is known to be an expert in 
fieldcraft, use of explosives and military tactics. He had been underground for the last 28 years and had 
graduated from the Regional Engineering College (REC), in Warangal, which is now rechristened National 
Institute of Technology (NIT). He was known to have been arrested in Srikakulam only once after a clash 
between members of the Radical Students Union (RSU), then a student’s wing of the CPI-ML People’s War 
(PW) and the Rasthriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) on January 21, 1980. Eversince, he has managed to escape 
the police dragnet several times.

Change in tactics

With his technical background and solid knowledge of military tactics, the revolutionary movement is bound to 
witness changes. The recent killing of Kidari Sarveshwar Rao, a Telugu Desam Party legislator from Araku 
Assembly segment in Andhra Pradesh and a former legislator S Soma in last week of September indicates the 
change in tactics of the Maoist party. Despite the revolutionary party suffering serveral set backs in AP and its 
neighbouring States of Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Maoist rebels carried out a daring attack on the Araku legislator on 
September 23, 2018.

The last time, the Maoist party carried out such a deadly attack on an elected representative was on the 
Independence Day in 2005, when a Maoist action team shot dead Congress legislator Chittem Narsi Reddy and 
eight others in Narayanpet town of Mahabubnagar district. The current attack on the MLA in Andhra Pradesh, 
the series of ambushes being carried out in Chhattisgarh and increased armed actions in Odisha point to the 
change in tactics after Keshava Rao took over, sources felt. Keshava Rao had extensively worked in the Andhra-
Odisha Border and Dandakaranya areas and is stated to be extremely strong in his committment to the ideology.

His predecessor, Laxmana Rao, is known more to be ideologically strong than in the military tactics. Laxmana 
Rao had worked as a teacher in Eligedu village of Karimnagar district and had been with Kondapalli 
Seetharamaiah (KS) who founded the CPI-ML People’s War (PW). He commanded the Peddapally dalam and 
later worked as the District Committee secretary of Karimnagar and was later elected to the Andhra Pradesh 
State Committee, Central Organising Committee.

Following an ideological split, Kondapally Seetharamaiah was ousted from the post and Laxmana Rao took over
the reins of the People’s War. His biggest contribution to the naxalite movement is the reunification of the 
naxalite groups, thus forming a unified party named CPI (Maoist), which spearheaded such an intense and 
violent movement that former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh termed it as biggest threat to internal security of 
India.

https://telanganatoday.com/ganapathy-steps-down-as-maoist-chief

