NOBODY CAN KILL THE IDEAS OF ‘AZAD’! 

NOBODY CAN STOP THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE 

REVOLUTION!! 

- Comrade Ganapathy 
Recently  some  media  persons  sent  some  questions  to  Comrade  Ganapathy,  the  General 
Secretary  of  CPI  (Maoist).  The  martyrdom  of  Politburo  member  and  party  spokesperson 
Comrade Azad, the continuous losses to the Central leadership of the party, the issue of talks 
with the government, the deluge of militant mass movements in many areas, the situation of 
the  revolutionary  movement  in  the  urban  and  plain  areas,  party  stand  on  contemporary 
issues  like  Kashmir  people’s  movement,  Commonwealth  games,  judgment  on  Babri  Masjid 
are some of the issues on which Comrade Ganapathy concentrated and gave his replies. We 
hope  this  interview  would  be  useful  to  know  about  party’s  stand  and  understanding  in  the 
present situation. 

– Editor 
1. Many people think that your party had suffered a severe backlash with Azad’s death. What are the 
circumstances  which  led  to  his  death?  How  would  you  assess  the  role  played  by  Azad  in  Indian 
Revolution? How do you plan to overcome his loss? 

COMRADE GANAPATHY : True, our party has suffered a severe backlash with the death of Comrade 
Azad. Azad was one of the topmost leaders in our party. He has been leading the Indian revolution since a 
long time. In our country, People’s War is intensifying with each passing day. With the aid and support of 
imperialists,  particularly  the  American  imperialists,  the  Indian  exploiting  ruling  classes  are  trying  to 
suppress the revolutionary  movement and are carrying on ruthless atrocities in an unprecedented severe 
manner. In this war between the people and the ruling classes, the enemy had particularly concentrated on 
comrades  like  Azad  who  are  leading  the  revolution  and  schemed  to  murder  them.  It  is  as  part  of  that 
conspiracy that comrade Azad was caught and killed in the most brutal and cowardly manner. The Home 
minister  Chidambaram,  who  is  leading  from  the  forefront  the  ‘War  on  People’  launched  by  Sonia-
Manmohan-Chidambaram  gang,  central  intelligence  agencies  and  Andhra  Pradesh  SIB    are  directly 
responsible for this gruesome murder. 
Comrade Azad was leading the entire urban movement on behalf of our Central Committee and was also 
looking  after  political  propaganda,  party  periodicals,  party  education  and  other  such  crucial 
responsibilities. He was a most reliable mass leader. He maintained close relations with many comrades at 
various levels and with the revolutionary masses. In the midst of severe repression, he worked selflessly 
and unflinchingly in spite of the many risks involved. It is under such circumstances that the enemy came 
to know about his whereabouts somewhere and could catch him by laying in wait. 
In July, Azad was to go to Dandakaranya. He was to participate in the political education training program 
planned for the party leadership cadres there. He had a contact with the Dandakaranya comrades in Nagpur 
city on July 1. But he and a journalist named Hemchand who was traveling with him were caught even 
before they reached the contact place. Both of them were taken to Adilabad forests and were killed the 
same  night.  Those  who  have  seen  his  dead  body  said  that  they  seemed  have  given  him  some  sedative 
injection as soon as they caught him. This means that the enemy had caught him in a planned manner with 
the clear aim of killing him. They killed Hemchand Pandey too so that the truth about his murder doesn’t 
come out. Both their bodies were thrown in the Jogapur forests in the Wankidi mandal of Adilabad district 
and a fake encounter story was concocted as always. 
Entire  people  along  with  our  Party  condemned  in  one  voice  this  fake  encounter  and  comrade  Azad’s 
murder.  Many  revolutionary  parties,  democratic  and  civil  rights  organizations  had  demanded  judicial 
enquiry on this fake encounter. Intellectuals, journalists, writers and students from many states along with 
those in Andhra Pradesh had accused that the Central and state governments were responsible for Azad’s 
murder. Many wrote articles and gave statements. Thousands attended the funeral procession of comrade 
Azad  which  was  held  in  Hyderabad  on  July  4th.  Many  Maoist  parties  from  all  over  the  world  had 

 

1

condemned the murder of comrade Azad and written letters to our CC hailing his services to the Indian 
revolution. On this occasion, I send my revolutionary greetings and gratitude to all these organizations and 
individuals on behalf of our CC. It is such democratic and revolutionary consciousness which would help 
sustain people’s movements. 
Azad  was  attracted  to  the  revolutionary  movement  while  he  was  studying  in  the  Warangal  Regional 
Engineering College in 1972. Azad who was exceptionally brilliant in his studies had played a dynamic 
role in the revolutionary movement too. He played a role in the formation of the Radical Students Union 
(RSU) in 1974. He was elected as the state president of RSU in 1978. He was one of the founders of the 
All India revolutionary student’s movement and guided it from its inception in 1985. He played a key role 
in conducting a seminar  on Nationality Question in the then Madras city in 1981. Later  he took up the 
responsibility  of  building  the  revolutionary  movement  in  Karnataka  and  build  up  the  Maoist  party  in 
Karnataka  for  the  first  time.  He  attracted  many  comrades  like  Saketh  Rajan  into  the  party.  When 
opportunistic elements tried to split the party in 1985 and in 1991, comrade Azad had played a crucial role 
in keeping the party united and strong and in defeating their opportunist politics with a proletarian outlook. 
He  worked  tirelessly  for  twenty years  as  a  CC  member  and  Politburo  member  from  1990  till  now.  We 
cannot separate Azad’s life from the revolutionary movement’s history of the past forty years. Particularly, 
he played a key role in the ideological, political spheres, party education and running of periodicals and 
such.  He  fulfilled  the  responsibility  of  the  party  spokesperson  since  three  years  as  ‘Azad’  in  the  most 
excellent and exemplary manner. He used his intellect and sharp pen outstandingly in fighting back the 
‘War on People’ led by the Chidambaram gang. He stood as the voice of the people against the rulers and 
exploiters. In the development of the party’s political line, in the development of the party, people’s army 
and mass organizations, in extending the movement, in the emergence of new democratic power organs 
and in all the victories won, Azad’s ideological, political work and practice played a key role. Unflinching 
commitment in face of any odds and during the ebb and flow of the movement, great sacrificing nature, 
selflessness,  simple  living,  indefatigable  work  for  the  revolution  and  for  the  interests  of  the  people, 
astounding study, study of changing phenomena in the society from time to time, being with the people 
always are some of the great proletariat ideals established by Comrade Azad. Though he is no more, it is 
undeniable that he would serve as a revolutionary role model to every revolutionary and particularly to the 
youth, students and intellectuals.  
It is true that it would be very difficult to fulfill the loss because comrade Azad’s life has been completely 
intertwined with the advancement of the revolutionary movement. He was a great revolutionary who was 
steeled  in  the  ups  and  downs  of  the  movement.  Revolutionary  movements  give  birth  to  leaders  in  this 
manner. In turn, these leaders lead the revolutionary movements down the path of victory. The sacrifice of 
many leaders is also inevitable in the revolutionary movement. The very conditions which give birth to 
the revolutionary movements and help its advancement would give birth to its leadership too. This 
has been proven repeatedly in the world revolutionary history. So the material conditions which are 
favorable for the rapid advancement of the revolutionary movement in our country today would give 
birth to thousands of leaders like comrade Azad. The ideological-political and practical work done by 
comrade Azad and the communist ideals he established have created the base for such an eventuality. The 
martyrdom of a Surapaneni Janardhan had placed an ideal in front of many comrades like Azad. Likewise 
many more revolutionaries would be born by taking the sacrifice of Azad as an ideal. They would lead the 
Indian revolution. The enemy could eliminate the physical presence of Azad but it would be impossible to 
stop the ideas he had spread in the party and among the people from turning into a material force. 
In our history though we had lost important leaders many times and had faced many ups and downs, we 
had always stood up again and could advance the movement. We are still attracting educated cadres into 
our party from various parts of our country. We are confident that we would be able to fill the void created 
by Azad’s death by training them up well in practice. The ruling classes are ecstatic that they had broken 
the jar of knowledge by killing Azad. But those fools do not understand that thousands of Azads would be 
born from the land where that knowledge had been spilled. Azad had haunted the ruling classes with his 
political attacks when he was alive. Now even after his death he is haunting them. The ruling classes startle 
at the very mention of his name.  
Before  the  death  of  Azad  too,  we  had  lost  important  leadership  comrades  in  fake  encounters  and  many 
more had been arrested. These losses are heavy too. But we would definitely overcome these losses and 
would definitely advance the revolutionary movement firmly. 

 

2

2. In the interview you gave to Jan Myrdal and Gautam Navlakha you said that your party was ready 
for talks with the government. In the letter written by your spokesperson Azad to Agnivesh, he said 
your  party  was  ready  for  simultaneous  ceasefire  from  both  sides.  Now  that  the  government  had 
killed  Azad  in  a  conspiratorial  manner,  do  you  think  it  is  possible  to  hold  talks?  Are  you  still 
reiterating the stand taken before the death of Azad? 

COMRADE GANAPATHY : In fact, you should put this question to Chidambaram and Manmohan Singh. 
For the past one and half year, comrades Azad, Kishenji and I have been stating our party’s stand regarding 
talks  a  number  of  times.  The  government  has  been  hiding  the  endless  brutal  violence  it  had  been 
perpetuating on the people and has been announcing each time that talks would be held only if Maoists 
abjure  violence.  Chidambaram  has  been  repeatedly  shouting  these  words  from  the  roof  top.  Keeping  in 
view  the  war  declared  on  the  people  and  the  difficulties  they  are  facing  due  to  it,  Azad  had  continued 
declaring till the end that our party would be ready for simultaneous cease fire if the government is ready 
for it. His intention was to lessen the travails of the people to any possible extent. He mentioned the same 
demand in the letter written to Swami Agnivesh. Chidambaram and Manmohan Singh had not only killed 
him in a conspiratorial manner but are shamelessly performing the same charade once again. The fact is 
that the government doesn’t feel any actual need for holding talks. If the peace wished by intellectuals, 
democrats and the people is to be established, then the most meaningless thing would be to demand that the 
counter-violence by people should be stopped while the government continues with its killing spree. When 
Chidambaram announced that Maoists should stop violence for 72 hours and Kishenji responded by giving 
a time of 72 days, Chidambaram’s answer was to target Kishenji and to intensify the attacks in order to kill 
him. Azad who had written the letter to Agnivesh was targeted and killed. As part of Operation Green Hunt 
nearly  one  lakh  paramilitary  forces  and  three  lakh  state  forces  have  been  deployed.  Of  these  the  major 
forces are Special Forces. Every day, every hour and every minute these forces are perpetuating countless 
atrocities on the people. They are targeting the people and democrats who are opposing this and putting 
them in jails under UAPA and other draconian laws of the states. Except for the reactionaries and their 
stooges in the media, nobody else is supporting this war on people in our country. Even if there are a few 
individuals who support it, it is not because they know the facts but because they innocently believe the 
false propaganda of the government. We feel that there is absolutely no conducive situation for holding 
talks now. 
People like Agnivesh are asking us not to retreat from the dialogue process and to come forward for talks 
even after the cold-blooded murder of comrade Azad. We want to ask them if they would be able to stop 
such conspiracies and plots the government is hatching to kill our party leaders. Doubtless, comrade Azad 
was killed by the government in a conspiracy. The post-mortem and forensic reports too prove this beyond 
doubt.  So  we  request  all  democrats,  peace-loving  intellectuals  and  human  rights’ organizations  to  come 
forward with the firm demand that judicial enquiry should be conducted on Azad’s murder. 
It is crystal clear that there is no conducive atmosphere for talks. In spite of this we request the people and 
democrats  to  demand  the  government  to  prove  its  commitment  towards  the  process  of  talks  by  coming 
forward to implement the following steps. 
1)  Stop Operation Green Hunt. Withdraw the paramilitary forces. If the government stops its offensive on 
the people, then the counter-offensive of the people would also stop. As many intellectuals are saying, 
if the offensive of the government doesn’t take place then there would be no need for the people to 
resist. 

2)  Ours  is  a  political  party  like  many  other  parties  in  this  country  and  the  world.  Our  party  has  an 
ideological  and  military  line  and  aim  and  correct,  clear-cut  policies  on  matters  relating  to  culture, 
caste, gender, nationality, ecology etc. Even according to the laws formulated by these ruling classes, 
democratic rights would apply to our party. So the ban on our party should be lifted. Ban on our mass 
organizations  should  be  lifted.  Absolute  democratic  opportunities  should  be  created  for  mass 
mobilization. Only in conditions where we could work democratically, we can come forward for talks. 
3)  In Andhra Pradesh, comrade Riyaz who had participated in talks with the government in 2004 was 
caught and murdered after torturing him brutally. Others who participated in talks were targeted and 
attempts  were  made  to  assassinate  them.  Now  comrade  Azad  who  was  working  to  facilitate  the 
process of talks was murdered. So, it is not possible to believe the government and send underground 
comrades for talks. Therefore if the government releases our leadership comrades from jails, then they 
would directly represent our party in the talks. 

 

3

So, you people should think about these three demands and place them before the government. We want to 
make it clear once again that any questions regarding talks should be put to the government first and not to 
us. 
GK Pillai, Prakash Singh, Chidambaram and such likes are saying that we would come into line only if 
pressure is built up on us through intensification of fascist military offensive on our party and massacring 
the people. They are living in a fools’ paradise. Building pressure, creating illusions in the name of talks, 
deceiving and destroying the party - this is the strategy of the government. In fact, our party is fighting for 
peace  too.  They  believe  only  in  suppression  and  they  are  incompetent  in  facing  us  politically  and 
ideologically.  People  are  fighting  under  the  leadership  of  our  party  with  the  lofty  aim  of  establishing 
permanent  peace  by  ending  the  exploitation,  oppression,  brutal  suppression  and  violence  in  our  country 
and in the whole human society. We see the issue of ‘talks’ and ‘peace’ as part of class struggle too. 
When class struggle intensifies, it would be in an armed form. In other circumstances it would be 
conducted  in  peaceful  methods  too.  So  it  is  completely  false  that  our  party  would  come  for  talks  if 
pressure is built up. 
And then, a false propaganda is being conducted through the media that there are differences in our party 
regarding talks and that they are mainly on the lines of erstwhile MCCI and erstwhile People’s War. This is 
hundred  percent  false.  This  is  nothing  but  false  propaganda  by  the  enemy  to  create  doubts  in  peoples’ 
minds about our party to carry on their aims. Our Unity Congress has taken a clear stand on the matter of 
talks. The struggle between correct ideas and wrong ideas is a continuous process in the party. We would 
solve  our  differences  of  opinion  by  abiding  the  principle  of  democratic  centralism  and  in  the  light  of 
Marxism-Leninism-Maoism.  This  would  only  lead  to  the  development  of  the  party.  We  achieved  great 
unity with the merger of the two parties. Now any discussions or conflict of ideas which takes place in the 
party would be in the form of ideological and political discussions in a united party and not in the form of 
differences between erstwhile MCCI and erstwhile CPI (ML) (People’s War). We categorically state that 
the differences would never ever take the form of conflicts before the merger. 

3. You are saying that the government has declared a war on the people. The government is saying 
that there is no war and that Operation Green Hunt is a figment of imagination of the media. It is 
very clear that coordinated attacks are carried on your party in all states. How is this offensive going 
on? How are you facing it and plan to face it? 

 COMRADE GANAPATHY : It is not just us who are saying that the government had declared a war on 
the people. All the people are saying so in one voice. All the people of the areas where this war is going on 
are saying so. All the democratic organizations, progressive forces and democrats of our country are saying 
very clearly that government is carrying a war on the people and are condemning it. The government is 
carrying  on  war  on  people  and  is  blatantly  lying  that  it  is  not  the  case.  While  Longkumer,  Kalluri  and 
Viswaranjan  announce  that  the  Operation  Green  Hunt  is  going  on,  on  the  other  hand  Chidambaram 
shamelessly declares that there is no such thing. It is increasingly getting exposed how terrible, how cruel 
fascist act this Green Hunt is and how dreadfully it is being carried on. In fact, in the various states where 
Maoist movement is present, nearly one lakh paramilitary forces are deployed. If we look at the number of 
police forces deployed in 9, 10 states against our movement it would be nearly three to four lakhs. What is 
the reason for deploying such a huge contingent of forces? What are these forces doing on a daily basis? 
Why are they increasing carpet security and construction of base camps, special training schools and jungle 
warfare schools? Why is the police budget of each state increased to such huge amounts and so rapidly? 
Why did the government release a package of thirteen and a half thousands of crores of rupees at once? 
Why huge sum of over one trillion rupees was allotted for internal security? Why are the central and state 
governments  spending  thousands  of  crores  of  rupees  annually  with  the  evil  design  of  eliminating  our 
movement?  Why  is  the  government  carrying  on  mopping  up  campaigns  in  our  strong  areas  like 
Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Bihar, Odisha, Maharashtra, North Andhra and North Telangana? Mopping up 
means destroying everything. Anybody can be killed, arrested, missed, raped and property, houses, harvest 
and everything can be destroyed. All this is nothing but fascist rule. 
It is as part of this war that the enemy is concentrating on our leadership and killing them in the most brutal 
manner and putting them in jails by arresting them in an undemocratic and illegal manner. The government 
has chosen armed repression as the main form and carrying on this war. However, in support of this it is 
carrying on the offensive in all other spheres, i.e., political, ideological, psychological, cultural spheres in a 
multi-pronged attack. 

 

4

That  is  why  the  people  are  consolidating  themselves  under  our  party  leadership  with  a  clear  strategy, 
intensifying the people’s war and establishing a new political power, new economy and new culture as an 
alternative to the present rule of the exploiting classes. Under our party’s leadership our PLGA, our new 
power  organs  and  people  are  fighting  a  life  and  death  struggle  against  MoUs  worth  billions  of  rupees 
which the central and state governments had signed with MNCs and big comprador corporate houses in 
many states such as Odisha, Bengal, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh etc. That is 
why, people are saying that this callous government is lying when it says that this is not a war. People, 
democrats and revolutionary forces are strongly and unitedly opposing and equally strongly fighting back 
the war on people which the government is intensifying day by day. Democratic forces, anti-imperialist 
forces and revolutionary proletariat all over the world are also strongly opposing and protesting this war on 
the people waged by the ruling classes of our country. 
I  want  to  clearly  state  one  thing  here.  This  war  on  the  people  is  a  brutal  war  launched  by  the 
government to suppress our just movement. This is an unjust war politically. This war by the ruling 
classes is carried on with a clear political aim. This would permanently continue the exploitation and 
oppression of the people. The self-defence war waged by the people also has a clear political aim. We 
are fighting with the aim of establishing a new society by destroying the exploitive and oppressive 
system. These two aims are completely at the opposite poles. At present revolutionary war is being 
waged in our country. The rulers are waging counter-revolutionary war against this revolutionary 
war.  Both  of  these  are  seriously  confronting  each  other.  They  represent  the  interests  of  two 
completely opposite classes. 
Firstly, we want to fight back this war politically. The political aim of our resistance war is very clear. 
Depending on how deeply the vast masses understand this, how much they consolidate themselves, how 
much they arm themselves, we will be able to end this war as soon as possible. We are striving hard for the 
same. That is why we are fighting the enemy in a multi-pronged manner in all spheres. 

4. Chidambaram and Manmohan Singh are repeatedly asking you to ‘abjure violence’. But the attacks 
of your people’s liberation guerilla army are continuing. Don’t you think this is making it difficult to 
arrive at a solution? In the background of your recent attacks at Tadimetla (Dantewada), Kongera 
(Narayanpur), Silda (West Bengal) and Lakhisarai (Jharkhand), some people are expressing their 
anxiety that you are responding only with military means. They are saying that this would facilitate 
the deployment of army and that it would lead to more violence and greater loss of lives of ordinary 
citizens and adivasis. What do you say? 

COMRADE GANAPATHY : Our central leadership has clearly stated our stand many times on this issue. I 
will do so one more time. It is nothing but a big deception and charade by the government to ask the people 
to abjure violence while the state continues its violence. It is violating its own laws and is massacring the 
people.  So  it  is  very  necessary  that  every  democrat  and  any  politically  conscious  person  questions  the 
government on this and demands that it stop the violence and war on the people. They should demand that 
it  is  the  government  which  should  abjure  violence.  When  the  government  says  that  we  are  practicing 
violence, it is just like a thief shouting ‘thief, thief’. It is trying to divert attention from the real issue by 
doing so. 
People whose consciousness has risen would not sit quiet and suffer these attacks carried on with the aim 
of looting their resources and to turn them into permanent slaves using the government mercenary armed 
forces. They would resist them by arming themselves. All the members of our people’s guerilla army 
are  none  other  than  masses  who  have  armed  themselves  voluntarily.  These  masses  who  had  been 
exploited  and  oppressed  like  slaves  since  generations  have  understood  the  laws  of  historical 
development of society and are fighting by arming themselves. Our party is repeatedly making this 
clear – there is only one way for the people to achieve their liberation and that is the armed way. It 
means arming themselves, forming themselves into an army and waging an armed struggle. When 
crores of people of our country increase their political consciousness and build up a vast, strong army and 
when this army fights effectively, it would be possible to put an end to this exploitative rule. The soon this 
happens, the better for the people. That is why our party gives a call to the youngsters of this country every 
year  on  the  occasion  of  the  anniversary  of  the  formation  of  our  PLGA  to  arm  themselves.  This  call  is 
increasingly  spreading  widely  among  the  people.  The  attacks  carried  on  recently  by  our  people’s  army 
under the leadership of the party and with the active support of the people at Tadimetla (Mukaram), Silda, 
Lakhisarai,  Kongera  etc.,  are  all  military  attacks.  Who  is  anxious  about  these  attacks?  Is  it  the  ruling 
classes and its mercenaries or the people? People are celebrating each occasion of a successful raid like a 

 

5

festival. Each such attack is giving a political message in a practical manner and showing them the path of 
liberation. The people understand this exactly in this manner. On the contrary seeing all these, the ruling 
classes are trembling with fear. 
However, people who do not understand our movement and those who are not clear about it are anguished 
about the losses on both sides. We can understand their anguish. But the people cannot stop their war and 
resistance  just  because  they  are  anguished.  What  they  should  understand  is  why is  such  an  intense  war 
going  on?  Why  are  hundreds  of  people  participating  in  each  attack?  Where  are  we  getting  the  active 
support of the people? Why are we getting it? If they try to understand this it would become clear. Then 
they would realize the need for such big attacks, more such big attacks and the need for more such attacks 
to  take  place  more  frequently.  Then  even  they  would  celebrate  whenever  such  attacks  take  place.  They 
would  also  wish  whole  heartedly  that  such  attacks  should  take  place.  But  enemies  of  the  people  would 
always oppose them and they would resort to bigger attacks on the people in a more reactionary manner. 
They would foolishly choose suppression as the only way and would be hated by the people. As a result, 
they would again become victims of bigger attacks by the people.  
As to the question if our attacks are facilitating the deployment of army - if people do not fight back, if 
they silently bow their heads and suffer exploitation and oppression which are going on since centuries, 
then there is no need even for police and paramilitary, leave alone the army. Then there would be no need 
for the ruling classes to carry on attacks too. As people have gained consciousness and have understood the 
real story behind exploitation and oppression, the fraud of parliamentary system and fake democracy, as 
they are fighting for land to the genuine peasants and for genuine democracy for the people, the rulers are 
resorting to serious suppression fearing that their foundations are being shaken. These fools who do not 
realize that their policies would only lead to an intensification of the people’s resistance, are making all 
preparations  to  deploy  the  army.  In  fact,  the  army  had  planned  for  counter-revolutionary  Salwa  Judum 
military  campaign  during  Vajpayee’s  rule  when  Advani  was  the  home  minister.  The  home  ministry 
approved it. The Congress which came to power after Vajpayee’s government was toppled at the centre 
and the BJP which came to power in place of Congress in Chhattisgarh implemented this decision. From 
then  onwards,  the  army  has  been  very  actively  using  all  its  commands  (Northern,  Central,  Southern, 
Western and Eastern), has formed special structures in all of them and has been giving all kinds of advices 
to  the  state  police  departments  through  them.  It  formulated  the  strategy  for  the  war  on  people  and  is 
providing all kinds of training, intelligence, technology and deployment plans to the central home ministry. 
It  applied  LIC  policy  formulated  by  the  imperialists  to  suppress  the  Maoist  movement  in  the  concrete 
conditions of India and is implementing it with its own characteristic features and with increasing intensity. 
At  present  the  army  is  not  directly  participating  in  attacks  carrying  guns.  But  army  officers,  some 
specialists and intelligence officers are directly giving guidance to the counter-guerilla operations in our 
strong areas. This has been happening since three, four years. So it is not true that they would be deploying 
the army because of us doing some attacks. They would deploy the army as part of their evil design to 
suppress the peoples’ struggles. Counter-insurgency forces are built inside the army for this purpose. They 
are  building  new  cantonments,  air-bases  and  helipads,  as  if  on  the  borders,  on  a  war  footing.  They  are 
restructuring the whole state system in accordance with their counter-insurgency policies. This means that 
the rulers had made all kinds of preparations to perpetuate unprecedented level of atrocities, massacres and 
destruction  on  the  people  of  our  country.  Our  party  feels  that  all  revolutionary  parties,  democratic 
organizations and intellectuals, nationality liberation organizations, anti-imperialist patriotic organizations 
and the entire Indian people should realize this and resist this actively and intensely without any delay. The 
people of our movement areas are also thinking in similar terms and are hoping for it. 
It is true that the deployment of the army would lead to more violence on the poor and the adivasis and 
would lead to greater loss of lives. When people are fighting in self-defence it is the exploiters and their 
stooges who constitute just five percent of the population that are suffering casualties. But in the violence 
perpetuated by the state, it is vast masses of oppressed people who are facing losses. People who are 
in the form of PLGA, the Maoist party, mass organizations and Janathana Sarkars are losing their 
lives. So one should understand this.  When ordinary citizens and adivasis are suffering losses on such a 
large scale, one should firstly question as to why this is happening? It doesn’t serve any purpose to make 
confused arguments, either innocently or deceivingly, that innocent people are dying. In this background of 
loss of lives, the oppressed people and the vast masses are putting a straight question to everybody – are 
you on our side or on the side of the rulers? It means there is no neutral ground left in between. So we 
request all those who express anguish about loss of lives to rethink in the background of this question. 

 

6

On this occasion I want to bring some things to your notice. On June 12th, 2,000 state police and central 
paramilitary  forces  had  attacked  a  political  camp  being  held  by  our  party’s Eastern  Regional  Bureau  in 
Korhat forest of Jharkhand. Cobra forces, BSF and Jharkhand STF were involved in this attack. Three Air 
Force helicopters were used. Though the government said that 2,000 forces were involved, in fact more 
forces were involved. There were only two guerilla companies of our PLGA in that area. Our weapons 
were inferior. What was the reason for thousands of government forces to carry on this massive attack on 
our party and PLGA which are in that position? Is this war or not? Why are they hiding the glaring fact that 
this is a war? Why did they have to wage this war? Since the attack was done by mercenary forces, since it 
was done for the interests of a few exploiters, whether it was the commandos or Special Forces that had 
attacked, could not withstand the heroic resistance of our guerillas. Our comrades who have high political 
consciousness  and  sacrificing  nature  have  fought  back  this  attack  bravely.  In  our  counter-attack  some 
Cobras have died and more were injured too. But the officers who led this attack do not even have the guts 
to announce how many of them were injured and how many had died. They are afraid that if the facts are 
announced, the morale of their forces would come down. 
Between 25th and 27th of September, again in Jharkhand, the government forces attacked on a huge scale, 
a political camp being conducted by our Eastern Regional Bureau in Saranda forest with information. The 
police  and  paramilitary  higher  officials  had  themselves  announced  that  five  thousand  (equivalent  to  a 
regiment) troops were deployed and helicopters were pressed into service. In fact, the number of troops 
which attacked would be much more. So one can understand how big a war the government is waging. 
What would you call this if not war? Once again, why are they hiding the fact that it is a war even after 
attacking at a regiment level? Would they perhaps agree when they attack with a division level force? On 
whom  are  they  waging  this  war?  Here  too,  like  in  Korhat,  our  comrades  bravely  retaliated  this  enemy 
attack. In Korhat comrade David lay down his life. In Saranda too a comrade was martyred. The enemy 
forces faced more losses. But to hide this fact, they resorted to false propaganda that three of their men 
were  killed  and  ten  to  twelve  Maoists  were  killed,  huge  quantities  of  weapons  and  other  material  were 
seized and training camps were destroyed by them. 
Under the guidance of US imperialists, the number one enemy of the world people and taking the help of 
Israel, one of the cruelest governments of the world and a stooge of US, the Indian government is waging 
this war. Whatever the government may say, how much ever Sonia, Manmohan and Chidambaram gang 
and their boot-licking intellectuals may lie, the massive attacks in Korhat and Saranda were nothing but 
war. We are also candidly and clearly announcing that all our attacks have been carried out as part of our 
war of self-defence. Ordinary people are facing huge losses in the unjust war waged by the government. So 
we are once again appealing to all people to oppose and resist this unjust war. 

5. The ruling classes of our country are saying that Maoists are not sincere about people’s issues and 
they  are  not  bothered  about  people’s  welfare  and  that  their  only  aim  is  to  ‘overthrow  the 
democratically elected government using armed force and establish communist rule.’ What is your 
explanation for this? 

GP:  The  ruling  classes  are  not  at  all  morally  qualified  to  hurl  accusations  against  Maoists,  who  are 
sacrificing their lives for the people or to comment on their concern and commitment regarding people’s 
interests,  people’s  welfare  and  people’s  development.  Our  aim  is  to  overthrow  this  ‘democracy’  and 
‘parliamentary  rule’  which  are  nothing  but  means  for  the  dictatorship  of  the  feudals  and  comprador 
bureaucratic  bourgeoisie  and  which  stand  in  complete  opposition  to  95%  of  the  population’s  interests, 
using armed force and to establish new people’s power. We feel it is wonder of the wonders to say that 
these elections and parliament are sacred and that the present rule is the highest form of democratic rule! 
We are telling the people to overthrow this dictatorial government and build a government of their own 
which is genuine democracy of the four classes, i.e., workers, peasants, urban middle class and national 
bourgeoisie.  People  are  consolidating  themselves  and  fighting  for  it.  Anybody  who  knows  the  ABC  of 
politics  would  know  this.  But  the  rulers  are  saying  that  the  constitution  and  parliament  are  sacred  and 
above class interests. This dictatorial and bourgeois parliament and state machinery which they had 
established by colluding with the imperialists would serve none else than those classes. They may be 
sacred for those classes but they are a big menace for the people. So it is their birth right to pull 
them down. It is their democratic right. They should establish a genuine democratic political system 
which constitutes new legislative bodies and a new constitution. 

 

7

And,  we  are  not  the  ones  who  are  obstructing  development.  It  is  the  ruling  classes  who  are  doing  so. 
People  are  performing  agricultural  tasks  while  fighting  back  the  horrible  violence  and  destruction 
perpetuated by fascist gangs like the Salwa Judum, police and paramilitary in Dandakaranya. The militia is 
doing sentry in defence near the fields and reaping the harvests. The People’s Liberation Guerilla Army is 
safeguarding the harvest of the people. The mercenary forces of the government are attacking such units 
and  killing  them.  The  government  forces  are  wreaking  havoc  in  the  adivasi  areas  by  destroying  their 
property, burning homes and whole villages, seizing hens, pigs, cattle and what not from the hapless poor 
people, destroying the fields and burning the harvest. This enormous destruction is the development policy 
of the rulers. Here, it is crystal clear that who are the bitter enemies of the people's welfare. 
Of course, we are calling upon the people to overthrow this unholy state. We are calling upon the 
people to destroy this menace of the people and to liberate themselves. Only through this liberation 
struggle  the  people  would  be  able  to  establish  new  power  and  be  able  to  achieve  all-round 
development with an alternative line in all spheres. The development we are talking of is definitely 
not the one dictated by the IMF and the World Bank and also not the development policy proposed 
by Ahluwalias, Rangarajans, Manmohan Sings, Chidambarams and Pillais. The development policy 
we are proposing would change the relations of production qualitatively and thus would lead to the 
qualitative development of the productive forces. It is a real development policy which says that one 
should oppose placing the sovereignty of our country at the feet of foreign firms, that it should also 
be an independent and a self-reliant one, that the resources in our country should be used not for the 
imperialists but for the people. Many intellectuals and researchers who have visited our areas had already 
written that an alternative political power is being established in our areas. Many are realizing that we are 
having an alternative line in all spheres like in ideological, political, organizational, military, economical, 
cultural,  and ecological  spheres.  Observers  have  written  clearly about  the  increasing  development  in  all 
these spheres, though at a primary level. 

6. Many democrats had raised their voices against Operation Green Hunt. But don’t you think that 
your  party  would  lose  sympathy  with  incidents  such  as  beheading  of  Francis  Induvar,  Jamui 
massacre,  blasting  of  bus  in  Dantewada  and  Gnaneshwari  Express  accident?  What  is  your 
explanation about these incidents? 

COMRADE GANAPATHY : Firstly, I am sending my revolutionary greetings to all the democratic forces 
which are opposing and protesting this cruel and unjust war on the people waged by the government. Now 
coming to bad propaganda and the accusations on us, we do not have any hand in the incident which led to 
the accident of Gnaneshwari Express. Already our West Bengal party has clearly issued statements in this 
matter.  This  incident  occurred  due  to  the  conspiracy  hatched  by  CPI  (M)  and  the  central  intelligence 
agencies. Though judicial enquiry in this matter has been handed over to the CBI, Umakant Mahato who 
was portrayed as the main accused was caught and killed in a fake encounter. This is also a part of that 
whole  conspiracy.  Our  party  which  is  fighting  with  the  aim  of  liberation  of  the  people  had  never 
conducted any raids or attacks targeting the people or with the aim of killing them and would never 
do so in future too. 
Our  party  had  already  clearly  given  a  statement  stating  the  facts  which  led  to  the  bus  blasting  near 
Chingavaram in Dantewada district. Our party had issued an apology too for the mistake. In the case of 
Induvar’s beheading Com. Azad had already answered clearly. Our party’s stand on such issues is very 
clear. When exceptions occurred our party had given explanations. But the ruling classes are intentionally 
doing  bad  propaganda  to  defame  the  revolutionary  movement  and  the  people’s  resistance.  The 
Gnaneshwari Express case is an evident example of this. 
There is a lot of difference between the Induvar issue, Dantewada bus blast and the Gnaneshwari incident. 
Near Chingavaram, our targets were clearly the Koya Commandos and SPOs. These blood thirsty forces 
had raided a village named Kutrem, killed three adivasis, raped women and were returning. But we did not 
know that there were people inside the bus. The information we had was that SPOs had got into the bus 
after forcing the people to get down. On the roof top of the bus too it was these armed killer gangs who 
were traveling. So we considered it a military target and attacked it. We do not have any hand in the 
Gnaneshwari accident. In Induvar’s case, our party had given a clear explanation. While resisting 
the killer gangs and the endless cruel violence perpetuated on them, people may in some places, very 
rarely  as  an  exception,  resort  to  such  acts  as  part  of  taking  revenge.  Unless  we  understand  the 
uneven social conditions in our country, we will not understand this problem. The conditions in urban 
areas are different in one sense. In the remote rural areas, where there is the cruelest feudal and upper caste 

 

8

oppression, where people are suffering from the inhuman violence perpetrated by Salwa Judum, Sendra, 
Harmad  Bahini  and  such  killer  gangs,  where  they  are  victims  of  the  huge  destructive  campaigns  of  the 
state, the resistance of the people may sometimes take such forms too. Even in the urban areas, in the bastis 
where people are victims of the notorious usurers, slum lords, politicians, mafia gangs and police officers 
hand in glove with the gangsters and politicians, the resistance of the people may take such forms too. The 
killing of the notorious rapist and goon in Nagpur by the basti women is just one instance out of many such 
incidents.  This  is  just  an  explanation  as  to  why  such  things  happen  and  it  is  very  clear  that  our  party 
doesn’t carry on such incidents as a policy. Our attitude is that we should educate our people and ranks in 
this matter. Some intellectuals who lick the boots of the corporations are doing such bad propaganda on us 
by making a mountain out of a molehill. 
In the Jamui incident, a reactionary gang sponsored by the government had caught eight of our comrades in 
Phulwaria-Kodasi village and killed them in the most heinous, brutal manner by chopping off their limbs. 
When such incidents happen, we will never be able to safeguard our movement or our people if we keep 
quiet and do not act. That was why we were compelled to counter attack. In this attack, nine people died 
including three main goonda leaders. It is extremely sad that a woman and a child were caught in flames 
and had died accidentally. All the other seven were hard-core criminals, killers and lumpen elements. Our 
Bihar-Jharkhand  Special  Area  Committee  had  issued  a  clear  statement  on  this.  It  was  published  in  the 
Bihar papers and in the Maoist Information Bulletin-17. 
On  the  whole,  the  governments  and  some  paid  intellectuals  in  their  service  who  blow  their  trumpet  are 
falsely implicating us and trying to defame us. In some incidents where we committed mistakes, they are 
not even bothering to listen to our explanation and are continuing the bad propaganda on us. So our request 
to  the  people  and  pro-people  intellectuals  is  not  to  get  deceived  by  the  government’s  psy-war.  Our 
people’s army which had been formed to defend the interests of the people would lay down lives for 
the people but would never try to harm the people. So try to know the facts behind each incident. We 
are always prepared to accept any proper criticism and are always ready to correct our mistakes, if any. 

7. The police and paramilitary forces which are losing their lives in your attacks belong to the poor 
and middle class families. On the one hand you say that you have taken up arms for their liberation 
and on the other hand you annihilate persons from these classes who join the police and paramilitary 
forces. Does this not send the wrong message to poor and middle class families? How do you look at 
this problem? 

COMRADE  GANAPATHY  :  Any  politically  thinking  person  should  understand  that  the  state  and  state 
machinery  are  the  means  of  the  ruling  classes  for  carrying  on  exploitation  and  oppression.  The  crucial 
components in these are the police, paramilitary and military. The number of the exploiters is always very 
limited.  They  would  not  even  constitute  five  percent  of  our  population.  But  they  hold  the  means  of 
production under their control and have built up the police and military to exploit and suppress the vast 
masses who constitute the majority. The rulers are recruiting them from among the people. That is why, the 
majority of these forces belong to the poor and middle classes. These forces are waging war on the people 
on  behalf  of  the  exploiting  classes.  As  these  are  the  forces  that  stand  in  the  forefront  in  the  war,  it  is 
inevitable that they would die in the self-defensive war of the people. But if exploitation and oppression 
are to be ended, if oppressed people are to be liberated and this agonizing situation is to end, then this war 
of self-defence is inevitable. 
In our areas some individuals from the police and paramilitary forces meet us. They help us and we help 
them  too  in  various  forms.  Only  when  the  government  forces  come  to  attack  us  carrying  guns,  we  are 
attacking  them  in  self-defence.  Our  repeated  appeal  to  the  lower  level  personnel  in  the  police  and 
paramilitary forces is – please do not betray your own class, don’t serve the exploiting classes, don’t 
attack the people and revolutionaries on your own consciously in a revengeful manner, join hands 
with  the  masses  and  turn  your  guns  against  the  real  enemies  and  not  on  your  class  brothers  and 
sisters. What you are doing is not service to the people but service to the exploiting classes. So stop 
serving the exploiting classes like slaves. Don’t just think of your livelihood, please think about the 
people, think about the country. 
Our  appeal  to  their  families  is  that  they  should  see  to  it  that  their  family  members  do  not  serve  this 
exploiting system for temporary interests; encourage them to be on the people’s side. When these families 
reside in our areas, our people’s governments will ensure that they get proper livelihood and necessary help 

 

9

as part of whatever the oppressed people get. We want to make this clear on this occasion to those families 
one more time. 

8.  Your  party  had  immense  support  of  the  people  in  the  initial  days  in  areas  like  Lalgadh  and 
Narayanapatna.  But  these  movements  are  facing  severe  state  repression  at  present.  What  is  your 
party’s strategy to advance these movements and to build such movements in other areas? 

COMRADE  GANAPATHY  :  In  Lalgadh  and  Narayanapatna,  our  party  gained  the  vast  support  of  the 
masses. When mass struggles erupted and spread like a prairie fire in these areas, they not only got the 
support of the people of those states but also attracted the democrats and people of our country. It is no 
exaggeration to say that our country had not seen struggles with such huge and vast support of the masses 
in  the  past  20  to  25  years.  Our  party  is  working  in  Lalgadh  area  since  three  and  half  decades.  As  the 
revisionists who were in power since three decades had been carrying on social fascist repression on the 
people, severe discontent and hatred simmered and finally erupted like a volcano. Most of the land lords, 
bad gentry, goons, contractors, traders and police officers who were exploiting the people at local level are 
the revisionist CPI (M) hoodlums. They had oppressed the people in all spheres. In the background of such 
a situation, the anti-people CPI (M) government had allowed the steel plant of Jindal in Salboni and this 
led to the Lalgadh movement. Later the atrocities of the police on the people of that area added fuel to the 
fire. The distinctive feature there is that people had been under the social fascist oppression of CPI (M) 
since decades.  
The ruling class parties of Congress, Trinamool and CPI (M) have been clashing with each other in West 
Bengal. In some places clashes took place between CPI (M) and Trinamool and in some places between 
CPI  (M)  and  Congress.  During  the  Nandigram  struggle,  this  contradiction  between  the  ruling  classes 
intensified more seriously. Its impact could be seen in Lalgadh too. The Lalgadh struggle started mainly as 
an anti-state movement and spread to all spheres of life. As it consolidated and spread vastly, it brought to 
a  standstill  the  state  machinery  and  by  arming  itself  had  established  new  political  power  though  at  a 
primary  level.  It  established  itself  as  a  political  power  system  in  all  spheres  such  as  education,  health, 
sanitation,  irrigation  facilities,  transport,  trade,  economy,  culture  etc.  This  is  one  of  the  characteristic 
features of that struggle   
And in the Narayanapatna struggle - from a class point of view, land lords, usurers and bad gentry drank 
the  blood  of  the  people  there.  The  Narayanapatna  peasantry  consolidated  and  armed  itself  against  their 
exploitation and oppression. They occupied thousands of acres of patta land. They fought most militantly 
on a vast scale and politically broke down the feudal-bad gentry, usurer system and started new democratic 
political  power  organs.  As  the  right  opportunism  of  fake  revolutionaries  like  Kanu  Sanyal  and 
Ramachandran became a hindrance in this anti-feudal struggle and in getting the peasantry organized, it 
became  inevitable  for  them  to  fight  against  it.  So,  when  seen  from  an  ideological  point  of  view,  this 
became  possible  as  the  peasantry  raised  its  political  consciousness  and  revolted  against  revisionism  by 
rejecting their leadership.  
These two struggles were waged with a clear political stand and with the aim of establishing new political 
power. They were very just struggles. They had mobilized huge majority of the people in those areas. They 
had  established  new  leadership.  They  were  struggles  with  immediate  aims  which  were  waged  in 
coordination with the higher aim. The people rose like a hurricane and these struggles had challenged the 
state, exploiting classes and the imperialists. So the state launched a massive attack on them. In these two 
areas,  many  changes  occurred  in  struggle  forms  and  organizational  forms.  In  Narayanapatna  right 
opportunist forces had also joined hands in the most reactionary fashion with the feudal forces and bad 
gentry and jointly carried on attacks on the people. 
Seeing  these  growing  struggles,  the  central  and  state  governments  schemed  against  them  and  deployed 
paramilitary forces on a large scale. In Bengal, Harmad Bahini, the neo-fascist force under the leadership 
of CPI (M) is conducting attacks  along with the central paramilitary forces and the state  police. As the 
central and state governments had jointly undertaken a massive attack on the Lalgadh movement, we had 
to  make  changes  in  the  struggle  forms  and  organizational  forms  which  were  in  vogue  till  then.  When 
continuous attacks are taking place without any respite, changes should necessarily be made in the mass 
struggle  forms  and  organizational  forms.  Then  sustaining  the  movement  in  the  face  of  attacks  becomes 
primary and the changes made would also be in accordance with this. It is not correct to assess that mass 
support  for  these  struggle  organizations  has  become  less,  by  looking  at  this  phenomena.  If  these 
movements sustain themselves, become more consolidated, more armed, gain more active support of the 

 

10

masses  and  extend  to  more  new  areas  and  strengthen  the  party  and  army,  then  they  would  be  able  to 
develop further. This process is underway under our leadership.  
We would definitely strive to advance these movements and to build such movements in other areas. These 
struggles have given us great lessons. Taking them as a model we are trying to build movements in other 
parts of our country. The conditions which led to the eruption of these movements are exactly prevailing 
all  over  the  country.  Wherever  the  big corporate  companies  and  MNCs  are  rushing  forward  to  loot our 
resources,  wherever  feudal  exploitation  is  severe  there  is  every  chance  for  struggles  on  the  lines  of 
Kalinganagar, Nandigram, Lalgadh and Narayanapatna to break out. We will lead these struggles. 

9. At present it looks as if your movement is confined to the remote forest areas and adivasis. You are 
not getting large scale recruits from urban areas and universities as you used to get in the past. Some 
people are also thinking that you can never extend to urban areas. Isn’t this worrying you? 

COMRADE GANAPATHY : After merger, we have emerged stronger in some areas and become weaker 
is some areas. Among the areas where we have become weaker, there are some plain areas and some urban 
areas.  Among  the  areas  where  we  strengthened  ourselves,  there  are  some  remote  areas  and  some  plain 
areas.  Such  ups  and  downs  may  be  inevitable  in  a  protracted  war.  It  is  not  true  that  we  have  been 
completely eliminated from the urban areas and plains as some people are propagating or as some others 
believe. As I had mentioned before, India is one of the countries where Maoist movements are on going in 
the  world.  Imperialists  and  the  ruling  classes  of  our  country  are  together  intensifying  the  offensive  to 
suppress our movement. When they so concentrate and carry on attacks, we may suffer losses. And we 
have suffered losses. This is just one aspect of the problem. 
We have gained many experiences in the urban areas. We have enriched our policy on urban work. We 
have studied the changes in the economic and political conditions of our country and the world and had 
formulated  a  program  accordingly.  Communists  never  work  according  to  their  wills  and  wishes.  They 
work by studying objective conditions in the society. Basing on the positive and negative lessons we have 
learnt, we are trying to overcome the losses.  
The second aspect of this problem is that we may suffer losses due to enemy attacks, but on the other hand 
due to their suppression campaigns, their pro-imperialist policies and anti-people acts they are getting more 
and  more  isolated  from  the  people.  This  means  that  they  themselves  are  creating  the  conditions  for  the 
people to turn against them. It is true  that at present we are not able to  mobilize workers, students and 
intellectuals  as  we  had  done  in  the  70s  and  80s.  There  have  been  some  considerable  changes  and 
phenomena in those conditions. It has become very complex to work in areas where the enemy is strong 
and in the trade union movement where the revisionists have entrenched themselves. This is not just the 
case  in  India.  This  condition  is  prevailing  in  the  whole  world.  But  revolutionaries  would  definitely 
overcome  this.  In  order  to  liberate  this  country  we  have  to  concentrate  on  organizing  the  peasantry.  At 
present we would strengthen our movement among the peasantry and definitely extend to the urban areas. 
On the other hand, this peasant movement is inspiring the urban and people and is having a great impact on 
them. So, the days when we would vastly organize peasantry of plain areas, the suburban people and urban 
people are not that far off. 
Today, the workers in our country are once again facing the conditions which the workers had faced in 
19th century Europe. Most of the workers are turning into contract and casual labourers. They are forced to 
work  for  12  to  16  hours  in  horrible  conditions.  Government  is  changing  all  labor  laws  to  facilitate  the 
imperialist  exploitation.  Workers’  families  are  forced  to  live  like  slaves  in  the  barracks  built  for  them. 
Everything is being restructured. The enemy may be happy about the losses he has inflicted on us. But 
since people are suffering, they are fighting against them in various forms. Our party would definitely lead 
these struggles bravely and firmly. All the conditions required for the proletariat and the urban masses to 
rise like a storm and destroy the exploiting system are gradually ripening.  
The  Indian  government  has  finished  implementing  the  LPG  policy  of  second  generation  reforms  and  is 
going to take up third generation reforms. Under these circumstances, it is bringing many kinds of changes 
in  the  education  policy  according  to  the  needs  of  the  imperialist  capital.  In  the  background  of  the 
imperialist-dictated changes taken up by the ruling classes in the education policy, education opportunities 
are diminishing for the poor children and for women belonging to working class, peasantry, adivasi, dalit 
and religious minority families. Privatization of education is decreasing the opportunities with each passing 
day.  At  present,  education  mainly  means  corporate-dominated  education.  This  education  system  mainly 
caters  to  the  interests  of  the  domestic  and  foreign  corporations.  This  is  creating  a  big  chasm  with  the 

 

11

students, teachers, parents on one side and the ruling classes on the other. Within a short period this would 
erupt.  Our  party  is  recognizing  the  need  to  study  and  lead  this.  We  will  do  everything  possible  in  this 
matter. 
Allowing  imperialist  capital  into  retail  market  and  the  increasing  grip  of  the  imperialist  and  corporate 
companies  over  our  country’s  economy  in  order  to  overcome  the  economic  crises  have  led  to  the 
bankruptcy  of  the  small  traders  and  small  and  medium  bourgeoisie  in  the  urban  areas.  In  the  name  of 
beautification of cities slums are evacuated and middle class people are chased away to the suburban areas. 
The  life  of  the  working  class  and  slum  population  is  in  turmoil.  Among  these  people,  there  are  many 
people who had migrated to the cities from our movement areas. All this is speeding up the process of 
these cities and towns turning into gun powder centres. We are studying all these phenomena and trying to 
work among them with proper tactics. 
All the riches between villages and mega cities have been produced by people from poor rural areas. It is 
the poor, dalit and adivasi labourers who are spilling their sweat and blood for the construction of huge 
mansions  and  infrastructure  by  Indian  and  foreign  corporate  lords.  The  majority  of  the  workers  and 
employees who work in the shopping malls and companies are from rural areas. Either in terms of social, 
economic  and  cultural  ties  or  in  terms  of  movement  relations  villages  and  cities  are  not  two 
unconnected islands as such. They both are influencing each other. This is creating a strong base for 
our extension. So it is ridiculous and unreal to say that we would never be able to extend to urban 
areas.  If  rural  areas  are  liberated  first,  then  basing  on  its  strength  and  on  the  struggles  of  the 
working class in urban areas, cities would be liberated later. Along with the liberation of cities the 
comprador rule and imperialist control would also be forced to end in our country. 

10.  In  the  urban  areas,  the  middle  classes  have  many  doubts  and  apprehensions  about  the  Maoist 
movement. They fear that if the Maoists come to power, they would be annihilated and that their 
properties would be confiscated. Would you like to say anything to allay these fears? 

COMRADE GANAPATHY : Our very revolution is concerned with the proletariat, peasantry, middle class 
and the national bourgeoisie. Among these classes we consider the middle class to be a reliable ally of the 
proletariat. They are completely affected by the pro-imperialist policies of the government. They are in fact 
facing great insecurity. The lives and livelihood of middle classes are seriously threatened by the pro-
imperialist policies of the ruling class and by the economic crises shaking the world and not at all 
due to us. The properties which we would confiscate as part of the new democratic revolution belong 
to  the  land  lords,  comprador  bureaucratic  bourgeoisie  and  the  imperialist  corporations  and  none 
other. 
Only a very small percent of the upper crust in the middle classes join the  upper classes  and turn anti-
people.  But  the  entire  middle  class,  the  majority  of  the  intellectuals  and  democrats  who  belong  to  the 
middle class would either join the movement or would stand in support of the movement. Not only during 
the revolution but in a post-revolutionary society too, the role of the intellectuals in building a new society 
would be excellent. When they join their hands with the working people, we will be able to complete the 
revolution sooner and also build the new society at a rapid pace. Due to the prejudices propagated by the 
ruling classes and some of their stooges who lick their boots, a negligible number of them may have some 
fears but we want to clearly say that it is not at all the truth. 

11. The central government had recently cancelled the permission given to the Vedanta company for 
mining in Niyamgiri hills. Even in other states the government has itself cancelled some leases where 
rules  were  ignored.  Some  are  commenting  that  there  is  no  need  for  violent  movements  like  the 
Maoists and problems can be solved by bringing pressure through peaceful and legal movements. 

COMRADE  GANAPATHY  :  This  is  a  result  of  the  determined,  united  struggle  of  the  adivasis  of 
Niyamgiri hills and a result of the impact of the struggles at Kalinganagar, Singur, Nandigram etc. People’s 
movements are carried on in various forms. The determined struggle of the people is the main factor. In 
fact, the very permission given to Vedanta is against their so called laws and regulations, you know. The 
central government had to cancel the permission in an inevitable situation and now they are falling heads 
over heels to portray Jairam Ramesh, Rahul Gandhi and the likes as the saviors of the people. In fact, they 
should have arrested and punished the Vedanta management for gross violation of rules and regulations 
and  the  political  leaders  and  government  officials  for  their  patronage.  On  the  other  hand,  this  same 
government had given permission to the massive Polavaram project at the same time when this permission 
was cancelled. This is one of the biggest multi-purpose projects in the whole world. This would lead to the 

 

12

biggest displacement in the whole of India. After permission was cancelled to Vedanta, the very next day 
Rahul Gandhi went to Kalahandi and said that he was on the side of the adivasis. Nothing can be farther 
from the truth. Just a few days before this, it was his very same Congress government which had fired upon 
and  killed  some  people  and  injured  a  large  number  of  people  of  Sompeta  who  were  opposing  the 
construction  of  a  thermal  power  project.  The  people  revolted  because  this  project  is  being  built  by 
displacing  people  from  their  fertile  agricultural  lands.  The  ruling  class  gang  of  Jairam  Ramesh,  Sonia, 
Manmohan  Singh,  Chidambaram  et  all  had  signed  MoUs  worth  billions  of  rupees  with  MNCs  and  big 
bourgeoisie. Movements are ongoing in several parts of our country against projects which are displacing 
millions of people.  Movements have erupted and are still continuing in Kalinganagar, Singur, Bodhghat, 
Lohandiguda,  Dumka,  Kakinada,  Polepalli,  Rayagadha  and  other  places  against  the  various  projects 
brought forward by the big comprador bourgeoisie and the MNCs. Among these, except in Nandigram, 
none took the armed form. Even where we are leading them, the resistance is not yet in the armed form in 
all  the  places.  Struggle  forms  come  to  the  fore  according  to  demand  of  the  movement  and  the  level  of 
consciousness of the people. There is no doubt that armed struggle is the principal form of struggle in 
people’s war. But people’s war doesn’t mean fighting using guns alone. This is a form which would 
come to the fore depending on the level of consciousness of the people and the response of the state. 
We  consider  our  people’s  war  to  be  the  consolidated  and  integrated  whole  of  the  entire  stage  of 
revolution  which  consists  of  many  peaceful/violent,  unarmed/armed  forms  of  struggles  and 
open/secret, legal/illegal forms of organization. 
If  the  adivasis  of  Niyamgiri  hills  think  that  they  have  won  complete  victory  with  this,  it  would  be  a 
mistake. They have to stand on their own feet and prepare themselves for a protracted armed struggle in a 
united and consolidated form. Instead of that, if they place their hopes and trust on Rahul or on the NGOs 
and have illusions about them, then another company may replace Vedanta, or we need not be surprised if 
Vedanta itself is given permission in some other form. In Odisha, in spite of serious violations of rules and 
regulations by the POSCO company, granting permission is a clear proof of its pro-corporate policy. Even 
Kalinganagar struggle has not been completely successful till now. Repression is being carried on again on 
a large scale there. Some people were murdered. There is no chance at all for the issue to be solved in a 
peaceful manner. If our country is to be protected from the imperialist exploitation and oppression or if 
Niyamgiri hills are to be protected, people need a people’s army. It is a must. Even if some intellectuals or 
voluntary  organizations  take  up  these  issues  and  fight,  this  won’t  be  solved  permanently.  The  world 
capitalist system is completely bogged down in economic crisis at present. If it has to come out of it, then it 
has  to  frantically  seek  cheap  raw  materials.  So  the  problem  would  return  to  square  one.  Whether  in 
Niyamgiri,  Visakha,  Sompeta,  Lohandiguda  or  in  all  such  places,  people  have  to  fight  in  a  united, 
consolidated, militant and armed manner to solve the problems of displacement and loot of resources.  

12.  What  is  your  party’s  response  to  the  recent  deluge  of  people’s  movement  in  Kashmir  and  the 
repression carried on by the government armed forces on it? What is your solution to the Kashmir 
issue? 

COMRADE GANAPATHY : Kashmir people have been fighting for their independence and right to self-
determination for the past sixty years. Countless atrocities, massacres and violence are being perpetuated 
by  the  Indian  government  to  suppress  this  struggle.  More  than  80,000  Kashmiris  have  been  murdered. 
Though Indian rulers claim that they have eliminated militancy, the Kashmiri people have been rising in 
waves during various instances. Recently, in the protest marches held from June 11th, more than a hundred 
Kashmiri youth were killed in firings by police, paramilitary and military. With a deployment of 7 lakh 
military  and  paramilitary  forces,  Kashmir  valley  has  been  turned  into  the  most  militarized  zone  in  the 
whole world. 
Our  Party  strongly  supports  the  just  movement  of  the  Kashmiri  people.  Their  demand  for  ‘Azadi’ 
(independence)  and  right  to  self-determination  is  fully  justified.  Kashmir  belongs  to  Kashmiris.  It  has 
never been an integral part of India. Neither India nor Pakistan has any right on it. 
Our  party  condemns  this  horrible  repression  on  the  Kashmiri  people  in  the  most  serious  terms.  Indian 
people  should  condemn  in  one  voice  the  government  massacres  continuing  in  Kashmir.  Our  party  is 
making it clear that without doing this, it is not possible to effectively fight back or defeat the ruthless 
offensive  of the  ruling  classes  on  the  fighting  people  of  India.  Our  party  is  concretely putting  forth  the 
following demands to resolve the Kashmir issue. 

1. The massacres by the Indian government’s armed forces in Kashmir should be immediately stopped! 

 

13

2. Withdraw paramilitary and military forces from Kashmir immediately! 
3. Immediately annul the AFSPA (Armed Forces Special Powers Act) which authorizes the military to 

indiscriminately kill people! 

4. Conduct plebiscite in Kashmir and let the Kashmiris decide their future on their own! 
5. Release all political prisoners unconditionally! 

13. Commonwealth games are creating a furor all  over the country. What is your party’s stand on 

these? 

COMRADE  GANAPATHY  :  The  ruling  classes  conducted  a  big  farce  in  the  name  of  Commonwealth 
games  by  spending  70,000  crores  of  rupees  in  a  callous  manner  with  least  bother  or  concern  about  the 
poverty,  hunger,  illiteracy,  unemployment,  diseases,  homelessness,  displacement,  floods  and  other  such 
unbearable problems of the majority of our population. While 77 percent of the people are living on less 
than 20 rupees per day they amassed crores of rupees under the pretense of games. The crores of rupees 
supposed  to  be  spent  on  stadiums,  roads,  buildings  that  are  built  for  the  games  and  in  buying  various 
equipments found their way into the pockets of corrupt officials, ministers and contractors. The labourers 
worked in these construction works were exploited by giving them appalling wages.  
On the other hand, the lives of working class and middle class people were in turmoil due to these games. 
In  the  name  of  beautification  of  Delhi,  hundreds  of  thousands  of  slum  people,  roadside  vendors  and 
beggars were chased away. Daily movements of the people were restricted in the name of security. All this 
was  nothing  but  an  exercise  carried  out  for  profits  of  corporations  and  commissions  of  ministers  and 
officials.  Particularly,  to  divert  the  youth  from  their  basic  problems,  to  make  them  live  in  an  illusory 
beautiful  world  and  to  douse  their  growing  discontent  too,  these  games  were  held.  The  people  gained 
nothing from these games except heavy tax burden. 
Moreover,  these  Commonwealth  games  are  themselves  a  remnant  of  the  colonial  past  which  reeks  of 
slavery. The past colonies of Britain join it. Except the comprador rulers who serve the neo-colonialists 
(imperialists) none of the citizens who aspire for the country’s independence and none of the patriots could 
ever  digest  the  fact  that  our  country  is  a  member  of  it.  Any  country  with  self-respect  would  reject 
membership of such an association. We appreciate the participation of players from various countries in 
games as part of some forums. But this could be supported only when they are held on an equal basis, 
without  all  this  extravaganza  and  when  it  does  not  compromise  the  sovereignty  of  those  respective 
countries.  

14.  The  Lucknow  Bench  of  Allahabad  High  Court  gave  a  judgment  dividing  the  disputed  site  into 

three parts. What is your say on this? What is the solution you suggest for this dispute? 

COMRADE GANAPATHY : Our party has stated very clearly our stand on the demolition of Babri Masjid 
many  times  in  the  past  18  years.  Recently  comrade  Abhay,  spokesperson  of  our  CC  has  in  a  statement 
clearly stated our party’s stand on this. It is really very sad that the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High 
Court distributed the disputed site into three parts. There is no scientific basis for this at all. Nor is there 
any  historical  evidence  to  support  this.  Our  party  has  been  consistently  and  clearly  saying  from  the 
beginning that Babri Masjid should be rebuilt on the same place where it stood. It is a crime of Himalayan 
proportions  to  demolish  it.  Our  party’s  stand  is  that  the  whole  site  should  belong  to  the  Muslim 
community. Through this judgment, injustice was done to the Muslim community.  
On the question of arguments about the birth place of Rama which is supposed to be the spot where Babri 
Masjid was erected, when we look at the history of India, there were no Masjids at all at one time, you 
know! Just as Hinduism and Buddhism spread from the countries of India and Nepal to the entire Indian 
sub-continent and to some East Asian countries, all religions including Islam have spread to various parts 
of the world from their place of birth. So, by showing this reason and by making this judgment a model 
every  Masjid  can  be  turned  into  a  disputed  site,  conflicts  can  be  given  birth  to.  Every  minority 
community’s praying site can be demolished. Now this danger has come to the fore more clearly. After this 
judgment there is every chance for the insecurity among the minority people to increase further. As our 
party spokesperson Abhay has stated, the people should stay alert with the fundamentalists, particularly, 
the  Hindu  fundamentalists.  In  Bhiwandi,  Mumbai,  Karnataka,  Hyderabad,  Gujarat  and  Odisha  all  the 
incidents which took place in the name of religious riots were plotted and perpetrated by the ruling classes, 
particularly the Hindu religious chauvinists. This judgment has given legitimacy to the demolition of Babri 

 

14

Masjid.  Now  this  court  judgment  has  created  conditions  for  the  aggressiveness  of  Hindu  religious 
chauvinists  to  increase  in  various  forms  on  the  religious  minorities.  So  we  are  opposing  this  court 
judgment. Our party opines that only when people of all religious minorities including Muslim minority, 
secular  forces,  democratic  forces  and  oppressed  people  of  our  country  fight  unitedly  and  isolate  the 
fundamentalist forces, particularly Hindu religious chauvinist forces, a proper solution could be found for 
this issue or other such issues. 

15. Mamata Banerjee had demanded judicial probe into Azad’s murder. The CPI (M) party has been 
repeatedly  hurling  accusations  about  the  close  relations  between  Trinamool  Congress  and  the 
Maoists? Are you having some undercover relations with Trinamool even while describing it as a 
bourgeois party? How do you justify this? 

COMRADE  GANAPATHY  :  We  are  not  at  all  surprised  that  Mamata  Banerjee  had  demanded  judicial 
probe into Azad’s murder. Anybody who is familiar with the political situation of Bengal would not be 
surprised  with  this.    Democratic  organizations  and  renowned  personalities  and  mass  organizations  are 
demanding judicial probe and that the murderers of Azad should be held in trial for murder and punished. 
This  demand  represents  the  people’s  aspirations.  She  demanded  judicial  probe  by  taking  this  into 
consideration. Why would she have any respect or affection for Azad? Who would feel that Azad had been 
murdered in  the  most unjust  manner?  People only who think that the political aim for  which Azad had 
fought  is  justified,  only  those  who  support  it  and  only  those  who  are  committed  to  genuine  democracy 
would sincerely condemn his murder. Others may condemn it for various reasons. Mamata is also one of 
them.  They  would  do  so  for  their  own  interests.  Though  she  had  made  this  demand  taking  into 
consideration her clashes with CPI (M), and the upcoming elections, it is a welcome demand. Her demand 
would to some extent help the struggle of the people. 
Moreover, for the past fifteen years or more, severe clashes are going on between Trinamool and CPI (M). 
Sometimes in some places this is taking the form of armed clashes too. The CPI (M) formed armed social 
fascist gangs like Harmad Bahini and is attacking Trinamool, Maoists, democrats and people to suppress 
them. Trinamool took up arms to fight CPI (M). So, in order to fight back these attacks and to come to 
power  in  the  next  elections  it  is  natural  for  Mamata  to  speak  some  words  to  attract  the  people.  In  our 
country,  nearly  for  the  past  30  to  35  years  the  characteristic  feature  which  is  continuing  in  the  Bengal 
politics is that the ruling classes have set up armed clashes with each other. We don’t find this in most of 
the other states. Though this contradiction between the ruling classes is very severe in various forms in 
other states, it is not at the level of armed clashes. This contradiction got reflected in Nandigram and it was 
useful for the people. In the parliament and municipal elections held later, Trinamool won more seats. Now 
in  the  upcoming  assembly  elections  the  competition  would  be  even  more  tough.  If  she  has  to  come  to 
power now, she is compelled to talk as if she is on the people’s side. People who hate and abhor CPI (M) 
would definitely teach it a lesson. Now the entire people and democrats of Bengal want to escape from 
the tiger they are facing on the front side. Now for them the tiger in the front is more dangerous than 
the bear which is at their back. But after they chase away the tiger they cannot escape the bear’s 
hug. Our party would continue to caution the people about this danger too. We would ask them to 
chase away the bear too in the future. They would have to certainly fight against the bear too. Unless 
people  get  rid  of  these  two  menaces,  any  one  of  them  would  continue  riding  on  the  back  of  the 
people.  
Tomorrow,  even  if  Mamata  Banerjee  comes  to  power,  she  would  not  seize  the  lands  of  land  lords  and 
distribute  them  to  the  poor  peasantry  nor  would  she  seize  the  industries  of  the  imperialists  and  big 
bourgeoisie. People would not have a chance to participate freely in the elections too. This means that even 
if she comes to power there won’t be any fundamental change. However, if Trinamool comes to power 
after a long rule of social fascists, it would definitely try hard to gain a tight grip over the administration. 
During this period keeping in view the election promises she had made, she may temporarily stop attacks 
on the people. But this would be only temporary. Later, people would have to fight against her government 
too.  
And our party doesn’t have any open or undercover relations with Trinamool. But on some occasions even 
ruling  classes  may  talk  in  the  interest  of  the  people.  They  would  take  up  some  pro-people  demands  on 
some occasions for mobilizing the support of the people and for votes. They would even conduct some 
struggles.  Such  struggles  also  exist  though  their  scope  is  very  limited.  When  such  people  talk  in  the 
interests of the people, we would examine them concretely. As the contradictions among the enemies are 
indirect reserves for the proletariat, depending on the concrete situation our party would clearly state its 

 

15

stand. Our party would never support or oppose such things blindly. But people should seriously try to 
understand  their  class  nature  and  their  political  and  economic  policies  and  should  not  entertain  any 
illusions about them. If such illusions exist, it would be a task of our party to bring them out of it. 
When our stand is so clear, it is not at all proper to say as if we have relations with her party and as if we 
are justifying it.  

16. There is a criticism on you that your party has mainly only leadership from Andhra Pradesh and 

that there is no adivasi leadership. How factual is this assessment? 

COMRADE  GANAPATHY  :  This  criticism  is  farther  from  the  truth.  Among  the  comrades  who  were 
elected into the CC in our Unity Congress-9th Congress there were comrades from various states. Majority 
of our leadership was elected from the states where our movement was strong and it is not true that they 
were elected from Andhra Pradesh alone. On the whole comrades from nine states who represent our party 
in  18  states  were  elected  into  the  CC.  It  is  very  natural  for  more  comrades  to  be  elected  where  our 
movement is strong and from those who have led these movements since a long time. So, more comrades 
from Bihar, Jharkhand, Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and Dandakaranya were elected to the CC. 
When  we  look  at  the  Indian  Communist  Movement  from  1925,  for  the  first  time  three  comrades  from 
adivasi background were elected to the CC in our Unity Congress. Before the Congress, our CC member 
Comrade Shobha from adivasi background was arrested. When we take into consideration the class, caste 
and social conditions of our country, more of the comrades who were elected were from the background of 
basic classes and castes. There are comrades with long experience and efficient young comrades too among 
them.  Our  CC  was  formed  with  the  three-in-one  combination  taught  by  Mao  (belonging  to  the  three 
generations).  Some  intellectuals  who  are  not  much  associated  with  our  movement  or  who  do  not  know 
about us repeatedly question us as to why there are no women, dalits and adivasis in your leadership. This 
very revolutionary movement in India is carried out for the liberation of the oppressed people. The working 
class, peasantry and the middle class who are crushed under the exploiting classes and imperialists are the 
ones who are participating in the revolutionary movement. Our party has taken roots among the oppressed 
people and is extending among them. But from the days of Naxalbari till date, more than 12,000 comrades 
were killed by the state. Many of them were marvelous comrades. The vast majority of them, i.e., more 
than  80  percent  belonged  to  the  oppressed  classes  and  castes.  Comrades  from  rich  peasants  and  upper 
middle  class  are  less  in  number.  Though  we  are  striving  to  have  more  leadership  from  the  oppressed 
classes,  we  had  lost  a  majority  of  them  in  the  enemy  offensive  and  we  want  to  clearly  say  that  it  is 
becoming  a  hindrance  in  achieving  this  goal.  For  example,  in  Andhra  Pradesh  more  than  four  hundred 
women  comrades  were  killed  by  the  fascist  governments.  Most  of  them  were  from  the  background  of 
oppressed classes and castes. Many educated women comrades who came from a middle class background 
were killed too. Many martyred women comrades were quiet capable of developing and were supposed to 
come into state committees and central committee of the party. 
Not just in the CC, but in the state committees too we have comrades from a background of oppressed 
class,  caste,  gender  and  tribe.  As  we  go  further  down,  the  vast  majority  of  the  leaders  are  from  a 
background of oppressed classes. It is obvious that it is these comrades who would be elected to the higher 
committees in the future. We also have a goal of breaking down the monopoly which the exploiting 
classes  and  upper  castes  have  over  knowledge  in  a  bourgeois  society  and  handing  it  over  to  the 
people.  After  the  completion  of  revolution,  we  would  achieve  this  by  generating  working  class 
intellectuals and experts in countless numbers. Today, with this understanding, we are striving very 
hard to educate and develop all our comrades.  
At present it is a known fact to all that the enemy is targeting the comrades from higher committees and 
killing them, but in the past 30 years, great, outstanding comrades and comrades who could develop were 
killed is a fact that you also should acknowledge.  
And  one  more  thing,  when  movements  develop  strongly  in  other  states  too,  more  number  of  oppressed 
people from all states would join the party and raise to the leadership ranks. This is a certainty. 
Our Unity Congress has concluded that the caste-based feudalism entrenched and riding over the Indian 
society since centuries is built on the ideological basis of Brahmanism. Nothing can be more ridiculous 
than  this  state  which  has  an  upper  caste,  patriarchal,  Hindu  religious  bias  and  which  represents  such  a 
decadent system  making false allegations against us in this matter. Some people innocently believe this 

 

16

false  propaganda.  The  stooges  of  the  ruling  classes  in  the  media  are  parroting  the  same  and  creating  a 
uproar. However, our people do not have any doubts on us revolutionaries. 

17. There are even allegations that women activists are exploited sexually in your party.  Recently a 
woman commander gave an interview in the Times of India that many senior Maoist leaders had 
sexually exploited her. Do you think these are rare occurrences? 

COMRADE  GANAPATHY  :  In  the  psychological  war  of  the  enemy  on  us,  such  allegations  are  an 
important  part.  The  woman  commander  you  mentioned  was in  fact  kept  in  illegal  custody  by  the  West 
Bengal  police  for  almost  one  year  and  later  was  asked  to  make  this  statement.  The  police  bring  lot  of 
pressure and threaten in many ways the surrendered and arrested women comrades belonging to various 
states  and  make  them  issue  such  accusing  statements  and  allegations  on  revolutionaries.  This  has  been 
developed  as  a  method  by  them  after  the  80s.  So  in  this  background  one  can  assess  how  credible  such 
allegations can be.  
But  we  never  said  there  are  no  shades  of  patriarchy in  the  party  or  that  the  men  and  women  comrades 
haven’t  become  its  victims.  We  are  fighting  against  the  manifestations  of  patriarchy  by  increasing  the 
political consciousness of our comrades and people, by taking up anti-patriarchal rectification campaigns 
and  more  than  anything,  increasing  the  consciousness,  self-confidence  and  individuality  of  the  women 
comrades  and  implementing  pro-women  policies  firmly.  It  is  a  part  of  our  practice  to  take  disciplinary 
actions which include severe warning to expulsion from the party according to the severity of the mistake, 
on comrades who commit mistakes, however high they may be placed in the party. 
In fact, in the ongoing revolutionary movement and people’s war under our party’s leadership women are 
participating  on  a  large  scale.  The  participation  of  women  in  the  struggles  against  various  forms  of 
patriarchy, under our party’s leadership is very inspiring to us. It is an undeniable fact that no where else in 
our country and under no other party is there such a huge mobilization of women as in our party. Women 
warriors in our PLGA are fighting the enemy very bravely. If the accusations made against us are true, then 
this  would  have  been  impossible.  In  fact,  it  is  an  irrefutable  fact  that  women  are  finding  only  in  our 
movement the security, respect and equal rights denied to them in the society or elsewhere.  
On  the  other  hand,  the  police  and  paramilitary  forces,  reactionary  militias  like  Salwa  Judum,  Harmad 
Bahini, Nagarik Suraksha Samiti and SPOs are resorting to countless atrocities and violence on women as 
part of suppressing the revolutionary movement. Hundreds of village women were insulted, gang-raped, 
killed  and  tortured.  They  are  languishing  in  jails  under  the  burden  of  false  cases.  They  are  getting 
convicted.  It  is  really  surprising  and  sad  that  some  organizations  and  individuals  belonging  to  the  civil 
society are making these allegations against us without bothering to speak or condemn this violence and 
atrocity on the women.  

18. The Home ministry has recently hurled accusations at you that you are getting weapons and money 
from  foreign  countries,  especially  from  China,  Myanmar  and  Bangladesh.  They  are  also  alleging 
that you are getting help from the separatist organizations in North-East. What is your explanation? 
COMRADE  GANAPATHY  :  This  allegation  is  part  of  the  psy-war  against  us  by  the  ruling  gangs  to 
portray our Party as a terrorist and traitorous organization and isolate us from the people. Our weapons are 
mainly  country-made.  All  the  modern  weapons  we  have  are  mainly  seized  from  the  government  armed 
forces when we attack them. The enemy himself knows that seizure of arms is our main source for getting 
weapons. Our party supports the various nationality struggles waged for the liberation of their nationalities 
and  their  right  to  self-determination.  We  have  political  memoranda  of  understanding  with  some  of  the 
organizations which are leading the struggles there. We have published open statements about these in our 
magazines  too.  As a revolutionary political party which represents the vast masses and as a party 
which  would  lead  the  government  that  would  be  completely  responsible  for  this  country  after  we 
come to power, we would establish relations with countries having different political systems in the 
world on the basis of Panchsheel policy. Now and later too we would decide about maintaining these 
relations with various organizations and parties in the world in the interests of the world revolution. 
This  is  one  of  our  candid  basic  policies.  We  have  announced  this  policy  through  our  party 
programme  long  back.  We  would  also  buy  weapons  to  fulfill  the  needs  of  our  people’s  war  from 
domestic and international market. This is the third and last source for our weapons. And the allegations 
made by Chidambaram-GK Pillai about getting weapons and money from those countries are nothing but 
baseless rubbish. 

 

17

In fact, it is the Indian government which is buying weapons, war material and modern technology from 
US, Russia, France and other imperialist countries, from Israel and other countries to suppress the people’s 
democratic  movements,  nationality  liberation  struggles  and  revolutionary  movements.  With  this  huge 
arsenal  the  Indian  expansionists  are  becoming  a  peril  for  the  South  Asian  countries  and  this  is  also 
increasing the arms race with Pakistan. It is sending officers from here to notorious intelligence agencies 
like the Mossad and CIA for training in order to target the comrades leading the revolutionary movements 
and  kill  them.  It  is  the  ruling  classes  and  their  military  higher  officials  who  are  wasting  the  people’s 
money, filling their pockets with billions of rupees in the name of commissions in these transactions and 
betraying the country as traitors downright. Everybody should condemn this, question this.  

19. Recently there have been allegations that the Maoist leadership is getting funds on a large scale 

from mining industries and other corporate companies. What is your answer to these allegations?  

COMRADE GANAPATHY : This is also part of the foul propaganda of the government on us. They are 
even alleging that we are collecting five thousand crores of rupees annually. GK, PC and Prakash Singh 
never tire of harping on our ‘extortion’. This is the falsest allegation that has been made on us. We out 
rightly reject this. Perhaps their eyes are used to seeing commissions worth thousands of crores of rupees 
and out of habit they see our collections too in those terms. If we could have collected even one percent of 
that amount, we could have done so much for our people! In fact, our party mainly collects donations from 
the people and funds from the traders in our guerilla zones. We have a clear people’s financial policy. And 
our  party  also  collects  rational  levy  from  contractors  who  take  up  various  works  in  our  areas.  A 
considerable part of these funds is spent for welfare of the people through our people’s power organs. As 
for mining organizations, our people are fighting their best not to allow them into our strong areas. Our 
party is leading these struggles, it is supporting them. So the issue of collecting funds from them does not 
arise,  you  know.  The  police  officers,  government  officials  and  ruling  class  parties  who  illegally  collect 
crores  of  rupees  from  various  organizations,  pocket  commissions  and  stack  away  their  money  in  Swiss 
banks do not have any moral right to point a finger at us. 

20. What is your assessment about Obama’s policies regarding withdrawal of US army from Iraq and 
Afghanistan, Indo-US nuclear deal and nuclear liability bill which was passed recently? How do you 
see Obama's visit to India who'll be coming next month? 

COMRADE GANAPATHY : The economy of US broke down as US had to spend hundreds of billions of 
dollars to continue the war in Iraq and with thousands of US soldiers dying by getting bogged down in this 
war and Bush losing his face as he waged the war with the arrogance that he would be able to take hold of 
it within a few months and could not do so. Due to these reasons, leave alone Obama, even Bush had to 
talk  about  withdrawal  of  forces  long  back.  The  very  attack  on  Iraq  by  US  is  a  heinous  crime  against 
humanity. In fact, the US had not fought any heroic war there. US has superior force. But what it did was 
to rain lakhs of tonnes of bombs on Iraqi cities and towns, kill millions of Iraqis, create havoc and destroy 
one of the oldest civilizations of the world and its rich heritage, culture and society. So from the day it 
occupied Iraq, US has been continuously facing the resistance of  the rebels, patriots and freedom-loving 
people of Iraq. 
The US imperialist completely destroyed the state, army, judiciary, legislative bodies and administration 
machinery built by Saddam and is building a neo-colonial state by keeping their puppets in the front. It 
formed a new state with the puppet forces. It could destroy Saddam and his followers but it could not solve 
the  new  contradiction  which  had  cropped  up  between  the  people  and  its  puppets.  They  are  unable  to 
suppress the people’s resistance. The army withdrawn by Obama is less and that which he is continuing is 
more.  Recently  when  Iraqi  national  forces  conducted  a  huge  raid,  the  US  army  in  Iraq  barracks 
immediately stepped out. 
After Obama came to power, more than 30,000 additional troops were sent to Afghanistan by him. A fake 
election farce was conducted amidst severe opposition of the Afghan people and he had his puppet Hamid 
Karzai elected. Ninety percent of the persons dying in US bombing are ordinary citizens. NATO troops 
under US leadership are indiscriminately killing Afghan citizens. The atrocities committed by US are so 
horrible that even their puppet Karzai  was forced to open his mouth. In West Pakistan, they are killing 
hundreds of ordinary citizens in drone attacks. Till date, Karzai’s power is confined to the cities. Afghan 
people  have  never  bowed  to  the  rule  of  any  intruder  in  their  whole  history.  They  chased  away  the 
imperialists and occupiers from their land enduring all kinds of travails. Exactly as in the case of Russian 
imperialists,  Afghan  land  would  prove  to  be  the  graveyard  of  the  US  imperialists  too.  Obama  is 

 

18

implementing  the  same  diplomatic  policies  followed  by  Bush  in  Middle  and  South  Asia,  if  not  more 
callously. The US strategy for world hegemony to gain control of Caspian sea gas and establish permanent 
bases in Afghanistan to surround China is bound to fail.  
During UPA-I, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh ignoring stiff opposition from the people, had civilian 
nuclear deal with the US passed proving himself a trustworthy servant of the US imperialists. The Nuclear 
Liability  Bill  which  has  been  passed  by  the  Parliament  recently  is  nothing  but  a  continuation  of  this 
servility. Regarding the Bhopal gas leak accident which led to gruesome death of thousands of people and 
disaster for hundreds of thousands of people in Bhopal, the wounds in the hearts and minds of the people 
of  India  continue  to  pain  till  this  day.  And  now  the  UPA  government  has  in  a  most  shameless  manner 
dared  to  prepare  this  Bill  enabling  many  more  'Bhopals'  to  make  their  way  and  ensuring  even  if  such 
holocausts take place, the foreign capitalists responsible for those would be set free with far less 'liability' 
(just like Warren Anderson and Dow Chemicals were set free). While BJP has helped UPA government in 
passing this Bill, the parliamentary Left parties who call themselves Communists, have once again proved 
their compromising nature by not opposing this traitorous Bill firmly and not initiating people's movement 
against this. Manmohan Singh worked hard to ensure this Bill passed before the arrival of Obama. 
US imperialism, which has been plundering the poor countries across the world, suppressing the oppressed 
nationalities,  pushing  the  notorious  thugs  and  dictators  into  the  power,  bullying  those  countries  who 
wouldn't cooperate, going to any extent to loot oil, minerals and all other natural wealth and sources, is the 
no. 1 enemy of world people. Its leader Barack Obama is such a person whom the entire humanity must 
hate. As his predecessor George Bush had accumulated the hate across the globe, US imperialist masters 
brought Barack Obama in a plan that people could be deceived with his skin color. Though Obama was so 
much rhetorical opposing the policies of Bush, after entering into the White House, all the policies and 
decisions taken by him till this day are nothing but continuation of the Bush administration. In fact the 
difference  between  George  Bush  and  Barack  Obama  lies  just  in  their  color  and  in  the  name  of  their 
representing parties. There is no difference between them in exploiting and suppressing the world people, 
oppressed nationalities, countries and working class of the US. It's an irrefutable fact that this black color 
President was selected by the most notorious white vultures of US monopolistic corporations. 
The comprador ruling classes of India are busy laying red carpet to welcome Obama. Welcoming Obama 
means  nothing  but  a  betrayal  to  the  values  of  sovereignty,  freedom,  independence,  self-reliance,  peace, 
justice  and  democracy.  Inviting  Obama  to  our  beloved  country  means  showing  servility  to  its 
warmongering,  invasive,  exploitative  and  hegemonic  policies.  Therefore,  on  behalf  of  the  Central 
Committee of Communist Party of India (Maoist), I call upon entire people, revolutionary and democratic 
organizations  and  all  patriotic  forces  of  India  to  register  your  protest  in  various  forms  and  to  raise  the 
slogan 'OBAMA! GO BACK!!' loudly in one voice. 

21.  How  do  you  assess  the  revolutionary  situation  in  the  whole  of  South  Asia?  What  do  you  think 

would be the impact of the recent changes in Nepal on it? 

COMRADE GANAPATHY : According to our party’s assessment, the revolutionary situation in the whole 
of  South  Asia  is  excellent.  The  assessment  of  the  Coordination  Committee  of  Maoist  Parties  and 
Organizations  of  South  Asia  (CCOMPOSA)  is  also  the  same.  In  all  the  countries  of  South  Asia  the 
condition is more or less the same. Though the chauvinist Sinhala government may be arrogant that they 
had completely suppressed the Tamil Eelam movement under LTTE’s leadership, it is impossible for them 
to permanently suppress the Tamil national aspirations. The conditions for it to raise its head within a short 
period in another form exist there. The struggle forms and organizational forms may vary. Tamil people 
have  made  immense  sacrifices  and  have  a  long  experience  of  struggle.  Freedom-loving  Tamil  people 
would  never  rest.  It  would  be  an  illusion  of  the  chauvinist  Sinhala  government  if  it  thinks  that  it  had 
established permanent social peace by eliminating LTTE.  
Severe  revolutionary  crisis  is  still  continuing  in  Nepal.  The  state  machinery  has  become  paralyzed.  All 
class forces are intensely clashing with each other. But the unfortunate thing is that, the Maoist party there 
let go the opportunity to seize political power using this excellent crisis situation. At a time when it should 
continue the people’s war and seize political power, it wants to come to power through the parliamentary 
system instead. Our party’s Central Committee wrote an open letter to that party in this matter and had 
issued statements too. 
Though such excellent revolutionary situation exists, the Maoist party is not giving primary importance to 
the movement in rural areas, is not mobilizing peasantry, working class and middle class masses militantly 

 

19

against feudalism, imperialism and Indian expansionism and just whiling away its time. It adopted a right 
opportunist line. It won’t be much long before it becomes clear if the Nepal Maoist party would utilize the 
present excellent revolutionary situation, train its people in struggle and plunge into the decisive battle for 
final  victory  or  if  it  would  get  bogged  down  permanently  in  the  parliamentary  mire.  Anyway,  t  would 
depend on whether they are ready to abandon their wrong line and adopt the correct line or not. It is a fact 
that internal struggle is going on in the Maoist party there.  
Our  party’s  analyzes  the  situation  in  our  country  to  be  excellent.  All  the  social  contradictions  in  our 
country are sharpening too. The people of India are fighting a bitter struggle against feudalism, imperialism 
and comprador bureaucratic capitalism  under our party’s leadership. We would be able to influence the 
situation in South Asia by defending ourselves against the enemy offensive and intensifying our People’s 
War. 
The situation in Bhutan is excellent. Though a so-called parliament was formed in Bhutan, it is a peculiar 
form of constitutional monarchy masquerading as parliamentary democracy. Even in the new government 
the  members  of  the  king’s  family  are  the  main  players.  Bhutan  is  still  under  the  grip  of  feudalism  and 
Indian expansionists. But revolutionary party has already been formed there. The peasants there have to 
fight too. 
The Pakistan society is facing the most severe crisis in its history. It has become a playground for the US 
super power’s strategy for world hegemony. The phenomena in Afghanistan are intensifying the crisis too. 
Pakistan  has  become  the  centre  point  in  the  US  plan  to  surround  China.  Oppression  of  nationalities  is 
continuing severely there. Its contradictions with the Indian expansionists on the one hand and the horrible 
exploitation and oppression of feudalism, imperialism and comprador bureaucratic capitalism on the other 
hand are continuing and intensifying further. So there is severe discontent among the people. But as there 
is no Maoist party there, it is not in a position to utilize it. This is a very unfavourable aspect. 
Bangladesh is one of the most poor and backward countries in the world. The peasantry is living under the 
yoke of feudalism, comprador capitalists and imperialists and is the victim of their terrible exploitation. 
Along  with  this,  the  pressure  and  threats  of  the  Indian  expansionist  ruling  classes  are  also  continuing 
severely there. The Maoist party there is facing many losses but it is trying hard to overcome them and 
strengthen itself. On the whole, South Asia is facing severe social crisis in the present world conditions and 
is having favourable conditions for the revolution.  
The Maoist communist party in another Asian country, the Philippines is developing day by day and is 
having a strong mass base. It is strengthening its New People’s Army and is fighting back the biggest ever 
military offensive campaign of the enemy. The government’s army there is taking along the US military 
advisers with it and is making large scale attacks on the Maoists with the support of military helicopters. 
But it is the government’s troops that are suffering more casualties. The New People’s Army is winning 
victories by bravely fighting back the attacks of the Special Forces. 
In  such  circumstances,  it  is  impossible  for  the  Indian  expansionists,  the  ruling  classes  of  the  respective 
countries or the imperialists to permanently suppress the Maoist, democratic, progressive, patriotic forces 
and national liberation struggles in South Asia. The more they try to suppress it, the more they will rise up. 
Moreover,  the  world  revolutionary  situation  is  also  excellent.  The  situation  for  the  flaring  up  of 
revolutionary movements all over the world is developing further. 

22. Finally, how do you assess the main successes and failures after you held your Unity Congress in 

2007? What do you feel about the future of Indian revolution on the whole? 

COMRADE GANAPATHY : Our Unity Congress held in January, 2007, took up the main, immediate and 
central task of intensifying the people’s war all over the country, developing guerilla war into mobile war 
and developing the People’s Liberation Guerilla Army into People’s Liberation Army (regular army) with 
the aim of establishing Base Areas. As part of it, our Congress gave us many tasks such as intensifying 
mass struggles, extending the movement, building and strengthening the United Front. For the past three 
and  half years,  our  entire party  fought by  keeping  everything  at stake  to  fulfill  these  tasks  basing  itself 
firmly among the people. In this process, we achieved some significant successes. We faced some serious 
failures. We gained many valuable experiences. We learnt some important lessons. On the whole, when we 
look at our successes, we can surely say that the necessary foundation for advancing the Indian revolution 
down the path of victory by gaining more successes in future has been strengthened further.  
If we look at the successes…. 

 

20

1. In the past three and half years, in many areas of our country a deluge of mass struggles erupted under 
our  party’s  leadership.  Especially  in  Dandakaranya,  Bihar,  Jharkhand,  West  Bengal,  Odisha, 
Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh, people participated on a large scale in struggles against the loot of 
their  resources  by  the  Indian  and  foreign  corporations  and  particularly  against  the  displacement  of 
adivasis. Though the Indian ruling classes formed goonda gangs like Salwa Judum, Sendra, Nagarik 
Suraksha  Samiti  and  Harmad  Bahini  and  perpetrated  terrible  violence  and  atrocities  on  the  people, 
they fought bravely under our party’s leadership and with the support of our PLGA. In Kalinganagar, 
Singur,  Nandigram,  Lalgadh,  Narayanapatna,  Dumka,  Polavaram,  Lohandiguda,  Raoghat,  Pallamad 
and  many  other  places  people  mobilized  on  a  large scale  and  participated  in  struggles.  Nandigram, 
Lalgadh  and  Narayanapatna  came  to  the  fore  as  new  models  of  mass  struggles.  In  the  various 
programmes we took up on political issues, we mobilized lakhs of people. People responded greatly to 
our political programme of boycotting the elections to various state assemblies and the parliament. In 
our movement areas, people boycotted elections on a huge scale and brought to the fore very strongly 
the need for people’s political power. As part of Operation Green Hunt carried on with coordination 
between  the  central  and  state  governments  since  mid-2009,  people  were  massacred.  In  spite  of  it, 
thousands of oppressed people, especially the adivasis and women participated in several programmes 
against  state  repression  and  on  various  political  issues  in  Dandakaranya,  Bihar-Jharkhand,  West 
Bengal and Odisha and Andhra Pradesh. 

2. Another important victory is the emergence of people’s democratic political power at a primary level 
and  its  strengthening  and  extension  as  an  alternative  to  the  state  system  of  the  feudal,  comprador 
bureaucratic  bourgeoisie,  run  with  the  support  of  the  imperialists.  In  our  main  guerilla  zones  of 
Dandakaranya  and  Bihar-Jharkhand,  Revolutionary  People’s  Committees  (RPCs)  have  been  formed 
and are functioning. They are strengthening and extending. In Lalgadh and Narayanapatna which have 
newly emerged on the political scene of our country, the people’s power organizations which were 
formed  at  a  primary  level  by  having  people’s  development  at  the  core  even  amidst  severe  enemy 
offensive have attracted the attention of the people of our country. They overthrew the rule of the local 
exploiting classes and are running people’s rule at a primary level. These new political power organs 
are working in the spheres of education, health, sanitation, water facilities and agriculture development 
etc  having  people’s  real  development  as  their  aim.  They  are  a  great  inspiration  to  the  oppressed 
people, the democratic organizations and intellectuals all over the country. They are coming to the fore 
as  the  genuine  people’s  alternative  system.  As  an  answer  to  the  fake  development  model  of  the 
exploiters, these new political power organs are bringing forth a genuine development model of the 
people. 

3. In the past three and half years, the guerilla warfare intensified and is continuing at a higher level. Our 
people’s guerillas conducted valiant attacks on the police, paramilitary and commando forces that are 
resorting to endless atrocities and violence and massacring people to accomplish the interests of the 
exploiting  classes.  Our  guerillas  eliminated  hundreds  of  mercenary  troops  and  seized  hundreds  of 
modern weapons and ammunition and improved our armoury. The guerilla war going on under our 
leadership  is  giving  inspiration  and  self-confidence  to  the  people.  Defending  the  people’s  political 
power which is developing at a primary level and defending the lives and properties of the people, our 
people’s army had emerged as the real saviour of the people. Though the enemy is carrying on many 
suppression campaigns, implementing carpet security by deploying lakhs of police and paramilitary 
forces  and  carrying  on  attacks  continuously,  with  the  active  support  of  the  people  our  PLGA  is 
growing ever more. 

4. Particularly, when we observe from our Unity Congress onwards, the emergence of our party on the 
political  scene  of  the  country  as  a  major  alternative  political  force  is  another  significant  success. 
People  increasingly  understand  that  our  political  line  is  correct.  Now,  citizens  of  our  country  are 
showing more interest in knowing about our stands and solutions regarding many problems faced by 
our  country.  For  the  past  63  years  people  are  frustrated  with  the  bankrupt  politics  of  the  various 
exploiting  ruling  class  parties,  revisionists  who  call  themselves  left  parties  and  the  Hindu  religious 
chauvinists.  It  is  now  clearly  seen  that  they  are  getting  increasingly  influenced  by  the  politics  of 
Maoists and moving nearer to it than in the past. We believe that this would serve as an assurance for 
the formation of a strong, broad and countrywide united front in the future.  

Along with these main successes, we had faced some serious failures and losses too. The main ones are… 

 

21

1.  As we had lost leadership forces in the enemy attack we faced serious losses. After completion of our 
party  Congress,  a  considerable  number  of  our  CC  members  were  caught  by  the  enemy  and  were 
either  killed  in  fake  encounters  or  put  in  jails.  This  is  the  very  big  hindrance  we  are  facing  in 
achieving our goals. No doubt, this would have a grave impact on the Indian revolution. 

2.  Due to the severe offensive of the enemy and our failure in understanding it properly, formulating 
proper counter tactics and implementing them, we were weakened in some areas and we retreated 
from some areas. 

These are our main successes and failures. Meanwhile, the living conditions of the working class in our 
country  are  increasingly  becoming  worse.  The  peasantry  is  increasingly  becoming  penniless  due  to  the 
policies imposed by the feudal and imperialist exploiters and are resorting to suicides in lakhs. In the name 
of new policies, the penetration of foreign capital into the fields of education, health, industry, defence, 
transport,  media,  trade  etc  has  intensified.  The  exploitation,  oppression  and  control  of  the  imperialists 
increased to an unprecedented level since 1947. Severe repression is continuing on the Kashmir and North-
East people who are fighting for their national liberation and right to self-determination including the right 
to  secession.  Due  to  the  policies  followed  by  the  Indian  expansionists  by  colluding  with  the  US 
imperialists, they are bitterly hated by the people of South Asia. The socially most oppressed sections of 
dalits, adivasis, women and religious minorities that constitute are suffering from several problems. The 
state  is  unleashing  terror  on  those  forces  which  are  fighting  against  these  problems.  Civil  rights  are 
becoming completely absent. None of the basic problems of the people are in a position to be solved in this 
present setup. The announcement by the Prime Minister that we would become a strong economic 
force  in  the  21st  century  and  would  achieve  a  two-digit  economic  growth  is  a  big  sham.  While 
corporations  belonging  to  the  likes  of  Ambani,  Tata,  Mittal,  Jindal  and  Essar  are  amassing 
enormous wealth and increasing their ‘development’ rate at a rapid pace, they are throwing the vast 
masses into the whirlpool of insufferable poverty, hunger, unemployment etc.  
When  we  examine  all  these  problems,  it  would  become  increasingly  clear  that  the  fundamental 
contradictions  in  our  country,  i.e.,  the  contradiction  between  feudalism  and  the  vast  masses,  between 
imperialism and Indian people, between capital and labour and the contradiction among the ruling classes 
are intensifying further. Our party is advancing forward with an attitude of taking up the problems of the 
people.  Our  political  line  lays  emphasis  on  the  solution  to  these  problems.  We  believe  that  the  Indian 
revolutionary  movement  would  advance  down  the  victory  path  only  through  the  People’s  War  waged 
under our party leadership while strengthening our people’s army with the aim of establishing Base Areas 
and the United Front formed by uniting all these forces under the leadership of the proletariat. We also 
believe that its future would depend on how this process advances. On the whole we are looking at the 
future of the Indian revolutionary movement with great optimism. 
Our  party  is  serving  as  a  beacon  of  hope  for  the  oppressed  masses  of  our  country.  In  the  midst  of  this 
decadent, corrupt and loathed system our party shines like a bright star. We are not at all saying that we 
have  ready  made  solutions  to  all  the  complexities  existing  in  the  world  revolution  and  the  Indian 
revolution. But we have a correct political line. We are confident that we can solve all these problems in a 
process  of  making  the  new  democratic  revolution  a  success  as  the  first  step  towards  socialism  and 
communism. We believe that all the problems faced by the society can be solved in the light of Marxism-
Leninism-Maoism.  Likewise  we  will  learn  from  international  experiences  too.  We  will  apply  Marxist-
Leninist-Maoist  ideology  to  the  concrete  practice  of  Indian  revolution.  We  will  fight  dogmatism  and 
empiricism which raise their head in practice. We will firmly adhere to mass line and dedicate ourselves to 
fulfill the aspirations and hopes of our people. We will determinedly fight the left and right opportunist 
trends  and  revisionism  which  may  crop  up  in  our  party  and  in  the  international  communist  movement. 
However,  there  are  chances  for  mistakes  and  accidents  to  happen  in  the  process  of  revolution.  So,  we 
would accept our mistakes with a genuine self-critical attitude and humility. We will correct our mistakes. 
We will advance in the path of revolution till the final victory in this great war waged to establish a society 
where there is no scope for hunger, injustice, poverty, illiteracy, unemployment, price rise, displacement, 
untouchbility, discrimination, social evils etc by liberating our beloved country from the exploitation and 
oppression of feudalism, imperialism and comprador bureaucratic capitalism. Our party has emerged out of 
the innumerable sacrifices of our cadres and leaders. They lay down their lives unflinchingly for people’s 
democracy and communism. These selfless, exemplary martyrs are the ray of hope in our society. We will 
definitely hold high their esteemed revolutionary tradition. We will establish their lofty human values in 
this  society.  We  will  steer  clear  of  avoidable  losses  and  display  communist  consciousness,  courage, 

 

22

determination and sacrifice to fight back the cruel enemy. In this process, our party would steel itself in the 
flames of class struggle. 
Many areas have already developed into guerilla zones in our country. In many areas people’s state power 
came into existence in an embryonic form. The PLGA is growing in strength and capacity. Guerilla war is 
intensifying.  This  new  power  is  developing  as  the  primary  form  of  a  new  democratic  state.  But  in 
comparison with the more than 110 crores of our population and the vastness of our country, our party is 
very small. We have to travel very far. True, the path is thorny. But if we continue in the revolutionary 
path, the future would brighten a lot. 
Contrary  to  the  parliamentary  parties  and  all  kinds  of  reformist  organizations,  the  CPI  (Maoist) 
which is based on a cadre that has unflinching faith in their aim, a sacrificing nature and dedication 
is shining like a bright sun, lighting up all the darkness surrounding our country. Indian people want 
revolution. They are advancing in the path of People’s War for building a new society. The dawn of 
New  Democratic revolution is unfolding. Let us  march into the bright sunlight of the new society 
which is unfolding on the horizon. Lal Salaam !  

 

 

 

*** 

23

