 
CPN(M) - Worker #11 
 
The Worker, #11, July 2007, pp. 68-76. 
 
Guest Columns 

Interview with Com. Ganapathy 

 

[Comrade  Ganapathy  is  the  General  Secretary  of  the  newly  formed  Communist  Party  of 
India(Maoist) after the unity between the erstwhile CPI(ML)(PW) and MCCI and he was also 
General  Secretary  during  the  period  of  CPI(ML)(PWG)  and  thereafter  CPI(ML)(PW)  which 
was  formed  after  the  merger  of  erstwhile  CPI(ML)(PWG)  and  CPI(ML)(Party  Unity).  This 
interview was prepared by CPI(Maoist) by collecting the questions sent by various news papers 
and media including the BBC and the reply given by Com. Ganaathy. Hoping that it will help 
many many readers of various parts of the world who strive very hard to get information of the 
revolutionary  activities  of  the  world  in  general  and  that  of  South  Asia  in  particular  which  is 
considered as the storm centre of the world revolution, this interview has been published here 

by selecting some of them. —Editor] 
  

Q. What are the major decisions of the Unity Congress will there be any change in 
your overall plans and tactics now? 

The general direction of the Congress is to intensify the people’s war and to take the war 
to  all  fronts.  Concretely  it  decided  to  take  the  guerrilla  war  to  a  higher  level  of  mobile 
war in the areas where  guerrilla war is in an advanced stage and to expand the areas of 
armed  struggle  to  as  many  states  as  possible.  The  destruction  of  the  enemy  forces  has 
come  into  the  immediate  agenda  in  these  areas  without  which  it  is  very  difficult  to 
consolidate  our  gains  or  to  advance  further.  Likewise,  there  is  an  immediate  need  to 
transform a vast area into the war zone so that there is enough room for maneuverability 
for  our  guerrilla  forces,  and  in  expansion  the  element  so  secrecy  is  very  important; 
keeping in view the massive deployment of the central forces and special police forces of 
the  states  the  Congress  had  drawn  up  plans  to  adopt  various  creative  forms  to  cause 
serious  damage  to  the  enemy  forces.  The  police  and  central  forces  will  be  taught  how 
dangerous  it  is  to  enter  our  areas.  We  decided  to  strengthen  the  Party  and  the  PLGA, 
mobilize the masses actively to resist the enemy forces, and to transform these areas into 
our  strong  bases  by  destroying  the  enemy’s  power  in  all  forms.  And  all  this  will  be 
achieved by  wide mobilization of the masses into the war. As it is, hundreds of people, 
and at times even more than a thousand, are involved in the attacks against the enemy as 
you  can  see  from the  recent counter  offensive  operations  as in  Rani  Bodili,  Riga,  CISF 

camp in Bokaro district, and so on in the past one month itself. 

With the experience we gained in AP in the midst of ever-increasing and continuous state 
repression and state-sponsored repression, it is all the more important that our forces are 
not exposed wherever they are working. But at the same time we shall be in the forefront 
of every people’s movement. The Congress has decided to take up struggles against the 
SEZs [Special Economic Zones] which are nothing but neo-colonial enclaves on Indian 
territory.  They  are  not  just  snatching  fertile  farmlands  of  the  peasants  but  are 
transforming the entire country into special zones for the unhindered ruthless exploitation 
and control by imperialists and the comprador big business houses. The congress gave the 
call to go deep into these struggles. We  have no illusions on the cruel, fascist nature of 
the Indian state, and hence there is utmost need for maintaining secret methods of work 
as well as to be prepared for every kind of sacrifice. 

Q:  Finally,  how  do  you  I  sum  up  the  achievements  of  your  Unity  Congress  and  its 
significance? 

Ans:  Our  Unity  Congress  is  an  event  of great  historic  significance  in  the  history  of  the 
revolutionary movement of India. It not only marks the near-completion of the process of 
unification of the Maoist forces in the country but also the consolidation of the Party and 
the  political  line  for  the  Indian  revolution.  The  reaffirmation  and  enrichment  of  the 
revolutionary political line established by our founder leaders—comrades CM and KC—
is  the  biggest  achievement  of  significance  is  the  establishment  of  a  unified  centralized 
leadership for the Indian revolution. 

After a long time in the history of the revolutionary communist movement in India since 
the 1970s, a single directing centre has come into existence, with the merger of the MCCI 
and CPI (ML) [PW] in September 2004 and this center has become further consolidated 
and firmly established in the unity congress with the approval of the entire Party. 

Q: There have been serious losses in Andhra Pradesh in recent times. What are the 
reasons?  Has  your  movement  become  weakened  overall?  How  do  you  plan  to 
overcome these losses and regain the initiative? 

Ans:  I  agree  that  the  losses  in  the  state  of  Andhra  Pradesh  are  quite  serious.  They 
certainly have a considerable impact on the revolutionary movement in the country as a 
whole. AP, particularly the region on North Telangana, has been an important centre of 
revolutionary  movement  for  a  long  period  and  a  great  inspiration  to  the  revolutionary 
masses  of  our  country.  But  we  have  to  keep  in  mind  that  so  far  as  the  question  of 
establishing base areas goes, it has been  the more backward areas falling in central and 
eastern India that were selected by the Party, with the immediate task of liberating these 
vast areas. Hence the focus of our movement had gradually shifted to Dandakaranya and 
Bihar-Jharkhand. 

You must have known that AP was made into a model state, an experimental state where 

the  imperialists,  particularly  the  World  Bank,  and  the  Indian  ruling  classes  had 
concentrated  to  implement  their  multi-pronged  LIC  strategy  against  the  revolutionary 
movement, with its focus on brutal suppression and reform. No other state affected by the 
Naxalite movement has such a massive police commando force as in AP, nowhere do you 
find  such  extensive  intelligence  network,  infrastructure,  funds  training  in  counter 
insurgency  warfare,  and  unlimited  powers  to  the  police.  No  other  state  had  witnessed 
such  a  bloodbath  as  AP  had  for  the  past  four  decades  and  particularly  from  the  mid-
1980s.  There  are  hardly  any  political  prisoners  in  AP  jails  since  the  policy  had  always 
been to bump off the revolutionaries—where they are members of the central committee 
or  sympathizers—after  they  are  arrested.  Fake  encounter  killings  had  been  the  tradition 
right from the time of Vengal Rao during the struggle of Srikakulam almost 40 years ago. 
Thousands of crores have been spent on so-called reforms with the aim of weaning away 
a  section  of  the  people  from  the  revolutionary  movement.  It  is  a  fact  that  a  small  but 
articulate  and  influential  section  in  the  countryside  has  been  won  over  through  these 
reforms. In a word, we can say that the Party and the revolutionary movement in AP bore 
the brunt of all the counter-insurgency measures initiated by the reactionary ruling classes 
in  the  initial  stages.  Today  these  are  being  implemented  in  several  other  states.  We  are 
making  an  in-depth  study  of  enemy’s  counter-revolutionary  tactics,  plans  and  methods 
and  taking  lessons  from  these.  The  movement  in  AP,  at  the  cost  of  huge  sacrifices  of 
thousands of comrades has given us invaluable experiences on how to counter and defeat 
enemy’s  tactics  and  plans.  With  these,  the  party  is  now  more  equipped  to  defeat  the 
enemy’s tactics in other states. 

Setbacks  and  losses  are  not  unnatural  in  protracted  people’s  war.  Revolution  proceeds 
along a zig zag course and not along a straight line. The movement in AP has seen many 
ups  and  downs.  But  always  it  rose  up  like  the  proverbial  Phoenix.  No  doubt,  at  the 
present juncture, we are facing a tough situation in AP and the enemy has the upper-hand 
from the tactical point of view. We had lost a good part of the state leadership and cadre 
but the most promising aspect is that the people are still with our party. The support base 
of  the  Party  has  not  eroded  much  although  they  meet  us  secretly,  ask  to  solve  their 
problems, and they work without getting exposed to the brutal state. For them our Party is 
the  only  hope.  People  are  pained at every  loss  suffered  by  the  revolutionaries.  You  can 
gauge the mass support from the turn out at the funeral meetings of out martyrs. In spite 
of the threats and restrictions imposed by the police goons, more than 20,000 people had 
turned  up  at  the  funeral  of  comrade  Chandramouli  (BK)  and  Karuna  in  the  former’s 
native  village  of  Vadkapur  in  Karimnagar  district.  The  pent-up  anger  and  hatred  of  the 
people  for  the  reactionary  rulers  and  their  police—Grey  Hounds—SIB  goons  will  grow 
into  a  movement  of  such  great  proportions  that  it  will  wash  away  the  exploiters  and 
oppressors and all the muck accumulated in society for long. No force on earth can stop 
this high tide of revolution whatever losses and setbacks we might be facing today in AP; 
that is why while boasting that Maoists in the state had become completely weakened and 
that AP will serve as a model on how to deal with the Maoist movement, the fascist YSR 
government  has  initiated  several  measures  with  a  long  term  plan  such  as  a  hundred 
percent  increase  in  the  strength  of  the  Grey  Hounds  commando  force,  acquitting 
helicopters for anti-Naxal operations, sanctioning of Rs. 2000 crores of central aid to deal 
with the Naxal movement, and so on. 

The present historical epoch is an epoch of great turmoil with tumultuous changes taking 
place  worldwide.  Even  the  mist  powerful  militarized  imperialist  power  like  the  US  is 
finding it impossible to suppress the national liberation struggle in a small country such 
as Iraq or Afghanistan. In India the ruthless exploitation and oppression of the people by 
the  ruling  classes  in  collaboration  with  imperialism  has  created  an  explosive  situation. 
Utilizing  the  excellent  international  and  domestic  situation  prevailing  today  we  are 
confident we will be able to come out of the temporary setback in AP. 

And what is more important, we made advances in many other states in spite of the losses 
we had suffered in AP. The situation is now qualitatively different from that of the earlier 
periods in that we are now able to advance the movement in a number of states even if we 
suffer  losses  and  setbacks  in  one  or  two  states.  Way  back  they  could  suppress  a 
Naxalbari, a  Srikakulam,  a  Birbhum,  a Mushahari,  a  Kansksa  or  Sonapur  but  today  the 
revolutionary  movement  has  become  further  strengthened,  has  spread  to  large  tracts  of 
the backward countryside, has well-knit party structures, Army and vast mass base. It is 
advancing  through  centralized  planning  and  direction.  Hence  it  is  not  an  easy  thing  for 
the state to suppress the movement as in the past although it might achieve an upper hand 
in  one  place.  The  congress  had  chalked out  a  concrete  plan  to  overcome  the  setback  in 
AP  by  transforming  the  unfavorable  factors  into  favorable  ones.  Overall  there  is  great 
future for the Party and revolution. 

Q:  Recently  your  PLGA  had  inflicted  one  of  the  biggest  blows  to  the  police  force 
and  the  salwa  judum  by  killing  a  huge  number  of  police  and  SPOs  in  Bodili  in 
Chattisgarh. Do you foresee  more such attacks in near future? And  do you  believe 
the salwa judum can be stopped through such actions? 

Ans: The daring tactical counteroffensive operation carried out by the PLGA led by our 
Party,  the  CPI  (Maoist),  on  March  16  on  a  police  base  camp  in  Ranibodli  in  Bijapur 
police  district  in  Chattisgarh  in  which  68  policemen  including  Special  Police  Officers 
(SPOs)  were  wiped  out  is  an  inevitable  consequence  of  the  brutal  reign  of  terror 
unleashed  by  the  state and  central  governments  in the  name  of  salwa  judum.  You  must 
know  the  actual  ground  situation  in  Dandakaranya  to  understand  why  such  a  massive 
operation had to be planned. 

For  almost  two  years  since  June  2005,  the  BJP  government  in  Chattisgarh  and  the 
Congress-led  UPA  government  in  the  Centre  had  sponsored  a  counterrevolutionary 
terrorist  campaign  of  mass  murder,  torture,  and  arrests  of  thousands  of  the  adivasi 
peasantry,  gang  rapes  and  murder  of  hundreds  of  women,  destruction  of  thousands  of 
houses, food grains, and all property of the adivasis, killing or taking away thousands of 
cattle,  forceful  evacuation  of  tens  of  thousands  of  people  from  almost  eight  hundred 
villages  and  issuing  threats  and intimidation  to  anyone  suspected  of  being  a member  of 
revolutionary  mass  organization  or  sympathetic  to  the  Maoists  in  Dandakaranya, 
particularly  in  Dantewara,  Bastar,  Kaner,  Bijapur  and  Narayanpur  districts.  Over  5000 
youth were inducted into a state mercenary armed force, paid monthly salaries, and pitted 
against the native adivasis who are fighting for land, livelihood and liberation under the 
leadership of the CPI (Maoist). The Naga and Mizo Battalions were specially brought in 

along  with  a  huge  CRPF  and  other  special  police  forces  to  Chattisgarh  who  had  been 
committing the most barbaric and inhuman acts against the adivasi population. 

All  these  cruel  at  acts  against  an  entire  population  are  meant  to  establish  peace  of  the 
graveyard  and  clear  the  way  for  the  unhindered  loot  [by]  rapacious  hawks  like  Tatas, 
Ruias,  Essars,  Mittals,  Jindals  and  imperialist  MNCs.  Over  one  lakh  rupees  worth  of 
MOUs  were  signed  by  the  Chattisgarh  government  with  these  corporate  comprador  big 
business houses to drain the rich mineral and forest wealth of the state. At the behest of 
these  day-light  robbers,  adhivashi  dalals  like  opposition  leader  of  the  Congress, 
Mahendra  Karma,  Home  Minister  Ramvichar  Betham  of  the  BJP  and  others  have  been 
leading this counter-revolutionary war against the adivasi population. 

A  huge  central  force  is  deployed  which  is  now  more  than  13  battalions,  recruited  10 
additional battalions of state forces and inducted even minors of 14 years of age into their 
mercenary  police  force.  KPS  Gill,  notorious  for  the  mass  murders  of  youth  in  Punjab, 
was  specially  appointed  as  advisor  to  the  Chief  Minister.  A  carpet  security  system  is 
initiated with police camps in close proximity in order to strike among the people. 

We,  on  behalf  of  the  CC,  CPI  (Maoist),  once  again  warn  the  state  and  central 
governments  that  our  Bhurmkal  Sena  and  PLGA  and  people  will  carry  out  attacks  on  a 
much bigger scale if the murder campaign in the name of salwa judum is not disbanded 
immediately.  We  declare  that  the  sole  responsibility  for  such  needless  loss  of  lives  of 
hundreds  of  policemen  and  SPOs  lies  squarely  on  the  shoulders  of the  state  and central 
governments. Large-scale armed retaliation by the adivasis led by our Party is inevitable 
if the atrocities on the adivasi people continue in the name of salwa judum. Like George 
Bush who can only think in terms of using more brute force to control the fire of national 
liberation  in  Iraq,  the  Indian  ruling  classes  too  can  only  think  of  sucking  in  more  and 
more repressive forces in order to suppress the people’s war and grab the mineral wealth 
of  Dandakaranya.  However,  they  will  only  end  up  in  further  escalating  the  civil  war  in 
Dandakaranya. 

We do share the grief of the families of the dead policemen and SPOs but we are being 
compelled to wipe out the police and mercenary gangs who are obeying the orders of the 
ruling  classes  and  their  imperialist  mentors  to  suppress  the  revolutionary  movement  for 
looting the wealth in the state. We appeal to the jawans of the central forces, particularly 
the Naga and Mizo battalions, to disobey the orders of the rulers and to withdraw from 
Chattisgarh.  We  appeal  to  the  SPOs  who  are  being  pitted  against  the  adivasi  people  to 
quit the mercenary force as they are fighting an unjust war against their own brothers and 
sisters  in  the  interests  of  the  reactionary  rulers.  We  call  upon  the  democratic 
organizations  and  individuals  and  the  vast  masses  of  the  country  to  condemn  state 
terrorism on the adivasi people of Dandakaranya, to demand immediate disbandment of 
salwa judum and the mercenary SPO force, to fight for the withdrawal of the notorious 
central  forces  from  the  region,  set  up  a  judicial  enquiry  into  the  killing  of  over  500 
adivasis by the police-salwa judum mercenary combine. 

Q: History shows, the middle class wants status quo. Indian middle class is growing 

more powerful. How do you plan to co-opt them? 

Ans:  It  is  true  that  the  Indian  middle  class  has  grown  in  number.  At  the  same  time,  a 
sizable  chunk  of  the  middle  class  is  facing  acute  crisis  due  to  soaring  prices, 
unemployment,  growing  insecurity  of  life,  steep  increases  in  family  expenditure  due  to 
high  cost  of  education,  health,  transport  etc.,  which  have  become  privatized  to  a  great 
extent  and  had  gone  beyond  the  reach  of  a  significant  section  of  the  middle  class.  In 
short, despite the numerical growth of the middle class it is at a receiving end. Hence we 
see that the growing frustration in large sections of the middle class is forcing them into 
streets for their demands as witnessed in strikes and other forms of struggles by teachers, 
government employees, students, and even shopkeepers who are affected by the shopping 
malls  and  FDI  in  retail  sector.  Another  important  factor  has  to  be  noted—most  of 
yesterday’s luxury consumer goods have become today’s daily necessities. And the list of 
necessities  is  growing  by  the  day  with  the  large-scale  proliferation  of  consumer  goods 
and  the  promotion  of  consumerism  by  the  market-place.  Hence  frustration  is  growing 
among  members  of  this  class  as  they  are  unable  to  procure  these  goods  since  much  of 
their incomes have to be spent on the basic necessities such as food, clothing and shelter. 

Middle  class  is  terribly  affected  by  such  issues  as  price-rise,  insecurity,  corruption, 
unemployment for their children, high cost of education and health-care, threats from real 
estate  mafia  etc.  Keeping  these  in  mind  our  party  has  drawn  up  plans  to  mobilize  the 
middle class into struggles on such issues. 

Q: Why armed struggle is a must? (Isn’t it a fact that violence pushes a large chunk 
of people away from the Party?) 

Ans:  The  question  of  armed  struggle  or  non-violence  struggle  is  not  based  on  the 
subjective whims and wishes of any individual or Party. It is independent of one’s will. It 
is a law borne out by all historical experience. It is a fact of history that nowhere in the 
world,  nowhere  in  the  historical  development  of  the  class  society,  had  the  reactionary 
ruling  classes  given  up  power  without  resorting  to  violent  suppression  of  the  mass 
protests,  without  violent  resistance  aimed  at  clinging  on  to  power  until  they  are  thrown 
out  by  force.  Of  course,  one  can  cite  instances  of  regime  changes  occurring  through 
peaceful  movements,  through  massive  protests,  but  all  of  these  were  mere  regime 
changes—not systemic changes.  A section of the ruling classes might  give up power to 
another section of the same class without the need for a violent upheaval but the same is 
not  the  case  when  one  ruling  class  is  replaced  by  another  with  diametrically  opposing 
class interests. 

However, we find that even these regime changes are not infrequently marked by violent 
clashes as witnessed in several parts of Africa, Asia and Latin America. We will indeed 
be  the  happiest  people  to  bring  about  systematic  change  without  the  need  for  armed 
struggle. 

When we began the struggle it was basically a peaceful movement on the various issues 
of  the  people  such  as  land,  livelihood  and  liberation  from  feudal  and  imperialist 

exploitation  and  oppression.  It  needs  hardly  any  genius  to  grasp  the  fact  that  no  feudal 
lord  would  give  up  his  land  or  power  just  because  the  masses  demand  it  as  their 
democratic right. The landlord would use all means at his disposal to suppress the mass 
resistance  by  brute  force.  He  would  get  the  local  police  and  special  forces,  the  central 
Para-military forces and, if needed, the army. We had seen this whenever we had initiated 
the anti-feudal struggle. In Jagtyal during the late 1970s, social boycott of the landlords 
imposed  by  the  peasantry  had  forced  them  to  flee  the  villages  our  revolutionary 
movement had spread to over a hundred villages which shook the powers that be. What 
happened  next  to  this  non-violent  struggle  should  be  an  eye-opener  to  all  those  who 
harbor illusions or biased against armed struggle.  After few weeks landlords came back 
with  the  mercenary  forces  and  unleashed  large-scale  violence  and  cruel  repressive 
measures such as arrests, torture of peasants, destruction of their property, declaration of 
the area as disturbed, clamping down on the civil rights of the people, and so on. It was at 
that juncture that the Party was compelled to take up arms and not out of any romantic 
notion.  The  same  is  the  case  with  anti-imperialist  struggles  and  nationality  movements, 
who would want to give up their precious lives and undergo harsh, rigorous lives tortures 
and hardships when the demands of the masses such as land, national self-determination 
and liberation from imperialist exploitation and oppression are achieved through peaceful 
means? All movements began as peaceful movements but had to take the form of armed 
struggle due to the moves of the reactionary ruling classes. The case of Iraq is a classic 
illustration  of  how  an  entire  population  has  been  compelled  to  take  up  arms  due  to  the 
unbridled  violence  unleashed  by  the  imperialists  for  satisfying  their  insatiate  greed  for 
oil. The same is the case with Palestine, Kashmir or elsewhere. 

The second part of  your question is a big myth. Nowhere had the masses been repelled 
from the Party on account of armed struggle. Rather it is the lack of effective resistance 
that  is  acting  as  a  discouragement  wherever  the  state  had  bared  its  fangs.  Without 
destroying  and  defeating  the  armed  forces  of  repression  it  is  impossible  to  rally  the 
people  or  give  them  confidence.  In  fact,  it  is  not  our  guerrilla  squads  alone  that  are 
putting  up  resistance.  The  people  are  playing  a  great  role  in  heroically  resisting  and 
actively supporting the PLGA in its armed resistance to the police forces. Well, that’s the 
ground  reality  notwithstanding  what  the  intellectuals  analyzing  events  from  their  ivory 
towers might think and theorize. 

Q: Why there can not be protest in a non-violent way? 

Ans: You must rather put the question the other way round. You must ask the reactionary 
ruling  classes—the  big  landlords,  the  big  business  houses,  the  imperialist  MNCs,  the 
powerful Indian state and its armed forces, the state police and the bureaucracy—if at all 
they  would  listen,  as  to  why  they  do  not  allow  protest  in a  peaceful  way.  Why  do  they 
beat up, arrest, torture, and kill people who dare to go on strike? Why do they terminate 
the  services  of  workers  and  employees  for  going  on  strike?  Why  do  they  send  their 
mercenary  police  forces,  the  CRPF  and  the  army  to  open  fire  upon  people  staging 
peaceful marches, dharnas and meetings without any provocation, why do they allow the 
khaki  gangs  to  rape  women,  destroy  property,  enact  fake  encounters  in  violation  of  all 
provisions  of  the  Indian  Constitution,  and  for  all  these  crimes  against  humanity,  are  let 

scot-free?  Why do they create a Kalinagar, a Nandigram, an  Arwal, an  Indravellim and 
scores  of  such  barbaric  acts?  Why  peaceful  protests  of  people  in  Kashmir  against 
disappearances  are  not  just  ignored  but  even  attacked  with  such  ferocity?  Why  do  they 
continue to enforce the savage Armed Forces Special Powers Act in Maniput when it is 
actually  the  Indian  army  and  the  police  forces  that  are  committing  atrocities  upon  the 
people  as  the  case  of  the  rape  of  Manorame  classically  illustrates?  Can  you  ever  forget 
the  savage  beatings  of  the  protestors  by  these  khaki  clad  or  olive  green  goods  breaking 
their skulls, and not sparing them even after they fall down seriously injured? 

No  ruling  classes  anywhere  in  the  world  had  allowed  the  people  to  achieve  their  basic 
demands  of  land  and  liberation  from  oppression  in  a  peaceful  way;  even  the  so-called 
democratic states allow it only to the extent they do not pose a threat to the status quo, to 
their exploitation and amassing of super profits. Ahimsa (non-Violence) and Karma (fate) 
are  the  ideological  bases  and  the  dubious  catch  words  of  the  exploiting  classes  to 
perpetuate their violence and hegemony over the vast masses. 

To begin with, none would or could go directly to violent ways to solve their problems. It 
is only after their peaceful marches, rallies, dharnas, hunger-strikes, general strikes etc., 
go  unheeded  or  sought  to  be  crushed  that  they  are  forced  to  resort  to  violent  methods. 
This is an incontrovertible fact whether it is the anti-feudal armed agrarian struggle led by 
the  revolutionaries,  nationality  movements  of  the  North  East,  Kashmir  or  the  anti-
imperialist  struggles.  You  only  have  to  take  a  glance  at  the  origin  of  the  armed 
movements  anywhere  in  the  world,  not  just  India,  to  appreciate  this  universal  truth.  To 
put it shortly, forms of struggle adopted by the people always depend upon the moves of 
the ruling classes and not vice versa. And  you should also bear in mind that even today 
we use both violent and non-violent forms of struggle and not just violent forms. 

Q: Is your violence for self-defence or to grab state power? 

Ans:  Strictly  speaking  you  cannot  separate  the  two.  In  the  long-term  perspective,  or 
ultimately our  goal is to seize state power without which it is impossible to liberate the 
people of our country from the clutches of imperialism, feudalism and the big comprador 
bourgeoisie i.e. change the existing unjust socio-economic system. But in the process of 
preparing  the  people  for  the  ultimate  goal  of  establishing  their  own  power,  the  ruling 
classes are resorting to savage repression on the party, the masses and the revolutionary 
movement as a whole. Hence in the course of mobilizing the masses into movements we 
are compelled to take up arms for self-defence even at an early stage. And for a relatively 
long time our war will have this nature and all our tactical counter offensive operations 
and campaigns should be seen as part of the war of self-defence at this stage. 

Q: Why can’t you fight [in] elections and go [to] the Parliament and raise issues in a 
democratic way? 

Ans:  It  is  indeed  a  logical  question  which  anyone  who  sees  only  the  outer  shell  of  so-
called parliamentary democracy would ask. What is important is the kernel, the essence, 
the content and not just the form. When you strip off the outer garment of democracy you 

find the rotten, stinking corpse inside. That is why Lenin described Parliament as a pig-
sty and a mere talking shop. Why are we calling it a talking shop? 

Firstly,  the  real  problems  of  the  people  can  never  be  addressed  by  the  Parliament  and 
Assemblies,  not  to  speak  of  solving  them.  The  Parliamentary  institutions  are  not  meant 
for that. They have no real power. They may pass some resolutions that seem to do good 
for the people but these have to be implemented through the Executive which has the real 
power. We know the fate of the Lank Ceiling Acts, legislation on untouchability, dowry, 
etc which are only showpieces. It is the executive which carries out everything. In periods 
such  as  Emergency  during  Indira  Gandhi’s  regime,  when  the  Parliament  itself  was 
subverted, the real power of the Executive had come openly to the fore. But, the man on 
the street knows how it is the revenue official, policeman, and the local magistrate who 
decide  his  life.  However  good  a  legislation  act  might  seem  to  be,  it  is  money  power, 
muscle power and nepotism that decide every aspect of his life. 

Secondly, Parliamentary institutions are meant to defend the status quo, not to change the 
system. They do, of course make some cosmetic changes now and then to maintain their 
credibility among the masses. Most important of all it is the imperialists comprador big 
business  houses,  big  landlords,  contractors  and  the  mafia  which  control  the  Parliament. 
Those who enter the Parliament are the representatives or mere puppets in the hands of 
these  powerful  lobbies.  Even  a  good  intentioned  parliamentarian  cannot  go  beyond  the 
rules drawn up by these bigwigs. If you see the business transacted in the parliament, you 
would find that more than 90% of it is just trash, with no bearing on the real problems of 
the country. 

That the system of elections is a big farce needs no elaboration as it is known even to a 
school child. Do you call it democracy to purchase votes with liquor and money, whip up 
caste,  religious,  and  ethnic  sentiments?  And  even  after  the  election,  purchasing  the 
legislators  as  you  purchase  any  other  item  in  the  market  place?  If  Narendra  Modi,  the 
butcher  of  thousands  of  Muslims  in  Gujrat  can  win  elections  and  get  reelected  as  the 
chief  minister.  If  criminals,  dacoits,  and  most  notoriously  corrupt  politicians  can  get 
elected;  and  if  votes  can  be  obtained  at  gun-point  and  through  booth  capturing  and 
rigging then do you really think that there is any meaning in this so-called democracy? 

That is why our party has complete clarity on the nature of legislative system unlike some 
other parties that swear to be revolutionary in parliamentary politics in practice. We are 
firm in our belief that it is only through struggle that people can solve their problems and 
the parliamentary institutions can do nothing good except creating illusions. Parliament is 
a  safety  valve  to  let  out  the  pent-up  anger  of  the  masses  lest  the  system  blow  to  piece. 
You  think  raising  issues  in  the  parliament  is  the  democratic  way  through  organized 
protests. We shall always be at the head of such struggles and not step into the mire of the 
undemocratically  elected  powerless  talking  shop  called  Parliament  that  serves  as  the 
instrument  of  the  big  business  and  the  feudal  forces  and  is  subordinate  to  imperialist 
dictates. 

Q: Do you fear that if you go to Parliament, the party can become corrupt? 

Ans: The answer to this question is already covered in my earlier elaboration. To say in 
one word, more than being corrupted after entering Parliament, which is also true in the 
case of the ML parties, it is the corrupt parties and individuals that can really become part 
of the parliamentary system. Our party firmly believes that as against the money power of 
the  Parliament  the  real  alternative  before  the  people  is  the  establishment  of  genuine 
people’s democratic power. We had built such organs of people’s power in some parts of 
the  country  such  as  Janthana  sarkar  in  Dandakaranya.  These  revolutionary  organs  of 
power  show  how  real  power  is  exercised  as  compared  to  the  impotent,  corrupt  and 
criminal parliamentary institutions. 

Q:  What  do  you  mean  by  people’s  power—we  have  seen  in  a  communist  state  in 
West Bengal what communists do when they come to power. How would you ensure 
you will be able to give power to people? 

A:  It  is  not  surprising  that  like  most  people,  you  too  are  confused  by  the  names.  Just 
because a Party calls itself Communist does not make it communist just as a party calling 
itself  Bharatya  Janata  Party  does  not  make  it  an  Indian  people’s  Party  or  a  Samajbadi 
Party into a socialist party. The stark fact is that the CPI (M) had long back abandoned 
the communist project and Marxist ideology though it calls itself a Marxist Party. It had 
become a social fascist party from the time of the outbreak of Naxalbari armed peasant 
uprising  in  1967  when  thousands  of  revolutionaries  were  massacred  upon  the  orders  of 
the then Home minister Jyoti Basu in West Bengal during the late 1960s and early 1970s. 
The  recent  massacre  of  scores  of  people  in  Nandigram  on  March  14,  the  brutal 
suppression  of  the  people’s  struggle  in  Singur,  and  its  open  declaration  to  allow  the 
MNCs and big comprador houses to set up SEZs and transform the state into a heaven for 
these sharks had shown how the Buddhadebs Marxist Party is acting at the behest of the 
Tatas,  Salems,  and  imperialist  MNCs.  The  pre-hatched  systematic  execution  of  the 
massacre in Nandigram by the police-CPI(M) goons combine, in particular, has revealed 
their social fascist character to the new generation of the Indian people. So what you are 
referring to in West Bengal is nothing but social fascist rule. 

Now  coming  to  your  question  about  people’s  power—we  call  it  people’s  power  only 
when  real  power  is  exercised  by  the  people  themselves.  You  can  see  it  in  parts  of 
Dandarakanya,  Bihar  and  Jharkhanda.  We  had  developed  it  in  some  villages  in  AP  but 
these were destroyed due to the weakness of our armed strength which could not counter 
the  massive  offensive  by  the  central  and  state’s  special  forces.  Wherever  we  had 
established organs of people’s power in embryonic form, there you can see the initiative 
and energy of the masses being released and coming into full play, active participation of 
masses  in  administrating  their  own  lives,  collectively  developing  their  villages  through 
construction  of  schools,  tanks,  hospitals,  etc  and  increasing  production,  resolving  the 
local disputes by themselves without ever any need to go to the bourgeois feudal courts, 
in  short  shaping  their  own  destiny.  Where  our  people’s  army  and  people’s  militia  are 
relatively  strong  and  succeeded  in  destroying  the  state’s  assertion  has  also  kept  the  big 
industrial  sharks  and  the  imperialists  MNCs  at  bay.  Women  enjoy  relatively  greater 
freedom than their counterparts in the rest of the country. 

We have to develop this people’s power that the lower to higher levels by strengthening 
the people’s army and transforming it into a mighty force, destroying the enemy  power 
by  intensifying  the  people’s  war  and  establishing  the  base  areas.  It  is  in  the  base  areas 
that this power becomes relatively more consolidated. However, until the final capture of 
state power on a country wide scale there will be severe constraints to the exercise of the 
people’s power at the village and area levels. You have to look at the power the people 
are exercising in these areas of struggle keeping these limitations in mind. 

[Q:]  Developments  are  taking  place  at  a  rapid  pace  in  both  international  and 
national arena. How do you see the role for your Party in this turmoil? 

Ans:  Our  Party  has  a  great  role  to  play  in  the contemporary  international and  domestic 
situation. Our Congress has analyzed the present political situation and issued calls to the 
Party and the people. It drew up the necessary immediate tactics and tasks to utilize the 
situation and achieve advances and leaps in  the ongoing people’s war in India. The new 
Central Committee had further concretized these in the form of time-bound programmes 
and plans. Several resolutions were adopted by the Congress on the issues confronting the 
people in our country as well as the world. We hope to actively intervene in these issues 
and build a broad based militant political mass movement. 

The next ten to twenty years will witness massive political and social upheavals all over 
the world and our country is going to witness mass upheavals in several states against the 
onslaught of imperialism, anti-people policies of the Indian ruling classes such as carving 
our  neo-colonial  enclaves  called  SEZs,  massive  displacement  of  the  poor  in  both  urban 
and  rural  areas,  against  draconian  laws,  state  repression,  unemployment,  corruption, 
inflation, neglect of social welfare, and so on. Military confrontation between the people 
and  the  state  will  become  a  general  feature  throughout  the  country  and  I  am  sure  our 
Party  will  be  at  the  head  of  these  movements.  It  will  grow  to  the  status  of  providing 
leadership, to the vast majority of the oppressed masses of our country. Imposing ban on 
our  Party  and  the  mass  organizations,  murdering  our  comrades,  unleashing  cruel 
repression  on  the  people,  intimidating  and  harassing  all  those  associated  with  the 
revolutionary movement and all their repressive measures cannot prevent this inevitable 
establishment  of  our  Party’s  leadership  over  the  vast  masses.  The  reactionary  and 
revisionist parties, the Parliamentary system are very much discredited in the eye of the 
people and they cannot but see our party as the only alternative before them to achieve 
their real liberation. 

Q:  And  finally  do  you  feel  it is  a  very crucial  moment  in  history  of  India’s  Maoist 
struggle? If so, why? 

Ans:  I  do  not  know  what  exactly  is  in  your  mind  when  you  placed  the  question.  But  I 
would  say  yes,  for  several  reasons.  When  for  the  first  time  you  see  the  emergence  of  a 
single directing centre for the Indian revolution after the merger of the two major Maoist 
streams  in  the  Indian  communist  movement,  when  you  hold  a  Congress—the  highest 
authority in the Party—after over three and half decades, 37 years to be precise, it indeed 
becomes a crucial moment in the history of India’s Maoist struggle. And it is more than 

that.  Holding  the  Unity  Congress  itself  has  been  the  greatest  challenge  to  our  party  in 
recent times. The reactionary ruling classes, of course with the advice of the imperialists, 
had tried by all means at their disposal to disrupt the Congress. However, with meticulous 
planning by our Central Committee and various leading committees of our Party, with the 
protection  provided  by  the  heroic  fighters  of  our  PLGA,  and  the  ever-vigilant  people’s 
militia  and  revolutionary  masses,  we  could  complete  this  gigantic  democratic  exercise 
that was initiated two years ago. It is a matter of pride that we could give a fitting rebuff 
to the enemy by successfully holding the Congress for over a fortnight. 

It  is  crucial  moment  for  another  reason  too.  Today  the  Maoist  movement  is  facing  the 
great  challenge  of  building  a  strong  PLA  and  establishing  the  base  area  in  the  remote 
countryside  as  an  immediate  task.  The  reactionary  ruling  classes  are  sparing  no  stone 
unturned  to  prevent  the  emergence  of  such  Red  bases  (democratic  government  of  the 
people) in India’s heartland as that would mean the emergence of a real alternative to the 
rotten,  Parliamentary  system  and 
the  criminal,  communal,  fascist,  comprador 
parliamentary  parties.  Hence  we  see  the  massive  deployment  not  only  of  the  central 
forces,  state’s  special  forces  but  also  setting  up  huge  armed  force  from  the  local 
population,  arming  and  training  them,  and  pitting  them  against  the  revolutionary 
movement organizing massacres that remind us of the pogroms of the  Black Hundred in 
pre-revolutionary Russia, and Nazi gangs of fascist Hitler. Such is the scenario enacted in 
Dandakaranya  in  the  name  of  salwa  judum  and  to a lesser extent  in  Bihar-Jharkhand  in 
the  name  of  Sendra.  They  would  not  hesitate  to  send  the  Indian  army  to  create  more 
bloodbaths and, the Maoist movement can advance only by smashing these attacks by the 
enemy forces. That is how we see the present moment as a crucial moment in the history 
of the Maoist struggle in India. 

And the last reason why we should call the present moment a crucial moment is that we, 
the  Maoists,  are confronted  with  the  great  task  of  providing  revolutionary  leadership  to 
over a billion people at a time when the entire country is being transformed into a neo-
colony, when the country is being sold away to the imperialists and the big business is in 
the  name  of  SEZs,  when  workers,  peasants,  employees,  students,  sections  of  the 
intelligentsia,  dalits,  women  adivasis,  nationalities,  religious  minorities  and  others  are 
seething with revolt. 

 

