 

Let’s Defeat the Counter-Revolutionary Massive Military 

Offensive Launched on an Unprecedented Scale on the 
Revolutionary Movement of India by the Ruling Classes 

through Our War of Self-Defence! 

Let us Strive with Great Determination to Fulfill the Tasks 

taken up by the Unity Congress!! 

– Com. Ganapathy, General Secretary, CPI (Maoist) 

"The army and the masses are the basis for our victory" – Mao 

Our party Unity Congress- 9th congress  held in January 2007 had decided upon the immediate tasks to 
be fulfilled by taking into consideration the current political, subjective conditions and the condition of our 
movement.  Those  tasks  were:  developing  the  guerilla  army  into  regular  army,  developing  guerilla  warfare 
into  mobile  warfare  and  establishing  base  areas  in  Dandakaranya  and  Bihar-Jharkhand;  striving  to  build 
guerilla bases by intensifying guerilla warfare in other guerilla zones; striving to build guerilla zones in red 
resistance  areas  by  intensifying  anti-feudal,  anti-imperialist  class  struggles;  extending  to  new  areas  and 
building  red  resistance  areas;  breaking  through  the  setback  in  the  Andhra  Pradesh  movement  (in  the  three 
regions);  working  in  the  urban  areas  with  a  strategic  perspective,  developing  the  mass  base  among  the 
working class, middle class and intelligentsia, turning the urban areas into strong centres for anti-imperialist 
and  anti-state  movements  thus  turning  them  into  strong  support  centres  for  the  agrarian  revolution; 
consolidating  the  various  oppressed  social  communities  and  increasing  their  spirited  participation  in  the 
revolutionary  movement;  uniting  and  forming  tactical  united  fronts  with  various  organizations  and  persons 
who  would  come  together  in  issues  against  imperialist,  feudal,  CBB,  state  and  Hindu  communalism  along 
with striving to build strategic united front in the country by taking the Janathana Sarkars which represent the 
four  democratic  classes  based  on  the  peasant-worker  alliance  under  the  leadership  of  the  proletariat  as  the 
foundation;  striving  to  forge  alliance  with  the  oppressed  nations  of  Kashmir  and  North-East  in  order  to 
achieve  this  strategic  united  front;  uniting  with  the  Maoist  forces  in  various  countries,  revolutionary 
proletariat,  oppressed  nations  and  people  against  imperialism  for  the  advancement  of  the  world  socialist 
revolution and mobilizing their active support for the New Democratic Revolution in India; strengthening the 
party by successfully conducting the rectification campaign to get rid of the alien trends in the party which 
had  become  hurdles  in  achieving  the  tasks  decided  upon  in  the  Unity  Congress;  preventing  the  leadership 
losses in the party; defeating the campaigns of the enemy intended to suppress the revolutionary movement; 
carrying on ideological, political, military and organizational training which  would help in building a strong 
party, army and united front which would guarantee the advancement of the revolution in India; developing a 
revolutionary surge in the country by achieving a new leap in the scale and spread of the Indian revolution by 
fulfilling all the above tasks. 

We  had  even  formulated  the  strategic  plan  to  create  the  conditions  for  the  surge  in  revolution, 
establishment of the base areas and the building of a strong army by mobilizing people militantly on a large 
scale for the people‟s war, fighting the enemy by working  with coordination in the political, organizational 
and military fields to achieve this aim. The Unity Congress and the new Central Committee had formulated 
political,  organizational  and  military  tasks  for  achieving  this  aim.  The  Central  Committee  had  even 
formulated an immediate plan for two years to mobilize actively under its leadership the party committees at 
all  levels,  military  commissions-commands,  revolutionary  democratic  mass  organizations,  revolutionary 
people‟s committees and revolutionary masses into the people‟s war. 

The  reactionary  ruling  classes,  imperialists,  particularly  the  American  imperialists  were  terrified  after 
seeing the formation of our united party, the successful completion of the Unity Congress, the strategic plan, 
tasks  formulated  for  achieving  its  aims,  the  immediate  plan  formulated  for  achieving  these  tasks  and  the 
victories won in the course of people‟s war. They have launched offensive on the revolutionary movement in 
various  forms  in  an  unprecedented  manner  in  order  to  stop  us  from  achieving  the  aims,  from fulfilling  our 
tasks and to prevent us from implementing our immediate and strategic plans in the two years after our Unity 
Congress.  Many  of  our  party  leaders  were  caught  and  murdered,  many  others  were  put  in  jails.  A  Special 
Task Force (STF)  which would carry out  striking and intelligence tasks at the  central level was formed for 

 

1 

 

this sake.  Along  with concentrating  the attack on the main  areas of our movement, they had carried on the 
offensive  all  over  the  country.  They  had  inflicted  severe  losses  to  our  party  and  people‟s  war  through  this 
offensive.  Still  we  had  fought  back  this  offensive  heroically  and  achieved  significant  victories  in  people‟s 
war.  The  ruling  classes  were  further  terrified  after  seeing  the  victories  achieved  in  guerilla  warfare,  the 
historical  people‟s  struggles  of  Nandigram,  Kandamal,  Lalgarh  etc  and  the  development  of  the  new 
democratic power organs.  

In  this  same  period,  the  central  and  state  governments  of  Chhattisgarh,  Jharkhand,  Odisha,  Bengal, 
Andhra, Maharashtra and other states had signed MoUs worth hundreds and thousands of lakhs and crores of 
rupees with multi-national companies and comprador bureaucratic bourgeoisie enterprises for heavy mining, 
heavy industries and massive projects. The ruling classes had signed these MoUs in order to create massive 
threat  to  the  existence  of  the  local  peoples  –  the  adivasis  in  one  of  the  vastest  areas  in  the  contemporary 
world  (from  Lalgarh  to  Surjagarh).  Due  to  this,  social  contradictions  had  sharpened  in  this  area  at  an 
unparalleled  scale.  The  developing  people‟s  war  in  the  country  had  created  the  greatest  hurdle  for  the 
implementation  of  these  MoUs  and  the  signing  of  new  ones.  In  order  to  save  themselves  from  these 
destructive policies taken up by the governments, the aborigines (adivasis) and the local people residing all 
over these areas had the support of the people‟s war. That is why this area had become the main centre for 
the massive military attack now. That is why this had become the main centre for the war of self-defence too. 

Due  to  the  pro-imperialist,  anti-people,  anti-national  economic,  political,  social  and  ecological  policies 
followed by the Indian ruling classes the lives of the people had become further miserable. Due to the severe 
economic  crises  which  had  surrounded  the  country  and  the  world,  the  agony  and  frustration  of  the  people 
burst  forth.  Due  to  all  these  conditions,  the  objective  conditions  for  the  advancement  of  the  Indian  New 
Democratic Revolution had become more favourable and the conditions for the unity and development of the 
revolutionary and democratic forces had become more favourable too.  

The American imperialism had brutally occupied Afghanistan and Iraq after 9/11 as part of its design for 
world  hegemony.  As  part  of  its  strategy  to  surround  China  and  had  made  Indian  expansionists  its  junior 
partner  to  entangle  South  Asia  in  its  eagle  claws.  A  significant  change  had  come  over  in  this  strategic 
partnership with the signing of Indo-US nuclear deal. With this the expansionist hunger of the Indian ruling 
classes grew without bounds and had led to new phenomena in South Asia.  

Showing  the  11/26  Mumbai  incident  as  an  excuse,  the  ruling  classes  had  established  a  new  central 
intelligence  agency  NCTC  (National  Counter-Terrorist  Center)  within  a  short  period  in  the  name  of 
providing security to cities; a special central commando force NSG (National Security Guard) was formed to 
deploy  in  all  metropolitan  and  major  cities;  with  the  same  intention  many  state  governments  had  formed 
similar  state  special  forces  (like  Force  one  etc);  another  central  fascist  law  like  the  TADA  and  POTA  was 
formulated  named  UAPA  (Unlawful  Activities  Preventive  Act);  a  new  coastal  security  machinery  was 
formed; crucial  changes  were made in the internal security system of the country and a special intelligence 
agency  NIA  (National  Investigation  Agency)  was  formed.  Our  party  was  accused  of  being  a  terrorist 
organization and was banned under UAPA. Within a short period after this, they began using the whole anti-
terrorist  machinery  for  the  all-out  war  launched  against  our  party.  These  phenomena  would  help  the 
reactionary  Indian  ruling  classes  in  intensifying  the  offensive  on  the  revolutionary  movement.  The 
phenomena  in  Nepal,  Sri  Lanka,  North-East  and  Kashmir  in  India  have  come  forth  as  unfavourable 
conditions for our movement in various degrees.  

It  was  in  the  background  of  these  phenomena  that  the  Indian  reactionary  ruling  classes  had  formulated 
the  reactionary  plan  with  the  aim  of  completely  destroying  the  Maoist  movement  in  our  country  with  the 
support of the imperialists, particularly the complete support of the US imperialists at the beginning of this 
year. This clearly indicates the  intervention of the US imperialists in  the internal matters  of our country  as 
never before at an unprecedented scale. This would intensify the contradiction between imperialism and the 
Indian people. It would give rise to anti-imperialist struggle. 

This  offensive  is  the  most  reactionary,  cruel,  multi-faceted,  country-wide  and  protracted  attack  on  us. 
This  would  be  carried  out  by  concentrating  on  the  three  strong  strategic  areas  (the  three  tri-junction  areas) 
and  would  be  a  determining  one.  This  follows  the  policy  of  „clear,  hold  and  build‟/  „flush  out,  control  and 
build‟/  „first  carry  out  police  action  to  flush  out  naxals  and  then  follow  up  it  with  development  measures‟. 
This  reactionary  policy  is  aimed  against  the  strategic,  immediate  plans  formulated  by  our  Unity  Congress 
and the aims we wished to reach through their implementation.  

The  strategy  and  tactics  chosen  by  the  Indian  ruling  classes  to  implement  their  plan  are  aimed  at 
completely  opposing  the  political,  organizational  and  military  lines  implemented  by  our  party,  especially 

 

2 

 

more  to  face  the  strategy  and  tactics  of  the  protracted  people‟s  war.  The  imperialists,  particularly  the  US 
imperialists  had  formulated  the  most  reactionary  “Low  Intensity  Conflict”  policy  to  face  the  communist 
revolutions and the national liberation movements which erupted all  over the world after the Second World 
War. The Indian ruling classes are taking up the same strategy and tactics in our country now.  

With the  evil intention of destroying the Maoist party which  is opposing the US imperialism‟s  strategy 
for  world  hegemony,  brutal  occupation  and  its  threats  and  is  becoming  a  severe  hurdle  to  its  political, 
economic and cultural  exploitation, oppression and intervention particularly in India and South Asia, it had 
resorted to this offensive on an unprecedented scale. The role of US imperialists in helping to formulate the 
plan  for  the  massive  military  offensive,  to  make  preparations  and  to  supervise  the  implementation  of  the 
offensive had reached a scale as never before. Even the role of the Indian CBB which has tied itself tightly to 
the  imperialists  in  suppressing  the  Maoist  movement  had  also  reached  an  unprecedented  scale.  As  the 
interests  of  the  Indian  expansionists  are  getting  more  and  more  entwined  with  those  of  the  imperialist 
interests in South Asia, the contradiction  with the  countries and peoples in this region is increasing. As the 
interests  of  the  Indian  rulers  get  more  and  more  entwined  with  those  of  the  imperialists,  they  are  coming 
closer  together  in  suppressing  the  Maoist  movement.  The  longer  and  the  severer  this  offensive  gets,  the 
intervention  of  the  imperialists  in  the  internal  matters  and  defence  policies  of  India  would  increase  in 
proportion  too.  This  intervention  would  intensify  the  fundamental  contradiction  between  the  Indian  people 
and  the  imperialists  and  would  create  conditions  which  would  intensify  and  widen  the  anti-imperialist 
movements. It would create conditions which would sharpen our war of self-defence against imperialism. 

The Indian ruling classes cannot keep Kashmir and North-East states under their control even for one day 
without deploying lakhs of military and para-military forces and this condition is continuing since decades. 
Still people are fighting for their self-determination not only with arms but in various other forms. Though it 
is clearly seen that army, para-military and oppressive black laws cannot permanently suppress the fighting 
people, the Indian bureaucratic rulers are strategically bringing in the army with the alibi of establishing their 
so-called  democratic  system  by  foolishly  suppressing  the  Maoist  movement.  Except  for  three  years  when 
army was deployed to suppress the glorious Telangana armed agrarian revolution resulting in blood bath and 
the short period when army was deployed in some areas during the upsurge of Naxalbari which spread like 
prairie  fire  all  over  the  country,  the  army  had  never  played  this  kind  of  a  role  in  the  matter  of  internal 
security of the country. 

The Indian army had already formed a „nodal cell‟ four years back to face the Maoist movement. Since 
then it is studying our movement and giving suggestions and proposals to the military-police forces and the 
central and state governments. The home ministry had formulated the strategic plan for this massive fascist 
military  offensive  under  the  supervision  of  the  army.  It  is  the  army  which  is  giving  special  training  to  the 
para-military  and  the  state  police  forces.  The  role  of  the  army  is  crucial  in  transforming  these  forces  into 
modern  forces  by  strengthening  them  with  the  most  sophisticated  weaponry,  war  material  and 
communication-transport  facilities.  The  role  of  the  army  is  crucial  in  establishing  special  intelligence 
departments  of  centre  and  states  and  in  their  training  and  coordination.  We  cannot  imagine  the  present 
massive  military  offensive  plan,  the  plans  for  counter-insurgency  operations,  coordination,  necessary 
equipment and technology without the active role of the Indian defence department. Not just that, the Indian 
army  had  declared  a  „New  military  policy‟  to  face  the  protracted  internal  revolutionary  and  national 
liberation movements, to continue war with neighbouring countries depending on modern technology and to 
carry  on  both  these  wars  with  coordination.  This  policy  had  been  formulated  in  close  association  with  the 
global  war  against  terrorism  carried  on  world  wide  by  the  US.  That  is  why,  the  Indian  army  brigade 
headquarter  and  a  special  training  school  for  training  and  building  special  military  forces  are  being 
established  in  Bilaspur  in  Chhattisgarh  in  order  to  deploy  them  in  Maoist  areas.  The  Indian  army  is  trying 
hard to establish on war footing many special training schools for training special forces,  para-military and 
police  in  Chhattisgarh,  Jharkhand  and  Odisha  states.  Along  with  helicopters  of  the  Indian  Air  Force,  the 
special  forces  of  the  Indian  Air  Force  (Garuda)  are  also  being  deployed  to  play  a  crucial  role  in  counter-
insurgency  operations.  The  Air  Force  is  constructing  a  base  camp  in  an  area  of  two  and  half  thousands  of 
acres  in  Mahasamund  district  of  Chhattisgarh.  The  Central  and  Eastern  commands  of  the  Indian  army  are 
already helping the  state police departments in all manners.  If the para-military, CoBRA and special police 
forces face serious resistance from the Maoists, the Rashtriya Rifle forces in Kashmir have been kept ready 
in order to be deployed any time. In order to conduct the present all-out war effectively under the leadership 
of central government, they are planning to form an intervention unit. Through this, the centre would get the 
power  to  take  decisions  directly  and  implement  them  in  any  state  without  any  permission  of  the  state 
governments.  With  this,  the  central  government  would  get  the  fascist  authority  to  conduct  the  counter-

 

3 

 

insurgency operations or the anti-Maoist war. What all this indicates is that, Indian rulers are deploying lakhs 
of  military  and  para-military  forces  to  face  the  Maoist  insurgency  on  a  long  term  basis  and  are  getting 
bogged down in the quagmire of civil war.  

The fascist rulers had brought forth the inevitable situation where the oppressed people, the Maoist party 
which  leads  them,  the  people‟s  army  under  it  have  to  prepare  themselves  to  face  and  defeat  the  Indian 
military and the para-military-police special forces trained by the Indian army. This prairie fire of civil war 
could not be put out until it destroys the Indian mercenary army and its rulers. This is because the problem of 
deploying  lakhs  of  police,  para-military  and  military  forces  will  not  be  confined  to  the  military  field.  It 
cannot but extend to the political, economic, social, cultural, judicial, ecological and diplomatic fields. The 
fakeness  of  the  parliamentary  system  and  its  fascist  character  are  bound  to  be  exposed  even  more.  As  the 
deployment  of  para-military  and  military  forces  increases,  the  authority  of  the  centre  on  the  matters  of  the 
state  would  increase  and  this  would  increase  the  contradiction  in  the  relations  between  the  centre  and  the 
states. The consequences would inevitably help their destruction. 

The  crucial  aspect  in  the  civil  war  unleashed  on  the  people  of  this  country  by  the  reactionary  ruling 
classes is the military aspect. They had openly declared a „clear and hold‟ policy for this civil war. The war 
preparations  are  being  made  not  only  keeping  the  level  of  the  Maoist  guerilla  warfare  in  view  but  also  by 
taking  into  consideration  its  scope  for development  in  the  future.  Already  in  the  states  of  Andhra  Pradesh, 
Maharashtra,  Chhattisgarh,  Odisha,  Jharkhand,  Bengal,  Bihar,  Uttar  Pradesh  and  Madhya  Pradesh  state 
governments  had  deployed  two  and  half  to  three  lakh  police  forces  in  the  name  of  suppressing  the  Maoist 
movement.  These  governments  had  deployed  more  than  a  lakh  of  para-police  forces  (SPO,  Home  guard, 
Nagar Suraksha Sainik, Gopaniya Sainik etc). Not just that, the central and state governments are increasing 
the numbers of para-military and police forces on a large scale. The formation of special forces is going on in 
an  unprecedented  scale.  All  these  massive  troop  deployments  are  for  carrying  on  counter-insurgency 
operations.  They  are  carrying  on  counter-insurgency  operations  in  order  to  continue  their  „clear  and  hold‟ 
plan. As part of creating carpet security system for the sake of this, big, big base camps are being established 
and operations are being carried out in military style. Our movement area was divided into sectors and sub-
sectors keeping in view their force deployments and operations. They had strengthened the defence systems 
of their camps in order to make them attack-proof. Their operations mean nothing but „mopping up‟. Already 
in  Dantewada  and  Bijapur  districts,  people  completely  understand  the  real  face  of  the  counter-guerilla 
operations  being  conducted  by  the  CoBRA,  CRPF,  STF,  Koya  Commando,  Andhra  Greyhounds  and  other 
forces in the name of „Operation Green Hunt‟. People had already seen the  formation of „strategic hamlets‟ 
and the destructive, counter-revolutionary military offensive in the name of „Salwa Judum‟. The government 
had declared that the plan of strategic hamlets would soon be implemented in the remote adivasi areas in the 
country including Dandakaranya as part of the present massive military offensive. 

The  central  and  state  governments  are  expanding  and  strengthening  the  secret  intel  and  counter-intel 
network  in  an  unprecedented  manner  from  top  to  bottom  in  order  to  eliminate  the  Maoist  forces  in  all  the 
fields  all  over  the  country,  to  stop  the  extension  of  Maoist  movement,  to  effectively  continue  counter-
insurgency  operations  and  to  murder  our  leadership.  They  are  forming  newer  agencies.  This  network  has 
reached  extraordinary  levels.  These  agencies  are  also  organizing  coverts,  killer  gangs  and  counter-
revolutionary  organizations  and  carrying  on  subversive  activities.  They  are  killing  our  mass  leaders  and 
activists and carrying on other such reactionary activities.  

The fascist central and state governments are building many, many types of forces in lakhs (both legally 
and  illegally)  to  make  this  society  more  criminal  and  violent.  They  are  arming  the  society  for  their  selfish 
interests. At present, the revolution is facing  counter-revolution. The ruling classes had themselves brought 
forth the inevitable situation where people have to be inevitably armed collectively and extensively in large 
numbers  so  that  the  people‟s  revolution  can  oppose  the  counter-revolution  and  suppress  it.  That  is  why 
people have taken up the task of becoming an armed ocean named people‟s militia. That is why the task of 
people  developing  into  special  forces  of  PLGA  to  defeat  the  reactionary  government‟s  special  forces  has 
come forth as the historical inevitability of the people‟s war.  It has been proven  again and again in  history 
that the mercenary troops armed for the sake of exploitative rulers have to bite dust, how much larger their 
numbers  may  be  and  how  many  ever  modern  weapons  and  war  material  they  may  possess,  if  only  the 
oppressed people arm themselves for their own sake and the country‟s sake. 

The central and state ruling classes are integrating together the civil, administrative and military systems 
in an unprecedented manner to suppress the Maoist rebellion. They are trying to achieve unprecedented level 
of coordination between central and state governments and between various forces and machinery. They are 

 

4 

 

collecting  all  the  personal,  family  and  community-wise  details  of  people  residing  in  movement  areas. 
Though  integrating  together  the  civil,  administrative  and  military  machinery  would  help  the  ruling  classes 
temporarily, it would lead to the military, police and para-military authority over the people, all mass fronts 
and government machinery. Due to this, corruption and malpractices would increase to a higher degree. The 
state  system  would  have  to  control  the  political  and  social  life  of  the  people  tyrannically.  The  central  and 
state  forces  would  have  to  bring  a  big  offensive  on  the  people.  This  fascist  policy  would  intensify  the 
contradictions  between  the  various  government  branches,  between  various  government  forces  and  between 
various  governments.  It  is  exactly  this  condition  which  would  encourage  the  people  to  destroy  this  most 
tyrannical,  corrupt,  horrible  and  rotten  system,  turning  all  the  calculations  of  the  reactionary  Indian  rulers 
and imperialists upside down. This situation would lead to the fall of the clay-feet monster. 

If the classes which have different interests and who fight for the downfall of one another and the parties 
which represent them want to win, it is necessary for them to keep their camp united, divide the enemy camp 
by spreading confusion and isolating it. Before the actual war (armed war) starts, as a preparation for it and 
while war is going on to carry it on effectively and win, to completely wipe out the enemy camp, to prevent 
another war after the wounds have healed, a war is carried on in the ideological field, in the mental sphere. 
This  is  known  as  psychological  warfare.  The  imperialists  and  the  reactionary  rulers  are  dealing  with 
psychological  war  in  their  LIC  war  policy  as  a  strategic  aspect.  The  importance  given  to  it  changes 
depending on the intensity of the war situation or the intensity of the war. 

In the Maoist movement areas, one lakh para-military forces have been deployed along with the lakhs of 
state  forces  already  present.  As  their  numbers  increase  Manmohan,  Chidambaram,  Sonia,  Pillai,  Raman 
Singh,  Viswaranjan,  Langkumer,  Mahendra  Karma,  Buddhadev,  Chavan,  Patnaik,  their  mercenary 
intellectuals,  mercenary  media,  mercenary  killer  gangs  and  reactionary  organizations  have  taken  up  false 
propaganda campaign on an unprecedented scale on Maoist party, PLGA and the revolutionary movement. 
As part of the psychological  warfare, they have increased their pitch that Maoists don‟t heed law, advocate 
violence  and  are  against  development.  There  is  not  one  accusation  left  which  these  heirs  of  Goebbels  and 
protectors of this rotten system have not directed against the Maoists and Maoist party. They are shamelessly 
declaring  openly  that  they  would  kill  Maoists  and  chase  them  away  and  restore  the  rotten,  corrupt, 
exploitative, oppressive, tyrannical, reactionary, anti-national rule which perpetuates atrocities on the people. 
On the other hand, these peace doves are singing ahimsa hymns that the Maoists should leave their weapons, 
abjure  violence  and  come  to  talks  with  the  government.  As  the  counter-insurgency  operations  are  getting 
intensified, the  importance of psychological  warfare  has  reached an unprecedented scale.  To fight back the 
reactionary  psychological  warfare,  we  have  to  carry  on  revolutionary  psychological  warfare  in  the 
revolutionary movement areas, all over the country and abroad too at an unprecedented scale. In order to win 
the real war, it is necessary to fight effectively the psychological warfare.  

The  reactionary  rulers  keep  the  state  and  all  paraphernalia  in  their  grip  and  carry  on  false  propaganda 
along with white terror which is completely against the interests of the country and the majority people. That 
is why, it leads to their isolation from the people and accelerates their defeat. As revolutionary propaganda is 
real, as it represents the interests of the vast masses and the people of the country, it has the guaranteed basis 
for their victory and the defeat of the enemy. When the enemy implements LIC policy, we should realize the 
strategic  importance  of  psychological  warfare  and  fight  back  effectively  the  enemy  psychological  warfare 
through  war  and  non-war  methods,  in  our  country  and  abroad,  among  people  and  among  the  mercenary 
forces and enemy camp. 

The enemy had already declared many times openly about the aim of the offensive, the LIC policy to be 
followed to achieve  this aim, the formulated  strategic plan and the strategy and tactics that would be taken 
up.  Our  party  will  have  to  oppose  all  these  as  a  counter  measure.  The  enemy  had  modified  all  these  from 
time to time keeping in view the present concrete war conditions in order to face and defeat us. It would be 
necessary for us to keep in view the enemy and the present concrete war conditions and make the necessary 
modifications and enrich all these from time to time. 

We  must  carry  on  war  of  self-defence  to  defend  ourselves  from  the  multifaceted,  massive  military 
offensive carried out by the enemy on an unprecedented scale all over the country. Our war of self-defence is 
multi-faceted. This would face the enemy in all the spheres. The aim of our war of self-defence is to defeat 
the  „clear  and  hold‟  offensive  policy  of  the  enemy  which  was  launched  with  the  aim  of  restoring  their 
reactionary old system and rule by killing and chasing us away and to achieve the aims decided upon by the 
Unity  Congress.  All  the  party  committees,  military  commissions-commands  and  people‟s  organizations 

 

5 

 

should  make  all  preparations  necessary  to  develop  the  war  of  self-defence  by  fighting  back  the  enemy 
offensive. 

We  should  give  importance  to  active  war  of  self-defence  to  win  victory  by  fighting  back  the  massive 
military offensive of the enemy. There is no place for surrender and running away in our war of self-defence, 
similarly there is no place for do or die tactics too. Our tactics would have to be taken up basically according 
to  the  uneven  development  of  the  movement  in  various  areas  along  with  considering  the  concrete  political 
conditions.  Keeping  in  view  our  present  concrete  condition  in  the  stage  of  strategic  defence,  we  should 
mainly carry on guerilla warfare. We should strive hard to develop guerilla warfare into mobile warfare. 

Strategically  our  war  is  a  protracted  one.  Battles  should  be  conducted  in  order  to  yield  quick  results. 
Meaning, the military actions should be held in such a  way that  they  give immediate results and should be 
completed  in  shorter  time. We  have  to  become  adept  in  concentrating  and  dispersing  our  forces. We  must 
give importance to military actions which would annihilate the enemy and seize armaments from the enemy 
forces. The enemy would try to confine our forces to a limited area and try to destroy us.  Not just that, the 
enemy would divide our strong areas into smaller areas through base camps and endless counter-insurgency 
operations  and  would  try  to  destroy  our  guerilla  forces.  So,  our  forces  should  strive  to  fight  in  a  vast  area. 
Thus we would be able to effectively face the „cordon-search and crush‟ operations  which the enemy takes 
up to search, surround and annihilate us. We should extend our activities to vaster territory so that we would 
be able to surround the enemy and attack them. Along with self-defensive and counter-offensive war actions, 
we  should  strive  hard  to  involve  oppressed  people  actively  in  the  whole  war  of  self-defence.  We  should 
utilize our mass base and the new people‟s power completely and strengthen and extend people‟s militia and 
guerilla forces. Keeping in view the present level of the war,  we should strive hard to increase the fighting 
level of these forces. We must  give special importance to fulfilling the task of consolidating and extending 
the Janathana Circars. It should be done according to the results we achieve in the war front, i.e. in waves or 
slowly. The new political power would be the guarantee to achieve victories in war. 

As the Indian ruling classes are following anti-people, anti-national, pro-imperialist, expansionist policies 
and  are  waging  war  on  people  in  the  name  of  suppressing  the  revolutionary  movement,  all  the  social 
contradictions inside India are intensifying. Due to this, great opportunities are coming forth for the Maoist 
revolutionary  forces,  progressive  democratic  forces,  patriotic  forces,  nationality  liberation  forces,  vast 
adivasi,  dalit,  women,  religious  minorities  and  other  socially  oppressed  communities  and  people  who  are 
victims of the Indian expansionist designs to unite and carry on vast, militant resistance. Though the enemy 
is  carrying  on  the  offensive  without  scruples  in  the  most  tyrannical,  fascist  manner,  in  this  great 
revolutionary  situation,  it  is  very  much  necessary  for  the  party  to  stand  in  the  forefront  and  strive  hard  to 
mobilize  people  militantly  on  a  vast  scale  into  various  struggles  and  to  mobilize  them  into  various 
organizations,  particularly  into  united  front  forums.  By  working  hard  in  this  field  with  determination,  the 
conditions  for  building  a  vast  united  front  in  the  country  with  the  Maoist  movement  at  the  centre  would 
mature. These favourable conditions would serve as the foundation for our victory in the war of self-defence. 

The  victories  or  defeats  we  face  in  this  war  of  self-defence  which  is  being  carried  on  to  fight  back  the 
unjust war unleashed by the enemy on the people would have a long standing effect on the Indian revolution. 
So  we  should  definitely  be  victorious  in  this  war  of  self-defence.  We  should  deal  properly  with  some 
important matters in order to defeat the cruel war unleashed by enemy and achieve the aims decided upon by 
the  Unity  Congress.  Those  are:  the  enemy  is  carrying  on  a  massive  military  offensive.  But  it  is  a  multi-
faceted one. We are carrying on a war of self-defence. Military efforts and guerilla warfare have the greatest 
significance  in  this.  This  is  the  crucial  thing  and  the  main  thing.  But  our  war  of  self-defence  should  be 
carried  on  in  many  spheres.  The  effective  carrying  on  of  the  war  of  self-defence  in  multiple  spheres  is 
political and strategic. We should not only carry on the war of self-defence efficiently but also increase our 
subjective forces in leaps and bounds. This would depend on how much we can defend our subjective forces 
and the movement and on how many new forces we would be able to mobilize. The most important political 
task  before  us  is  to  stop  the  intervention  and  the  grip  of  the  Indian  CBB  firms  and  the  MNCs  in  the  vast 
adivasi  majority  tracts  from  Lalgarh  to  Surjagarh.  This  task  would  be  fulfilled  according  to  how  much  we 
can mobilize the adivasi and local people against these companies and on how much the PLGA could stand 
in support of the local people as  a defender.  The counter-revolutionary  warfare of the  enemy would not be 
confined  to  the  Maoists  alone.  This  is  a  fascist  offensive  carried  out  on  the  vast  majority  of  the  people. 
Fighting back this offensive would depend on how far the vast masses would fight for their democratic-civil 
rights,  on  how  much  unity  they  would  achieve  with  the  various  democratic,  civil  rights  organizations  and 
with organizations working on various issues and on how much we could utilize the contradictions between 
the  enemies.  This  unjust  offensive  of  the  central  and  state  governments  has  the  full  support  of  the 

 

6 

 

imperialists.  The  self-confidence  of  the  people  would  increase  depending  on  how  much  support  we  could 
mobilize  for  our  just  war  of  self-defence  from  the  vast  masses  of  our  country  and  from  the  people  of  the 
world. This would encourage them to win victory. The war carried on by the enemy is the most cruel, violent 
war  and would bring untold misery and destruction to millions of people. But it would unleash the pent up 
anger of the vast masses of the people in an unprecedented manner and would make them fight to the end. 
Not just that, this war would give the fighting people the sympathy and help of the conscious people in our 
country and abroad. That is why it is very essential for the party to stand firmly as the mobilizing centre of 
the  Maoist  revolutionary  forces,  patriots,  oppressed  social  sections,  national  liberation  struggles  and  anti-
expansionist  forces.  If  we  can  do  this  effectively,  this  unjust  war  would  be  defeated  and  the  war  of  self-
defence would win. The conditions would change significantly so that a strong party, people‟s army, united 
front, base areas and a vast movement area would be able to come into existence. 

The meaning of the cruel war unleashed by the enemy is nothing but untold misery. The enemy offensive 
is the most cruel and brutal attack. In this situation one thing we should keep in mind is that our aim is lofty. 
But  we  do  not  have  any  shortcuts  to  achieve  it.  We  have  to  go  ahead  along  the  zigzag  path.  We  should 
concentrate on fighting back the enemy‟s attacking plans, enemy strategy and tactics by constantly planning 
counter-attacks with counter-plans, strategies and tactics. The army and people are the determining factors in 
a  people‟s  war.  Only  when  we  have  enough  military  strength  and  the  people  play  an  active  role,  can  we 
achieve  any  victory  in  people‟s  war.  We  can  achieve  victory  by  defeating  the  enemy  in  our  war  of  self-
defence by giving effective leadership to the people‟s army and the people and by following proper policies 
and tactics. Thus we can take people‟s war to a new and higher stage.  

People and people alone are the greatest fighting force for conducting the war! 

People and people alone are the real heroes! 

People and people alone are the makers of history! 

Imperialists and all kinds of reactionary forces are nothing but paper tigers in the long run! 

Final victory belongs to the people!! 

 

Date: 26-12-2009 

 

*** 

 

7 

