COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

Central Committee 

 

Press Release 

As the General Secretary of CPI (Maoist) Comrade Ganapathy has voluntarily 

withdrawn from his responsibilities, the Central Committee has elected Comrade 

Basavaraju as the new General Secretary 

10 November 2018 
 

 

In  view  of  his  growing  ill-health  and  advancing  age  in  the  past  few  years  and  with  the  aim  of 
strengthening the Central  Committee and  with a vision of the future, Comrade Ganapathy voluntarily 
withdrew from the responsibilities of General Secretary and placed a proposal to elect another comrade 
as General Secretary in his place, following which the 5th meeting of the Central Committee thoroughly 
discussed his proposal and after accepting it, elected Comrade Basavaraju (Namballa Kesava Rao) as the 
new General Secretary. 

Comrade  Ganapathy  was  elected  as  the  General  Secretary  of  the  CPI(ML)(People’s  War)  in  June 
1992. That was a very difficult time for the Party. By 1991, the Andhra Pradesh government started the 
second phase of repression on the Party. The Party was facing several challenges at that time regarding 
the tactics to be adopted to advance the armed struggle. The then secretary of the Central Committee, 
Kondapalli Seetharamaiah, was not in a position to overcome those challenges that the Party was facing 
by leading his committee. In such conditions, instead of overcoming those challenges by basing on all 
the  Party  cadres  and  the  people,  Kondapalli  Seetharamaiah  and  another  member  of  the  Central 
Committee followed conspiratorial methods and became the cause of internal crisis in the Party. Except 
a few opportunists, the whole Party stood united in the principled fight against this opportunist clique 
which made attempts to split the Party. On that occasion, the methods that the young leadership in the 
Central  Committee  adopted  to  face  the  internal  crisis  helped  like  a  good  education  campaign  for  the 
whole Party and rectified the Party’s style of functioning. The ideological and political level of the whole 
Party  was  developed.  Mainly,  collective  leadership  and  collective  team-functioning  in  the  Central 
Committee  was  developed.  Comrade  Ganapathy  stood  at the  forefront and  played  a  vital  role  in  this 
effort of the revolutionary leadership in the Central Committee. In that process, the entire Party stood 
together, defeated the conspirators and prepared itself to face the challenges before it by adhering to 
democratic  centralism.  In  such  conditions,  the  Central  Committee  that  developed  as  a  collective 
leadership elected Comrade Ganapathy as the new General Secretary.  

In  1995,  we  held  the  All  India  Special  Conference  and  enriched  the  Party  line.  That  Conference 
elected  a  new  Central  Committee.  The  newly  elected  Central  Committee  again  elected  Comrade 
Ganapathy  as  the  General  Secretary.  In  August  1998,  the  CPI(ML)(People’s  War)  and  CPI(ML)(Party 
Unity) merged and CPI(ML) [People’s War] was formed. With that development, the Party expanded to 
many states and gained a more all-India character. The new Central Committee formed on that occasion 
too  elected  Comrade  Ganapathy  as  the  General  Secretary.  By  2  December  2000,  we  developed  the 
military  line  and  built  the  People’s  Liberation  Guerrilla  Army.  The  Ninth  Congress  of  the  erstwhile 
CPI(ML)[People’s War] held in 2001 further enriched the political, military and organisational line of the 
Party. As a part of applying the strategy of Protracted People’s War to the concrete conditions of India, 
that Congress made new innovations like building Guerrilla Bases. The Party emphasised on building the 
People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army and also on the relation between the People’s War and State Power 
under  the  leadership  of  the  Central  Military Commission.  The  newly  formed  Central  Committee  once 
again elected Comrade Ganapathy as the General Secretary. 

On 21 September 2004, CPI(ML)[People’s War] and Maoist Communist Centre of India merged and 
CPI(Maoist) emerged. With this merger based on an enriched  ideological and political line, the Indian 

revolutionary movement achieved a great leap. This development is a milestone in the history of Indian 
revolutionary  movement.  This  development  further  strengthened  as  well  as  expanded  the  Party.  The 
guerrilla  armies  of the  two  parties were  merged  and  it took  the  form of  a  strong  People’s  Liberation 
Guerrilla  Army  (PLGA). By  2004  itself,  many  revolutionary  groups  and  individuals  that  were  like  small 
streams in the country merged into the MCCI and CPI(ML)[People’s War] that were by that time the two 
main revolutionary streams. These two main streams merged as the CPI(Maoist) and transformed into a 
great  stream.  Leaders  of  Naxalbari  generation  with  vast  experience  who  served  many  vital 
responsibilities were also there in the Party formed in this way. The Central Committee of a Party with 
such leaders and cadres elected Comrade Ganapathy as the General Secretary. The Unity Congress-9th 
Congress held in 2007 too unanimously elected him as the General Secretary. After the Unity Congress-
9th Congress, the movement developed to newer heights in the leadership of the Central Committee. In 
this process of development, we can say that the unification process of the revolutionary Parties of India 
was almost completed with the merger of CPI(ML)(Naxalbari) and CPI(Maoist) at the end of 2013. 

In  the  period  of  25  years  from  1992  to  2017  during  which  Comrade  Ganapathy  performed  his 
responsibilities as the General Secretary, the movement under the central leadership faced many ebb 
and flows and  advanced. The Party was tempered in the intense class struggle. It provided a staunch 
proletarian leadership to the revolutionary ranks and the revolutionary people to defeat the counter-
revolutionary  attack  of  the  enemy.  In  this  process,  Comrade  Ganapathy  withdrew  from  the 
responsibilities of General Secretary in view of his growing ill-health and age and got prepared to devote 
his whole strength and capabilities as before with a view to further strengthen the Central Committee 
and the entire Party. Due to this, the Central Committee elected Comrade Basavaraju (Namballa Kesava 
Rao) as the General Secretary. Comrade Basavaraju has been in the forefront of the Party for more than 
three and a half decades and successfully provided leadership as the secretary of various committees, as 
a member of the Central Committee for the past 27 years and as a member of the Politburo for the past 
18 years. Mainly, he was the in-charge of the Central Military Commission and played a vital role in the 
advancement of the People’s War. To say more specifically, he developed as the General Secretary from 
being one of the main comrades of the Central Committee that developed as the collective leadership 
after 1992. 

These changes that have been made in the Central Committee of the Party are part of the process of 
development  of  the  entire  Party.  These  changes  will  further  strengthen  the  Central  Committee.  The 
Central Committee assures the entire rank and file of our Party and the revolutionary masses that it will 
be absolutely firm and inflexible in implementing the organizational principle of the Party – democratic 
centralism  –  and  the  principle  of    self-criticism-criticism,  provide  collective  central  leadership  to  the 
entire  rank  and  file  of  the  Party  and  the  revolutionary  people,  defeat  the  ongoing  fascist  strategic 
counter-revolutionary offensive of the enemy in the name of ‘SAMADHAN’ based on mass line and class 
line, mobilise the people in the people’s war and lead the New Democratic Revolution in the country to 
success as the vanguard of the proletariat. 

 
 
 
 

Abhay 
Spokesperson 
Central Committee 

