 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

 

Press Release: November 17, 2008 

 
 

The ever-deepening crisis in the global economy points 

once again to the urgent need to overthrow the rapacious 

capitalist system and usher in socialism! 

 
 
 
The entire world is caught in the worst-ever economic crisis ever since the Great Depression of 1930. 
Starting with the US the crisis has extended to entire Europe, Japan, China, South East Asia, India and the 
entire world. Stock markets have been crashing without any let up leading to billions of dollars of losses. 
Biggest  banks,  insurance  companies  and  other  financial  institutions  have  gone  bankrupt  in  the  US.  By 
November  14,  Germany,  and  on  the  next  day,  15-member  Euro  Zone  for  the  first  time  in  its  nine-year 
history,  officially  declared  that  they  had  entered  into  recession.  Stories  of  bankruptcies,  job  losses, 
inflation, credit crunch, drastic decline in purchasing power of the mass of people bring into one’s mind 
horrifying  memories  of  the  Great  Depression.  The  mammoth  automobile  industry  in  the  US  that 
contributes almost a tenth of its revenues, has gone bust leading to unprecedented job losses. 
 
The monopoly capitalist class has been desperately trying to bail itself out of the crisis by resorting to 
 
massive  bail-out  packages  at  the  cost  of  the  poor  taxpayers.  $700  bln  was  announced  by  the  Bush 
administration,  then  another  $250  bln  was  announced  to  buy  the  capital  of  the  banks.  Germany,  Italy, 
France, Spain and other countries of Europe have announced several billion dollars of bail-out packages 
for  their  monopoly  corporations  and  financial  institutions.  China  released  $590 bln  stimulus  package  to 
check the downward slide in public consumption and closures of industries. In India, desperate moves are 
being made such as cutting down interest rates, decreasing the CRR and increasing liquidity to stimulate 
the economy. 
 
 
The  top  20  countries,  G-20,  met  in  Washington  on  November  15/16  in  a  desperate  bid  to  find  a 
solution  to  the  crisis  afflicting  the  world  economy  and  to  avoid  the  wave  of  protectionism  that  had 
characterised the period of the Great Depression. There is talk of reforming the Bretton Woods system of 
1944 and replace the IMF and World bank with new institutions to reflect the new world situation and to 
accommodate  the  interests  of  the  G-20  countries.  A  consensus  is  sought  to  be  achieved—an  impossible 
dream in the capitalist-imperialist system which is characterised by a mad race for super-profits by every 
monopoly capitalist. 
 
  While billions of working people world-wide are reeling under the burden of rising prices, job losses, 
hunger  and  starvation,  a  tiny  upper  crust  of  the  corporations,  financial  institutions  and  the  super-rich  is 
receiving bonuses and massive salary hikes. 
 
 
The  reasons  for  the  present  crisis  are  capitalist  greed  and  blind  drive  of  the  market-place  where  no 
one  knows  what  would  be  the  outcome  of  the  mad  rush  for  profits.  There  is  total  anarchy  as  each 
capitalist  tries  to  increase  the  profits  through  such  heinous  means  as  speculation,  trading  in  derivatives, 
sub-prime lending, and so on. And one of the main reasons for the crisis in the US economy that had led 
to the  world crisis in the first place is  the wars of aggression it had unleashed against  Iraq, Afghanistan 
and  its  huge  outlays  on  defence.  But  one  can  certainly  say  that  the  world  that  would  emerge  from  the 

Barack Obama’s victory itself is a result of the deep economic crisis in US economy. Any other 

current  economic  and political crisis  will be  characterised by greater concentration  and  centralisation of 
capital  in  the  hands  of  a  few  monopoly  capitalists,  more  intense  competition  and  an  intensification  of 
inter-imperialist  contradictions,  greater  militarisation  and  war-mongering,  even  more  blatant  wars  of 
aggression and oppression of nations and people of the world. 
 
 
Tom, Dick and Harry would have come out  victorious in the US Presidential  election if he/she opposed 
the policies of George Bush. 
 
  No summits of big powers, no bail-out packages, no reform of the Bretton Woods system, can find a 
way out of the current gravest crisis in the world economy. The crisis will only get worse and the coming 
days will lead to more intensified contradictions among the various economic powers in the world as well 
as  fierce  struggles  of  the  people  world-wide  against  the  capitalist  class,  unjust  imperialist  wars, 
unemployment, inflation, cuts in social welfare spending, and global food shortages. 
 
 
The  reactionaries  all  over  the  world  are  once  again  seeing  the  spectre  of  a  world-wide  wave  of 
revolutionary struggles and prospects of socialism, and are striving desperately to refurbish the capitalist-
imperialist system through various measures such as state regulation, increase in public spending and are 
also waging an ideological offensive against socialism. Hundreds of thousands of people are going back 
to Marx’s theory to find a solution for the crisis. It is the ripe time for the revolutionaries world-wide to 
seize the opportunity, utilise the excellent global crisis to deliver death-blows to the capitalist system and 
work determinedly to establish socialism. 
 
 
 
  Capitalism  means  crisis,  hunger,  starvation,  unemployment,  disease  and  death  to  the  vast 
majority  on  the  one  hand  and  a  feast  to  a  handful  of  vultures!  There  is  an  alternative  to 
capitalism—let us strive to establish socialism!! 
 
 
(signed) 
Azad, 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI(Maoist) 
 
 
 

Let us declare once again: 

[From: CPI(Maoist) Information Bulletin, #6, Nov. 5, 2008.] 

 

