Hail the essence of the universal truth inherent in the Russian Revolution on the 

occasion of the centenary of the Great Russian Socialist Revolution! 

Implement it in practice to the specificity of our country! 

Message 

 

Central Committee 

CPI(Maoist) 

September 21, 2017 

 
1917 November 7th is the day of the success of Russian Revolution. It is a day on which the worker-
peasant and other toiling masses over the world express their happiness and enthusiasm and celebrate 
as a step forward in the direction of achieving liberation from class exploitation and oppression and take 
a pledge. To put it more clearly they see Russian revolution as a success that stands like a milestone in 
the path of liberation from the boundless exploitation and severe oppression of Capitalism. It is a well-
known fact that since classes were formed in the society and class struggle ensued, there were slave 
rebellions against the slave owners and bourgeois revolutions against landlords in the feudal society. 
However though the slave rebellions, peasant rebellions and bourgeois revolutions led to change in the 
social systems, they brought forth an exploitive system in the place of another. So in spite of any 
amount of revolutionary changes in the form all these were in essence exploitive systems and there was 
no fundamental qualitative change. It means we can say that the Russian November revolution is the 
foremost revolution in the world that brought down the old exploitive ruling classes and established a 
state of the proletarian, worker-peasant and other toiling masses. That is why it is also described as a 
milestone, as a standard symbol and also as a special incident with utmost qualitative distinction in the 
history of class struggle. Comrade Mao said, ‘October Socialist revolution started a new era not only in 
the history of Russia but in the history of the world’ (Comrade Mao ‘On Contradictions). On the 40th 
anniversary of the Great Russian October revolution in 1957 November 6th Mao also said in a speech in 
the Russian Supreme Soviet (there were Soviets of all the nationalities along with Soviet Union), ‘The 
Great Russian Revolution that our great revolutionary teacher Comrade Lenin started and the Soviet 
people took forward started a new era in the history of the world. … … There were many kinds of 
revolutions in history. Anyhow there is none that could be compared with October Socialist Revolution. 
All the toiling masses and progressive forces of the world have been speaking about establishing a 
society where one cannot exploit another. These dreams came true only when for the first time October 
Revolution was successful in the one fourth part of the world’. 
The great Marx-Engels said in ‘Communist Manifesto’ that it is inevitable for capitalism to die and 
Socialism to be established. 
It is known to all the worker-peasant toiling masses and the ordinary people of the world that for the 
first time the great Marx brought forth the theory that capitalism would die and Socialism would be 
established. Communist Manifesto says, ‘Capitalist class gives birth to those who would bury it. their 
collapse and the success of proletariat are imperative’. It taught us that ‘the immediate aim of the 
Communists is the aim of all the proletarian parties. It means the proletariat organizes as a class, brings 
down the capitalist class demination and achieves political power through the proletariat ‘ (Communist 
Manifesto, Marx-Engels). 
So Marx-Engels brought forth this historic theory into the world. Anyhow it took time until 1917 to 
implement this theory, meaning the bringing down the domination of capitalist class and establishing 
political power through proletariat. The proletariat made heroic struggle for the first time in 1871 in 
Paris Commune to seize political power. But this faced defeat due to the capitalist armed oppression. 

 

1 

Indeed, the historic theory of Marx-Engels can be popularly said to be proletarian theory. It establishes 
collective ownership in the place of individual ownership. It eliminates all the exploitive systems and 
exploitive classes. It is a very natural thing that such an earth-shaking revolution would travel through 
severe, fierce class struggles, inevitably in a path that is protracted, with twists and turns and that it 
faces defeats in every step. 
Comrade Lenin too said thus – ‘If we think about this issue from its essence, did any new mode of 
production ever in the history sustain immediately without defeats one by one, without going wrong, 
without facing losses?’ (A great beginning, Lenin). 
The history of Russian revolution too went through three revolutions with twists and turns and ups and 
downs! 
Socialist revolution was successful on 7th November 1917 in the leadership of Communist Party of Soviet 
Union (Bolshevik) that was under the direct leadership of great Lenin and Stalin. Anyhow this Socialist 
Revolution did not become a success in a single step or attempt. On the contrary the Socialist Revolution 
of 1917 became successful only in the process of three revolutions. The three revolutions were – 1905 
Capitalist Democratic Revolution, 1917 February Capitalist Democratic Revolution, 1917 October 
(presently November) Socialist Revolution. 
The first 1905 Russian revolution ended in defeat. It is very much necessary for us to deeply understand 
the reasons that led to its defeat. It is because we too are facing ups and downs setbacks, losses and 
other things in the present phase of Indian Revolution. Russian Bolshevik Party reviewed the basic 
reasons for the defeat of the first Russian revolution and brought forth these points – 
Strong cooperation was not established between the workers and peasants against the monarchy of 
Czar in the revolution. 
A large section of the peasantry was not prepared to extend cooperation to the workers to eliminate the 
monarchy of Czar. This made an impact on the practice of the Army too. Most of the soldiers in uniform 
were the sons of the peasants. There was discontent and rebellion in many units of the Czar Army. But 
majority soldiers extended support to Czar in suppressing worker’s strikes and rebellions. 
The actions of workers too were not much organized. They started taking more active part in the 
revolutionary struggle in 1906. But by that time the vanguard of the proletariat became very weak. 
The working class was the important and main force in revolution. But there was no enough unity and 
strength among the cadres of the proletarian party. The Russian Social Democratic Party – Proletarian 
Party – was divided into two groups such as Bolshevik and Menshevik. Bolsheviks worked in the stable 
revolutionary path. They called upon the workers to eliminate the monarchy of Czar. Mensheviks 
created hurdles for revolution with their compromising tactics. They created doubts in a large section of 
the workers and disturbed the working class. So the workers did not constantly work in a united 
manner. There was no unity in its ranks too and so the proletariat could not become a genuine leader of 
revolution. 
The dictator Czar’s monarchy obtained support from the West Europe imperialists in suppressing the 
1905 revolution. 
With the peace accord with Japan in 1905 September Czar felt very relieved. This accord helped to 
strengthen the base of Czar. 
Now let us see the second revolution – The second revolution took place in 1917 February. With this the 
monarchy of Czar collapsed. Soviets of the worker’s, military representatives were formed. A temporary 
government was formed. Dual power came into existence. Thus the February bourgeois democratic 
revolution became successful. The Russian Communist Party (Bolshevik) stated thus - ‘The Revolution 
was successful only because the proletariat led it. The proletariat led the struggle of lakhs of peasants in 
military uniform demanding ‘peace’, food and freedom. Success of the revolution was ensured only due 
to the strong proletarian leadership’. 

 

2 

In the initial days of the revolution Comrade Lenin said thus – ‘Workers made revolution. Workers 
demonstrated courage. They spilled their blood. They integrated toiling masses and poor people with 
them’. 
The first revolution, the 1905 revolution paved way for the success of the second revolution, the 1917 
February revolution. 
Comrade Lenin said thus – Soviets were formed only in three years 1905-1907. The Soviets of worker 
and military representatives contributed for the success of the revolution. The workers and soldiers 
rebelled and formed Soviets of worker and military representatives. The 1905 revolution declared that 
Soviets were the instruments of armed rebellion and also the seeds of new revolutionary power. The 
Soviets gained the confidence of ordinary worker masses. Soviets came into practice immediately after 
the monarchy of Czar was destroyed. The difference is that while in 1905 only worker’s Soviets were 
formed, in the February 1917 revolution worker and military Soviets were formed with the initiative of 
the Bolsheviks. 
However, the leaders of Social Revolutionaries and Mensheviks in the Soviet Executive Council handed 
over the power to the capitalists. But the majority worker and military representatives though in fact the 
Bolsheviks opposed, accepted the effort of the Social revolutionaries and the Mensheviks. 
Thus a new state power emerged in Russia. As per Lenin, there were the representatives of ‘Capitalists 
and the landlords who were to become capitalists’ in this. 
But along with the capitalist power, another power – the Soviet of workers and military representatives 
was in existence. Most of the military representatives in the Soviet were peasants recruited into the 
Army for the sake of war. The Soviet of worker and military representatives is the organization against 
the monarchy of Czar with the cooperation of workers and peasants, it is their organization of power 
and it is the organization of worker-peasant dictatorship. 
Thus two powers and two dictatorships were strangely mutually entwined – the dictatorship of 
capitalists representing the temporary government and the dictatorship of workers-peasants of the 
Soviet representing the workers and soldiers. 
Dual power is the result of this. 
Now let us see the third revolution, the Russian October Socialist revolution. We must first keep in mind 
that the First World War continued from 1914 to 1918 and the Russian Socialist Revolution was 
successful in 1917 October. 
In his speech on the night of 1917 April 3rd Comrade Lenin gave a call to the vast masses to fight for the 
success of Socialist revolution and with this the process of November Russian revolution was successful. 
Comrade Lenin ended this speech with the slogan ‘Long live Socialist revolution’. At the same time 
Comrade Lenin submitted a report on War-Revolution in the meeting of Bolsheviks. The Mensheviks and 
Bolsheviks reiterated the theoretical aspects (the theory) in this report in a meeting conducted together 
later. This is the prominent April thesis that Comrade Lenin formulated. This gave way to a clear 
revolutionary policy for the Party and the proletariat to advance the bourgeois revolution towards a 
Socialist revolution. 
The spread of the Soviet revolution in the country was so fast from 1917 October to 1918 February that 
Comrade Lenin said it to be the ‘success journey’ of Soviet power. 
The successful Great October Socialist Revolution 
There were a lot of reasons for the success of the Russian Socialist Revolution more easily than 
expected. Here are the main reasons to be kept in mind –  
The enemy of the October revolution, it means the Russian Capitalist class was much more weak, 
unorganized and lacked political experience than expected. The Russian Capitalist class was 
economically weak. It was totally dependent on the government contracts. It did not have the strength 
to politically make a decision on its own and the initiative to search for a way to overcome this situation. 
For example, it did not have the experience of the French capitalists to make large scale political groups. 

 

3 

It did not learn the art of making agreements comprehensively and the tactics like the British capitalists. 
February Revolution brought down Czar from power. Capitalists captured power. But they did not have 
another alternative but to implement the bad Czar policy. Like Czar they too supported the policy of ‘do 
war until achieving a success’. In fact making war was beyond the strength of Russia. People and the 
Army were severely at loss due to war. On the whole like Czar they too were engaged in gaining vast 
lands. On the other hand peasants were dying out of scarcity of lands and due to the burden from the 
landlords. They went beyond Czar regarding the policy towards workers. They continued the cruel policy 
of the factory owners as it is and made it more severe. They announced large scale lock outs and made 
the situation intolerable. 
It is not surprising that the people could not see any fundamental difference between the policy of Czar 
and the capitalists. They had as much hatred towards the temporary government of the capitalists as 
towards Czar. 
As far as the impact of the Social revolutionary and the Menshevik parties sustained on the people the 
temporary government utilized it as a veil to sustain its power. But when the Mensheviks and Social 
revolutionaries clearly came out as imperialist capitalist agents, they lost their influence among the 
masses. The people no more supported the temporary government of the capitalists. 
A Revolutionary class like the Russian working class led the October Revolution. It is a class that was 
tempered in struggles. It saw two revolutions in a short time. Before the beginning of the third 
revolution it had the recognition as the leader of the people in the struggle for peace, land, freedom and 
Socialism. If the Russian working class that gained the confidence of the people did not lead the 
revolution, if it did not establish the alliance of the worker-peasants, it there was no such alliance, the 
October revolution would not have been a success. 
In the revolution the Russian proletariat gained the strong alliance of the poor peasants that were the 
utmost majority. The alliance between the proletariat and the poor peasantry became strong. With the 
alliance of the working class and the poor peasantry the role of middle class peasantry became clear. 
This middle class peasantry was vacillating for a long time. By the time the October revolution started, it 
was totally on the side of revolution. It allied with the poor peasantry. Without this alliance the October 
Revolution would not have become a success. 
A Party like the Bolshevik Party that was tempered in political struggles led the proletariat. The Bolshevik 
Party was a daring Party that could lead the people in decisive offensive. Ordinary democratic 
movement for peace, the democratic movement of the peasants for seizing the lands of the landlords, 
national freedom, the movement of the oppressed nationalities for national equality, the proletariat 
Socialist movement to bring down the power of the capitalists and to establish proletarian dictatorship – 
only such a Party could integrate all these in the revolutionary stream. 
When such streams of revolution were integrated into an ordinary, powerful revolutionary stream the 
future of Russian capitalist system was decided. 
The capitalist world split into two enemy camps, engaged in mutual war and in rooting out the other’s 
foundation and in the situation when the imperialist war reached its zenith the October revolution 
began. They were not in a condition to interfere in ‘Russian affairs’ in a strong way or to oppose October 
revolution in an active manner. 
The October Socialist Revolution established proletarian dictatorship. It handed over the power on the 
broad country to the proletariat. It made it the ruling class. 
Thus the October Socialist Revolution began a new era in the history of human race, the era of 
proletarian revolutions. 
The historic lessons of Russian Revolution 
The historic lessons of the Russian Revolution are like this –  
The success of the proletariat and the dictatorship of the proletariat are not possible without a 
proletarian revolutionary Party. Only a new kind of Party, the Marxist-Leninist Party (presently Marxist-

 

4 

Leninist-Maoist Party), the Socialist Revolutionary Party, the Party that can prepare the proletariat to 
take up a decisive war against the capitalists can become such a kind of Party. 
Proletarian Party cannot fulfill its role as the class leader unless it achieves hold on the advanced theory 
(now Marxism-Leninism-Maoism) of the proletarian movement. 
Marxist-Leninist theory is the science regarding social development. It is the science of worker-peasant, 
toiling masses. As a science it is not confined to one thing. Moreover it constantly develops. Marxist-
Leninist theory is not dogmatism but a guide to practice. 
If the Party becomes proud of its successes, if it does not see mistakes in its work, if it fears to agree its 
mistakes and to sincerely rectify them in time without any hesitation, it cannot fulfill its role as a 
vanguard of the proletariat. If the Party does not fear criticism-self-criticism, if it learns lessons from its 
work and teaches the activists, if it rectifies its mistakes in time it will become invincible. If the 
proletarian Party does not make constant and severe struggle against the opportunists rising in its ranks, 
if it does not oppose the liquidationists rising from inside, it cannot sustain unity and discipline in its 
ranks. In fact the history of internal development of the Bolshevik Party is the history of struggle against 
the opportunist cliques, economists, Mensheviks, Trotskyites and Bukharinists inside the Party. 
a. The Paris Commune rebellion of 1871 that started with seizing the towns stood as an example for 
Comrade Lenin. Comrade Lenin learnt lesson from that experience and took up general insurrection as 
the path of Russian Revolution. 
b. So we can say that the Russian Revolution was successful through general insurrection. It means first 
seizing the towns that are enemy camps and then gain hold on villages. But Russian Socialism could not 
sustain after the demise of the great leaders of Russian Revolution, first Comrade Lenin and later 
Comrade Stalin. This is a very tragic event for the world proletariat. The reason can be understood thus 
– 
The great Lenin died on 21st October 1924. After his death the responsibility of developing Socialism in 
Russia under the dictatorship of the proletariat fell on the shoulders of Comrade Stalin. Comrade Stalin 
held this responsibility skillfully in his leadership. Anyhow Comrade Stalin did not have any experience 
regarding the efforts for Socialist construction. He not only advanced Socialist efforts in Russia but also 
led the proletariat of the world and the Communist movement. The Russian Red Army utterly defeated 
the leader of the most fascist forces Hitler in the Second World War through a daring counter offensive 
that was unprecedented. It broke the spines of all the fascist forces. But the most revisionist and 
renegade Khrushchev clique hidden inside the Party seized power after the demise of Comrade Stalin on 
1st March 1953. It first restored capitalism and later transformed Russian Socialism into Social 
Imperialism. This gave a negative experience to the proletariat, the oppressed nationalities and the 
people of the world. Mao took a lesson from this and advanced Socialism in China. He took lessons from 
the mistakes and shortcomings in the effort of Socialist construction in Russia and strengthened 
proletarian dictatorship by taking up the Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution. Renegades, the 
revisionist-capitalist roaders were expelled from the Party. But the Deng clique that intended betrayal to 
Socialism seized the Party and power after the death of Comrade Mao on 9th September 1976. It first 
turned China into a capitalist country and presently into imperialism. Thus after the collapse of Russia 
the proletariat and the oppressed people of the world had one more negative experience with the 
collapse of China. At present there is no Socialist system in any country. It is the responsibility of genuine 
Communists to learn lessons from these two negative experiences and advance and strengthen Socialist 
revolutions. The world Communists will have to remold themselves to conduct this important effort in a 
proper manner. So we have to deeply study the policies that the great Mao conceptualized to 
strengthen Socialism in China. They need to be applied to practice. All the necessary things must be 
prepared to take forward clearly the direction of the success of Socialism. 
Imbibe the revolutionary universal aim of Russian Socialism! 
The aim of the great Russian Socialist Revolution can be very briefly said thus – 

 

5 

Since the emergence of class society the history of social development of the whole world had been that 
of class struggles. In this history Great Russian October Revolution is an event that ended the past 
exploitive eras. Why are we saying so? It is because Russian Socialist Revolution is clearly different from 
all the past rebellions and revolutions. For example there were many rebellions and revolutions in the 
human society before the Russian Revolution. According to the great Mao, all of them are part of the old 
bourgeois democratic revolution. The main objective of these is to establish bourgeois society or 
capitalist society in the leadership of bourgeois class. The bourgeois class organized the worker-peasant 
masses, destroyed the feudal society through armed bourgeois revolution and established bourgeois or 
the capitalist society only in its class interest. But it saw that the worker-peasant masses are not sitting 
idle after the establishment of capitalist society. On the contrary they advanced to destroy the 
bourgeois or the capitalist class and established the proletarian state through the 1917 Russian Socialist 
Revolution. Nowhere the flag of bourgeois revolution was raised after 1917. The bourgeois class was 
afraid and never took up the responsibility of bourgeois revolution. Comrade Mao theorized this 
National or the Democratic Revolution as the New Democratic Revolution. All the revolutions that took 
place and are going on after the Great Russian Revolution have become part of the World Socialist 
Revolution in the leadership of the proletariat. There are two main streams in the World Proletarian 
Revolution. The first is the Socialist Revolution. The second is the New Democratic Revolution. The main 
objective of Socialist Revolution is to establish Socialist society in the dictatorship of the proletariat. The 
main objective of New Democratic Revolution is to establish New Democratic society in the democratic 
dictatorship of ninety percent people in the leadership of the proletariat, later advancing the New 
Democratic society and establishing Socialist society in the dictatorship of the proletariat. 
The fundamental task of revolution is to seize state power. This has a deep meaning in this. We must 
never forget this. 
Chinese Revolution that took place in continuation of Russian Revolution and inseparable from it; Indian 
Revolution going on as the continuation of Russian and Chinese Revolutions 
We know that Mao synthesized the experiences of proletarian revolutions in the era of imperialism and 
said about the specific conditions and the revolutionary war in China thus – ‘Seizing state power with 
armed strength and solving the problem through war would be the central task and the highest form in 
revolution’. This Marxist-Leninist concept regarding revolution would apply all over. It applies to China 
and all other countries. 
Though the concept is the same proletarian Party applies it to various conditions in various methods. If 
the capitalist countries that do not take up fascism do not become part of war they would implement 
bourgeois democracy in their country. Regarding their foreign relations they would not fall in the 
oppression of other nationalities but on the contrary oppress other nationalities. Due to these specific 
conditions, the task of the proletarian Parties of the capitalist countries will be to – train the workers 
through protracted legal struggles, muster their strength and finally make preparations to bring down 
the capitalist state power. They will have the task to take up protracted legal struggles, utilize 
parliament as a forum, take up economic and political strikes, organize Trade Unions and train the 
workers in the above countries. The form of organization in these countries would be legal and the form 
of struggle would be without bloodshed (non-military). When the problem of war arises, the Communist 
Parties in the capitalist countries oppose the imperialist wars that their countries take up. Thus when 
there are wars the Communist Parties adopt the policy of supporting the defeat of the reactionary 
governments of their countries. The war they wish to make would be civil war and they would make 
preparations for it. But this rebellion-war should not be started until the capitalist class actually does not 
reach a desperate situation, until the majority working class masses are not prepared to make armed 
revolution and make war and until the peasant masses do not give support to the proletariat. When it is 
time for such rebellion and war the first step would be to seize the towns. Later it has to advance 

 

6 

towards the rural areas. No other path should be adopted. The Communist parties of the capitalist 
countries did the same. The Russian October Revolution proved that this is correct. 
‘But China is a different country. The specific character of China is such that it is not an independent 
country. On the contrary it is a semi-colonial semi-feudal country. There is no democracy in China. It is in 
feudal oppression. There is no national independence in its foreign relations. It was in imperialist 
oppression. Thus there was no parliament that could be used and there were no legal rights to organize 
the workers to strike. Fundamentally the Communist Party here need not take up protracted legal 
struggles before beginning rebellion-war and it need not first seize towns and then establish power in 
the rural areas. Its task shall be totally different’ (Mao in ‘Problems regarding war-strategy’). Thus the 
Chinese Revolution was successful through Protracted People’s War in 1949 in the leadership of the 
great Mao. 
Our experience teaches us that the Great Russian October Socialist Revolution came forth as the 
inevitable result of the revolutionary struggles of the people and the great Chinese Revolution is the 
continuation of this process. Our present Indian Revolution is inseparable from the revolutionary 
struggles of the world proletariat and the people. So the central task of Indian Revolution is to seize 
political power through armed strength. In India too it is very important for the proletarian Party, the 
Communist Party to study the experiences of World Socialist Revolution, especially the experiences of 
the two great revolutions of Russia and China. 
India is a semi-colonial, semi-feudal country. So we have to adopt this path for revolution – ‘If any 
country is directly or indirectly being ruled by one or more imperialist force or forces, if it is a semi-
feudal country where the people do not have independence or democratic rights, the proletarian Party 
must from the beginning enlighten and organize the people for armed struggle. The main force of 
revolution is the peasantry. The backward areas shall be the main centre for their work. It shall build 
People’s Army and People’s Militia. It shall establish reliable, strong, self-reliant liberated areas and base 
areas. It shall constantly expand them through Protracted People’s War. It shall encircle the towns 
through a decisive, destructive offensive on the reactionary state power and finally seize them. It shall 
establish countrywide people’s political power and state machinery’. 
In the background of revisionist path and program going on in India in various forms, it is very much 
necessary that we have a correct perspective and program accordingly. Regarding this we have to 
imbibe the essence of the point in our document Strategy-Tactics. We have to prepare the slogans and 
programs as per it. We must certainly keep in mind that participating in or boycotting elections is related 
to tactics. After the emergence of Khrushchev’s revisionism, parliamentary path and participation in 
elections became the strategy of modern revisionism. In this background we cannot see this problem 
only as the problem of tactics. Along with it, the arguments and opinions like – ‘Presently the Party is 
limited to a little area of mountains and forest’, ‘Capitalist mode of production gained impact in many 
places’, ‘People have illusions on parliamentary system or elections’ – and other such things do not 
make sense. They are no way related to the specific reality of India. 
In our country, ‘the historic experience gained until now proves that most of those who participated in 
elections changed into revisionists or distorted the armed revolutionary movement to legal and peaceful 
path. So, though boycott of elections is a tactical problem it has strategic importance in the specific 
conditions of India. It is because participating in elections does not at all suit the strategy of Protracted 
People’s War’. This is certain. 
To put it in one word, we have to strictly adhere to Armed Agrarian Revolution and the path of 
Protracted People’s War to make New Democratic Revolution a success in India. 
On the occasion of the centenary celebrations of Russian Revolution let us pledge to make Indian New 
Democratic Revolution successful and firmly stand for our immediate, main and central task! 
There are two methods to celebrate the centenary of Russian Revolution – one is the petty bourgeois 
revisionist method. The second is the revolutionary method. Revisionist method means, praising the 

 

7 

Russian revolution, Comrade Lenin and Stalin superficially, giving big lectures and not at all 
implementing them in practice. Revolutionary method means taking pledge to advance the task of the 
aim of Russian Revolution, that is seizing state power through revolution, according to the specific 
condition of their countries. Therefore we must certainly severely oppose the revisionist methods. We 
have to conduct the centenary celebrations of Russian Revolution according to revolutionary methods. 
On the occasion of the centenary celebrations of the Russian Revolution let us pledge to daringly face 
the challenges before the Indian Revolution, the each and every fascist policy and actions of Modi 
government and to build a New Democratic India and work to the best of our strength to establish 
Socialism-Communism. 
It is three years since Brahmanical Hindu fascist RSS-BJP Narendra Modi came to power. The propaganda 
machinery in the control of the government and corporates – Radio, TV, Magazines and others are 
relentlessly propagating that the Modi government achieved successes. They say that there is no 
poverty in the country, that there is no unemployment and no scarcity of anything and there is equality 
of all kinds. They are heavily increasing the Gross Domestic Product of the country with a numerical 
game. They say that presently India rose to be an utmost speedily developing economy in the world. 
They say there is no corruption in the country. They say that demonetization abolished black money. 
They say that everyone developed and good days have come. They claim that harassment, atrocities, 
sexual exploitation and other such things on women have come down to a large extent. They say that 
there is no casteism and discrimination and the religious minorities are able to access all rights. ‘Make in 
India’, ‘Manufacturing hub’, ‘Start up India’ and other such slogans are claimed to have been 
contributing for the development of the country. Digital India and cashless economy are being imposed 
on the people. In their view the only thing left is Maoism or the Maoists are the utmost danger for the 
internal security of the country. 
But in fact the actual picture of all over India is totally different from this. The poor are becoming poorer 
and the rich richer. The difference between the poor and the rich is growing in a big way. Especially, 
since the Modi government came to power in 2014 the property of one percent rich increased 49 per 
cent and reached 58.4 per cent in 2016. In 2016 the ten per cent utmost rich in the country had a share 
of 80.7 per cent of the total property of the country. It means the rest of the ninety per cent population 
had only 19.3 per cent (from Credit Source Global Wealth Data Base). Modi claimed to bring the black 
money hidden in the foreign countries within 100 days but did not go one step further even after 1050 
days. His statement proved to be nothing. 
The opportunities for employment in the country have absolutely become scarce. There is a rise in the 
rate of inflation. The prices are increasing every day. Modi’s slogan of ‘Make in India’, ‘Manufacturing 
hub’ are in fact meant to encourage foreign investments and the slogan of ‘Digital India’ too is to 
digitalise the whole administration. He is thus trying to strengthen his control on administration. Modi 
government made many anti-worker, anti-peasant laws. With this lakhs of workers lost lands. The 
suicides of farmers rose. 
The policy of indirect taxes was amended to transform the whole country into a uniform market and 
Goods Services Tax (GST) was brought forth in the interests of the Imperialists and Comprador 
Bureaucratic Capitalists. With the deceiving propaganda to eliminate corruption they abolished big 
notes and accumulated all the cash of the people in banks. This affected the farmers, small traders and 
small capitalists. Agriculture, Industries and Service sectors were affected. They are depriving the people 
to utilize the money they stored independently and accumulated all their money in the banks fulfilling 
the interest of the imperialists and comprador capitalists and are attempting to establish digitalization 
and cashless economy. With this the offensive of the financial capital of the world and the comprador 
bureaucratic capital might increase much more on the middle class and all the sections in the coming 
days. 

 

8 

Thought the Modi government boasts that there is economic growth in the country, due to inflation in 
the industrial sector and production sector, there is a rise in unemployment, in the prices of daily 
necessities and agrarian crisis which reveal the shallowness of this ‘development’. 
The Modi government might bring any level of fascist laws to eliminate the social movement rising from 
the intensifying contradictions in the country. It might also intensify anti-legal, fascist offensives on the 
people by forming Hindu fascist gangs under different names. 
In Kashmir all kinds of rights have been violated and the people are forced to live in concentration 
camps and at trigger point. The atrocities are so cruel that the Army tied a Kashmiri youth to a jeep and 
took him along. There is inhuman repressive campaign on the movements of all the nationalities of 
North East going on for right to self-determination. These movements are repressed with iron heel. The 
media too is not allowed to protest. They are threatening them to suppress their voices of resistance. 
They are foisting cases on them. 
There are indiscriminate beatings and murders of Muslims in the name of protection of cow, that they 
had cow meat or ate it. There is a rise in many forms of atrocities and pressure on religious minority 
Muslim people in Uttar Pradesh since anti-Muslim diehard Yogi Adityanadh came to power. There are 
many kinds of sanctions on them. Meat shops are closed and the sales of cow meat and all kinds of meat 
are being banned. Cruel laws are being made to control the purchase and sale of the animals. People’s 
food and culture are in control. There are many kinds of pressure and sanctions on the other religious 
minorities. With this a section of the poor are deprived of employment. The atrocities on the Dalits have 
increased many-fold. The atrocities on the Dalits in Saharanpur are a fresh example. 
Since the Modi government came to power Indian expansionism increased much more. Mutual relations 
with the neighboring countries are severely affected. Modi government took up various kinds of 
schemes and programs only to highlight the policy of US imperialist super power to encircle China. The 
recent inauguration of a 9 km long bridge on River Brahmaputra in Assam by Modi is in fact to increase 
the speed in connectivity with Arunachal Pradesh and thus take forward the US scheme to ‘encircle 
China’. In fact the political, economic, cultural, military, foreign policy and administration policy of India 
– fascist policies and methods are implemented in all spheres. The fact is that there is a police-armed 
state all over the country. 
Our tasks 
Comrades! 
We must understand that elimination of the Maoist Party and Maoist movement is one important task 
of the Modi government. But some or the other party of the country did not make this decision as per 
its wish. There is no chance for this. It is because the Indian ruling class parties are feudal, imperialist 
comprador parties. Therefore any party or government of any color is totally implementing the various 
aspects of the LIC policy according to the dictates of imperialism, especially US imperialism. This 
happened in the UPA rule. In the present NDA rule this is happening much more aggressively. So this has 
not become an important work only after Modi government came to power. If we see the UPA-1 and 
UPA-2 governments, both these described the Maoist Party and Maoist movement as ‘the utmost 
danger to the internal security of the country’ and took up the elimination of our Party and the 
movement utmost important. The first two phases of ‘Operation Green Hunt’ was unleashed by those 
governments. But what was the result? History is the evidence that they failed to a large extent in 
achieving their objectives. On the contrary the Maoist party and the movement rooted among the 
masses. Though the Party faced heavy loss with the martyrdom of thousands of comrades it gained 
many experiences, took lessons and strengthened. 
Presently the Brahmanical Hindu fascist Modi government is unleashing the third phase of ‘Operation 
Green Hunt’ with all kinds of support from the US imperialism and all the imperialists and reactionaries 
to totally eliminate the revolutionary movement. Modi government brought a total change in ‘encircle-
destroy’ campaign and other such repressive campaigns, surrender policy, the policy of ill propaganda 

 

9 

like psychological war, in the various kinds of so called reform activities or in the activities of boasting 
development. As soon as coming to power the Modi government announced it would eliminate the 
Maoists. It is forming many more battalions of Para-military forces and is deploying in the Maoist areas. 
It is also forming ‘Bastariya battalion’, ‘Pahadiya battalion’ or the ‘Local Adivasi battalion’ as a part of 
their utmost reactionary policy of ‘plucking one’s eye with their own finger’ aggressively implementing 
the reactionary LIC policy of making ‘adivasis fight adivasis’. 
One more heinous policy is that it is raising the greed that they can get lots of money more than the 
earlier, to make the surrender policy of the UPA government ‘much more attractive’. It is pressurizing 
the families of our comrades and activists to make them surrender. If they do not do so they are 
threatened to be tortured or be put in jail. It is seizing their properties until the last penny. 
Our foremost and main work in fighting back all these abovementioned anti-revolutionary policies is to 
protect the leadership from the CC to the AC and the Mass Organisations, to much more bolshevise the 
Party, train the whole party cadres and revolutionary masses in many forms to fight back the 
multipronged offensive of the enemy with multipronged counter offensive and mold them efficient. We 
must drive them for better actions of resistance. So we have to enhance military training. We have to 
make them so that they can mold the counter offensive into People’s War in a proper manner. We must 
definitely conduct the political, organizational and military preparations as a campaign. We have to 
strive in our efforts of military counter offensive actions, in conducting propaganda campaigns to fight 
back ill propaganda, to build mass movements by taking up people’s serious problems and other such 
things. Along with this we have to make efforts to build a movement together with all the progressive, 
democratic forces and all friendly forces against the Brahmanical Hindu fascist forces. It is imperative to 
bring forth immediately a United Front, a broad forum in the All India level. 
Comrades! 
We can advance Indian Revolution only if we successfully fight back severe challenges. Therefore we 
have to finish all kinds of preparations to face all kinds of challenges. It means it is our immediate and 
important task to totally implement all the above mentioned tasks. 
Only thus we can strengthen the three magic weapons of revolution – the Party, People’s Army and 
United Fronts and constantly strengthen them. We must remember that we cannot go one step forward 
without bolshevizing the Party in the right sense. Come, let us work with firm will to overcome all kinds 
of weaknesses and shortcomings not in words but in deeds, protect the internal unity of the Party 
carefully and strengthen it much more, defeat ‘left’ and right revisionisms and all kinds of revisionism 
and firmly practice the correct line, policies and work style of the Party. 
There is no doubt that the path has twists and turns, difficult and complex. But if we adhere to MLM and 
the Party line we can overcome all kinds of hurdles. We can fulfill the immediate and the main task of 
‘transforming the guerilla war to mobile war’, ‘develop PLGA to PLA’ and the building of base areas and 
thus accomplish Indian New Democratic Revolution. 
Come, let us jump into the arena of war daringly to fulfill the incomplete tasks and the dreams of our 
great martyrs. 
History is the evidence to say that the final victory is of the people. Early morning sunrays break the 
darkness of the night. Indian Revolutions will definitely be a success. It means first New Democratic 
Revolution and later Socialist Revolution too will be successful. 
We can celebrate the objective of the centenary celebrations of the Russian Revolution in the correct 
manner only by speeding up the Indian New Democratic Revolution, by making it successful and later 
advancing it towards the establishment of Socialist society. This is the message of the Party. 

 

10 

