Interview with GUDSA USENDI, spokesperson, Dandakaranya Special Zonal 

Committee of CPI(Maoist) on the daring   Madanwada Ambush 

 
(On 12 July 2009, the  PLGA carried out a series of attacks in  Manpur area of Rajnandgaon district, in 
which 30 policemen were wiped out, including the S.P. Vinod Kumar Chaube. After these attacks, some of 
the media representatives raised a lot of questions before us. This interview given to MIB in the first week of 
September attempts to answer these questions.) 

Q: Your party had carried out a big attack in a very planned manner in Manpur area of Rajnandgaon 
district. Rather, it should be said that, you carried out many attacks, simultaneously. In Chhattisgarh, this 
is the first time that you have killed an S.P. This has resulted  in a great loss of men and material to the 
police. This is said to be the biggest attack since Ranibodli. What are your comments? Can you tell us in 
some detail that how all this happened? 

A: Yes, certainly it was a fairly big operation. A special company of our PLGA has successfully carried 
out this ‘Operation Vikas’. This was actually an ‘area ambush’. Under this operation, four ambushes were 
carried out at three places. The first ambush was carried out near the Madanwada camp at about 6 a.m. on 
12th July. A small team of ours, attacked the STF jawans stationed at Madanwada base camp in which 2 
jawans were killed. Rest of the policemen ran into the camp. On hearing this,  the S.P. came running with his 
force. Behind him came IG Mukesh Gupta with his contingent. Our second ambush on them was planned 
near the village Korkotti. Since, Korkotti is merely 5 km from Manpur and is situated on a metalled road, 
and also since it is 15-20 km away from Madanwada, we calculated that police will not expect an ambush at 
that place.  

First time, SP’s contingent managed to pass the ambush site, because of some misunderstanding on our 
part. Only one or two rounds were fired from our side, in which his driver was injured. There was no firing 
from their party. They just ran for their lives. SP’s party had passed from the ambush spot at quarter to ten. 
After  15  minutes,  when  it  was  about  10  am,  another  police  party  came  from  Manpur on 13  motorcycles. 
They ran straight into our ambush. This ambush continued for about an hour in which 11 policemen were 
killed  and  all  their  arms  were  seized.  While  this  ambush  was  going  on,  SP’s  party,  taking  along  the 
additional force from Sitagaon camp and with the help of a mine-proof vehicle, ran straight towards Manpur. 
At that time, our comrades were on the road engaged in wiping out the remaining policemen and in seizing 
the arms of the dead policemen. But the SP did not muster courage to stop at that place. The question of 
confronting us didn’t arise. He went straight to the contingent of the IG who was stationed at some distance 
towards Manpur.  

After this ambush, our comrades, retreated to a small distance. After a lot of consultations, the IG and SP 
probably concluded that our attack was over. They were assured that our guerrillas had gone away. Firing 
from our side had stopped for quite some time. Other policemen had already fled leaving behind the dead. 
Everything  was  quiet.  It  was  with  this  confidence  that  they  started  advancing  under  the  protection  of  the 
mines proof vehicle. We were  watching all their activities keenly. In a way, it can be said that our PLGA 
was  waiting  for  this  opportunity  only.    When  they  came  and  started  picking  up  the  bodies  of  their  dead 
policemen,  at  that  time  our  third  ambush,  second  one  at  the  same  spot,  started.  This  ambush  was  much 
swifter than the first one. Our fighters completed the entire operation in a very short time. Our red fighters 
kept advancing at a lightening speed.  Along with the SP, many others were also killed in this ambush. In all, 
14 policemen were wiped out and their arms were seized. In these two attacks near Korkotti, 3 policmen 
were also injured, of which, one died later on. In this way, totally 26 policemen were killed and 2 injured at  
Korkotti.  Our  comrades  came  away  from  that  place  at  arround  1:30  pm.  That  means,  our  comrades  were 
stationed there for nearly three and half hours.  

After this, at about 2:30 pm, at Karekatta between Madanwada and Sitagaon, our fourth and final ambush 
was carried out successfully. There too, a small party of ours targeted  a police party that was coming on 
foot. In a mine blast and firing, two policemen, which included one officer also, were killed and one was 
injured.  

Although  the  police  force  following  them  fired  in  retaliation,  it  had  no  effect.  After  completing  their 
mission in a  few minutes, our comrades safely retreated. In this whole operation, we seized 25 arms, after 
wiping out 30 policemen, including an SP and injuring three. 

Q: According to the police, 10 to 15 naxalites were also killed in this offensive. Some papers have also 

published that many bodies of your people have been buried in the forests. How far this is true? 

A:  This  is a blatant lie.  What has been very special about this operation is that we suffered no losses at 
all. Only one of our comrades got a scratch, which was healed within a few days. All the claims of the police 
are nothing but a pack of lies. With the help of such blatant lies, police officers are trying in vain, to boost up 
the  morale  of  their  demoralized  force.  Not  only  this,  in  many  recent  attacks  also,  such  false  claims  were 
made. As far as the propaganda about burying the dead bodies is concerned, when any of our comrades is 
martyred in a battle, we don’t hide the fact. On the contrary, we propagate their sacrifices among the masses. 
We build Martyrs’ columns in their memory. We print pamphlets  about them and distribute widely. We take 
pledge to carry forward their unfulfilled dreams. 

Q:  In  the  media  it  has  also  been  reported  that  your  guerrillas  looted  the  belongings  of  the  dead 

policemen and there was ill-treatment of the dead bodies. Is it true? 

A: Not at all. As I told earlier, from the dead policemen, we seized 25 modern weapons, which included 7 
AK-47, 14 Insaas, 3 SLR, 1 two inch mortar, hundreds of bullets, more than a dozen of hand grenades, 22 
bullet proof jackets, 14 helmets, 3 walkie talkie sets and some cell phones. During the search, some currency 
(Rs 8,732) was also found. Apart from this, we seized no private belongings. As for ill-treating the bodies, 
such a question just does not arise. Our policy regarding the enemy soldiers is quite clear.   

Q: You have called it ‘ Operation Vikas’. What does that mean? Can you elaborate on that?  
A: We had named this operation as ‘ Operation Vikas’. Recently, on 24thMay, 2009 Andhra SIB had 
brutally murdered our central committee member comrade Vikas (Patel Sudhakar). It was also in this area, 
on 16th September 2006, our Special Zonal Committee member Com. Vikas (Srinivas) was killed in a fake 
encounter. Avenging these murders and bringing ‘Vikaas’ (development) in the revolutionary movement by 
defeating the repression of the  enemy in the Manpur area with the help of these attacks - this has been the 
aim  of  our  ‘Operation  Vikas’.  This  operation  vikas  is  part  of  the  Tactical  Counter-Offensive  Campaign 
(TCOC) taken up by our party in entire Dandakaranya region with the objective of destroying the enemy 
forces  in  large  numbers,  accelerating  the  guerilla  war  and  arming  our  PLGA  forces  with  better  weapons 
seized from the enemy forces.  

Q:  Rajanandgaon  district  is  generally  considered  as  a  calm  area  and  the  people  here  are  peace-

loving and you have caused this bloodshed. Why you have done so? 

A: We must see the peace and tranquility from the class outlook. It is true that the people of this district 
generally  desire  peace  and  tranquility.  Not  only  in  Rajanandgaon  this  is  true  about  the  people  of  entire 
Chattisgarh  and  for  that  matter  in  every  region  of  the  country.  The  persons  breaking  this  peace  and 
tranquility  are  the  oppressive  exploiters  and  their  state  machinery.  The  peace-loving  nature  of  the  people 
shouldn’t  be  interpreted  as  their  willingness  to  indefinitely  bear  injustice  and  oppression.  The  masses  of 
Rajanandgaon  always  fought  against  the  oppression,  exploitation  and  repression  carried  out  by  the  rulers. 
The Adivasi people of the forest area always kept their flag of revolt flying high staking their claim on the 
forest and to protect the water, forest and land from the occupation of outsiders. The working class here has a 
glorious  history  of  struggles  in  BNC  mill  and  many  other  factories  fighting  against  the  exploitation  and 
oppression. And many workers had faced the bullets.  

In  this  Manpur  area  there  was  an  attack  on  31st  May  when  police  forces  created  terror  in  Jakke  and 
Ghodagaon villages  beating  the people including  women brutally,  abused  them  and  molested  the  women. 
But the people didn’t take it quietly, the men and women joined hands protesting against the police brutality. 
Maddened by the people’s protest, police opened fire on unarmed villagers seriously injuring two villagers. 
We can cite many such incidents of police brutality on innocent people and  the strong and fearless resistance 
by the people.   

As  far  as  bloodshed  is  concerned,  it  is  better  that  this  question  is  put  first  to  Ramansingh,  Mahendra 
Karma  and  Manmohan  Singh  or  else  to  Viswaranjan  and  Nankiram.  Who  is  playing  with  the  blood  of 
innocent people? Singaram, Thongapal and Punjare massacres, like this how many more can we count? Who 
is  responsible  for  the  deaths  of  more  than  1000  innocent  people  killed  in  the  last  four  years  in  the  terror 
campaign  unleashed  by  Salwa  Jhudum  in  west  and  south  Bastar?  Mass  rapes  of  hundreds  of  women, 
complete  destruction  of  more  than  600  villages,  forceful  evacuation  of people,  arson  and  fake  encounters 

were carried out for ensuring the control of big capitalist houses like Tatas, Jindals, Essar on the wealth of 
Bastar district. It is to avenge all these actions that we had carried out this action. 

Q: Recently police had opened new police stations/camps in the interior villages in Manpur area. It 
had increased considerable pressure on you. As per the police officials you had planned this attack as 
you felt threatened by this pressure. How far this is true? 

A:  This  exploitative  government  has  been  implementing  many  oppressive  policies  in  Manpur  area  for 
suppressing the revolutionary movement advancing day by day. This Manpur area situated on the southern 
part  of  Rajanandgaon  adjacent  to  Kanker  and  Durg  districts  on  one  side  and  Gadchiroli  district  of 
Maharashtra on other side is an important strategical area. This region has rich mineral wealth and for this 
many big Indian and foreign companies are eyeing. Particularly in Pallamad area, many big capitalist houses 
are  playing  with  the  livelihood  of  people  opening  mines  in  that  area.  They  have  all  set  to  enact  the 
destruction of water, forest and land of this region. But the people organized under our party leadership has 
become a major obstacle for this path for exploitation. This is the reason for opening of police stations/camps 
by  Raman  Singh  government.  The  highly  condemnable  one-sided  firing  on  people  organized  in  Jhakke-
Ghodagaon on 31st May will help in further clearly understanding this conspiracy.  

As regards building up pressure on us by opening new police stations/camps, police and administration is 
trying  to  cover  up  the  truth  of  what  they  are  actually  doing  to  the  people  of  the  area  by  using  this 
propaganda. Take for example the village Madanvada where there are hardly 30-35 houses. There they have 
opened a base camp with more than 150 policemen. The Adivasi people living there are living like inmates 
of a concentration camp. People cannot come out of their houses after 6 PM. Even during the harvest season 
no one can leave their house before 7 AM in the morning. If any one wants attend nature calls he/she must 
carry the water container as a proof. Relatives from other villages can’t come and stay with them. If anyone 
from the village has gone out the family members will be questioned. There was clear order from the police 
that anyone found to be violating these rules will have to face firing. Even the marriages in the village had to 
conclude all the ceremonies before 6 in the evening. Dancing should be stopped, singing should be stopped. 
During day-time policemen enter every house searching for liquor. They force people to brew and sell the 
country liquor. You can imagine the state of innocent women in such terror conditions. They threaten the 
people that if there is an attack by naxalites, they will hold the villagers as responsible and kill them. What is 
more  terrifying,  no  one  ever  knows  who  is  going  to  be  picked  up  for  being  a  Naxalite  or  a  Naxal 
sympathizer, taken to the camp, and tortured. This is not the case of Madanvada or Sitagaon or Khadgaon 
only,  we  have  similar  situation  in  every  village  in  this  region  where  police  stations/camps  had  sprung up 
every few kiolmetres.  

It  is  not  that  the  police  terror  is  confined  to  the  adivasi  villagers  only.  Few  days  back,  a  teacher  in 
Madanvada  village  was  brutally  beaten  up  just  because  he  came  to  school  on  his  motor  cycle  as  per  his 
routine. All the school buildings in Madanvada, Sitagaon and other villages in Manpur area have come 
under police occupation and because of this students and teachers are forced to sit on ground out side 
the  school  building.  With  the  presence  of  heavily  armed  policemen  how  can  the  innocent  children 
learn anything? What education can the teachers give? Particularly how can the girl students concentrate 
in their studies under the piercing looks of the policemen? How can the parents send their children to school 
under these insecure conditions? There are no answers to these questions. (It is really puzzling to see why 
this truth is not visible to those who keep on yelling that “education system is being deteriorated because of 
the naxalites”). The entire economic, social, educational and cultural life of the villagers is on the verge of 
complete destruction.  

Under these circumstances can anyone welcome these police stations/camps instead of opposing them? It 
is not only our party but the entire people of Manpur area are opposing these camps. If someone wants to call 
this as our scare let them call it.  

Q: Is it true that SP VK Choubey was on your hit list? Is it true that you killed him because he had 

damaged your urban network? 

A: It is true that our PLGA command had targeted SP VK Choubey in a foolproof plan. We have been 
monitoring his every movement for the past few days. There is nothing like ‘hit list’ but such reactionary 
officers and the trusted servants of the exploitative ruling classes will naturally become our targets. We have 
clearly explained this aspect in our press release. In Rajanandgaon district particularly in Churia, Dongagarh, 
Khairgarh and Manpur areas, Choubey had his hand in planning and execution of every police repressive 
plan. Along with this as you have mentioned he had an important role in the arresting our town organizers in 

Raipur-Bhilai,  brutally  torturing  them  and  putting  them  in  jails  by  implicating  them  in  many  false  cases. 
Particularly he had arrested one of our comrades Sumit, lured him to become approver and arrested many of 
our  comrades  through  him.  In  addition  to  this  Choubey  and  his  close  subordinates  had  swallowed  Rs.10 
lakhs they had seized from Sumit when he was arrested. VK Choubey is infamous for putting all types of 
pressure  on  unemployed  youth  who  were  influenced  by  the  revolutionary  movement,  turning  them  into 
informers, enrolling them as agents, getting information regarding our leadership’s movements and making 
plans for eliminating them. This timid police officer who is shit-scared to confront us in direct battle, had 
used his agents to poison the food given to our squad members and made plans for murdering them several 
times. He played the leading role in the recent firing on innocent villagers in Jakke-Ghodagaon on 31st May. 
This Choubey later camped in Manpur and made efforts to suppress the public anger that had erupted after 
this incident. Later he forced the doctors treating the injured persons in the district hospital to say that the 
injuries to the villagers are not due to police firings but due to the firing from naxalites. This was the height 
of  his  brutality.  That  is  why  our  Party  had  decided  to  kill  this  reactionary  police  officer  which  was 
successfully implemented by our PLGA on July 12th.  

Q: You are saying VK Choubey is a timid officer while the police machinery is describing him as a 
bold  and  courageous  officer  who  had  taken  the  bullets  onto  his  chest.  And  he  had  confronted  you 
without fearing for his life. 

A:  This  is  again  as  rubbish  as  many  of  their  other  claims.  Firstly  when  our  comrades  fired  two  three 
rounds injuring his driver, he started fleeing without even turning back. Leave aside the counter firing, he ran 
for his life and stopped only after reaching Kohakagaon. When our PLGA was ambushing the motorcycle 
party of policemen at Korkotti, the “brave” SP had jnot gone to their assistance. He ventured to proceed to 
meet  his  higher  official  IG  Mukesh  Gupta  who  was  camping  in  Manpur  only  after  our  first  ambush  was 
almost complete, and that too, only with the help of mine proof vehicle. Even at that time, this ‘courageous’ 
officer didn’t stop at the dead bodies of his colleagues lying on the road. He speedily drove to the other side 
of our ambush area. After reaching there, these two officers spent considerable time discussing the situation. 
By  that  time  our  first  ambush  was  complete  in  which  11  policemen  were  killed  and  we  had  seized  their 
weapons.  Firing  had  stopped.  These  two  officers  were  completely  relaxed  thinking  that  our  ambush  was 
over.  It  was  only  then  that  they  displayed  their  ‘courage’  by  approaching  the  ambush  site  with  all  their 
reinforcements. Had they any hint that we still stayed in that area it is certain that they wouldn’t have dared 
to step into the area.  

When the SP was hit by bullet, the “courageous” IGP ran and hid inside the mine proof vehicle. After this 
all the policemen were scared so much that they all ran into the jungle to save their lives. They didn’t reach 
the police stations till very late in the night. The fact that the police officials were not in a position to give the 
correct number of their dead men because no one dared to go to the spot after the SP was killed speaks of 
their valour.  

Self-portrayal by the police regarding their heroic and exemplary fight is part of their cheap propaganda 
campaign which they promote through electronic and print media. The fact is that not only SP Choubey but 
the entire police force are the armed protectors of this present corrupt and exploiatative society. The corrupt 
officials like SP Choubey, besides being the trusted dog to defend the system, are also involved in many 
crimes like amassing lot of wealth through illegal means and black market. It is really amusing to search for 
‘heroism’ and ‘courage’ in such corrupt officials. Leaving aside their higher officials almost all the lower 
level policemen do this job to feed themselves and their family. Those who are fighting against us for their 
salaries naturally lack the determination to fight us at the cost of their lives. Whereas the red soldiers of our 
PLGA are fighting with clear political objective, selflessness, and for a just cause of emancipation of the 
masses  from  all  types  of  class  exploitation.  That  is  why  there  will  always  be  a  difference  in  the  fighting 
spirit, courage and tenacity in the battle-field between the mercenary forces employed by the exploiters and 
the Maoists who are fighting selflessly for a just cause. In short, we believe in the truth that the masses are 
the real heroes. Reactionaries, hired forces and their officers can never become heroes.  

Q:  According  to  government  and  even  some  political  pundits  you  are  having  more  sophisticated 
weapons compared to police. You are getting these weapons from external sources. That is why you 
are  having  an  edge  over  police  forces  while  the  police  equipped  with  inferior  arms  are  not  able  to 
counter you. 

A: This is again a blatant lie. Just for getting the public opinion in favour of their plans to deploy armed 
forces in large numbers with ultra-modern weapons and to implement the worst form of repression the ruling 

classes are writing and speaking without head and tail. This white lie floated by forces who got used to the 
comforts  provided  by  the  state  is  finding  wide  circulation  because  neither  the  electronic  nor  print  media 
gives us the space to write or speak our point of view. It is a well-known fact and the police and the political 
establishment  know  that  the  standard  weapon  in  the  hands  of  our  guerillas  today  is  a  12  bore  gun.  The 
proportion of weapons available to us to the proportion of the people willing to join our forces is always less. 
As far as the modern weapons we have, we don’t get these from the external sources but from the police and 
paramilitary  forces  only.  In  almost  every  successful  ambush  our  guerilla  forces  seize  some  weapons.  For 
example in the last one year we got about 100 ultra-modern weapons in Dandakaranya alone. They included 
AK-47, SLR, Insas etc.  

It is also not a fact that police are not having modern weapons. Take for example this ambush in Korkotti, 
we got around 25 automatic rifles. They are definitely not bringing them to give us. Now all the armed forces 
deployed  in  our  struggle  areas  are  armed  with  ultra-modern  weapons.  If  the  police  forces  are  repeatedly 
getting blows from our PLGA forces it is not because they don’t have modern weapons. As I told you earlier 
war can’t be won only with the ultra-modern weapons. Though having ultra-modern weapons is an important 
aspect of war, that is not the only condition for winning the war. Public support and mass base is the most 
important  aspect.  In  spite  of  arming  with  the  most  sophisticated  and  ultra-modern  weapons,  why  the 
American forces are getting reverses in Iraq and Afghanistan? Why the Israeli Zionist terrorist regime had to 
bite  the  dust  in  the  hands  of  Hizbulla?  In  the  history,  how  the  poor  masses  of  Vietnam  forced  mighty 
America to run away from their country? The same reasons are working here also. Our fighters with their 
country-made guns and other traditional weapons are fighting the state’s superior forces armed with ultra-
modern weapons. 

Today,  the  police  and  paramilitary  forces  who  are  deployed  in  entire  Dandakaranya,  are  acting  like 
foreign occupiers and are carrying out inhuman and unspeakable atrocities on the people. They are carying 
out mass rapes, murdering the people, carrying out massacres, burning the houses and property, carrying out 
arson. In one word they have made the region into a veritable hell for the people. The people not only hate 
these forces but are continuously demanding us to attack them. This is the reason why whenever our PLGA 
achieves  victory  in  any  battle,  this  news  brings  great  joy  to  the  people  and  a  festive-like  atmosphere  is 
created  throughout  Dandakaranya.  This  is  an  example  of  the  widespread  and  active  support  our  PLGA 
campaigns are getting from the people.  

Q: Apart from the weapons police are not having the modern equipment also. The opposition party 
Congress  is  accusing  the  state  government  was  not  able  to  release  the  bulletproof  jackets  as  the 
government refused to pay taxes. What you have to say on this?  

A: Possibly the opposition is raising this issue to corner the ruling party. But there is no truth in what you 
are saying that the police forces are not in possession of sophisticated and ultra-modern equipment. Almost 
all the policemen killed in this ambush were wearing bulletproof jackets and helmets. In spite of this, our 
PLGA fighters, displaying the best sense of timing, swiftness and war technique went closest to them and 
killed them with their flawless aiming. We seized 22 bulletproof jacket and 14 helmets. Possibly this is the 
first time we got such a  large number of bulletproof jackets and helmets. What more proof do you need? 

Q: After every ambush, police officers accuse you of attacking from behind as you don’t have the 

courage to make frontal attack. What you have to say on this?  

A: This is a very old and most repeated accusation. Our response to this is that ours is a guerilla war. The 
fundamental principle in guerilla war is attacking the enemy at a place and time when he is least expecting it. 
Not only for guerilla war but for any war the fundamental   principle is– self-preservation and destruction of 
enemy. We are fighting a strong enemy with lakhs of forces and many other organs at his disposal. Presently 
we are militarily very weak and inferior to the enemy.  But in spite being weak we are the representatives of 
the majority of the toiling masses of our country. Our enemy, in spite having strong army, is representing the 
class interests of a handful of exploitative and oppressive rulers. Until our peoples’ war passes through the 
current phase of self-preservation and reaches a level of equal par with the enemy or surpassing him, guerilla 
warfare will continue to be the principal form of our warfare. But this must not be construed to mean that our 
war is immoral or wrong just because we are not fighting face-to-face with the enemy. You might be aware 
oif the fact that today all modern armies are learning the art and science of guerilla war in order to crush the 
people’s wars and other insurgencies. And the Jungle Warfare School in Kanker is against the principle of 
face-to-face war. There, the techniques of attacking us from behind are also taught.  

     And what about the police officers like Choubey? Do they have the courage to fight us in face-to-face 
battle? If so, then why has he made so many informers? Why has he adopted such cheap and cruel tactics of 
killing the people after poisoning their food? Why he has stooped to such low-level of infiltrating coverts 
into our Party, PLGA and other organizations? Picking up people sleeping in their houses during the night 
like thieves, killing them in the morning, and concocting the stories of fake encounters--what sort of face-to-
face war is this? It is not only about Choubey but every police officer and the entire police system is based 
on such deception and sheer lies. It is only to downplay our just and heroic activities and to throw mud on us 
that such accusations are made and a dirty psychological war is unleashed. 

Q: You agree that policemen come from poor and exploited families. In the name of peoples’ war 
you are killing the people from same class for whose emancipation you claim to be fighting for. What 
is this dilemma? 

A: What you are saying is right. The lower level policemen and officers are from poor and middle class 
families.  In  recent  years  Adivasis  are  also  joining  the  police  in  large  numbers  and  their  numbers  have 
increased. Today exploiting classes, in order to face the challenge to their political supremacy posed from the 
toiling masses, are using a section of the same toiling masses as cannon-fodder. It has always been like this. 
The British imperialists who ruled this country for almost 200 years also recruited large numbers of Indian 
soldiers into their army. Today the biggest enemy of the world people, the American imperialists, also use 
large  number  of  black  (African)  soldiers  in  their  invasions.  That  is  why  time  and  again  through  our 
pamphlets and other means we had appealed to the common policemen and lower-level officers not to use 
their guns against us. We are trying through every medium possible to reach them and explain to them that it 
is unjustifiable for them to aim their guns against the same class of people from whom they hail from.  

We are seeing some impact of this propaganda. Some policemen and officers are refusing to work in our 
areas. They know that working in our areas means aiming the guns at the toiling masses. In some instances 
some policemen dropped their weapons at the time of ambush. In such occasions our PLGA forces left them 
unharmed.  It  is  also  a  principle  in  Maoist  Peoples’  War  not  to  harm  the  enemy  soldiers  who  surrender 
dropping their weapons. For example, we had left unharmed three STF jawans at Kudoorghat near Mardapul 
in May 2007, policewoman Kiran Usendi near Pachangi in Jnauary 2009, 5 SPOs at Banda in June 2008 in 
South Bastar and many years back in 1996 all the policemen during our raid on Manpur police station as per 
this principle. We hope that with the advancement of our struggle every policeman and the armed forces will 
better  understand  this.  It  is  a  fact  that  they  are  all  under  the  influence  of  negative  propaganda  by  the 
government and their officers. However our continuous effort will be to explain the aim of our revolutionary 
war and convince the ordinary policemen to refrain from aiming their guns at the toiling masses. We call 
upon them to aim their guns at the exploitative system and fight shoulder-to-shoulder with our forces in the 
ongoing peoples’ war. However it will take some time before some concrete progress is visible in this regard.  
Q:  It  is  believed  that  Greyhounds  played  an  important  role  in  destroying  the  revolutionary 
movement in Aqndhra Pradesh. And now the central government is constituting CoBRA battalions on 
the  similar  lines.  Two  battalions  are  going  to  be  stationed  in  Chattisgarh.  Do  you  think  with  the 
deployment of CoBRA battalions will restrain your attacks? 

A:  We  totally  disagree  with  your  conclusion  that  our  movement  is  completely  destroyed  in  Andhra 
Pradesh. There we had suffered only temporary setback. There are many reasons for it and we had analysed 
them.  Some  are  political,  some  are  organizational  and  some  military  reasons.  Greyhounds  force  was 
constituted in 1989 and our movement’s temporary setback occurred in 2006. All the attacks by greyhounds 
were carried out only with the help of informers or covert agents. Our guerilla squads suffered losses because 
they were surrounded by large number of forces in multiple times and some times more than 100 times. Even 
then greyhounds is not an invincible force. This was proved by our guerillas near Balimela (Orissa) in last 
June. Previously during our historic Nayagarh attack greyhounds didn’t dare to face our comrades. Even with 
hundreds of weapons greyhounds couldn’t touch our guerillas. Hence we can say with confidence that in the 
glowing light of our advancing peoples’ war in Dandakaranya, the myth of the invincibility of greyhounds or 
CoBRA  battalions  will  be  shattered.  The  plundering  ruling  classes  have  their  confidence  in  criminal  and 
murderous gangs like CoBRAs, Naga, Mizo battalions, Greyhounds etc., and in contrast we have confidence 
on the people. Let us leave the result it to the history.  

Q: Are they going to deploy army as well? 
A: Yes. Though army is not directly deployed so far, its role is significant. This is likely to increase in the 
near future. The jungle warfare school set up in Kanker is managed directly by the army officers. They are 

going to open a regional office in Bilaspur. In search and combing operations army helicopters are being 
used. The official visits of senior army officers have been increased. All these aspects point to the fact that 
the army is making all the preparations for crushing our movement. Those who feel that our revolutionary 
struggle will be crushed with the deployment of army should look at the struggles in Kashmir and North 
Eastern states. I repeat again the determining force is the masses. Today the people and their people’s army 
here are directly confronting the CRPF, Naga-Mizo forces, SSB, STF and other forces. Tomorrow they will 
learn to fight the CoBRA forces and also the Indian army.  

Q: After this attack Congress party has demanded for president’s rule in the state. They accused 
that BJP government has failed in  controlling the  Naxalism.  There was an uproar in  the assembly. 
How do you look at this? 

A: First of all let me tell you one thing Naxalism is not a problem but a solution. It is such a solution that 
it can resolve all the problems persisting in the current society because of the corrupt and oppressive system.  
This is the only solution for all the problems as people have tried all the other alternatives. As for the conflict 
between  the  Congress  and  BJP  over  Naxalism  is  concerned,  there  is  no  conflict  between  them  on  the 
problems  of  the  people  or  the  interests  of  the  people.  Both  parties  want  the  quick  destruction  of  the 
movement because both parties are representing the comprador big bourgeoisie and big zamindar classes. 
Such parties, just to give legitimacy to their sitting in opposition, once in a while raise the people’s issues so 
that they win the trust of the people and hope to come back to power. But it seems that Congress party in 
Chhattisgarh had left even this tradition. It is now in favour of crushing our movement with merciless brute 
power. Its alliance is in power at the center. Their home minister P Chidambaram is also saying the same 
thing. Working as an agent to the American imperialists, declaring our party as a terrorist organization, and 
so on are all part of this policy. Till some time back they have been repeatedly telling that Naxalism was 
social problem and its solution lies in the development. But now their language has been changed and say: 
“Naxalism  had  lost  its  path  and  it  has  become  the  biggest  stumbling  block  for  the  development.  Now 
development is possible only through the complete crushing of Naxalism using armed power.” In totality we 
can  say  that  there  is  no  difference  between  Congress  and  BJP  with  regard  to  the  implementation  of  pro-
imperialist policies and suppression of revolutionary movement. If one is Nagnath the other is Sampnath. 
People are watching their roles. At the time of Singaram and Tongapal massacre Congress was confined to 
newspaper statements while condemning them. It is nothing but lip sympathy. It didn’t demand the arrest of 
culprits and neither did it organize any protest against them. This is because their protest lacked sincerity. 
But when 30 policemen were killed in the Manpur incident they are raising a hue and cry. Both people and 
the  lower-level  activists  of  their  own  party  got  good  opportunity  for  understanding  the  class  character  of 
Congress party.  

Q: Few months back your people killed an Adivasi leader of BJP in this area. And now you have 
carried out a big attack on policemen. The vehicles engaged in road construction are burnt on regular 
basis. Why these violent activities? 

A: BJP leader Darbar Singh was sowing the seeds of fundamentalism in this area. He was completely 
engaged in implementing the Sangh Parivar’s agenda in this area. It was a big conspiracy and he had the 
protection of Raman Singh. We have recently seen in Kandhamal (Orissa) what is the meaning of spreading 
Hindu fundamentalism in an Adivasi area and what danger it can cause. Our party can’t tolerate religious 
chauvinism and fundamentalism. One must see his killing from this point of view.  

As  far  as  the  road  construction  is  concerned,  as  more  and  more  police  stations/camps  are  opened  in 
interior villages, the movement of forces is also increased and also the construction of roads become faster. 
Central government had allocated 7300 Crores exclusively for the construction of roads in our areas. The 
intention is very clear: construction of roads is a precondition for eliminating naxalites. The majority villages 
have severe scarcity of drinking water. Particularly this summer it was worst. There was complete drought in 
this area. There is no provision of irrigation for agriculture. Farmers don’t have bullocks and even if they 
have they don’t have fodder to feed them. They don’t have seeds to sow and fertilizers to their crops. There 
are no teachers in their schools and not every village has a school. There are no facilities in the hospitals and 
people die even with simple ailments. The government has turned away its face on all these problems. They 
are singing the songs saying that development will flow with the road construction and setting up of police 
stations/camps. The important objective of these roads is transportation of mineral wealth out of this region 
and  to  facilitate  the  movement  of  security  forces.  Since  both  these  are  against  the  peoples’  interest,  we 
oppose it.  

Q: We are seeing a change in your attacks in the recent times. Take the incidents of your attacks, 
the  one  in  Durg  district  last  year  and  in  the  current  the  one  in  Risgaon  of  Dhamtari,  the  one  in 
Thongapal in Bastar, here in Manpur and just now near Barasur….  you are attacking at areas where 
you don’t have much presence or the areas where there was no history of such incidents. According to 
the government sources you are doing this only to divert the police attention so that police can’t put 
pressure on you in the interior areas. What is your comment on this? 

A: It is true that our revolutionary movement is continuously expanding. Taking the peoples’ war to every 
corner  of  the  country  and  creating  base  areas  in  vast  rural  areas  is  our  political  task.  But  wherever  our 
movement  is  expanding, government  is  deploying huge  forces  in  that  area  and  is  ready with  the  plans  of 
widespread repression. It means crushing our movement even before it takes roots in to the people. For this 
they are spreading terror in people. It was like this since the beginning. When we expanded to North Bastar 
or to Balaghat we had to advance the movement facing the severe repression. In this process many of our 
comrades became martyrs. Now the government is repeating the same thing in areas like Dhamtari. Two and 
half  years  back  they  have  arrested  our  senior  comrade  Marakam  Gopanna  and  three  other  comrades, 
implicated them in false cases and put them in jail. Many other comrades and general people are portrayed as 
naxalites with price on their heads and imprisoned. They are building new police stations/camps. All this was 
going  on  Manpur  also.  In  totality  government  has  intensified  its  efforts  to  contain  the  expansion  of  our 
movement. But history has its own laws. Based on these laws we developed our strategy and tactics to defeat 
the police repression and to expand and advance our movement.  

As far as diverting the police attention is concerned, it is the basic rule of guerilla war that we will not 
enter into war whenever and wherever enemy wants us, contrarily we will fight the war at our convenience, 
on our own terms and only when we are assured of victory. There is nothing unnatural about this.  

Q:  Final  question,  how  long  this  cycle  of  violence-counter  violence  will  continue?  Is  there  any 

peaceful resolution for this? 

A: It is not we, but the exploitative ruling classes who had started this violence. This society which is 
based  on  inequality,  discrimination  and  exploitation  is  the  mother  of  all  this  violence.  According  to  the 
recently issued report 77 percent of the people in the country (about 83.5 crore people) are forced to live on 
just 20 rupees per day. On the other hand the gap between the rich and poor is increased so much that the 
wealth of just one lakh families is about 1,75,000 crores which is little less than our GDP. If it is not violence 
then what is it? Starvation is violence. Poverty is violence. Price rice is violence. Unemployment is violence. 
Displacement is violence. New economic policies are violence. SEZs are violence. The suicides of farmers is 
violence. Contract system is violence. Taking work from labourers for 12 hours a day is violence. Denial of 
minimum  wages  is  violence.  Corruption  is  violence.  And  even  the  callousness  of  government  is  also 
violence. Only to end this violence we have opted for this just violence. The exploitative ruling classes i.e the 
imperialists, comprador big bourgeoisie and the big feudal lords with all their armed forces are continuing 
this endless violence on the toiling masses only to continue their oppressive rule. They are flowing the rivers 
with the blood of toiling masses. It is not only against the Naxalites, it has become their routine to apply 
lathis and bullets against every section of people who are agitating against their problems. There are many 
examples  of  this  state  violence  carried  out  for  serving  the  interests  of  big  capitalists  like  for  Tatas  in 
Kalingnagar(Orissa) and Singur (West Bengal), for Salem company in Nandigram (West Bengal), for Jindal 
company in Lalgarh (West Bengal), the brutal violence carried out in the name Salwa Judum in Chattisgarh 
for Tata, Essar companies and many more. Our party and our peoples’ army (PLGA) are actively resisting 
this violence wherever we are present. From peoples’ point of view this is essential and fully justified. 

As I told you in the beginning, this is not started by us but we are the ones who are going to end this. 

Only revolutionary struggles with large scale mass participation can put an end to this violence.  

Q: Finally what is your message for the people in plain areas of Chhattisgarh? 
A: We want to send this message to all sections of people that there is a strong revolutionary movement 
with huge potential in Chattisagarh. Our revolutionary movement for the past 29 years had brought many 
changes in the lives of people. Fighting against the forest department, revenue department, paper mill factory 
owners, tendu leaves contractor, police and various mafias the people of Chattisgarh have registered many 
victories.  The  various  oppressive  campaigns  carried  out  by  the  state  to  suppress  these  struggles  were 
successfully resisted and defeated by the masses under the leadership of our party and PLGA. From every 
suppressive campaign people emerged more strongly and our peoples’ army became stronger. Not only this 
people started building their own peoples’ power organs (Janatan Sarkar). Masses started taking initiative for 

their development. People have achieved remarkable progress in the fields, health, agriculture, education and 
other  areas.  All  this  happened  in  the  midst  of  fierce  battles  with  enemy  forces.  In  one  word,  today  the 
struggle of Dandakaranya is standing out like an example and role model to be emulated by the revolutionary 
people of our country. 

But the challenges are not less. Central and State governments are standing on one foot to suppress this 
movement. They are putting all their efforts. Entire Dandakaranya has turned into forest of Khaki forces. 
Thousands  of  armed  forces  are  deployed.  Claims  are  being  made  that  the  movement  will  be  completely 
suppressed in one year or so at the most. They are talking about encircling the Maad area and eliminate the 
naxalites.  From  all  these  talks  what  becomes  clear  is  that  the  people  of  Chattisgarh  are  going  to  face 
unspeakable violence in the coming days. Plans are being hatched for forcefully dislocating the people and 
shifting them to refugee camps in the lines of Salwa Judum. For this army’s help is being sought. Though 
army is not directly present the whole operation, it is a  military operation. You all must raise your voice 
against  this.  Not  only  raising  your  voice  you  have  to  open  many  struggle  fronts  in  support  of  the 
revolutionary movement. The people of Lagarh have placed a model before us. The heroic Lalgarh people 
with their strong mass base have added a new page in the Indian history of peoples’ struggles. There is huge 
pile of problems on all the sides of Chhattisgarh. Displacement is burning problem which is burning in the 
hearts  of  people  from  Kunta  area  to  Sarguja  area  passing  through  Raipur.  Raman  Singh  government  is 
moving  very  fast  to  hand  over  the  rich  natural  resources  to  big  capitalists  and  MNCs.  Immediately  after 
returning to power it has restructured the State electricity board playing with the lives of 17000 employees. 
The problems of revenue employees and teachers are still unresolved. Because of the anti-people policies of 
centre and state governments the prices have gone so high that it became difficult for the ordinary people to 
buy even rice and dal. This is when the government is claiming the whole-sale price index has reached the 
lowest in the last 30 years. Not only workers and peasants every section of the society is in problems. There 
is a need to coordinate all these struggles with revolutionary struggles as it is only the revolutionary struggle 
that can resolve all these problems. 
Hence  please  join  and  stand  by  the  revolutionary movement  under  our  party’s  leadership.  Oppose  all  the 
efforts of the government and ruling classes to suppress our movement. Initiate struggles against the anti-
people policies of government at every possible place. Expose the government’s lies and stand by the truth. 
 

*** 

