 

 
 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

Press Release on Gujarat Encounter Killings 

 

May 8, 2007 

 
 
THE  brutal  murder  of  Sohrabuddin  Sheikh  and  his  wife  Kausar  Bi  in  November  2005  in  Ahmedabad 
after arresting them from a bus in Hyderabad is only the tip of the iceberg of the cruel deeds and inhuman 
acts  of  the  lawless  police  system  in  India.  The  khaki-clad  criminals  had  proved  themselves  to  be  paid 
mercenaries  as  they  had  murdered  Sohrabuddin  after  their  pockets  were  filled  by  the  builder  lobby  of 
Gujarat  and  Rajasthan  for  the  ghastly  act.  And  to  eliminate  all  evidence  of  the  gruesome  murder  they 
murdered Kausar Bi three days after the murder of her husband at a farmhouse in Gandhi Nagar and her 
body was burnt in the ravines in Illol village in Sabarkantha district. Kausar Bi was also raped which has 
become the natural fate of any woman in police custody. These IPS criminals, with the full backing of the 
BJP  governments  in  Gujarat  and  Rajasthan,  had  also  eliminated  the  only  remaining  eyewitness  to  their 
arrest in Hyderabad, Tulsiram Prajapati, in December 2006. 
 
 
The  arrest  of  the  three  IPS  officers—DIG  Vanzara  and  SPs,  Raj  Kumar  Pandian  of  Gujarat  and 
Dinesh Kumar of Rajasthan, and their suspension after more than a week following the arrests, is a mere 
eye-wash as the killings were carried out clearly at the behest of Narendra Modi, the trader lobby and the 
political big-wigs of the BJP. The Congress, which has been clamouring for the resignation of Narendra 
Modi, is no less a culprit as its government in AP led by fascist YSR had fully cooperated with the BJP 
governments in Gujarat and Rajasthan in the illegal arrest of Sohrabuddin and Kausar Bi. 
 
 
The  Gujarat  fake  encounter  is  only  one  of  thousands  of  such  cases  that  have  been  taking  place  in 
various states in the country. In Kashmir alone over 70,000 youth had been killed after being arrested and 
several  women  were  raped  in  the  past  two  decades.  Mass  demonstrations  against  illegal  arrests,  murder 
and rape by the Army besides the central and state police forces have become a daily feature of Kashmir. 
And  these  repressive  forces  are  also  obsessed  with  communal  bias,  particularly  against  the  Muslims, 
which makes the atrocities more brutal and inhuman. 
 
  Mass  murders,  fake  encounter  killings,  brutal  torture  and  rape,  are  an  inseparable  part  of  the  state 
system in our country. Whether it is the government ruled by BJP or Congress, TDP, DMK or AIDMK, 
RJD or BJD, or the so-called Left like the CPI(M), or whichever party is in power, it basically relies on 
state  terror  and  state  sponsored  terror  to  control  the  masses  and  to  eliminate  the  opposition.  The  police, 
para-military forces and the Indian armed forces are all adept in staging fake encounters and committing 
indescribable atrocities whether it is on the revolutionaries and the struggling masses in Andhra Pradesh, 
Chattisgarh,  Bihar,  Jharkhand,  Orissa,  Bengal,  Maharashtra,  MP,  UP,  Karnataka  and  Tamil  Nadu,  the 
national  liberation  fighters  in  Kashmir  and  North  East,  Muslims  in  various  parts  of  the  country, 
particularly in states such as Gujarat. The rape and murder of Manorama in Manipur highlights the plight 
of  women  under  virtual  Army  rule  in  North  East.  Besides,  daily  killings  of  petty  criminals,  rape  and 
killing of arrested women is a feature of these trigger-happy cruel forces. 
 
 
The  AP  police  are  even  more  notorious  than  their  Gujarat  counterparts  in  staging  fake  encounters. 
They  had  committed  the  worst  atrocities  during  the  Congress  rule  under  Vengal  Rao,  Janardhan  Reddy 

and the present YSR’s fascist rule,1 murdering almost 2000 revolutionaries and sympathizers while over 
a  thousand  murders  were  committed  during  the  nine-year  rule  of  the  TDP.  AP  can  boast  of  several 
Vanzaras  who  had  committed  brutal  murders  after  arrests  and  torture  and  all  of  them  had  got  away 
unscathed  as  it  had  always  been  the  policy  of  the  successive  governments  to  carry  out  fake  encounters. 
Murderous DGPs like HJ Dora, Ramulu, Swaranjit Sen, DIGs like Gautam Sawang, Aravinda Rao, SPs 
like Balasubramanyam, Srinivasa Reddy, DT Naik, Surendra Babu, Praveen Kumar, Meena, Stephen 
Ravindra, Murali and many others are all masters in the art of torture and murder of revolutionaries. And 
all  these  criminals  received  promotions  and  huge  incentives  from  the  government  for  committing  these 
murders.  In  just  over  two  years  since  January  2005,  YSR’s  Congress  government  in  AP  had  murdered 
several leaders like Vadkapur Chandramouli, Gautam, Jagadeesh, Samala Venkatesh, Jangaiah, Mohan, 
Karuna and over three hundred revolutionaries and sympathizers after arresting them. And each of these 
officers is corrupt to the very core as the case of Murali, the SP of Vishkha rural, who is presently in jail 
for amassing illegal assets to the tune of Rs. 30 crores, clearly shows. 
 
  Gujarat fake encounter reveals the real face of the political system in India. It is not an exception but 
the  rule  in  present-day  India.  It  had  come  into  focus  only  because  of  the  serious  internal  contradictions 
within the BJP and among the various ruling class parties. No political party is really serious in stopping 
the fake encounters as brutal repression is the very basis for the survival of these parties. 
 
 
The CC, CPI(Maoist)  calls  upon all the democratic organizations  and individuals, people  of various  
nationalities  oppressed  by  the  Indian  state,  and  the  oppressed  masses  of  the  country  to  build  a  strong, 
united  and  militant  mass  movement  demanding  an  end  to  fake  encounters,  illegal  arrests,  torture  and 
atrocities against the people by the police, para-military and the Army, and to punish the perpetrators of 
such heinous crimes. 
 
 
Azad, 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI(Maoist) 
May 8, 2007 
 
 
 

[From: People’s March, vol. 8, #7, July 2007, p. 13.] 

 

