CPI(Maoist): 9th Congress 
 
 

Resolution Against Hindu Fascism 

 
The crisis of the Indian ruling classes is all round affecting not 
only the economic sphere, but also the social and political spheres. 
This is resulting in growing anger and revulsion of the masses of 
the people against the reactionary ruling classes. They are finding 
it increasingly difficult to continue their oppressive rule in the old 
forms. Consequently the ruling classes have developed fascist 
social forces with the aim of establishing full fledged fascist rule. 
Through this they hope not only to overcome this crisis but also 
establish rule with consent, and facilitate the intensification of 
imperialist exploitation. Under the “patriotic garb” of Hindutva 
policies, they are meekly implementing the imperialist-dictated 
policies of liberalization-privatisation-globalisation, especially 
after the 80’s. For this they are conducting a Hindu fascist 
campaign, on the basis of which they will try to establish open 
terrorist forms of rule. 

Since the early ’80s, the ruling classes have been promoting Hindu 
communalism, targeting religious minorities, with the hope of 
uniting the Hindu majority behind themselves. The Babri Masjid 
demolition in 1992 was a devious act committed with this very 
hope. The main vehicle of the Hindu fascist onslaught has been the 
BJP-RSS combine with its storm trooper organisations like the 
VHP, Bajarang Dal, etc. The Shiv Sena in Maharashtra too has 
been propped up to achieve this end. The Hindu fascists are 
particularly dangerous since they have the support of the most 
important arms of the state in all their activities. 

Feb 2002 was a high point when the Hindu fascist forces in their 

laboratory, the BJP-ruled state of Gujarat, organized the worst-ever 
communal genocide since 1947. Thousands of muslims were 
brutally killed, thousands burnt alive or maimed. Hundreds of 
muslim women were gang-raped and murdered. Muslim property 
was targeted with absolute precision and destroyed by Hindu state 
organized goons of VHP, RSS and Bajrang Dal in connivance with 
state armed forces. Even after four years, many of them have not 
been able to return to their native places because of the threat of 
Hindu fascists. 

While Gujarat was their own laboratory, similar hate campaigns 
against muslims were taken in Karnataka at Baba Budanagiri 
mazar, in Madhya Pradesh at Jhabua, in Rajasthan, in Maharashtra 
at Malegaon, and at various other places. They use the smallest 
opportunity to flare up the sentiments against muslims, like with 
the singing of vande mataram. 

The Indian state too has targeted muslims, branding them 
“terrorist.” After the 9/11 incident and the Parliament Attack Case 
muslims were targeted once again. Every muslim is supposed to 
prove his patriotism time and again. Indian state forces are even 
capturing and annihilating innocent muslims now and then, in the 
name of nabbing terrorists. Evidences implicating state and 
hindutva forces in “attacks” are being willfully suppressed, as can 
be seen in the Afzal Guru case and the attack on RSS headquarters 
at Nagpur. 

The Cong-led UPA came to power projecting itself as a secular 
force, but it is the Congress party itself that has been mainly 
responsible for most of the communal riots ever since the transfer 
of power. Congress party is even more pernicious. It projects itself 
as a messiah of muslims, but in real practice it leaves no stone 
unturned to spread malicious propaganda against muslims and 
other minorities. The anti-Sikh pogroms of 1984 were one such 
example. In the name of equally opposing all types of 

fundamentalism, CPI and CPI[M] have actually helped in 
maintaining the status-quo of domination by the Hindu fascists. 
Various regional parties have made alliances with the Hindu 
fascists for the sake of votes and have become apologists for the 
Hindu fascists. 

These Hindu fascists are trying to impose a hegemonistic Hindu 
culture on the various culturally diverse people of India. While 
their attacks are mainly concentrated against muslims, they are also 
targeting Christians, especially in the tribal areas, aggressively 
converting tribals to Hinduism. Similarly, they also attack dalits. 

The Unity Congress - 9th congress of the CPI(Maoist) calls upon 
the revolutionary masses, all democratic forces and the oppressed 
religious minorities to unite in a struggle against the Hindu 
fascists. The worldwide experience of the struggle against fascism 
teaches that the fascists can be defeated only by militant class 
struggle in the streets, factories and in the rest of the countryside. 
The fascists can be defeated only by isolating them from the 
people and smashing their organizational forces, and by 
developing and intensifying protracted peoples’ war with the aim 
of new democratic revolution, then socialism and ultimately 
establishing communism. The CPI(Maoist) pledges to fight 
resolutely against each and every instance of the trampling on the 
democratic rights of the oppressed minorities and others by the 
Hindu fascists. It pledges to do its best to defend the sections of the 
population targeted by the Hindu fascists. Our party is willing to 
unite in a broad front with all the genuine democratic forces which 
would be willing to fight back the Hindu fascist offensive. 

