COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

January 5, 2011 
 

Revolutionary homage to Civil Liberties leader Comrade KG Kannabiran! 

 
KG  Kannabiran  (KGK),  the  civil  liberties  leader,  democrat  and  close  friend  of  Indian  revolution, 
breathed  his  last  on  30  December,  2010  in  Hyderabad.  He  was  82.  His  demise  had  left  a  void  in  the  civil 
liberties movement of India. Kannabiran’s whole life was dedicated to the civil rights movement and he fought 
on behalf of the poor people in the bourgeois courts to protect them from the injustices of this system. He stood 
firmly  with  the  oppressed  people  fighting  state  violence  on  them.  He  always  stood  in  support  of  the 
revolutionary  masses.  KGK’s  life  was  inseparably  intertwined  with  the  more  than  four  decade  long 
revolutionary  movement  in  our  country.  He  did  not  cave  in  even  in  the  face  of  severe  repression  on  the  civil 
liberties movement in Andhra Pradesh or all over India. In this whole period he stood firmly with the oppressed 
people  fighting  state  violence  on  them.  He  was  not  only  a  civil  rights  leader  but  also  an  efficient  and  bold 
lawyer who undauntedly argued for the just things he stood for. In the post 70s, he left an indelible mark as a 
rare personality who had carved a niche in the field of civil liberties and also as a people’s lawyer in India. 

Kannabiran  was  influenced  by  communist  politics  in  his  youth  and  since  the  wake  of  Naxalbari  he 
walked  in  step  with  the  revolutionary  movement  in  our  country  waged  under  the  leadership  of  Maoists. 
Kannabiran’s activity as a civil rights leader started in the 1970s and his services in this field continued for four 
decades.  After  emergency  he  took  up  responsibilities  as  the  President  of  Andhra  Pradesh  Civil  Liberties 
Committee (APCLC) in 1978 and served in that post till 1993. He was elected the national president of People's 
Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) in 1994 and served in that post till last year. In this course he came closer to 
the revolutionary movement as the well-wisher of the oppressed people. He proved since the dark days of the 
emergency period of Indira raj that the “encounters” staged by the state are nothing but brutal murders. Even in 
his  last  days,  as  an  unflinching  civil  rights  leader  he  strongly  raised  his  voice  against  the  brutal  murders  of 
Comrades Rajkumar (Azad), Patel Sudhakar, Apparao and accused the state of perpetrating these murders. 

Since the days of emergency, KGK had stood in full support to all the agitations led by prisoners and 
political prisoners. During the historic jail agitation led by Maoist political prisoners in 1994-1995 in AP, KGK 
participated  in  the  talks  with  the  government.  Thus  he  strived  for  the  release  of  hundreds  of  prisoners  which 
included several revolutionary leaders. Due to the legal services offered by KGK, a number of prisoners could 
escape the dark dungeons of the jail  and gallows. Many among  them  had once  again  joined the revolutionary 
movement. In his last days, he worked as the President of Andhra Pradesh chapter of Committee for Release of 
Political Prisoners (CRPP). 

KGK  had  persistently  argued  in  courts  for  years  together  in  the  Parvatipuram,  Srikakulam, 
Secunderabad, Ramnagar and Bengaluru  and several other  conspiracy cases and had proved that revolution is 
no  conspiracy  and  that  revolutionaries  are  not  conspirators.  He  offered  free  legal  service  to  poor  people  on 
whom  false  cases  have  been  foisted.  KGK’s legal  service  were  not  limited  to  AP  alone,  he  freely  offered  his 
services  to  the  dalits  and  poor  peasants  who  fought  against  age-old  feudal  oppression  in  Bihar  and  other 
struggle areas. Due to his services, many peasants could escape the gallows. The revolutionary masses, dalits, 
adivasis  and  national  liberation  activists  would  always  fondly  remember  KGK  for  the  legal  services  he 
rendered to their movements as well as the moral support. He gave material help to fellow civil rights activists’ 
families when the activists faced state repression. The values and standards he established in his 50 year career 
as a lawyer are of a higher quality and worth emulating.   

KGK propagated about the callousness of the state in the  Indravelli massacre of adivasis in Adilabad, 
the burning of adivasi  villages in Manyam of Eastern Ghats and other  atrocities on them.  From the 1980s till 
Operation  Green  Hunt,  the  latest  offensive  of  the  state  on  the  fighting  masses,  KGK  had  consistently  and 
staunchly  fought  against  the  state  terror  on  the  adivasis  and  was  in  the  forefront  in  building  a  country-wide 
democratic movement against it.   

KGK  played  a  crucial  role  during  the  talks  between  the  CPI  (Maoist)  and  the  government  in  AP  in 
2004. He criticized the government when it withdrew from the talks and began a grave offensive on the Maoists 
and  exposed  the  sham  behind  its  mantra  of  peace  chanted  till  then.  Even  when  the  revolutionary  movement 
faced a setback in AP he fought firmly against state violence and inspired others. 

KGK  was  a  voracious  reader  and  a  prolific  and  creative  writer.  He  wrote  extensively  against  state 
violence and on people’s issues. He wrote on the anti-people provisions in the constitution and the inadequacies 

in the laws. Particularly during his last days his writings on revolutionary leaders who were brutally murdered 
by the state eulogizing their contributions had earned an eternal place in the hearts of the oppressed masses. 

The Central Committee of CPI (Maoist) expresses its deep grief at the demise of Comrade Kannabiran 
and humbly pays revolutionary homage to him on behalf of the whole revolutionary camp. It is sending its deep 
condolences to his family members, colleagues in the civil liberties movement and friends. Our party sees this 
decades-long  service  of  KGK  for  genuine  democracy,  independence  and  oppression-free  India  as  an 
inseparable  part  of  the  broader  movement  for  the  establishment  of  people’s  democratic  society.  The 
establishment of a New Democratic society would ensure in the real sense all the democratic rights fought for 
by comrades like KGK to all the marginalized and deprived people of India and we once again appeal to all on 
this  solemn  occasion  to  vow  to  carry  on  the  struggle  for  such  a  society.  It  is  appealing  to  all  democrats, 
intellectuals, lawyers and writers to continue the ideals and values he established and to continue his fight for 
the democratic  rights of the oppressed masses of India.  That would be the real homage one  could pay to this 
great democrat. 
 

 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

