COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

Red Homage to Veteran Communist and People’s Leader 

August 29, 2014 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release
 

Comrade M T Khan 

Comrade  M  T  Khan,  who  was  one  of  the  pioneering  leaders  of  the  civil  rights’  and  revolutionary  writers’ 
movements of Andhra Pradesh (including the present day Telangana) breathed his last on August 20, 2014. With 
his death, the CPI (Maoist) and the New Democratic Revolution led by it have lost one of their long-standing and 
staunch fellow travelers and the oppressed masses have lost one of their most vocal well-wishers who stood by 
them till the end. Our CC, CPI(Maoist) is paying humble red homage on behalf of all its ranks to veteran comrade 
M T Khan and is sending its deepest condolences to his family, friends and all the democratic and revolutionary 
organisations that he was part of and to all his comrades-in-arms who grieve his death.  

Mohammed  Tajuddin,  fondly  called  as  Khan  Saheb  by  all,  was  born  in  1935  near  Purana  Pul  darwaza  in 
Hyderabad. He studied in City College till High School and completed his intermediate course in Vivekvardhani 
College. Though he joined the Osmania University for his BA course he could not complete it due to financial 
reasons. He was influenced by the communist, peasant and student movements raging in Telangana in that period 
and  turned  towards  communism  at  a  very  young  age.  He  joined  the  CPI  and  even  worked  as  a  courier  to  the 
legendary  communist  leader  of  Hyderabad  and  revolutionary  poet  comrade  Makhdum  Mohiuddin  during  the 
glorious Telangana Armed Peasant Struggle. Makhdum was a great influence on him that he cherished till the end. 
He joined the Progressive Writers’ Association and contributed in the literary field too. 

When there was a split in the CPI in 1964, he joined the CPM hoping that this would completely sever itself 
from revisionism and lead the revolution in India. His hopes were dashed when CPM leadership continued in the 
revisionist path. With the dawn of Naxalbari in 1967 and eruption of Srikakulam Armed Peasant Struggle in 1968 
he left the CPM and unequivocally chose the Naxalbari path. Once he chose the correct path he neither wavered nor 
looked back and continued staunchly in that path till he breathed his last.  

After the martyrdom of comrade Charu Mazumdar in 1972 and setback in the movement, there were attempts 
to reunite the party at an all India level and to revive the movement in AP by the party leadership. Khan Saheb was 
one of the handful of persons who stood steadfast by the party leadership and helped in these efforts. The Andhra 
Pradesh Provincial Committee decided to publish in 1972, a magazine named ‘Pilupu’ (The Call). Khan Saheb took 
up the responsibility as its printer and publisher taking great risks to his life and livelihood. The role of ‘Pilupu’ in 
rallying  the  genuine  revolutionaries  around  the  protracted  people’s  war  path  by  fighting  back  and  defeating  the 
right opportunists who were trying to malign comrade Charu Mazumdar personally and the great Naxalbari and 
Srikakulam revolutionary movements and proposing the liquidationist line was very crucial in that period. When 
we remember the number of persons who left the movement in the face of repression or hardship, the number of 
persons who attacked the party/movement with right opportunism and their disruptive activities, we can correctly 
appreciate the role of persons like Khan Saheb in that period.  

He  was  arrested  under  MISA  in  1973  and  was  implicated  in  the  Secunderabad  Conspiracy  Case  in  1974. 
During the entire period of Emergency he was behind bars but he kept alive the revolutionary spirit inside himself 
and his fellow prisoners. At that period prisons were centers of various kinds of ideological and political struggles, 
hot  discussions  and  sharp  demarcations  on  differing  positions  in  the  party/various  splits  that  came  up  after  the 
setback  of  the  movement.  Taking  the  correct  line  during  those  tumultuous  years  was  not  an  easy  task  but  he 
succeeded in that. He emerged steeled out of this experience.   

He was a member of the Revolutionary Writers Association (Virasam) since its formation in July 1970 and was 
in  the  forefront  in  conducting  its  first  conference  in  Hyderabad  in  1971.  Virasam  played  a  crucial  role  in 
propagating MLM and upholding the Naxalbari and Srikakulam Struggles in that period and M T Khan played his 
role  in  this. Khan Saheb was  also  a  founder  member  of  the  APCLC  in  1974  and  contributed  to  the  civil  rights 
movement in AP in particular and at an all India level in general. When severe repression was unleashed by the 
Vengal Rao government and fake encounters became the norm not to mention the countless brutalities heaped on 
the poor adivasis of Srikakulam and other movement areas, the formation and role of APCLC in fighting for the 

 

1

rights of the people is very important. M T Khan made his contributions to this. He also served as its President 
from 1992 to 1998.  

Initially  during  the  days  of  Naxalbari,  mass  organisations  were  not  formed  as  they  were  bogged  down  in 
reformist practice under the revisionist CPI and CPM. Later this stand was reviewed and initiative was taken to 
form them in AP. So when the revolutionary writers and democrats of AP supporting the Naxalbari and Srikakulam 
movements  decided  to  organise  themselves  into  Virasam  and  APCLC,  it  was  done  by  basing  on  committed 
activists,  capable  comrades  who  could  lead  them  and  were  steeled  in  practice  without  becoming  victims  to 
reformism  like  the  mass  organisations  of  CPI,  CPM  and  several  other  right  opportunists.  The  role  of  these  two 
organisations in raising the revolutionary and democratic consciousness of the Telugu people in all these decades 
needs no elaboration and the contribution of Khan Saheb as part of these should not be forgotten.  

He also served in Indo-China Friendship Association for a few years till China remained a socialist country and 
disassociated himself after it turned revisionist. He was the leader of the forums that were formed against religious 
riots  in  Hyderabad  and  was  in  the  forefront  of  the  forums  formed  and  the  movements  built  against  encounters, 
release of political prisoners, State’s attacks on activists, in the movement for separate statehood for Telangana and 
several other agitations that were waged for people’s democratic rights.  

His  contributions  and  interests  ranged  from  civil  rights  and  literature  to  arts  and  theatre.  He  wrote  several 
poems and articles and translated several pieces into Urdu. He drafted and translated several pamphlets into Urdu to 
propagate  revolutionary  politics  among  the  Muslim  population,  particularly  in  Hyderabad.  He  wrote  to  Urdu 
magazines like Siasat and English magazines like News Time expounding new democratic politics and analysing 
various issues with a historical materialist viewpoint. 

For  more  than  six  decades  he  was  active  in  public  life,  served  in  positions  fulfilling  the  responsibilities  the 
movements bestowed upon him during various crucial periods, all for realising the dream of communism. Till the 
end he stood as pillar of support not only to Virasam and APCLC but also to all the revolutionary and democratic 
organisations and movements in AP and Telangana and the younger generations in these organisations looked up to 
him as one of their mentors. Given the fact that some of his earlier companions and some of those who joined the 
work  in  the  later  periods  could  not  withstand  the  various  pressures  (ranging  from  enemy  repression  to  family 
constraints) or lost confidence on the ideology of MLM/the revolutionary movement or even became downright 
selfish  and  left  the  movement,  his  continuation  till  the  end  stands  tall.  After  the  setback  of  the  movement  in 
AP/Telangana after a series of encounters of top leadership, the past decade demanded a great amount of resilience 
and perseverance from the mass organisation leaders and cadres. Khan Saheb was one of those veterans who helped 
keep the red flag aloft under such adverse conditions in the manners he was capable of. This should always be 
remembered as an ideal about such veteran comrades. 

Even today the revolutionary movement has not made many advances in taking the revolutionary politics into 
the  religious  minorities,  particularly  into  the  Muslims,  in  spite  of  clearly  articulating  the  need  in  theory.  Khan 
Saheb had played a crucial role in fulfilling this responsibility to the extent he could. One of the ways to pay real 
homage to him would be to put earnest efforts to fulfill this unfinished task. His adherence to Naxalbari politics 
should be placed as an ideal before the religious minorities to emulate. This becomes even more necessary in a 
context when the State is increasingly becoming Hindu biased and fascistic and targeting them.  

He led a simple life and was very humane in his approach. In an ambience of consumerism it is a high ideal to 
lead a simple life and not forget one’s roots. He faced several financial problems throughout his life but he never let 
them dampen his revolutionary enthusiasm or divert him from his goals.  

The  CC,  CPI(Maoist)  once  again  vows  to  fulfill  the  dreams  of  martyrs  like  comrade  M  T  Khan  and  the 
thousands of martyrs of the New Democratic Revolution in our country by smashing this exploitative system and 
establishing genuine democracy and freedom for our people. Ushering in a new democratic society where people 
enjoy civil rights and where people’s literature and culture develop in full bloom would be a fitting homage to him 
as he held these causes close to his heart. His entire life and work have several important aspects that every young 
activist should know, grasp and emulate. We are appealing to all to propagate and keep alive the memories and 
ideals of our beloved Khan Saheb.  

 

2

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee,  
 

CPI (Maoist) 

