COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

July 29, 2012 

Red Salutes to Veteran of Srikakulam Struggle & 
Epitome of Staunch Communist Commitment  

Comrade Goru Madhava Rao 

 The  revolutionary  movement  in  our  country  has  lost  another  great  fighter.  The 
communist fighter Comrade Goru Madhava Rao who arose from the flames of Srikakulam 
armed struggle died on July 18, 2012 in his native village Jinkibhadra due to old age. He has 
88 years. He stood steadfast with the oppressed masses and greatly served the revolutionary 
movement  for  nearly  five  decades  since  he  joined  the  ‘Tegimpu  Sangham’  (revolutionary 
peasant organization) as a youth and till he breathed his last. He stood as a huge pillar of 
support for the movement and his martyrdom left a void for the revolutionary movement.  

Comrade Madhava Rao was born in a poor family in Jinkibhadra village (Sompeta 
Mandal,  Srikakulam  district).  As  the  communist  movement  was  strong  in  that  area,  he 
imbibed  revolutionary  ideas  since  his  childhood.  The  impact  of  the  movement  led  by  popular  revolutionary  leader 
Comrade Tamada Ganapathy and other comrades in that area was strong on him. In those days ‘Tegimpu Sanghams’ 
were formed in each village. The young Madhava Rao joined the Sangham of his village and became its activist. Soon 
he developed into a communist party member.  

Madhava  Rao got  married  while  working  in  the  movement  and  introduced  revolutionary  politics  to  his  life 
partner Comrade Muthyalu too. He paid attention in teaching communist politics to her as he believed them with all his 
heart. They had two girl children.  

The  Naxalbari  armed  peasant  rebellion  led  by  Comrade  Charu  Mazumdar  showed  the  path  for  the 
revolutionaries in our country and in Srikakulam too genuine revolutionaries rejected the modern revisionism of CPM 
and chose the path of armed struggle. When the question whether to start armed struggle in Srikakulam or not arose, the 
right opportunists tried to postpone the armed struggle by resorting to several excuses. The communist revolutionaries 
argued that armed struggle must be launched immediately. Comrade Madhava Rao stood on the side arguing for the 
launch of armed struggle and displayed clear understanding regarding revolutionary line from the beginning. Thus the 
effort  put  by  Comrade  Madhava  Rao  and  all  the  Srikakulam  revolutionaries  in  those  days  in  rejecting  modern 
revisionism and in breaking its back and later in defeating right opportunist politics and holding aloft the line of armed 
struggle was very crucial in establishing correct revolutionary line in our country. This would serve as guidance for 
practice for generations of revolutionaries to come.  

As soon as armed struggle was launched in the district, Comrade Madhava Rao responded to party’s call and 
joined it as a professional revolutionary. Comrade Muthyalu welcomed his decision. He joined the guerilla squad led by 
the  legendary  woman  commander  Comrade  Pachadi  Nirmala.  He  stood  in  the  forefront  in  several  revolutionary 
activities  conducted  by  that  squad.  With  the  information  provided  by  an  informer,  the  mercenary  police  and 
paramilitary forces surrounded their squad early in the morning on December 22, 1969 and cruelly shot dead comrades 
Nirmala, Ankamma, Saraswathi, Tamada China Babu, Subbarao Panigrahi and Ramesh Chandra Sahu after torturing 
them  inhumanly.  Comrade  Madhava  Rao  who  was  in  the  squad  when  this  happened  could  escape  from  the  enemy 
dragnet. Later he worked along with comrades Dr. Chaganti Bhaskar Rao and Devineni Mallikarjuna Rao in Uddanam 
area.  Comrade  Madhava  Rao  was  arrested  in  1971,  was  given  life  sentence  based  on  false  evidences  and  put  in 
Visakhapatnam  jail.  He  again  began  working  as  a  professional  revolutionary  since  his  release  from  jail  in  1979. 
Comrade Muthyalu also worked as a PR and till 1990 both of them fulfilled several technical needs of the party. 

Madhava Rao participated as a delegate in Andhra Pradesh State 12th Conference held in 1980 September and 
the AP State 13th Conference held in 1987 of the erstwhile CPI (ML) [People’s War]. He conducted proceedings as the 
President in the 12th Conference and unfurled the Party Flag in the 13th Conference.  

When fascist repression intensified on the revolutionary movement and centers of revolutionary publications 
and sales like ‘Kranti Publications’ and ‘Peace Book Center’ were targeted by the state, Comrade Madhava Rao served 
as one of the centers for publication of revolutionary literature in AP. He published banned literature that the ruling 
classes wanted to stop from reaching the people and earned the ire of the state. He published several books belonging to 

erstwhile CPI (ML) [PW] and later CPI (Maoist) with his address and played a great role in propagating revolutionary 
literature. Though the state threatened him with arrest if he published naxalite literature, he did not dither and went on 
publishing revolutionary literature and continuously transmitted revolutionary ideas to the people. This revolutionary 
commitment of Comrade Madhava Rao is worth emulating. He participated in various people’s struggles, in movements 
of students, youth and women, in united front activities of the people and put efforts for their advancement as much as 
he can.  

Comrade  Madhava  Rao  had  immense  confidence  in  the  party  line.  Though  the  Srikakulam  armed  struggle 
suffered  a  setback,  though  Pulla  Reddy,  Nagi  Reddy  groups  tried  to  liquidate  the  revolutionary  line  with  right 
opportunism, though Pyla Vasudeva Rao who was elected the party’s State Secretary after the martyrdom of Comrade 
Adibhatla Kailasam joined hands with Satyanarayana Singh and turned into a liquidationist and though liquidationists 
like Choudary Tejeswara Rao tried to divide the party, Comrade Madhava Rao did not leave the party or the party line. 
Comrade Madhava Rao was one of those few revolutionaries who held aloft the revolutionary line when the Srikakulam 
movement  suffered  several  losses  and  damage  and  when  several  revolutionaries  were  leaving  the  revolution  and 
running away. He stood staunchly with the revolutionary side during his incarceration in jail too. He always strongly 
criticized the methods of right opportunists that tried to cause damages to the revolutionary line. He was very much 
inspired with the deluge of revolutionary peasant movement that began from the end of 1970s in AP. He imparted the 
experiences of Srikakulam armed struggle to the delegates of the new generation of revolutionaries who attended the 
12th State Conference and inspired them a lot.  

When  Satyamurthi  and  Kondapalli  Seetharamaiah  created  internal  crisis  in  the  party  in  1985  and  1991 
respectively,  Comrade  Madhava  Rao  stood  firmly  with  the  revolutionary  movement.  Though  the  AP  movement 
suffered  a  setback  in  2006-2007,  he  held  aloft  the  party  flag  in  AP  and  continued  his  revolutionary  practice.  He 
imparted party’s message to the revolutionary ranks and people inside the state and by traveling to several areas in the 
country and strove hard to further increase confidence in them towards the revolutionary movement.  

As  Comrade  Madhava  Rao  and  his  life  partner  Comrade  Muthyalu  worked  in  the  movement  they  had  no 
private  property  whatsoever.  When  he  went  underground  during  the  Srikakulam  movement,  she  bravely  withstood 
several difficulties with their young daughters. Even in those difficult days, she looked after the revolutionary activists 
who came to her home like a mother with lot of affection. She was a party member too. The couple rejected feudal 
values while raising their girl children. Comrade Muthyalu breathed her last on June 30, 1993. Comrade Madhava Rao 
led  a  very  simple  life.  He  was  born  in  an  utterly  poor  family  and  imbibed  communist  ideals.  That  was  why  his 
simplicity was reflected in the manner he maintained the several dens according to the needs of the movement. There 
was never any pretense or show put-up in his manner or words. Though he was one of the most senior comrades in the 
revolutionary movement and fulfilled several responsibilities according to the needs of the movement as assigned by the 
party,  he  never  gave  a  thought  as  to  what  his  level  in  the  party  was.  Such  was  his  unselfish  nature.  The  den  he 
maintained  in  Kolkata  served  as  a  reliable  center  for  the  erstwhile  MCC  party  during  merger  talks  between 
revolutionaries in India as he was a veteran of Srikakulam movement and had enormous faith in the party line. The 
erstwhile MCC stream of comrades had enormous confidence and respect on him.  

The lessons imparted by the Naxalbari and Srikakulam movements are very valuable for the present history. 
Similarly,  the  practice  of  Naxalbari  generation  of  revolutionaries  like  that  of  Comrade  Madhava  Rao,  their 
uncompromising struggle with modern revisionism, left and right opportunisms, their staunch commitment towards the 
liberation  of  the  oppressed  masses  and  unflinching  confidence  on  the  line  of  the  revolutionary  party  are  also  most 
valuable to the next generations and worth emulating in practice. It is not only the younger generation of revolutionaries 
but  also  every  democrat  and  intellectual  who  wishes  to  liberate  our  country  from  feudal,  comprador  bureaucratic 
bourgeois and imperialist exploitation and oppression that must learn from the life and practice of Comrade Madhava 
Rao, a veteran of Indian revolutionary movement. In the backdrop where some persons are leaving the revolutionary 
path showing various reasons and excuses as they are not able to withstand the ups and downs, difficulties and travails 
and enemy repression in the course of revolutionary movement, the ideal of comrades like Madhava Rao who continued 
in the revolutionary movement till the end through decades of practice must be held aloft, followed and propagated 
widely. 

With the martyrdom of Comrade Goru Madhava Rao, the party and the revolutionary masses have lost a great 
revolutionary fighter who held aloft the party line for more than five decades. CPI (Maoist) Central Committee pays 
revolutionary homage to him with bowed heads on behalf of the entire revolutionary ranks. It pledges to carry forward 
his aspirations till they are fulfilled.  

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, CPI (Maoist) 

