 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 
DANDAKARANYA SPECIAL ZONAL COMMITTEE 

In Support of the Australian Indigenous Peoples' Struggle 

Press Release

 

 

1 June , 2015 

against Adani 

The indigenous people of Australia have been waging struggle against 
Adani group, one of the big industrial houses of India and the nearest and 
dearest of Prime Minister Narendra Modi which is looting their jal, jungle, 
jameen (water, forest and land) and resources. This is inseparable part of 
the worldwide struggle being fought for the right of the people over jal, 
jungle, jameen and resources. Adani group has signed a deal with 
Australian government to develop a coal mine in Queens Land with an 
investment of 19 thousand and 500 crores. People have already knocked 
the doors of the court in this regard. Our party is very much enthusiastic 
and inspired with the Australian indigenous peoples' struggle and heartily 
supports it. We call upon them to continue and intensify the struggle to stop 
Adani's coal mine project. 

The international finance capital is trying to put the burden of it's 

crisis on the shoulders of the people of the oppressed countries. Under this 
conspiracy, MoUs relating to big dams, big mining projects, big industries 
and special economic zones (SEZs) are signed at a large scale. In India to 
speed up the implementation of these projects the war on people under the 
name of Operation Green Hunt (OGH) is being intensified. In the forest 
areas of India where the tribal population comprises vast majority, the 
indigenous people are fighting militantly and in an organized way against 
domestic and foreign big corporate houses like Tata, Essar, Jindal, Mittal, 
Neco, Vedanta, Posco, Salem, TPG etc., to establish their right over jal, 
jungle, jameen and resources. In the majority of such areas people are 
fighting under the leadership our party with better coordination between 
peoples' movements and people's war. In Dandakaranya and Bihar - 
Jharkhand to establish self rule and for genuine development people are 
trying to establish and expand the organs of the people's democratic state 
power-Janatana sarkars in their embryonic form by throwing out the 
exploitative state power.  

The Indian comprador capitalist class is investing it's capital in 

backward and other countries of the world to serve the interests of the 
international finance capital and as well as to get commission and share 
from it's loot. Since Modi took oath as prime minister, trying hard to tooth 
and nail to make his nearest and dearest capitalist friends get lands, mines, 
contracts, leases and opportunities to invest in India and abroad. Coal mine 

project of Adani in Queens Land of Australia should be seen in this context 
only. The social life of the indigenous people will be badly affected by such 
projects. Not only this, the displacement problem will also arise. The 
environmental balance will also be affected so badly. The economic life, life 
style, cultural life and social composition everything will be destroyed. 
Exploitative ruling classes have nothing to do with the life and miseries of 
the people. They are only meant for profits, and just for super profits. Our 
party once again appeals to the indigenous people of Australia who are 
fighting against Adani to stand firm in their struggle. Our party declares 
that it always stand firm by the oppressed people of the world in the 
struggle against the exploitation and suppression of the international 
finance capital. We call upon to widely use all kinds of struggle forms viz, 
mass movements, legal forms and armed resistance. Our party calls upon 
the workers, peasants, indigenous people, tribal social organizations and 
human rights organizations of India and the world to provide every possible 
support to the Indigenous people of Australia in their struggle against 
Adani.   

                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                   (Gudsa Usendi) 

            

               Spokesperson, 
Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee,  
CPI (Maoist). 

 

 

