“Building on the new, unique and unprecedented 

achievements of the last decade, Indian revolution will 
certainly overcome the difficult situation to win newer, 

larger and more glorious victories” 

 

Maoist  Information  Bulletin  (MIB)  Interviews  CPI(Maoist)  General  Secretary 
Comrade  Ganapathy  on  the  Occasion  of  the  Tenth  Anniversary  Celebrations  of  the 
Formation of the United Party 

 

MIB: Revolutionary greetings to you and all our comrades from all of us at MIB on 
the occasion of the Party’s Tenth Anniversary.  

Ganapathy  (GP):  Thank  you.  Revolutionary  greetings  to  all  our  comrades  at  MIB  on 
behalf of our Central Committee.  

 

MIB:  What  do  you  think  are  the  party’s  significant  achievements  in  the  past  ten 
years? 

GP:  Since  the  formation  of  the  Communist  Party  of  India  in  1925,  the  history  of  the 
revolutionary  movement  in  our  country  has  witnessed  some  momentous  periods.  Of  all 
these, the period covering the past decade is not only unique and marked by some of the 
most  significant  developments  in  our  Protracted  People’s  War  (PPW)  waged  for  the 
victory  of  New  Democratic  Revolution  (NDR)  since  Naxalbari,  but  is  also  witness  to 
something new and unprecedented in the entire history of class struggle in our country. 

The significance of this decade lies in – 

Ushering in a single guiding centre for the NDR of India;  

The  Party,  Army  and  United  Front  (UF),  i.e.,  the  three  magic  weapons  of  the 

revolution becoming stronger than before;  

Enrichment  of  the  political  line,  military  line,  UF  policy  and  several  policies  in 
the  form  of  united  party  documents  -  Unity  Congress  documents,  policy  papers, 
important resolutions, summing-ups, articles, etc.;  

Further  development  of  the  military  line  and  significant  advances  in  waging 
guerilla warfare, the participation of the vast masses, as never before, in the PPW giving 
it a true mass nature and rich and new experiences in defeating some of the most brutal 
counter-revolutionary suppression campaigns of the enemy;  

Rich  and  new  experiences  in  building  mass  movements  against  imperialism, 
feudalism  and  bureaucratic  capitalism  by  mobilising  broad  masses  of  the  people, 
particularly the peasantry, around issues of Jal, Jungle, Zameen, Izzat and Adhikar;  

Rich and  new experiences  in  building strategic UF  in the  form of  Revolutionary 
People’s Committees (RPCs) at a primary level and better and new experiences in tactical 

 

1 

UFs,  recognition  of RPCs  as an alternative  model  of development that  could  be applied 
successfully  in  contrast  to  the  anti-people,  country-selling  development  model  of  the 
ruling classes;  

In  spite  of  being  in  a  very  difficult  situation  at  present,  Indian  Revolution 
withstanding  a  brutal  unprecedented  countrywide  repression  campaign  waged  by  the 
fascist  Indian  regime  with  the  support  of  the  imperialists,  particularly  US  imperialists, 
keeping alive the hope for revolution among the people of India and the world;  

Considerable support for the fighting revolutionary masses from the most diverse 
sections  of  the  Indian  society,  both  against  OGH  and  in  support  of  the  People’s  War 
(PW);  

The merger into one party of CPI(Maoist) and CPI(M-L)NAXALBARI as another 

turning point in the effort to achieve unity of genuine revolutionaries in our country; 

PW  in  India  serving  as  one  of  the  important  focal  points  around  which 
international unity of Maoist forces and an international solidarity and support movement 
could be built. 

These new and significant developments of the past decade were achieved on the 
basis of the new ideology, new politics, new line, new party, new army and new people’s 
front ushered in by the glorious Naxalbari armed peasant rebellion and formulated under 
the leadership of the great founding leaders of our party comrades Charu Mazumdar and 
Kanhai Chatterji. All the developments of the past decade were achieved amidst and by 
fighting  back  relentless  brutal  enemy  suppression  campaigns  on  the  one  hand,  and 
through bitter inner party  struggles against right and  ‘left’ opportunism that raised their 
head inside the party at various crucial junctures of the movement, on the other.  

One of the most significant features of the Indian revolutionary movement is the 
glorious sacrifices made both by the communists and the masses for the liberation of our 
country,  without  which  none  of  the  above  significant  and  new  successes  of  the  past 
decade could have been achieved. Through these sacrifices, the party has put forward an 
alternative  mode  of  thinking  and  culture  representing  the  highest  human  values  as 
opposed to the  rotten, decadent and self-centered  mode of  thinking and culture  instilled 
by  the  ruling  classes  among  the  masses.  In  this  way,  these  sacrifices  have  inspired  the 
oppressed classes and sections of the society to fight for revolutionary change. 

 

MIB: What are the main challenges faced by the party now? What opportunities do 
you see to overcome them? 

GP:  The  following  are  the  main  challenges  our  movement  is  facing  at  present.  First, 
preserving our subjective  forces, particularly the  strategic  leadership of the party. Since 
the formation of the new party, we have lost a considerable number of party leaders at all 
levels  starting  from  the  central  committee  to  the  village  level  party  committees. 
Therefore, we have  identified the preservation of  existing subjective  forces  from enemy 
attacks  as  one  of  the  foremost  tasks  before  the  party.  Understanding  the  importance  of 
preserving  the  subjective  forces  and  protecting  them,  we  must  adopt  secret  and 
appropriate  methods of  functioning,  rectify our  mistakes  in  it and  firmly  implement the 
lessons  learnt  from  our  practice,  prepare  new  leadership  and  raise  the  consciousness  of 

 

2 

the  entire  party  about  the  need  of  a  strong  party  with  continuation  of  leadership  as  a 
condition for the success of the revolution.  

Second, the revolutionary  movement has weakened  in  the  rural  plains and urban 
areas. This is one of the factors leading to the difficult situation the party is facing today. 
It  is a challenge  before us to  revive and expand the  movement in areas where our party 
have been present for long but weakened over time. Similarly, we also need to expand the 
movement to newer areas and open new battlefronts in order to broaden the arena of the 
people’s  war.  In  light  of  the  rich  experience  of  our  movement,  we  should  utilise  the 
conditions  that  are  becoming  increasingly  favourable  for  advancing  the  revolution 
without  repeating  the  past  errors.  In  this  way,  we  can  definitely  overcome  the  difficult 
situation and take the movement forward.  

Third,  some  people  are  trying  to  spread  confusion  in  the  revolutionary  camp  by 
claiming  that  changes  in  socio-economic  conditions  have  transformed  India  into  a 
capitalist  country.  They  also  put  forward  the  incorrect  view  that  the  line  of  PPW  has 
become  irrelevant.  But  the  path  of  PPW  have  been  proven  in  practice  to  be  the  only 
correct  revolutionary  path  for  the  success  of  the  NDR  in  a  semi-colonial  semi-feudal 
country  like  India.  Therefore,  we  must  guard  against  such  erroneous  views  and  expose 
them. At the same time, we must deeply study the economic, political, social and cultural 
changes and bring appropriate changes to our tactics.  

Fourth,  the  Brahmanical  Hindu  fascist  forces  have  come  to  power  at the  centre, 
which reflects a  further consolidation of the  ideology, politics and culture of the  feudal 
and reactionary forces. International finance and the comprador bureaucratic bourgeoisie 
backed Modi-led BJP in its ascendance to power, which was complimented by communal 
polarisation in some places engineered by the Sangh Parivar. After coming to power, BJP 
is  implementing pro-imperialist, country-selling policies at a breakneck pace catering to 
the needs of foreign and Indian big capitalists and big landlords, while at the same time 
advancing the Hindu-fascist agenda in various forms. This will provide new avenues for 
uniting  all  the  democratic,  progressive,  secular  and  patriotic  forces  in  struggle.  Newer 
and  more  numerous  classes,  social  sections,  forces  and  people  of  the  society  would  be 
brought  into  the  arena  of  struggle,  and  new  opportunities  for  advancing  the  PPW  will 
open up.   

Fifth, the objective world situation is becoming increasingly more favourable for 
revolution. The imperialist world economy is still reeling under a serious crisis and all the 
fundamental contradictions in the world are sharpening. Consequently, the revolutionary, 
democratic and  national  liberation  forces all over the world are gaining strength against 
imperialism and its domestic props. Maoist forces too are consolidating.  But at the same 
time,  socialist  bases  no  longer  exist  and  the  subjective  forces  in  the  international 
communist  movement  (ICM)  too  are  weak  at  present.  This  too  presents  a  considerable 
challenge before us.  

 

MIB: After the merger of the party and the PLGA, we have seen that a qualitative 
change  has  occurred  in  the  development  of  the  PLGA  and  intensification  and 
expansion  of  the  guerilla  warfare.  But  now  there  seems  to  be  deceleration  in  this. 
How does the party plan to accelerate it again and advance?  

 

3 

GP: Your observation is correct. That is why some spectacular successes were won in the 
past decade. And the observation that there has been a deceleration in it is also correct as 
we can  observe  this  since  2011. The CC  summed up the situation  in 2013 and assessed 
that our movement is facing a very difficult situation. But this is at different levels in our 
different  Guerilla  Zones  (GZ).  In  the  past  ten  years,  there  has  been  unevenness  in  the 
development and also in the subsequent weakening of our different GZs. Just as there is 
unevenness in the economic, social and political conditions in our country, similarly not 
only among the different GZs but also in the entire countrywide revolutionary movement 
there  is unevenness. This  is a  law  of  the PPW. Undoubtedly,  it  is our subjective efforts 
that  advances  the  guerilla  war,  a  matter  which  is  not  to  be  disputed.  However,  guerilla 
war  has  advanced  in  the  different  zones  on  the  basis  of  different  economic,  social, 
political,  historical  and  geographical  conditions.  Likewise,  these  conditions  also  form  a 
basis for the ups and downs in guerilla warfare. We should not ignore this fact. 

From 2011, we have gained some significant achievements in some states/GZs in 
the  military  front,  in  building  mass  struggles  and  in  expanding  the  movement.  The 
movement was developed  in some GZs  in this period  by keeping the RPCs as the  focal 
point and consolidating the party. Yet we have faced a deceleration. The party identified 
the  reasons  for  this  deceleration  and  geared  the  entire  party,  PLGA  and  mass 
organisations  for overcoming this  situation and this  should  be  seen as a positive aspect. 
The OGH second phase  began  in 2011 and the OGH third phase has started after Modi-
led NDA government came to power. So we should keep in mind that all these were done 
amidst  severe  offensives  and  by  fighting  them  back.  The  party  also  acknowledges  and 
wholeheartedly  appreciates  the  positive  role  played  by  the  democratic  and  patriotic 
sections of the society in lending their voice and support to the struggles of the people for 
Jal, Jungle, Zameen, Izzat, Adhikar and also their vehement opposition to the OGH. This 
also had its share in sustaining the people’s fighting spirit. 

In fighting back this counter-revolutionary war since mid-2009, the difference in 
the strength of the revolutionary forces and  that of the counter-revolutionary forces was 
very wide. Guerilla forces were deployed at a company  level to annihilate platoon level 
forces of the enemy.  Guerilla  forces at battalion  level  began to wipe out company  level 
enemy  forces.  In  these  conditions,  the  enemy  deployed  tens  of  thousands  to  one  lakh 
forces in every GZ. So due to the gap between the strengths of the opposing forces, new 
unfavorable  conditions  arose  for  waging  our  guerilla  war.  The  huge  deployment  of  the 
enemy forces was not only to crush our armed resistance but also to suppress the upsurge 
of  mass  movements  witnessed  in  this  decade  such  as  the  historic  Nandigram,  Lalgarh, 
Narayanpatna  and  several  significant  movements  in  almost  all  GZs.  Thus,  the  Maoist 
movement emerged as an alternative to this decadent system.  

The  deceleration  that  occurred  need  not  be  seen  only  as  the  result  of  enemy 
repression,  but  is  also  a  fallout  of  our  subjective  weaknesses.  To  come  out  of  this 
situation,  we  have  identified  our  mistakes  and  weaknesses  and  taken  up  the 
Bolshevisation  of  the  party,  the  PLGA  and  mass  organisations.  At  the  same  time,  we 
should also look at the objective conditions that led to it. We had taken up certain tactics 
to  fight  back  the  enemy  offensives  when  it  was  at  the  previous  level  and  won  some 
successes.  This  leads  the  enemy  to  take  up  some  counter-tactics.  So  a  new  situation 
arises.  So  we  will  have  to  take  up  tactics  that  would  again  give  us  the  advantage  to 

 

4 

counter  the  superior  forces  of  the  enemy  through  guerilla  warfare  and  mobilise  the 
people.  A  crucial  factor  in  building  up  and  developing  the  guerilla  war  would  be  the 
deepening of our mass base.  

The ebb and  flow of the  movement would always give rise to new situations. In 
understanding this and preparing the party, PLGA and the people for this, there have been 
some serious mistakes from the party. Losses increased due to shortcomings in the party 
to  face  the  new  challenges.  While  fighting  back  a  strong  enemy  in  the  course  of  PPW, 
losses and setbacks do occur. That is why Mao said that the PPW would advance through 
the  process  of  victory-defeat-victory-defeat  and  ultimate  victory.  The  PPW  line  would 
always pass through a complex process. Along with several smaller and partial successes 
and  some  big  successes  and  leaps  in  the  course  of  PPW,  there  would  also  be  several 
smaller  and  partial  losses,  defeats  and  some  big  losses  and  retreats. It  is  a  law  of  PPW 
that it advances in a zigzag manner. So we should look at the deceleration in guerilla war 
with this perspective.  

Taking necessary tactics means this. Keeping in view the uneven development of 
the  movement  in  various  parts  of  our  country,  we  should  take  up  either  self-defence 
tactics  or  offensive  tactics  according  to  the  changes  in  the  concrete  conditions  in  our 
areas  of  work.  This  should  be  as  an  inseparable  part  of  the  overall  changes  in  the 
revolutionary  war  in  the  present  difficult  situation  with  the  aim  of  surmounting  it.  Not 
just in the different parts but also inside a single GZ too, we will have to take offensive or 
self-defence tactics according to that particular Division/Zone’s specific conditions. Even 
if  the  conditions  may  be  better  in  some  areas,  here  also  it  should  be  subordinate  to the 
overall difficult situation we are facing and the aim should be to overcome it. And we all 
know that self-defence would always include offensive and there can be no self-defence 
without  being offensive. But in all the tactics we take up, preservation of the subjective 
forces, particularly leadership at all levels is very important.  

The  two  deviations  that  may  occur  in  our  party  while  preparing  ourselves 
according  to  the  new  situation  are  –  1.  Looking  only  at  the  apparent  strengths  and  the 
severity  of  the  enemy  offensive  and  not  identifying  the  underlying  weaknesses;  not 
looking  at  our  strengths  and  advantages  and  the  epochal  role  of  the  people  in  the 
revolutionary  war;  not  strategically  understanding  the  enemy  and  only  looking  at  them 
tactically.  This  would  lead  to  comrades  losing  initiative  and  becoming  passive  in  the 
name of self-defence and finally losing the fighting spirit. This is a right deviation; 2. Not 
understanding the change that occurred in the contending sides in the guerilla warfare and 
trying  to take  up  offensive  tactics  without taking  into  consideration  the  relative  or  to  a 
large  extent  weakening  of  our  subjective  strength,  passivity  in  the  people  and  without 
giving importance to self-defence, i.e., preservation of subjective forces. They do not see 
the enemy tactically and assess them only strategically. This is a left deviation.  

So studying the new changes that occurred in the revolutionary war and strengths 
and  weaknesses  of  both  the  enemy’s  and  ours  along  with  study  of  the  overall  social, 
economic,  political  and  cultural  changes  that  occurred  in  the  country  is  very  crucial  to 
bring about acceleration in our guerilla warfare. This is one of the main aspects that we 
are  seeking  to  achieve  through  our  Bolshevisation.  Increasing  the  mass  base,  putting 
efforts to mobilise the masses and increasing their active role in the guerilla warfare and 

 

5 

in  all  PW  activities  are  all  very  important  to  regain  the  upper  hand.  The  CC,  the  CMC 
and all leading committees are at present tackling the situation with this understanding.  

 

MIB:  Even  the  well-wishers  of  the  party  are  concerned  by  the  fact  that the  major 
activity of the party is confined to Adivasi areas. Some people are arguing the PPW 
line is relevant only to such areas and not to India as a whole. What is your reply? 
How will you spread the PW all over the country?  

GP:  India  is  a  vast  semi-colonial  semi  feudal  country  with  uneven  economic,  political 
and social development. This unevenness rules out the line of a simultaneous revolution 
throughout the country, or armed insurrection. We must base ourselves on the backward 
and  strategic  areas  of  the  countryside.  This  means  that  the  revolutionary  war  has  to  be 
carried  on  for  a  long  period  in  the  relatively  more  backward  areas  where  the  social 
contradictions are sharp. Therefore the revolutionary movement can only advance along 
the path of PPW. Moreover, the ruling classes have a strong repressive machinery in their 
hands  in the  form of a  powerful centralised state with a well-trained and well-equipped 
modern army. So we  have to wage our revolutionary war  in the weakest  link of enemy 
rule,  i.e.,  the  countryside.  Our  own  experience  and  the  history  of  revolutions  in  China, 
Vietnam,  Laos,  Cambodia,  etc.  prove  the  correctness  of  the  PPW  line  in  semi-colonial 
semi-feudal countries beyond doubt.  

The arguments that it is not possible to build liberated areas, to build the red army 
and  to  carry  out  protracted  people’s  war  in  the  country  is  not  a  new  one.  The  ruling 
classes and the intellectuals serving them, revisionist parliamentary ‘left’ and the pseudo-
ML parties –  all of them  have  been  making  such arguments since  long. Such  views are 
put  forward  by  them  to  create  confusion  among  the  revolutionary,  democratic  and 
patriotic  forces  that  are  increasingly  drawn  into the  people’s  war.  Moreover,  left  forces 
which  have  rejected  PPW  have  not  been  able  to  achieve  anything  in  transforming  the 
society in their long practice. In fact, they are always against such transformation and are 
neck-deep  in  the  parliamentary  morass.  One  variant  of  this  erroneous  argument  against 
PPW is the claim that PPW is applicable only in Adivasi areas and not in the rest of the 
country. This view too has no substance. 

Such views coming from the enemy, however, have to be distinguished from the 
views of the well-wishers of Indian revolution who are concerned about the confinement 
of the major activities of the movement in Adivasis areas. It is true that our movement is 
today  relatively  stronger  in  the  vast  forest  areas  of  central  and  eastern  India,  which  are 
traditional  home  of  Adivasi  people.  The  movement  has  made  advancements  in  the  last 
one decade by keeping Dandakaranya and Bihar-Jharkhand guerrilla zones at the core. It 
has a clear perspective of  how to  develop the  movement  in  various types of plain areas 
and the tactical guidelines are outlined  in our document ‘Strategy and Tactics of Indian 
Revolution’.  We  also  have  a  policy  paper  on  urban  work.  Yet  our  movement  in  rural 
plains  as  well  as  in  urban  areas  has  weakened.  One  of  the  main  reasons  for  this  is  our 
shortcomings  in  preparing  the  party  cadre  according  to these  guidelines.  There  are  also 
some limitations in grasping the strategic importance of these two areas and undertaking 
social investigation to analyze the changes in social conditions. As a result, we have lost 

 

6 

considerable subjective  forces  that became soft targets of the  enemy and the  movement 
faced severe losses in these areas.  

An  important  factor  behind  our  weak  presence  in  the  country’s  vast  agrarian 
plains  is  that  we  have  not  been  able  to  rally  the  peasant  masses,  particularly  the 
agricultural  labourers  and  the  poor  peasantry,  into  the  guerrilla  war  in  large  numbers. 
Similarly, our shortcomings in mobilising the non-peasant classes in the forested Adivasi 
areas,  including  the  newly  emerging  middle  classes,  into  the  revolutionary  movement 
have also led to the weakening the movement. It had a negative impact on our efforts to 
fulfill the central task.  

But we must not lose sight of the positive aspect while analyzing the weaknesses 
and shortcomings of our movement in the rural plains and the urban areas. We must not 
forget that the revolutionary movement has acquired vast experience in working in such 
areas. The new experiences gained in the last decade after the merger will also help us to 
draw appropriate lessons and rebuild the movement where we are in setback, strengthen 
where we have weakened and expand to areas where we are absent. We must learn from 
the  mass  upsurges  of  Kalinganagar,  Singur,  Nandigram,  Lalgarh,  Narayanapatna,  and 
Telangana separate statehood movement, etc., all of which have had a positive impact on 
the toiling masses of rural and urban areas. The majority of the people who are under the 
yoke  of  imperialist,  feudal  and  comprador  bureaucratic  capitalist  exploitation  and 
oppression reside in the vast rural areas and in the cities lying outside the Adivasi areas. 
They have no other option for resolving their problems than to struggle. They are being 
influenced  by the ongoing people’s war. So the conditions  in these areas are  favourable 
for  the  spread  of  revolutionary  war.  We  need  to  act  creatively  keeping  in  mind  the 
concrete conditions and the demands of the various classes and sections of the people. By 
firmly adhering to our political-military line, creatively working in a planned manner in 
the light of our vast experiences,  implementing correct style of work, rectifying our past 
mistakes, employing correct tactics to suit the changing conditions and enemy tactics, we 
will  be  able  to  utilise  the  excellent  objective  conditions  to  build  class  struggle  by 
mobilising  the  masses  in  these  areas  and  advance  the  guerilla  war.  In  this  way,  by 
building on the  new, unique and unprecedented achievements of the  last decade, Indian 
revolution  will  certainly  overcome  the  difficult  situation  to  win  newer,  larger  and  more 
glorious victories. 

 

MIB:  The  government  is  claiming  that  more  Maoists  are  responding  to  their 
improved surrender policies and are surrendering. What is the truth? 

GP:  What  do  they  mean  by  improved  surrender  policy?  They  ostensibly  mean  more 
money  and  more  rehabilitation  packages.  This  is  for  public  consumption.    Surrenders 
haven’t increased due to the offer of more money or better rehabilitation. There are two 
reasons for this. The Indian State is one of the most ruthless regimes in the world when it 
comes  to  crushing  the  Adivasis  and  poor  people  who  fight  for their  rights.  And  if  they 
chose  to  fight  under  the  leadership  of  CPI(Maoist)  the  amount  of  atrocities  heaped  on 
them just can’t be described in words. To crush resistance to their pro-imperialist policies 
the State is resorting to several suppression methods of which this surrender policy is also 
a  part.  The  government  forces  are  pouncing  like  bloodhounds  on  the  people  in  the 

 

7 

movement areas, who may or may not be part of the revolutionary activities. However, it 
is targeting with particular attention those who are active in the resistance and subjecting 
them  to  all  kinds  of  pressures  such  as  severe  torture,  rape,  destruction  of  property, 
psychological warfare, threats (including to maim or kill them or by actually doing it to 
others)  etc.,  and  making  them  surrender  in  large  numbers.  This  accounts  for  the  mass 
surrenders  that  the  police  triumphantly  and  arrogantly  parade  before  the  media.  More 
than three-fourths of the surrenders come under this category. 

The  other  part  of  the  surrenders  is  made  of  some  individuals  from  the  party, 
PLGA  and  mass  organisations  who  are  kneeling  before  the  enemy.    Yes,  there  is  some 
increase in such numbers recently and a few persons of leadership rank (State Committee, 
District Committee and Area Committee level) have also surrendered.  

The need to make newer sacrifices arises whenever a new round of offensives is 
launched by the enemy and ruthless suppression reaches unprecedented levels. There will 
always  be some weak elements who would  leave the movement or surrender before the 
enemy during such periods. It is  happening  now too. There  may  be  some  impact of the 
so-called improved surrender policy of the governments. But that is very minor and can 
never be the reason. The first reason for this kind of surrender is also the ruthless enemy 
offensives.  Not  just  that,  after  the  surrenders  too  the  State  is  dealing  differently  with 
different  persons  according  to  their  class  and  other  backgrounds.  But  there  is  no 
difference  in  trying  to  turn  them  all  into  traitors  of  the  people.  The  State  is  putting  all 
kinds  of  pressures  to  extract  information  from  them,  utilise  them  as  mercenaries,  and 
make them participate  in the  intensified offensive at  various  levels. So whoever naively 
thinks  that  the  State  is  taking  up  surrender  policies  to  make  them  part  of  the 
‘mainstream’,  to  give  them  a  ‘good  life’  etc.,  should  understand  that  surrenders  are 
nothing  but  a  part  of  the  ‘War  on  the  people.’  Its  aim  is  to  intensify  this  war  by 
weakening the movement and turning them into traitors. 

The  second  reason  for  surrenders  is  that  some  persons  are  not  being  able  to 
understand the  nature of enemy repression and some temporary  losses  in the  movement 
and are therefore getting confused. The personal weaknesses of some are another reason. 
The solution for these problems is in raising the political consciousness and commitment 
of  the  cadres  at  all  levels,  putting  up  more  formidable  fight  against  the  psy-war  of  the 
enemy and  making them understand how surrender turns us against our own people and 
is  therefore  not  a  solution.  The  present  Bolshevisation  campaign  in  the  party  is  dealing 
with this aspect too.  

One more thing I want to stress  is that this  very  period of OGH  first and second 
phases has witnessed some of the most unparalleled sacrifices of the revolutionary cadres 
and  the  people.  Revolutions  advance  with  sacrifices  because  firstly  the  people  realise 
their  inevitability  and  secondly  because  they  prepare  themselves  for  this  with  a  higher 
consciousness. The enemy as part of  its psychological warfare would of course highlight 
only  the  surrenders  and  try  to  suppress  the  aspect  of  sacrifice.  We  should  effectively 
focus on this aspect in our revolutionary propaganda war.  

As  long  as  revolutionary  wars  continue,  repression  of  the  State  too  continues. 
Therefore,  till  the  brutal  system  is  overthrown, there  may  be  some  surrenders  and  their 
numbers may be relatively more or less in some periods. Sacrifices at all levels, including 

 

8 

supreme  sacrifice,  are  a  result  of  voluntary  dedication  to the  cause  of  revolution  in  the 
entire party and in all our movement areas and they are absolutely indispensible  for any 
revolution. 

 

MIB: Why did the party feel the need for a Bolshevisation campaign? What results 
are you expecting from it? 

GP:  Our party issued a call in 2013 to Bolshevise the party and it is being carried out in 
the party, PLGA and mass organisations now. It would take some more time to complete 
it and only then we can assess how successful it had been in remoulding our party into a 
Bolshevised party.  

It  was  the  CPSU(B),  popularly  known  as  the  Russian  Bolshevik  party,  that 
overthrew the bourgeois class and established proletarian dictatorship for the first time in 
the world. When no communist party was in power in the world, this was the party that 
brought the working class and the toiling masses to power. It was the Bolshevik party that 
ushered  in Socialism  for the first time  in the  history of  humanity. So we are taking this 
party as our model, and striving to turn our party into such a proletarian party by  learning 
lessons  from  it  and  imbibing  the  qualities  that  made  all  this  possible.  That  is  why  we 
named  it  as Bolshevisation Campaign. On the other hand the Chinese Communist Party 
model is also very important for us because China and India have several similarities and 
so  knowing  and  imbibing  the  qualities  of  CPC  that  made  it  possible  for  it  to  make  a 
successful  revolution  and  build  socialism  in  a  semi-colonial,  semi-feudal  backward 
country  where  peasantry  is  the  majority  by  developing  the  PPW  line  and  building  a 
people’s army, a successful united front and through the process of establishing liberated 
areas.  CPC,  since  its  formation,  put  continuous  efforts  to  strengthen  itself  by  taking 
CPSU(B)  as  a  model.  So  we  decided  to  carry  on  this  campaign  keeping  in  view  the 
experiences  of  this  party,  particularly  from  the  Great  Debate  and  in  the  light  of  the 
lessons imparted by the GPCR. We would keep these two parties as the models and try to 
Bolshevise  the  party  but  it  would  be  in  the  light  of  the  experiences  gained  in  the  long 
revolutionary history of our party.  

The  reasons  for  taking  up  this  campaign  are  :  (1)  There  is  a  change  in  enemy’s 
countrywide  offensive.  It  has  intensified;  (2)  There  were  severe  losses  to the  party  and 
the  movement  is  now  facing  a  very  difficult  situation;  (3)  Comrades  from  peasant  and 
middle class background form a majority in the party and so there is a need for enhancing 
proletarian  outlook  in  the  party;  (4)  our  shortcomings  in  studying  and  formulating 
appropriate tactics according to the  significant economic and political changes that have 
occurred  in  the  society  and  in  revolutionary  war;  and  (5)  There  are  some  serious  non-
proletarian trends within the party. Keeping these in view, we took up the Bolshevisation 
campaign  for  raising  the  ideological  and  political  level  of  the  party  to  tackle  these 
challenges  and to strengthen the party organizationally  so that it can lead the revolution 
efficiently.  Only  by  doing  so  the  party  can  in  turn  mould  the  PLGA  into  a  powerful 
weapon  and  strengthen  the  movement’s  mass  base.  And  only  through  this  we  can 
surmount the present difficult situation and advance.  

We  decided  to  conduct  this  campaign  in  a  planned  manner  to  achieve  some 

concrete targets. By achieving these targets we are expecting the following results.  

 

9 

This  campaign  would  remould  the  party  with  proletarian  world  outlook  and 
enhance  it  inside  the  party,  particularly  among  the  new  forces.  This  would  be  done  by 
enhancing the  ideological study of MLM and training up the entire party  in  it. It  would 
make the entire party, every unit in the party, gain the most clear-cut understanding about 
the goal of NDR and make them clearly understand the concrete targets to be achieved at 
the  present  juncture.  It  would  help  in  understanding  deeply  the  three  point  work  style 
taught  by  Mao  and  thus  improve  our  work  style.  It  would  enhance  our  understanding 
about secret party building and functioning, help in quickly rectifying the defects that are 
occurring  in  this  and  in  implementing  guerilla  war’s  operational  principles.  It  would 
rectify the non-proletarian trends continuing in the party and enhance the consciousness 
and  alertness  of  the  party  to  fight  against  them.  It  would  also  enhance  and  strengthen 
unity of thought and action and discipline. This would result in the party strengthening its 
mass  base  by  firmly  integrating  with  the  people  and  mobilising  them  into  various 
economic,  political  and  other  struggles.  It  would  also  lead  to  giving  priority  to rallying 
the  peasants  into  the  agrarian  revolutionary  war  and  putting  special  efforts  among  the 
vast  non-peasant  masses  and  the  urban  population.  This  would  lead  to the  study  of  the 
changing  socio-economic,  political  and  cultural  conditions  and  changing  the  tactics 
accordingly, thus developing the movement successfully.  

We are expecting this campaign to steel the comrades so that they can display the 
consciousness to face the most difficult situations, hardships and risks that may come up 
in  the  course  of  the  revolution  and  heighten  their  preparedness  to  gallantly  fight  the 
enemy.  Last  but  not  least,  we  expect  that  it  would  enable  us  to  defend  our  subjective 
forces,  particularly  the  higher  level  leadership  and  the  movement  from  the  cruelest 
offensives  of  the  enemy.  All  the  above  results  would  be  achieved  by  grasping  MLM 
deeply and keeping it at the core of this campaign.  

 

MIB:  The  enemy  is  propagating  that  the  PPW  line  is  outdated.  Some  people  are 
advocating Chavez’s 21st Century Socialism. The UCPN (Maoist) led by Prachanda-
Bhattarai  clique  has  chosen  the  parliamentary  path  and  abandoned  the  PPW  line. 
Several  questions  are  being  raised  about  the  relevance  of  PPW  line  in  India  and 
elsewhere  in  the  present  globalised  world.  What  is  the  party’s  answer  to  all  these 
arguments? 

GP: The exploiters and all reactionaries have always been propagating against Marxism 
and revolution not only  in our country  but also elsewhere  in the world ever since  Marx 
and  Engels  propounded  proletarian  ideology  and  after  the  working  class  emerged  as  a 
revolutionary  force  in  the  struggle  against  feudalism  and  capitalism,  particularly  in 
proletarian revolutions since Paris Commune. After Russia and China turned revisionist – 
they  started  propagating  that  Marxism  itself  is  outdated.  The  reason  is  obvious. 
Revolutions and Marxism would bring their end.  

How can the line of PPW be outdated? After Mao’s death, all the revolutions that 
took place in the world, whether NDRs or national liberation wars, were protracted. Even 
if  some  of  them  faced  betrayal  or  were  abandoned,  it  is  a  fact  that  all  of  these  were 
protracted.  As  long  as  semi-feudal  structure  does  not  change  basically  and  imperialism 
keeps  countries  like  ours  in  its  clutches  and  does  not  allow  their  independent 

 

10 

development,  there  is  no  other  path  than  the  PPW  for  the  liberation  of  such  countries. 
Some of the feudal forms may change but feudalism would be left intact as it serves the 
interests of the imperialists and serves as a basis for furthering the interests of the CBB. 
That  is  why  the  people  are  waging  the  PPW  under  the  leadership  of  the  party  for  the 
victory  of  an  anti-imperialist,  anti-feudal  revolution,  the  NDR.  And  the  specific 
characteristics  of  our  country  decide  that  it  would  be  protracted  and  it  would  be  a  war 
waged by the people led by our party. Hence the PPW. I have already explained why we 
consider the line of PPW to be indispensable for carrying out a successful revolution in a 
country like India. 

Now about Chavez and his model of the so-called 21st century socialism. Till now 
two paths have been established for revolutions in the world – insurrection and the PPW. 
These two are basically to be applied according to the concrete, specific conditions in the 
respective  countries.  There  might  be  modifications  to  these  two  paths  in  the  new 
historical  context.  That  is  what  Marxism  says,  not  to  do  revolutions  mechanically  or 
dogmatically  but creatively.  But whatever  may  be the  modifications they  would always 
have to lie within the purview of revolutions. That is why revolution is a must. However, 
it  has  to  be  carried  out  in  the  specific  characteristics  of  a  particular  country.  Trying  to 
reform  the  decadent  system  without  any  perspective  of  traversing  towards  a  classless 
society  is  purposeless.  Chavez’s  model  is  not  of  revolution  but  of  mere  reform.  It  is 
socialism neither in form nor content.  

Several  changes  have  occurred  in  the  world  after  the  Russian  and  Chinese 
revolutions.  Both  in  the  capitalist  countries  and  the  third  world  the  petty  bourgeois 
sections have increased considerably. A section of them possess liberal bourgeois ideas, 
another section possess utopian socialist ideas. In countries where bourgeois democratic 
revolutions  or  new  democratic  revolutions  did  not  take  place,  where  revolutionary 
movements could  not bring them  into its  fold to a  large extent, most among these petty 
bourgeois  sections  want  some  change  or  reforms  in  the  framework  of  bourgeois 
parliamentary system. Chavez took some  steps  in the  interests of the working class and 
the  peasantry  in  Venezuela.  Their  main  product  is  oil.  Though  oil  and  some  other 
industries were nationalized, of course with several limitations, feudalism and comprador 
bureaucratic capitalism were not done away with. They are not separated from the world 
capitalist  system  too  and  so  there  was  no  basic  change  in  the  system.  They  are  not 
completely  independent from  imperialist domination. A  major section of the  feudal and 
comprador  capitalist  forces  in  Venezuela  are  so  anti-poor  that  they  are  opposing  even 
these  reforms  vehemently  which  is  turning  into  a  boon  in  disguise  as  it  is  getting  wide 
propaganda for Chavez’s model from diverse sections. He never mobilised the masses in 
class  struggle.  Chavez  invokes  Bolivar  and  Che  Guevera  but  his  model  is  minus 
Bolivarism and minus Che Gueveraism. It is mainly reformism and that is why even the 
bankrupt CPI and CPI(M) in our country are highlighting his legacy. When they were in a 
united party they hailed ‘Nehruvian Socialism’ and betrayed revolution.   

In Nepal the parliamentary system exists based on semi-feudalism and under the 
imperialist yoke; it is under the domination of Indian expansionism on one side and under 
the influence of China on the other. Anybody who joins it has to abandon revolution. In 
spite of good successes in the NDR, the Prachanda-Bhattarai modern revisionist clique in 
the  UCPN(Maoist)  chose  this  path.  It  is  nothing  but  a  betrayal.  They  just  betrayed  the 

 

11 

millions of masses and thousands of their  martyrs. Like all the revisionists before them, 
they did this for their selfish interests, for sharing power with the ruling classes.  

We  also  accept  that  several  changes  in  the  economic,  political  and  cultural 
spheres  have  occurred  due  to  globalization.  But  for  whom  did  these  changes  occur? 
These  changes  were  brought  to  fulfill  the  interests  of  monopoly  capitalism.  The  world 
capitalist system brought these changes over the past 23 years. This gave the opportunity 
for a section of ruling classes among the capitalist, imperialist and third world countries 
for  super-exploitation  of  labor,  labouring  masses  and  indiscriminate  loot of  natural  and 
other  resources  of  colonies  and  semi-colonies.  This  led  to  enormous  increase  of  gap 
between  the  incomes  of  the  rich  and  the  poor  and  concentration  and  centralisation  of 
capital to gigantic levels. This is the same period that witnessed increased intervention of 
US  imperialism  in  West Asia and  later in  Afghanistan.  Almost all  imperialist, capitalist 
States, particularly the US, and their lackey regimes turned neo-fascist. The ruling classes 
tried to portray the  neo-liberal policies as the  ultimate  solution that would  lead to GDP 
growth, boost the economy, employment, prosperity, and what not. All these claims came 
crashing  down  like a pack of cards with the worldwide economic crisis of 2008. So we 
should  look  at  the  havoc  played  by  imperialism  in  the  lives  of  people  with  these  neo-
liberal policies not only due to its economic crisis but also due to the wars of occupation 
and  increasing  neo-colonial  intervention,  bullying  and  control  of  other  third  world 
countries.  With  ‘globalization’  the  imperialists  have  resorted  to  the  only  solutions  they 
can  adopt  in  their  desperation  to  come  out  of  their  crisis.  Wars,  more  exploitation, 
oppression  and  repression  of  the  world  people,  particularly  the  third  world  people.  So 
without  fighting  imperialism  and  their  domestic  lackeys  the  third  world  people  cannot 
breathe free.  

Therefore, we have to enrich our strategy and make changes in the tactics keeping 
in view these changes and mobilise the people accordingly in the revolutionary war. We 
have to bring changes in slogans, political tactics, military tactics and work methods and 
only then we can advance. The solution is not to abandon the political line and the PPW 
path  but  to  adhere  to  it  more  firmly.  Whatever  tactics  we  take  should  serve  this  and 
advance this.   

I reiterate that correct  ideology, a correct political  line, a correct military  line, a 
strong  vanguard  party,  a  strong  people’s  army  and  strong  united  front  are  the  only 
solution  to  make  success  the  NDR  for  smashing  the  present  semi-colonial,  semi-feudal 
system for the liberation of our country and our people. 

 

MIB:  What  is  the  position  of  the  International  Communist  Movement  (ICM)  at 
present especially since the party’s assessment is that the objective world situation is 
turning further favorable to the revolution? What do you think would be the impact 
of Avakianism and betrayal of Nepal Revolution by Prachanda-Bhattarai clique for 
the ICM?  

GP: The objective world situation is turning excellent for the advancement of revolution. 
As  noted  before,  the  imperialist  system  continues  to  go  through  its  most  serious  crisis 
since  the  Great  Depression,  leading  to  massive  lay  offs  and  shrinking  of  job 
opportunities,  unemployment  and  impoverishment  on  the  one  hand  and  intensified 

 

12 

exploitation  of  working  masses  and  neo-colonial  plunder  of  oppressed  countries  and 
people  on  the  other.  Wars  of  occupation  have  shown  no  signs  of  abating,  with  US 
imperialism getting bogged down in Iraq, Afghanistan and several other warfronts.  

Revolutionary, democratic and national liberation forces against imperialism and 
its  domestic  props  are  strengthening  in  different  parts  of  the  world.  Workers,  peasants, 
the  middle  classes,  Blacks,  immigrants,  Muslims  and  other  persecuted  communities, 
women, students, youth and  various oppressed classes and sections are coming out onto 
the streets. Several EU countries have been rocked by  massive worker’s demonstrations 
and  strikes  against  job  cuts,  unemployment  and  underemployment,  reduction  in  real 
wages,  withdrawal  of  social  security  spending  and  other  ‘austerity’  measures  of  the 
governments. As the gap between the rich and the poor is widening and class antagonism 
is sharpening, more and more people are joining struggles in the capitalist countries. The 
Black people, Muslims, immigrants and other oppressed people are protesting in Europe 
and  North  America  for  their  democratic  rights.  In  the  backward  countries  too,  the 
disparity  of  wealth,  impoverishment  and  destitution  of  the  working  people,  political 
oppression  are  all  leading  to  mass  upheavals.  Several  Asian  and  African  countries  are 
going through turmoil and civil war. The armed national liberation struggles of the Iraqi, 
Afghan, Palestinian, Kurd and other peoples are advancing even in the face of bloodbaths 
and massacres. National aspirations of the Scot, Catalonian and other nations of Europe 
are  sustaining.  In  South  America,  people  have  organised  massive  protests  against  the 
anti-people neo-liberal policies adopted by the governments of countries like Brazil.  

However  the  subjective  forces  in  the  ICM  are  seriously  lagging  behind  this 
favourable  objective  situation  in  the  world  today.  There  is  a  contradiction  between  the 
potential  of  the  objective  situation  and  the  subjective  capacity  of  the  Maoist  forces  to 
utilise it for the advancement of World Socialist Revolution. We know from the lessons 
of  history  that  this  subjective  weakness  can  be  overcome  principally  by  waging 
revolution  according  to  the  concrete  conditions  of  each  country.  As  the  revisionist  and 
reformist forces are proving incapable of addressing the people’s issues, the possibility of 
their  rallying  with  the  Maoist  forces  is  increasing.  Maoist  parties  and  organisations  in 
many countries are gaining strength and some new parties are in the process of formation. 
The unity among Maoist parties, organisations and forces is also growing. The potential 
for a powerful new wave of revolutions is increasing. Facing several odds, PPWs in the 
Philippines and India are continuing. Maoist parties are carrying out struggles in several 
other  countries  as  well.  Solidarity  activities  among  international  Maoist  forces  around 
support  to  the  people’s  war  in  India,  international  mobilisation  against  counter-
revolutionary OGH and Oplan Bayanihan, struggles  for the rights of political prisoners, 
etc. are being carried out. So it is possible that the ICM and the Maoist forces will be in a 
position  to  play  a  significant  role  in  people’s  struggles  and  thereby  usher  in  a 
revolutionary wave in the future. 

Of course, the revisionism of Prachanda-Bhattarai clique and their betrayal of the 
cause of Nepali people and WSR caused serious damage to the ICM. These traitors have 
destroyed  the  glorious  people’s  war  from  inside  and  helped  the  enemy  to  retain  their 
stranglehold over the oppressed Nepali people. This is a reversal not only for the Nepali 
people but also for the entire ICM. However, the bitter struggle waged by genuine Maoist 
forces  against  Prachanda-Bhattarai  clique,  their  shameless  surrender  before 
the 

 

13 

imperialists and their agents, and most importantly, Nepali people’s own struggle against 
these  traitors  has  have  exposed  the  clique’s  reactionary  character  and  its  betrayal  of 
MLM  in  the  name  of  developing  and  enriching  it.  These  modern  revisionists  have 
become  the  most  trusted  lackeys  of  imperialism,  domestic  feudal  and  comprador 
bureaucratic capitalist forces and Indian expansionism. Nepali masses and the ICM have 
completely rejected their class collaborationism and will definitely advance on the path of 
revolution by throwing these turncoats into the dustbin of history.   

Similarly, the so-called  new synthesis of Avakianism too has seriously damaged 
some  Maoist  parties.  This  is  because  Avakianism  is  nothing  but  disguised  revisionism 
and liquidationism. Though it may have some negative impact in the ICM temporarily, it 
will  certainly  be  defeated.  As  a  detachment  of  the  world  proletariat,  our  party  will 
continue to struggle against Avakianism and all  forms of revisionism  in the communist 
movement internationally and in the country. 

 

MIB:  Modi-led  NDA  government  is  rapidly  implementing  the  imperialist  agenda 
and  the  RSS  is  speedily  spreading  its  Hindutva  tentacles.  Home  Minister  Rajnath 
Singh  has  stressed  that  the  Indian  State  still  considers  the  Maoists  as  the  biggest 
internal security threat. That the fascist offensive has been stepped up on all fronts 
is obvious. How does the party plan to fight this back?  

GP: In the five months that the NDA government has been in power, it has intensified the 
policies  of  Liberalisation-Privatisation-Globalisation  (LPG)  that  have  been  pursued  by 
successive governments since 1990s. In fact, Modi and BJP has been installed at the helm 
of government by  imperialists, comprador big capitalists and  big  landlords precisely  for 
carrying  out  these  policies  faster  and  more  aggressively  than  the  previous  UPA 
government. Therefore a ‘weak’ Manmohan Singh was replaced  by  a ‘strong’ Narendra 
Modi.  The  combination  of  imperialist-driven  policies  with  ruthless  exploitation  of  the 
toiling classes and Hindu-fascist oppression of Muslims, Dalits and Adivasis was carried 
out  in  Gujarat  under  Modi.  This  ‘Gujarat  model’  is  now  being  extended  all  over  the 
country.  

The  aggressive  neo-liberal  policies  of  the  Modi  government  will  intensify  the 
hardships  faced  by  the  workers,  peasants,  government  employees  and  various  sections 
like  women,  students  and  the  youth.  Attacks  on  Muslims  by  the  state  and  the  Hindu-
fascists  will  increase.  Atrocities  on  Dalits  is  on  the  rise  due  to the  strengthening  of  the 
feudal  reactionary  forces.  Oppressed  nationalities  is  facing  further  persecution.  The 
drumming-up  of  big-nation  chauvinism  in  support  of  NDA’s  aggressive  expansionist 
policies would generate opposition from the peoples of South Asia. We need to intervene 
in such issues and organise the people in struggles. 

Neo-colonial  stranglehold  will  tighten  over  the  country  as  a  result  of  the 
aggressive  implementation  of  the  LPG  agenda.  To  deflect  the  consequent  anger  of  the 
masses,  Sangh  Parivar  will  resort to  fanning  up  jingoism  and  false  talk  of  nationalism. 
Such tricks must be challenged by presenting the true picture of the wholesale sell-out of 
the  country  by  Modi’s  government.  We  must  carry  out  wide  propaganda  exposing  the 
pro-imperialist, pro-feudal nature of Modi’s agenda. 

 

14 

The  aggressive  promotion  of  Modi’s  ‘development’  agenda  will  result  in 
displacement  on  an  unprecedented  scale.  Adivasis  will  find  their  existence  threatened. 
This  will  bring  forward  mass  struggles.  We  should  actively  intervene  in  these,  either 
directly by adopting suitable forms or by playing a supportive role.  

These  attacks  on  the  people  will  be  accompanied  by  more  draconian  laws.  Old 
laws are being  modified and new  laws  introduced to  suit  imperialists, big  landlords and 
comprador bureaucratic capitalists, to take away the jal-jangal-zameen and livelihood of 
the  people.  Blatant  violation  of  even  formal  justice,  and  more  brutal  persecution  of 
political  prisoners  and  suppression  of  activists  who  take  up  such  issues.  We  must 
energetically  intervene  in  such  issues.  There  is  good  potential  for  building  and 
strengthening civil rights movements in a broad manner.  

Assessing  the  post-election  situation,  our  CC  noted  that  the  formation  of  RSS-
dominated NDA government at the centre has brought the urgent task of fighting back the 
Brahmanical  Hindu  fascist  forces  across  the  country.  This  can  be  done  effectively  by 
building  broad-based  and  powerful  mass  movements  through  uniting  the  revolutionary, 
democratic,  secular  and  patriotic  organisations,  forces,  individuals  and  the  vast  masses. 
Wide and concrete propaganda must be carried out to expose the real pro-imperialist, pro-
feudal nature of Modi’s agenda.  

All  these  activities  must  be  carried  out  with  the  aim  of  uniting  them  with  the 
ongoing  activities  to  fight  back  the  third  phase  of  OGH.  The  fascist  home  minister 
Rajnath  Singh  has  parroted  the  approach  of  the  UPA  government  by  declaring  that 
Maoists are the ‘still the  biggest  internal security threat’ and that countering the Maoist 
movement  is  the  top  priority  of  his  government.  We  will  fight  back  this  fresh  counter-
revolutionary  offensive  by  Bolshevising  the  party,  intensifying  the  people’s  war  and 
mobilising vast masses into the revolutionary war. 

  

MIB. The OGH third phase has begun. How is the party preparing to face this? 

GP: One of the early measures taken up by the Congress-led UPA-2 government after it 
came to power for the second term in mid-2009 was to launch OGH – the war on people. 
It  was a countrywide  multi-pronged counter-revolutionary war on the struggling  masses 
of our country. The NDA government led by Modi is continuing the same approach of its 
predecessor  more  aggressively  and  ruthlessly  by  launching  the  third  phase  of  OGH, 
which  is  more  extensive  and  more  intensive  compared  to  the  earlier  two  phases.  The 
masses  led  by  our  Party  have  emerged  as  a  major  hurdle  in  implementing  these  anti-
people policies in the areas where our movement is strong.  

While  in  the  Opposition,  BJP  criticised  the  previous  UPA  governments  for  not 
preparing  an  integrated  centralised  policy  to  suppress  the  Maoist  movement.  After 
coming to power, BJP-led NDA is now implementing such a comprehensive policy in the 
form of OGH third phase under the overall LIC framework.  Declaring large bounties on 
the heads of the leadership, announcing new surrender policies, increasing the amount of 
compensation  for  counter-revolutionary  elements  punished  by  the  people,  fake  reform 
and  civic  action  programmes,  etc.,  are  being  intensified.  Some  of  the  new  aspects 
introduced  in  the  third  phase  are  the  use  of  air  force  for  transport  of  forces  for  combat 

 

15 

operations  and  closer  collaboration  with  the  US  and  Israel  in  the  use  of  advanced 
drone/UAV technology. These measures are complimented by the raising of new units of 
central  and  state  commando  forces  and  increasing  the  number  of  existing  ones, 
modernisation  of  armed 
improving 
communication  and 
in  our  movement  areas, 
intensification  of  atrocities  on  the  people  including  fake  encounters,  beating  up,  loot  of 
people’s property, arrests, custodial torture, rape and other forms cruel repression. But a 
completely  opposite  picture  is  being  depicted  through  the  media  as  a  part  of  the 
psychological war.  

intelligence  network  particularly 

forces 

to  raise 

their  combat  capabilities, 

Our response  needs to be tempered with an understanding of the particularity of 
OGH third phase. The Adivasi people of central and eastern India have played a historic 
role  in advancing the protracted people’s war. They  have  joined the  movement  in  large 
numbers, defended it with their blood and sweat, and prepared grounds for its expansion. 
Due  to  this,  parts  of  central  and  eastern  India  have  emerged  as  strongholds  of  the 
revolution.  With  the  third  phase  of  OGH,  the  enemy  is  concentrating  its  efforts  to 
decimate  these  strongholds.  By  bringing  quantitative  and  qualitative  changes  to  its 
offensive, the enemy seeks to destroy the party, the army and the emerging organs of new 
democratic power so as to reinstate the old state and the decadent political system in their 
place.  

Though these old and new forms of repression are aimed at the Maoist movement, 
they will not target the Maoists alone. This war on people will certainly extend to all the 
oppressed  sections.  All  the  exploited  classes  and  social  sections  like  the  workers, 
peasants, Dalits, Adivasis, religious minorities, oppressed nationalities,  women, etc. will 
come under attack politically, economically, socially, culturally, judicially and militarily. 
So the arena of war will  expand.  We  have to politically  and  militarily  counter this  new 
phase  of  enemy  offensive  which  comes  in  combination  with  the  Brahmanical  Hindu 
fascist ideology and country-selling policies of the Modi government.  

Whether it is Modi, Rajnath Singh, Jaitley, Venkaiah Naidu, Gadkari, or any other 
representative  of  the  NDA  government,  they  are  saying  one  thing  to  befool  the  people 
and doing its complete opposite. The anti-people nature of this fascist Modi government 
is getting  more and  more exposed as the ruling classes are using all extra-constitutional 
and  extra-judicial  means to carry out their all-out  offensive  against the people.  We will 
have to resolutely confront and defeat this attack by uniting with all the sections that will 
be adversely affected. For this, our policies and tactics should be such that all democratic, 
progressive, secular and patriotic forces rally together in favour of the people and oppose 
and fight back Modi’s reactionary policies and particularly the third phase of OGH. The 
parliamentary  ‘left’  too  will  be  forced  to  come  forward  to  take  up  people’s  issues  and 
oppose this enemy offensive  in their own way  in order to retain  its relevance. It should 
come  forward to  join this  fight. We call upon all  the forces to fight  in all  fronts against 
this multi-pronged enemy offensive. Unite, unite and unite against the enemy offensive! 
Fight back, fight back and fight back against the common enemy! 

 

 

*** 

16 

