CPI(Maoist): 9th Congress 
 
 

Resolution on Peoples’Struggles the 

World Over 

 
The Unity Congress – 9th Congress of the CPI (Maoist) is being 
held at such a time when imperialists, particularly the US-UK 
imperialists, have in the name of “war against terrorism” launched 
an all-round attack on the exploited-oppressed nationalities, 
classes, minorities and against the peoples‟ wars being waged 
under the leadership of Maoist forces. In the wake of the 9/11 
attacks, they attacked Afghanistan first and then Iraq. Their own 
trusted West Asian military bull, Zionist Israel, repeatedly attacked 
the liberation fighters of Palestine and also launched an attack on 
Lebanon. Afghanistan and Iraq were devastated with several 
million tons of explosives hurled upon them. Now they have set 
their eyes upon Iran, Syria, Cuba, North Korea and others. Some 
comprador rulers who were propped up as appendages in the past 
by the US imperialists, having tried to shift loyalties, are now 
sought to be replaced through military action, so that they may 
continue to plunder the resources of the oppressed-exploited 
countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America and exercise 
domination over the whole world. 

The people of Afghanistan, Iraq and Lebanon, especially those of 
Iraq have stood up to these all-round imperialist attacks. The entire 
Arab world is seething with anti-American rage. Iraq has become 
yet another Vietnam for the imperialists. The people of Europe 
held massive protests over the unjust war. 70% people in the US 
itself are demanding withdrawal of the armed forces from Iraq. 
The US is weakening not only economically and politically, but 
also militarily. 

The uprising in France and the struggles in West Europe, Japan 
and Russia indicate how shocks caused by the crisis are being felt 
even in the imperialist countries. In a nutshell, the struggles of the 
proletariat in capitalist, imperialist countries are getting sharper. 
The ground is being prepared for the socialist revolution. 

This Unity Congress declares that the oppressed-exploited 
countries continue to be the „storm centres‟ of revolution. Even 
while facing numerous problems, the people of India, Nepal, Peru, 
the Philippines and Turkey are advancing on the path of protracted 
peoples‟ war. This current of peoples‟ liberation shows the way for 
the emancipation of all peoples the world over even as it unmasks 
all slander against Marxism-Leninism-Maoism. 

This Unity Congress believes that struggles against the policies of 
imperialist globalization-liberalization-privatization are becoming 
increasingly sharpened all over the world. This is so not only in 
Asia, Africa and Latin America, and the imperialist countries, but 
such struggles are stirring up even in revisionist centres of the 
Dengist variety. The peoples‟ struggles that emerged in China in 
2006 are testimony enough. 

This Unity Congress calls upon the genuine Maoist Parties 
working in suppressed countries and capitalist, imperialist 
countries to unite on a world scale and lead these struggles. The 
Unity Congress upholds all the just struggles of the world people. 
This Unity Congress calls upon the oppressed-exploited 
nationalities, classes and minorities to step up the revolutionary 
struggles against imperialism, particularly US-UK imperialism and 
the domestic reactionaries. 

