COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

 

 

 

Press Release:                                                                                                    29 November 2009 
Vote against Iran is a vote for Imperialist intervention and hegemony over 
Third World countries! Uranium enrichment is an inalienable right of Iran! 
Fight against the UPA government’s total sell-out of our country’s interests to 

US imperialism! 

 

The six major world powers—the US, Germany, France, Britain, Russia and China—led 
by  the  US  imperialists  have  succeeded  in  rallying  the  majority  to  their  side  in  their  puppet 
organization  known  as  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  to  pass  a  resolution 
censuring  Iran  over  its  allegedly  secret  plans  to  build  nuclear  weapons  and  asking  it  to  freeze 
immediately, work on its new uranium enrichment facility near the holy city of Qom. Russia and 
China, which  had  earlier blocked the  attempts by  the Western imperialist powers to isolate  Iran 
for  over  three  years,  had  compromised  and  endorsed  the  US-inspired  resolution  after  the 
American  imperialists  had  agreed  through  various  secret  deals  to  give  several  concessions  to 
these  countries. Only  three countries—Cuba, Venezuela and Malaysia—in  the 35-member body 
of  the  IAEA  had  voted  against  the  imperialist-sponsored  resolution  that  seeks  to  undermine 
whatever sovereignty Iran still has. By passing the Resolution against Iran, the way is cleared for 
sanctions  by  the  UN  Security  Council  and  for  rolling  out  the  American  imperialist  plan  for 
invading Iran or an Israeli attack on Iran.   

Congress-led UPA government of Manmohan Singh has brought shame to the country by 
bowing  to  the  US  imperialist  pressures  and  voting  in  favour  of  the  imperialist-sponsored 
Resolution  against  Iran  in  the  Vienna  meeting  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA) on November 27. By kowtowing to US imperialist dictates, it has once again proved to be 
a loyal agent of the US imperialists. It has proved itself to be even more loyal to the imperialists 
and  more  spineless  than  even  the  puppet  Karzai  regime  in  Afghanistan  or  the  seemingly  docile 
regime in neighbouring Pakistan, both of which, besides four other countries, had at least the guts 
to abstain from voting against Iran.  

The Resolution  calls  upon  Iran  to immediately freeze  the Fordow  enrichment project.  It 
rebukes  Iran  for  building  a  uranium  enrichment  plant  in  secret.  Barack  Obama  succeeded  in 
carrying  forward  the  aim  of  his  predecessor  George  Bush  to  isolate  Iran  by  building  up  a  false 
fear  that  Iran  is  trying  to  build  nuclear  weapons  clandestinely.  The  IAEA  Resolution  lays  the 
basis for inhuman sanctions against Iran in future and also for a possible brutal war of aggression 
by the No.1 global terrorist Barack Obama, just as his predecessor George Bush had done in Iraq. 
India, by shamelessly voting against Iran, becomes a willing accomplice in the crimes perpetrated 
by the UA and other imperialists.  

How the Obama administration manipulated a majority vote is not hard to guess given its 
military  and  economic  prowess  and  its  political  clout  on  the  one  hand,  and  the  timidity, 
spinelessness  and  comprador,  slavish  attitude  of  the  ruling  classes  of  the  Third  World  on  the 

other.  In  2006  too,  the  same  shameless  Manmohan  Singh  government  had  voted  against  Iran  in 
the  IAEA  meeting,  kowtowing  to  George  Bush.  The  then  US  ambassador  to  New  Delhi,  David 
Mulford,  had  even  publicly  warned  that  the  India-US  nuclear  pact  would  “die”  in  the  US 
Congress if India did not support the US against Iran.  

The  comprador  Manmohan  Singh  government  has  been  regularly  conducting  massive 
Indo-US  military  exercises  with  the  US  offering  special  status  in  the  world  nuclear  regulatory 
order which will pave the way for US nuclear-power technology exports to India.  It is scheming 
to sabotage the Iran-Pakistan-India gas pipeline as per US diktat.  

The UPA government defended its stand on Iran by asserting that India’s security will be 
threatened  by  the  proliferation  of  nuclear  arms  in  its  neighbourhood.  Like  the  law  of  Manu 
dharma,  which  says  that  only  Brahmins  should  recite  the  Vedas  and  the  lower  castes  who  dare 
defy this should have their tongues cut off, eyes blinded and so on, the Big Six Brahmins of the 
present-day  world  and  their  sycophants,  Israel  and  India,  consider  all  other  countries  only  fit 
enough to be enslaved like the Shudras, and regard nuclear weapons as their sole monopoly.   

In  fact,  it  is  the  nuclear  weapons  in  the  hands  of  Israel—the  “front  paw  of  US 
imperialism”  in  West  Asia--  that  poses  the  greatest  threat  to  the  stability  and  security  of  the 
countries and people of the region. Yet, not a word is said by Manmohan Singh or the Big Powers 
about the  Zionist expansionist  Israeli regime--which is the  sole possessor of nuclear  weapons in 
the region, continues to occupy territories belonging to Syria, Egypt, Jordan and Lebanon, bullies 
the Arab nations and conducts punitive raids on the Palestinian population. Such is the hypocrisy 
and  double  standards  maintained  by  these  self-acclaimed  global  gendarmes  led  by  the  biggest 
international terrorist Barack Obama. Just as in Iraq, in Iran too, the US imperialism is not really 
worried about the alleged nuclear weapons programme of Iran which, it knows, is no threat either 
to itself or its surrogate state of Israel whatsoever. It is only a ploy, like its big lie regarding Iraq’s 
possession of WMD prior to its brutal aggression in March 2003, to establish the economic and 
strategic dominance of the US in the resource-rich region of West Asia. Both Russia and China, 
despite their  heavy stakes in  Iran (with Russia building  Iran’s nuclear reactors and selling  arms, 
and China obtaining 14 % of its oil needs from Iran),  have capitulated to the US imperialists in 
exchange for some concessions made by the latter.  

The  Central  Committee,  CPI(Maoist),  condemns  this  outright  sell-out  by  the  UPA 
government  to  the  US  blackmailers  and  regards  its  vote  against  Iran  as  an  insult  to  the  entire 
people of India and the peace-loving people of the entire world. It calls upon the people to wage 
resolute  struggle  against  the  outright  submission  of  the  UPA  traitors  in  power  to  the  American 
and  other  imperialists  and  pressurize  it  to  endorse  the  right  of  Iran  to  continue  its  uranium 
enrichment. Let us unite to defend our motherland from interference, bullying, blackmailing and 
subordination  by  the  US  and  other  imperialists.  Let  us  fight  against  war-mongering  by  the 
American  and  other  imperialists,  demand  the  immediate  disarming  of  Israel  of  all  its  nuclear 
weapons  that  pose  a  grave  threat  to  peace  in West  Asia.  It  is  only  by  establishing  real  people’s 
democratic power that our  country can stand up resolutely  against the pressures of imperialism. 
Let us intensify the people’s war to make our country self-reliant and throw out imperialism from 
our country’s soil.  
 
 
Azad, 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee (provisional) 
CPI(Maoist) 

