COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

28 April, 2011 

Condemn police firings and arrests of people agitating 

against Jaitapur nuclear power plant! 

Fight for scrapping of all proposed nuclear power plants 

in the country including Jaitapur plant! 

 
On April 18, 2011 police fired on people agitating against the planned 9,900 MW Jaitapur nuclear power plant 
and killed Tabrez  Soyekar (32), an anti-nuclear activist belonging to Nate village and the  sole breadwinner of his 
family. Eight other demonstrators were seriously injured. Protestors attacked and damaged a hospital to prevent a 
government  autopsy  on  the  dead  body  as  they  believed  the  government  would  not  conduct  an  impartial  autopsy. 
The four year old agitation which intensified after the nuclear disaster at Fukushima nuclear power plant in Japan 
had gained enough first hand experience of the government's callousness to believe so.  

Coldly  ignoring  the  increasing  protests  and  not  bothering  to  compensate  or  reassure  the  victims,  the 
Environment  Minister  Jairam  Ramesh  and  the  Maharashtra  government  (the  spineless  pet  dogs  of  imperialists) 
restated  their  intention  to  go  ahead  with  the  construction  of  the  'world's  largest  nuclear  power  complex'  with  six 
reactors.  In fact, the  above protest  was against this  very stand of the government to build the  nuclear power park 
'come what may', deliberately unmindful of the Fukushima tragedy.  

Nearly 100 people and eminent activists from all parts of India (Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamilnadu, Jharkhand, 
West  Bengal,  Haryana,  Madhya  Pradesh)  who  gathered  to  participate  in  the  national  anti  nuclear  yatra  planned 
from Tarapur, the First Nuclear power plant in India to Jaitapur from 23rd to 25th April were detained illegally by 
the  Police.  In  fact,  after  Fukushima  there  were  a  spate  of  protests  –  both  new  and  as  a  continuation  of  already 
ongoing agitations – against nuclear power plants in all corners of the country especially in Haryana, West Bengal 
and Andhra Pradesh, if only our stone-deaf rulers would care to hear.  

The nuclear plant site covers the five villages of Madban, Niveli, Karel, Mithgavane, and Sakhari Nate, in an 
earthquake-prone  region  of  Jaitapur  in  Ratnagiri  district,  Maharashtra  and  968  hectares  of  land  was  cleared  for 
acquisition.  A  total  of  2,400  families  were  affected  by  this  land  acquisition.  The  plant  affects  the  livelihood  of 
40,000 people which includes about 16,000 people dependent on fishing.   

While many countries are rethinking about their nuclear programs after Fukushima, the government of India is 
hell-bent on  implementing its nuclear program. Hiding the fact that  India's reactors are considered to be the most 
inefficient  and  dangerous  in  the  world,  some  anti-people  scientists  of  India  are  misleading  the  people  by  utterly 
lying that  India's safety standards are the better than Japan's! Jairam Ramesh  who till now masqueraded as a pro-
environmentalist  minister  came  out  with  his  true  pro-corporate  face  claiming  there  is  no  alternative  to  nuclear 
power mimicking Manmohan Singh who bent over backwards to sign the Indo-US nuclear deal, disbursing billions 
of  rupees  given  in  bribes  by  the  nuclear  companies  to  buy  votes.  While  the  whole  world  is  thinking  about  and 
trying  out  various  alternative  energy  sources  he  has  the  audacity  to  say  that  there  is  no  alternative  as  if  all  of  us 
Indians  are  dumb  enough  to  believe  this  trash.  Everything  would  be  possible  if  the  basic  electricity  needs 
(domestic,  industrial  and  agricultural)  are  to  be  fulfilled.  But  in  a  country  where  the  monthly  electricity  bill  of 
Mukesh Ambani is nearly 71 lakhs of rupees, where day and night cricket matches are played with utter disregard 
to  the  electricity  consumed  while  on  the  other  hand  farmers  weighed  down  by  the  agrarian  crises  they  cannot 
escape, one of the reasons of which is lack of electricity, are committing suicides and millions of people are living 
without even a dimly lit electric bulb in their homes, one can only imagine about whose or what energy needs the 
Minister is talking about. The  hundreds of MoUs signed by the comprador central and state governments to mine 
the rich resources in the vast rural and forest tracts of India and to build various industrial plants require enormous 
amounts of electricity and it is this need of the corporate MNCs that is driving the likes of Jairam and Manmohan 
crazy to construct power plants in spite of immense protests from the people. The issue of lives and livelihoods of 
the  people  or  the  ecology  of  this  country  which  the  protestors  are  raising  mean  nothing  to  them  and  the  only 
solution they know is to treat them like a 'law and order' problem.   

Moreover,  we  would  never  know  (unless  another  Wiki  'leak'  surfaces)  how  much  our  comprador  rulers  had 
been  paid  in  kickbacks  from  notorious  corporations  like  the  Areva  (belonging  to  France)  from  whom  we  are 
importing reactors while even pro-nuclear countries like USA and UK too have refused to give design clearance to 
them. Not a single Evolutionary Pressurized Reactor (EPR) has either been built or safe-tested till now anywhere in 
the world which makes them the most unreliable and unsafe option but our rulers with their lickspittle servility to 
their imperialist masters are scurrying to purchase them without in the least bothered about the human or ecological 
costs. 

 

Fukushima disaster affected lakhs of people and the deathly radiation would last for tens of thousands of years. 
Independent European medical experts have estimated that more than 4 lakh people will suffer from cancer in the 
coming decades in the region 200 kms from the reactor and the radioactive contamination from the plant has spread 
all over the world. Four lakh people were evacuated after the Chernobyl accident that happened 25 years ago while 
many millions continue to live in contaminated conditions constantly living in fear that they could develop cancer 
anytime and that even their great grand children may be born with severe birth defects. Nearly ten lakh people have 
already died due to its delayed health effects and the number will continue to increase. If there is a major accident 
at  Jaitapur,  the  entire  Ratnagiri  district  will  have  to  be  evacuated,  permanently,  and  entire Western  Maharashtra, 
including Pune and Mumbai would be radioactively contaminated for tens of thousands of years. 

The  Konkan  people  of  Jaitapur  who  are  well  aware  of  all  these  consequences,  more  so  after  Fukushima  are 
waging  a  determined  struggle  against  the  nuclear  plant.  The  government  unleashed  a  brutal  repressive  campaign 
(lathi-charges,  promulgating  Section  144  and  Section  37  (3)  prohibiting  different  kinds  of  assembly,  beatings, 
indiscriminate  arrests,  registering  of  false  cases  (including  one  for  an  attempt  to  murder!)  against  hundreds  of 
activists  and  now  police  firings)  to  crush  the  struggle.  Leading  activists  of  the  area  have  been  issued  externment 
notices  from  Ratnagiri  district  with  Narayan  Rane  even  threatening  that  they  would  not  return  alive  from  the 
district if they dare to enter it! The police even informed the media that Jaitapur agitation is being closely watched 
for  'possible  links  with  naxalites',  using  an  already-exposed  intimidatory  tactic.  Eminent  citizens  from  the  region 
who have supported the struggle have been barred from entering the district. But all these and more could not cow 
down the Jaitapur agitation which is soon becoming another symbol of unflinching struggles raging across India on 
various burning livelihood issues.  

The Shiv Sena which kept quiet during the four-year period that the agitation was raging on has now entered 
the  agitation  seeing  an  opportunity  to  regain  the  ground  it  has  lost  in  Konkan  after  Narayan  Rane  defected.  The 
politically  aware  people  of  Jaitapur  must  not  allow  these  opportunists  who  said  Enron  would  be  thrown  into  the 
Arabian Sea and did a volte-face after they came to power, to hijack their  genuine struggle for their self-interests. 
The CPM which projected itself as the champion of nuclear deal issue is seen nowhere in the scene consolidating 
against  the  government's  choice  of  nuclear  power  as  the  only  option.  In  AP  opposition  parties  like  TDP  are 
shedding  crocodile  tears  when  villagers  protesting  power  plants  are  killed  in  police  firings  but  they  would  be  no 
different once  they  are in power as they had proved the previous times they  were in power. While a broad based 
struggle uniting all kinds of forces which oppose the nuclear power plants is to be consciously built up the people 
should stay alert to various kinds of ploys to divert the struggle from the actual issue for vested interests or vote-
bank politics. 

CPI  (Maoist)  demands  that  all  proposed  nuclear  power  plants  in  India  including  the  Jaitapur  nuclear  park 
should be scrapped. It strongly condemns the strong arm tactics employed by the government to suppress the just 
struggle of the Konkan people to preserve their lives and ecology from imminent dangers of a nuclear power plant. 
It is demanding a judicial probe into the firings on 18th April and immediate action against the officers and officials 
who ordered the firing. All false cases, illegal externment orders and banishments of anti-nuclear activists should 
be  withdrawn.  In  fact,  the  people  of  Ratnagiri  should  declare  that  it  is  the  likes  of  Narayan  Ranes  hell-bent  on 
selling the resource-rich Konkan coastline to the imperialists and destructing their livelihoods have no right to enter 
the area and not the anti-nuclear activists who are selflessly fighting for them. 

Let  us  declare  that  the  people  of  this  country  alone  have  the  right  to  decide  what  kind  of  development  or 
energy resources they need and not the corrupt politicians who behave like loyal servants of the imperialist MNCs. 
Let  us stand in firm support of the anti-nuclear plant struggle of the militant Konkan people and build a country-
wide  campaign  against  the  unsafe,  harmful  nuclear  power  option  pushed  by  the  ruling  classes.  As  the  Ratnagiri 
people have declared – let us not allow the sacrifices of Tabrezs to go in vain.  

Our country is at present witnessing a deluge of militant struggles in all four corners on various issues with Jal,  
Jungle  and  Jameen,  genuine  democracy,  progress  and  self-reliance  at  the  core.  People  are  carrying  on  these 
struggles  (some  of  them  since  many  years)  peacefully  and  militantly  without  stepping  back  even  in  the  face  of 
severe repression. All these struggles are drawing inspiration from one another too. The need of the hour is for all 
these struggles to stand in firm solidarity and support to one another and unite on a common platform to fight the 
imperialists, Indian big corporate sharks and feudal lords which are implementing all these anti-people policies and 
repressing the fighting masses. A broad, united and militant movement of all the fighting masses of India can alone 
save this country and people from the dark pits of destitution these enemies of the people are scheming to throw us 
into. 
 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

 

