COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

September 24, 2011 
CPI (Maoist)'s condolence message to the Central Committee of the CPP 

on the demise of Gregorio “Ka Roger” Rosal 

Press Release

 

Dear Comrades, 

Our CC felt deep sorrow when we heard the news of passing away of Gregorio “Ka Roger” 
Rosal, spokesperson and chief of the Information Bureau of your Party, the CPP. On behalf of the 
Indian  revolutionary  movement  and  entire  revolutionary  masses  of  India,  we  send  our  heartfelt 
condolences  to  the  CPP,  NPA  and  NDF,  all  near  and  dears  of  the  departed  veteran  of  Filipino 
revolution.  We  share  your  grief.  The  demise  of  Ka  Roger  is  a  great  loss  to  entire  Communist 
revolutionaries of the world. 

Veteran Communist leader Comrade Roger greatly contributed to the Filipino revolution ever 
since he jumped into the revolutionary movement in 1972. Born into a poor peasant family in the 
countryside,  he  raised  to  the  level  of  the  spokesperson  of  the  Party.  This  would  inspire  every 
communist  across  the  world.  From  'Great  Escape',  he  played  crucial  role  in  expanding  and 
consolidating  the  Filipino  revolution  as  well  as  armed  struggle  and  mass  struggles.  He  strode 
unwaveringly  against  all  odds  faced  in  his  personal  and  political  life.  Understanding  the 
significance of the propaganda work in revolution he accrued immense experience in propaganda 
front  striving  hard.  The  way  your  Party  waged  a  relentless  revolutionary  propaganda  war  in 
defeating  the  psychological  war  being  carried  out  by  the  imperialists  and  their  lackey  Benigno 
Aquino  III  is  simply  great.  It's  been  an  immense  inspiration  to  our  Party.  Despite  of  severe  ill 
health, as a veteran communist leader Ka Roger had been in touch with propaganda bureau of the 
CPP furnishing it with his invaluable suggestions till the end and thus he handed over his legacy to 
his comrades so that the tasks of the revolution could be carried on ceaselessly. 

His demise is a huge loss to not only Filipino Revolution, but to the world socialist revolution 
as well. He displayed enormous competence, patience, straightforwardness, intelligence, patriotism 
and love for his nation throughout his career as a revolutionary. Thus he presented himself before 
the world people as a model of how communists would think about the world. 

The CC of CPI (Maoist) humbly bows its head in memory of this Great Leader of the World 

Proletariat Ka Roger and vows to carry the World Proletarian Socialist Revolution forward. 

 

 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

