 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

 

Press Release: August 27, 2008 

 
 

Azad Kashmir is the birth-right of every Kashmiri! Arrests and 

massacres cannot crush the right to national self-determination! 

People of India! Rise up in support of the just  

and democratic struggle of the people of Kashmir!! 

 

 

Fight back the brutal onslaught of the Indian fascist state!! 

 
 
The political scene in Kashmir today brings  into one's memory the people's  uprising  in East Europe 
 
and the various Russian republics against the Russian imperialist stranglehold during the late 1980s. Even 
the  mighty  Russian  state—its  armed  forces,  KGB,  mental  asylums  and  concentration  camps—could  not 
cow  down  the  will  of  the  people.  It  had  to  ultimately  bow  down  before  the  national  aspirations  of  the 
people  oppressed  under  its  jackboots.  Today,  more  determined  than  ever  before,  the  people  of  Kashmir 
have boldly risen up asserting their nation's right to self-determination in the most unambiguous manner. 
The  strong-arm  tactics  of  the  Indian  fascist  state  which  had  deployed  over  six  lakh-strong  army  and 
several battalions of para-military and special police forces to brutally  crush  a genuine people's struggle 
for their liberation from the yoke of foreign rule has failed to subdue the people's aspirations for freedom 
and  independence.  The  imposition  of  endless  curfews  in  the  entire  Kashmir  Valley  to  thwart  peaceful 
protest  marches  by  the  people,  detention  of  the  leaders  of  Huriyat  and  others  to  render  the  people 
leaderless,  the  killings  of  peaceful  protestors,  and  the  brutal  reign  of  state  terror  in  the  entire  Kashmir 
Valley are a re-enactment of the British colonial savagery against the struggling people of India for azadi. 
The  present  rulers,  true  heirs  to  their  then  British  imperialist  masters,  haven't  learnt  any  lesson  from 
history. It is the peace-loving people of Kashmir with the support of the vast masses of India who have to 
teach  these  plunderers  a  fitting  lesson.  The  CC,  CPI(Maoist),  hails  the  glorious  role  of  the  people  of 
Kashmir in their just struggle for national self-determination. It calls upon the people of India to rise up in 
support of this just and democratic struggle of our brothers and sisters of Kashmir and to fight against the 
high-handedness and brutal suppression of their struggle by the expansionist Indian state. 
 
Today  no  citizen  of  India  can  call  himself  or  herself  a  real  democrat  unless  he/she  extends 
 
unconditional  support  to  the  demand  for  azad  Kashmir.  Manmohan  Singhs  and  Advanis,  like  every 
colonialist  in  history,  go  to  any  extent  in  retaining  territory  even  if  it  means  exterminating  an  entire 
population. It is only such greedy sharks, who conspire to loot and plunder the wealth of other’s land, that 
oppose the aspirations of the people. These die-hards refuse to learn from history and continue to suppress 
people’s  struggles  in  rivers  of  blood  for  the  sake  of  their  narrow  class  interests.  However,  history  had 
demonstrated  repeatedly  that  no  nation,  however  small  and  weak,  can  be  kept  enslaved  forever  by 
another, however strong and mighty the latter may be. History has shown that it is the people, and people 
alone,  who  can  decide  their  destiny.  The  mightiest  superpower  was  kicked  out  of  Vietnam  and  entire 
Indo-China.  Their  napalm  bombs  and  My  Lai  massacres  could  not  subdue  the  fiercely  peace-loving 
Vietnamese  nation.  The  other  erstwhile  superpower,  Soviet  social  imperialism  too,  had  to  bite  the  dust 

before  the  might  of  the  people  in  Afghanistan  and  its  own  republics.  The  fate  of  the  reactionary  Indian 
ruling classes can  never be anything different. Even if they  cling on to Kashmir through  brute force for 
another few years they will ultimately be consigned to the dust-bin of history. 
 
The CC, CPI(Maoist), unequivocally supports Kashmiri people’s struggle for azadi and believes that 
 
one  who  does  not  support  the  people’s  aspirations  for  freedom  and  independence  can  never  be  a 
democrat. It calls upon its Party members and the People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army fighters to mobilize 
the  people  in  support  of  the  Kashmiri  people’s  struggle  for  azadi.  It  appeals  to  every  peace-loving, 
democratic-minded citizen of India to rise up boldly in support of the just and democratic struggle of the 
Kashmiri nation and to condemn the brutal suppression and reign of state terror unleashed by the Indian 
ruling  classes  on  the  people  of  Kashmir.  It  also  warns  the  people  to  beware  of  the  conspiracies  of  the 
reactionary rulers to bring in the ghost of Pakistan to justify their brutal suppression of Kashmiri people’s 
struggle and their sinister designs to whip up anti-Pak hysteria and even a  war  with Pakistan in order to 
divert the people from the issue of azadi. The people of Kashmir should come out clearly with the slogan: 
“Neither India nor Pakistan, but a sovereign, independent Kashmir!” 
 
 
Azad, 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI(Maoist) 
 
 
 

[From: CPI(Maoist) Information Bulletin, #4, Sept. 10, 2008.] 

