 

 

Volume 26 - Issue 22 :: Oct. 24-Nov. 06, 2009 

INDIA'S NATIONAL MAGAZINE 

from the publishers of THE HINDU 

‘To establish a liberated area’ 

SUHRID SANKAR CHATTOPADHYAY 

Interview with Koteswar Rao, CPI (Maoist) leader. 

KOTESWAR RAO, alias Kishenji, is a politburo member of the banned CPI (Maoist) and is in charge of the 
party‟s operations in West Bengal, Jharkhand, Bihar and Orissa. He was drawn into the revolutionary 
movement when he was doing his B.Sc. (Mathematics) in Karimnagar, Andhra Pradesh. He became a full-
time member of the CPI-ML (People‟s War) in 1974. 

“We plan to spread our movement to north Bengal, the plains of Bihar, the central districts of Orissa and 
eastern Chhattisgarh,” he told Frontline in an exclusive telephonic interview in which he talked about the 
Lalgarh movement, the Maoist programme of individual killings and future plans of the Maoist movement. 
Excerpts: 

 
Do you think the movement in Lalgarh is the fallout of the Singur and Nandigram movements 
rather than a heritage of the Naxalbari movement? 

The movement in Lalgarh is the fallout of the Naxalbari movement, but the movements in Nandigram and 
Singur also had an impact on the Lalgarh movement and the people of Lalgarh. Such a long and sustained 
movement on a political issue has never taken place in the history of independent India. The main reason 
for this is the increase in political awareness among the masses. 

At the same time, there is, on the one hand, a worldwide economic crisis and, on the other, Indian 
multinationals seizing the land and property of the common people. These, too, had a role to play in the 
eruption in Lalgarh. 

And of course the Nandigram and Singur agitations, in which we were also present, are certainly big factors. 
At present, it is not possible to carry out just a peaceful agitation in West Bengal; along with peaceful 
agitations there must be huge rallies and meetings involving the direct participation of thousands of people. 

 
There is a view that the Lalgarh movement is a spontaneous tribal movement that became so big 
that the CPI (Maoist) had to get on to it or be left behind. Your comments. 

It is not as if we started doing our groundwork in the region yesterday; we have been doing our groundwork 
for a long time. The Maoist role and leadership in the area has been a continuous process. But, at the same 
time, the PCPA [People‟s Committee against Police Atrocities] and the Maoist movement are not the same, 
and it would be incorrect to say that the people of the region have been influenced only by Maoists; they 
have been very much influenced by the PCPA, too. 

 

1 

 

But if there were no arrests following the assassination attempt on Chief Minister Buddhadeb 
Bhattacharjee on November 2 last year, would you have been able to build such a strong 
movement? 

Not something like this. It would have developed in a slow process. But the reaction of the people worked to 
our advantage – much more than it did in Nandigram or Singur. We didn‟t have any demand other than that 
the police apologise to the people, but the State government did not agree to it. We were left with few 
options. 

 
Did you at any point think that the movement might not need you? 

Yes, I did. We expected a movement after November 2, but nothing so big. I expected the strength of the 
movement to be around 50 per cent of what it eventually became. But the movement itself has undergone a 
qualitative change over the months. Earlier, when the villagers protested, they assembled in large numbers 
with their traditional bows and arrows. Then the combined forces entered the region and many villagers fled. 

Subsequently, they all returned and now they are not fleeing anywhere. They are standing their own ground 
and collecting weapons to strike back. So tell me, where do you think this spirit to retaliate is coming from? 
Whom do you think the villagers are supporting now? 

 
In 2007, it was decided that the CPI (Maoist) would broad-base its activities and not focus only 
on individual killings like the earlier naxalite movement. But Maoist killings are being reported 
almost every other day. So in what way is it different from the old programme? 

At that time, annihilation of the class enemy was the only form adopted to bring about the revolution. We 
have changed that. We say that annihilation is one of the forms. This was not invented by Maoists; we have 
seen in history that the masses have always allowed it. To us, annihilation is one aspect of our total 
movement. 

It was not a regular feature earlier as you claim. It became a regular feature only after the combined forces 
entered the region. If you recollect, before the deployment of Central forces, we held a Jana Adalat [people‟s 
court] for 30 CPI(M) people in Madhupur [near Lalgarh]. 

More than 12,000 villagers attended the trial. The public wanted the death sentence for 13 of those under 
trial. But Bikas [the Maoist commander of operations in Lalgarh], after hours of persuasion, finally managed 
to convince the public that the time was not right to mete out such a punishment. Finally, the public agreed 
that those 13 people be just made to wear garlands of chappals and apologise. The other killings took place 
only after continued disregard of repeated warnings that were sent to the victims both by us and by the 
people of the region. 

The victims were not just police informers, they practically marched with the combined forces. It is not that 
we killed only CPI(M) people, we killed members of the Jharkhand Party, too, for helping the combined 
forces and for joining the Gana Pratirodh [People‟s Resistance] Committee; and I would also like to add that 
there is no difference between the Salwa Judum and the Gana Pratirodh Committee. 

We killed the main leaders of the committee. Of the six main leaders of the Gana Pratirodh Committee, 
three were from the CPI(M) and three from the Jharkhand Party. Here again, we killed them after repeatedly 
requesting them to desist from forming such a committee. They did not listen to us and we had no other 
alternative. 

 

2 

 

The annihilation policy of old and what we do today are not the same. Along with individual assassinations, 
there are also other forms of actions that we undertake – different kinds of mass movements, social 
boycotts of culprits, and various developmental works. 

In fact, recently, in Shankabanga village [in Purbo Medhinipur], we dug a seven-kilometre canal for 
irrigation. We have done similar work in many villages. 

 
The CPI (Maoist) had announced that it will spread the movement to new areas following the 
general elections this year. Which are the areas that have been identified? 

North Bengal, the plains of Bihar, the central districts of Orissa and eastern Chhattisgarh. All these are 
backward areas where multinational companies are trying to penetrate, and the State governments are 
signing memorandums of understanding with them. The strategic location of these areas will also help us in 
our movements. 

The movement in Orissa is one of the most upcoming movements by our party and it will facilitate a 
combined consolidation of our movements in the neighbouring States of Jharkhand, West Bengal and Andhra 
Pradesh, bringing as many as 15 districts under our control. 

 
Tell us something about your plans in West Bengal. 

Very simply, to establish a liberated area. We decided in 2007 that this [the Jangalmahal] would be a 
guerilla area. Since then we have progressed a lot, we have already reached out to more than half the 
population of the region and made it politically aware. I can tell you only so much. Our politburo does not 
allow us to divulge the tactical aspects of our programmes. 

 
But is there widespread recruitment into your movement from the region? 

There has to be recruitment, or else how will the movement grow? 

 
There are reports of fresh plans by your party to try and assassinate the Chief Minister, and even 
storm Writers Buildings. Your comments. 

The media need sensational news, and the police need to justify their fat salaries. Do I really need to 
elaborate? As I have repeatedly said, to kill Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee was not my decision. It was the 
decision of the people of Nandigram, the people of West Bengal, and even sections of the liberal 
bourgeoisie. 

 
Railway Minister Mamata Banerjee, who earlier extended her support to the PCPA’s movement, 
seems to have distanced herself from it. Your comments. 

I have been asking Mamata Banerjee for the last three months to make her stand clear. After the general 
elections her fortune has soared, but what about the fortune of the “Ma, Mati, Manush” [Mamata‟s political 
slogan of Mother, Earth, and People]? Their situation remains the same. What Mamata Banerjee is doing is 
indulging in opportunistic politics. 

 
With the State and the Centre now planning to launch a much stronger attack, do you not think 

 

3 

 

that your movement, as it stands today will endanger the lives of thousands of innocent and 
apolitical villagers? 

The state should think about that. People like Manmohan Singh, [P.] Chidambaram and Buddhababu are 
responsible for the situation as it stands today. Ultimately, they are the ones responsible for the killings. We 
still want peace, it is the government that does not. 

So are you willing to sit for dialogue with the government for the sake of peace? 

You are probably the 210th person to ask me this question. Chidambaram and Buddhababu have clearly 
said there will not be any dialogue; they have already arrayed their forces for war, and still you people from 
the media keep harping, „You will all not survive this‟. This is clearly to break the spirit of the common 
people. I do not understand why you all are continuously asking me this question. It really is not possible for 
me to provide routine answers to such routine questions. I am standing in a battlefield here. 

 

http://frontlineonnet.com/stories/20091106262202200.htm 

 

4 

