 

 

The Week 

January 17, 2010 Edition 

ULFA should trust us 

EXCLUSIVE INTERVIEW WITH KISHENJI 

 By Sarbari Bhaumik 

 A wily fox has many exits to his lair. So also with Koteswara Rao alias Kishenji, national 
chief of the People’s Liberation Army and politburo member of the CPI (Maoist). Media-
savvy, he often speaks to the press, but on his own terms. His call would come out of 
the blue and he would hang up immediately after giving his sound bite. Long phone 
calls, he knows, will give away his location. But in an interview with THE WEEK, 
Kishenji spoke at length on a wide range of issues, including Telangana, Kashmir and 
the northeast. Excerpts: 

What is your response to the decision to form Telangana? 

The demand for Telangana is very old and we support it. Though Delhi has announced 
its intention to form Telangana, I doubt their sincerity. Many rich and powerful Telugus 
have illegal land in Hyderabad and have invested millions there. There are powerful 
people in the UPA who are linked to these vested interests. They will create roadblocks. 

But will a separate state help? Jharkhand’s tribal leaders are as corrupt as those 
who ran Bihar. 

Creation of Jharkhand was the first step towards fulfilling aspirations of tribals who were 
neglected in Bihar. It will not solve all problems, but it is the first victory. Now they will 
have to fight corruption within their society. It is because tribal leaders like Shibu Soren 
and Madhu Koda betrayed them that tribals have turned to us. But the fight for a 
separate state where they are masters of their destiny is the first step of revolutionary 
mobilisation for deprived people. 

So you would also support the Gorkhaland movement? 

Of course. In fact, the undivided Communist Party, the old CPI, had called for this soon 
after Independence. The demand first came from CPI legislator Ratanlal Brahmin, a 
leader of the hill people. There is a CPI resolution supporting the demand for a Gorkha 
state. The CPI(M) emerged from the CPI, but they are now pandering to Bengali 
chauvinism. And strangely, there is no difference between [Congress leader]Pranab 
Mukherjee, [Trinamool Congress chief] Mamata Banerjee and [West Bengal Chief 
Minister] Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee. They are all trying to capitalise on the Bengali 

 

1 

 

sentiment against a division. This is cheap politics. These politicians have done nothing 
for the people of West Bengal, but now want to divide the Nepalis and Bengalis. We 
want the poor on both sides to maintain their unity and foil evil designs of bourgeois 
politicians. 

Will the Gorkhas get a separate state? 

Not by going on hunger strikes and tripartite talks. These methods do not get you 
anywhere in India. You have to fight. 

An armed fight? But Telangana came out of hunger strikes. 

Telangana is still a long way off. We Maoists believe in a combination of armed struggle 
and mass mobilisation. After all, Telangana or Gorkhaland are not separatist demands. 
They want to remain in India. 

But your party has also supported separatism. The CPI (Maoist) has an 
agreement with the People’s Liberation Army of Manipur. Your party supports the 
Manipuris’ right to self-determination. 

That is not supporting separation! The people of the northeast and Kashmir have a right 
to self-determination and we wholeheartedly support their struggle for it. Theirs is a just 
demand and we want to tell them that the struggling poor of India are with them in their 
fight against the exploitative Indian state. 

But self-determination only means that they can decide if they want to stay in India or 
become independent. We are against India imposing itself on these people who have 
developed independently for a long time. Our understanding with the Revolutionary 
People's Front of Manipur [PLA is its military wing] is based on our recognition of 
Manipur’s right to self-determination and their commitment not to attack the Indian 
proletariat. That is the first step towards a revolutionary front of the struggling people of 
India and of Manipur. 

ULFA [United Liberation Front of Assam] attacks poor Biharis in Assam, despite 
your talking to them. 

We unconditionally support ULFA’s struggle for self-determination in Assam. We only 
want them to stop attacking the Indian proletariat. We will continue to engage with ULFA 
on this issue.  

The PLA has traditionally accepted its commitment to the Indian revolution, but 
ULFA has never agreed to carry that ideological baggage. They talk of building 
socialism on a nationalist base. 

ULFA cannot ignore the revolutionary struggle of Indians and our enormous goodwill for 
their struggle. It has gained nothing by trusting neighbouring countries like Bhutan and 

 

2 

 

Bangladesh, where puppet governments of India rule. They have betrayed ULFA under 
Indian pressure or when it suited them. Look how many ULFA leaders have been 
handed over by Bangladesh in recent weeks. ULFA cannot trust these governments. 
They have to trust us. 

But don’t you see the tendency of many of these ethnic armed movements to get 
co-opted by the Indian state? 

I know what you are talking about. We are not dealing with movements which have 
made deals with India or are ready to do so. ULFA is still fighting, despite many 
reverses. ULFA chairman Arabinda Rajkhowa was handed over to India, but Home 
Secretary G.K. Pillai lied that he had surrendered. Typical Indian divide-and-rule policy. 
They want Rajkhowa and ULFA’s military chief Paresh Barua to fight. 

Have you ever discussed these issues with Barua? He is the one who orders 
attacks on Biharis in Assam, isn’t he? 

We have engaged with him. I met him under the party name of Pradip, that is my 
identity for him. He does not know me as Koteswara Rao or Kishenji. I wish to speak to 
him again. I sincerely want ULFA, the PLA and other such groups fighting for separate 
homelands or for self-determination to fight the exploitative Indian state alongside us. 
We do not want to impose the model of our struggle on them, as they know how to fight 
best under their own circumstances. But we want them to attack the enemies of the 
people, and not the poor, wherever they come from. 

Are you not being ambitious? The Burmese Communist Party tried to rope in 
ethnic separatist movements like the Kachins and Karens into their fold but failed 
because the Wa and Kokang tribes, who formed the majority of their armed 
soldiers, deserted. 

We do not want to bring any of these self-determination struggles into our fold. We do 
not want to absorb them. We respect the right to self-determination. But they must 
realise we have a common enemy—the oppressive government in Delhi. They cannot 
fight Delhi alone. 

So you are supporting them for tactical reasons? 

Not at all.  We want them to be part of a broad front so that we can co-ordinate our 
struggles. But this should be based on sound politics, not mere tactics. So we have 
come out in political support for the movements of self-determination. We now want to 
unite their struggles with the nationality movements. This is the next stage of the Indian 
revolution. 

You support Kashmir’s right of self-determination? 

 

3 

 

We do. But only if it is a genuine struggle. If Kashmir wants independence, so be it. But 
that should cover the whole of Kashmir. We have no patience for religious radicalism. If 
the Taliban attacks India, we will be the first to fight them. But we cannot deny 
Kashmir’s aspirations for self-determination. That is a secular aspiration focused on 
Kashmiriyat, not a Taliban-style religious fanaticism.   

  

http://week.manoramaonline.com/cgi-
bin/MMOnline.dll/portal/ep/theWeekContent.do?sectionName=Current+Events&contentId=6547965&programId=107375490
0&pageTypeId=1073754893&contentType=EDITORIAL 

 

 

 

4 

