 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

 

April 20, 2013 

Fight Back The Land Acquisition Bill ! 

Intensify Struggles for Jal, Jungle, Zameen & 

Defeat The Conspiracy Of The Imperialist-CBB- 

Big Landlord Combine To Grab Our Lands! 

Genuine Land Reforms Is The Need Of The Hour, Not Land Acquisition! 
The stage is all set to pull out Land – the chief means of production worshipped as Mother Earth by 
the  millions  of  farmers  in  our  country  for  providing  them  with  livelihood  since  generations  and  for 
generations  to  come  -  from  under  our  feet  in  the  present  parliamentary  session.  The  colonial  ‘Land 
Acquisition Act, 1894’ which was the pseudo legal garb for one of the most inhuman, cruel land grabs ever 
in  the  entire  history  during  the  British  occupation  of  our  country  is  up  for  some  cosmetic  changes. 
‘Cosmetic’ because the content and intent remain the same – exploitation and complete loot of the natural 
resources of our country for the interests of the colonialists then and the imperialists now. And the ‘Change’ 
would  parade  wearing  masquerading  costumes  like  ‘fair  compensation,  transparency,  rehabilitation, 
resettlement’  hiding  the  bulldozing  of  every  hurdle  that  had  remained  since  colonial  times  in  the  rocky 
rugged terrain of land grab. All the laws pertaining to the economic system that had been adopted as it is 
from the colonial times or in amended forms after formal transfer of power in 1947 corresponded to their 
international and domestic needs of the imperialists and CBB in that particular phase. The proposed Land 
Acquisition Bill is no different. As part of a rapid series of measures hyped by the corporate media as Big 
Bang Reforms and rushed in by the UPA-2 with the sly connivance of the ‘opposition parties’ comes ‘The 
Right  to  Fair  Compensation  and  Transparency  in  Land  Acquisition,  Rehabilitation  and  Resettlement  Bill, 
2012’ to replace the ‘outdated’ ‘Land Acquisition Act, 1894’. 

With  the  impatient  whips  of  their  imperialist  masters  eager  to  come  out  their  ever  increasing 
financial crises caressing their backs to the accompaniment of shouts, ‘faster, faster’, the Prime Minister, the 
Finance Minister and Rural Development Minister, the most trusted agents of the imperialists panting out of 
breath  ‘assured’  us  that  they  would  rush  in  more  and  more  ‘Big  Bang  Reforms’  following  the  ones 
announced  in  September  2012.  As  promised  the  present  Bill  pertaining  to  land  acquisition  is  now  being 
rushed through the farce named Parliament after years of parleys aimed at consensus between the exploiters 
on how best to grab lands on the one hand and at hoodwinking the people about ‘democratic process’ on the 
other. 

As  the  name  itself  suggests  this  Bill  aims  at  acquiring  the  land  of  the  people  for  ‘development’ 
synonymous in the parlance of Indian ruling classes with huge mining projects, big dams, SEZs, highways, 
airports,  ports,  railways,  military  installations  etc.  In  fact,  this  process  that  has  been  going  on  since  the 
formal  transfer  of  power  in  1947  (remember  the  big  dams  named  modern  temples  by  Nehru  and  the  still 
uncompensated  millions displaced by them?), speeded up since the neo-liberal first generation reforms  of 
1991. With almost no compensation, leave alone a fair one, no proper R&R, no transparency or people’s 
participation in decision-making, the entire history of land acquisition by the government and private capital 
(of imperialists-CBB) post-1947 is fraught with chaos (100 million displaced with a dismal 17-20 percent 
rate of resettlement and rehabilitation according to an estimate), death of large numbers of people both due to 
destruction of livelihood and repression of the people fighting against displacement and blatant handing over 
of the natural resources (forests, mineral riches, agricultural lands, water, aquatic wealth etc) of our country 
to  the  MNCs.  The  disillusionment  with  ‘development’  was  complete.  With  more  and  more  red  dots 
indicating  people’s  struggles,  ranging  from  hunger  strikes  to  armed  struggle,  against  displacement  and 
‘development’ appearing and widening across the map of India brakes began to be applied to this juggernaut. 
It  is  in  this  backdrop  that  ‘The  Right  to  Fair  Compensation  and  Transparency  in  Land  Acquisition, 
Rehabilitation and Resettlement Bill, 2012’ has been prepared and is ready to be passed now. 

 

1

 

By  widening  the  ambit  of  the  term  ‘public  purpose’  to  include  infrastructure  projects  relating  to 
agriculture,  agro-processing,  cold-storage  facilities,  industrial  corridors  or  mining  activities,  national 
investment  and  manufacturing  zones  as  designated  in  the  National  Manufacturing  Policy;  and  any  other 
infrastructural facilities notified by the Central government after tabling the notification in Parliament, the 
Bill blatantly facilitates the acquisition of lands for MNCs, doing away with any semblance of self-reliance 
and sovereignty that is still left. In our country along with the peasants directly dependent on land there are 
millions of people who did not have a piece of land, directly or indirectly dependent on it. With the loss of 
fertile  land  the  agro  based  industries  too  would  suffer.  So  the  LA  Bill  disintegrates  not  just  the  peasant 
families but also worker families dependent on these industries.  

This Bill seeks the consent of 80 per cent of landowners in case of use of land by private companies 
and the consent of 70 per cent of the landowners in case of land acquired for public-private partnerships. It 
does  not  even  include  the  consent  all  the  affected  families  and  confines  it  to  those  families  losing  land.  
Given the depressing and atrocious past record, one can easily guess what a mockery this ‘consent’ business 
would become. Why 80 and 70 percent when it should actually be 100 percent? How informed would be the 
people about the consequences? How many would be the misinformation campaigns conducted to keep the 
people  in  ignorance?  How  much  would  be  the  bribing  part  of  middlemen  and  how  much  would  be  the 
coercion part? What would be the scale of state repression by police, paramilitary and Special Forces to cow 
down the people? In every state people have painfully gone through the answers and have seen through the 
lie. 

The Bill gives the government such arbitrary powers as the discretion to notify the limit of multi-
crop irrigated land for acquisition taking into consideration the specific factors and circumstances relevant to 
the State. Practically this would mean that the government can facilitate the grab of any number of acres of 
fertile multi-crop lands by the imperialist-CBB capital. In clear violation of the PESA and Forest Rights Act, 
public hearing of the draft R&R scheme would be held only in those Gram Sabhas and municipalities where 
more than 25 per cent of the land was being acquired instead of in every Gram Sabha. The Bill also gives the 
government  the  powers  to  delay  the  issuance  of  the  declaration  for  the  R&R  scheme.  With  the  huge 
difference between what the peasants get as compensation (being in lakhs of rupees) and the price at which 
the land is sold again (being in crores), one can guess the plight of the peasants forced to sell their land by 
the unscrupulous blood suckers. Billionaires become trillionaires and the once independent owners of land 
become paupers. One of the most dangerous provisions is that the land should be returned to the State Land 
Bank instead of the land owner if it remains unutilized till five years. Such a move would lead to large scale 
land acquisitions and later gives the governments the opportunity to illegally hand over the land to MNCs.  

In the urban areas massive scale evictions of poor and even middle classes have become the norm. 
The urban land ceiling Acts has been conveniently done away with. If this Bill gets implemented practically 
the already burdened urban employment scenario would sink further with huge rural migration to the cities. 
This suits the interests of the imperialist-CBB combine as they need a massive reserve army of unemployed 
and underemployed to depress wages to the lowest levels possible to overcome the financial crisis and gain 
monopoly profits in which they are bogged down since end-2007 and not finding a way out. And this Bill 
consequently  even  curbs  several  of  the  fundamental  rights  granted  by  the  Constitution  of India  that  these 
bandicoots in the Parliament swear by – the rights to work, livelihood, food, education and even the right to 
vote and very negatively impacts food and livelihood security of all those whose livelihoods depend on land. 
This would lead to drastic increase in regional imbalances, in the gap between the rich and the poor and the 
urban and rural areas. This would harm even the formal federal political structure, lead to impairment of state 
powers and further centralization of fascist powers. 

The Congress party or the alliances led by it had been in power for the most part since 1947 in our 
country at the centre and in the states and it helmed the ‘land grab’ engine displacing millions of workers, 
farmers, other oppressed classes and oppressed social sections like Dalits, Adivasis, women, minorities and 
backward regions in its tracks.  Other parliamentary parties are also not far behind. Each one of them has the 
accusing finger of the displaced people pointed at them. United by their loyalty to the imperialist masters, all 
the parliamentary parties hastily came to an agreement to pass this Bill.  

While  the  amendments  and  ‘objections’  of  the  opposition  parties  range  from  demand  for  non-
acquisition of multi-crop agricultural lands (Samajwadi Party) to demand for non-intervention of State in any 
kind  of  land  acquisition  (Trinamool  Congress),  the  suggestions  and  objections  of  the  NGOs  are  centered 
around livelihood based R&R, taking 100% consent of the project affected/displaced peoples, involvement 
of Gram Sabhas, inclusion of urban eviction for proper R&R etc. Though very partially and in parts these 

 

2

 
objections do point to some of the basic flaws in the proposed Bill, in reality all these objections are like 
pointing at one or two holes in a sieve, ignoring the gushing flow of water through it. 

The parliamentary parties that are or were in power in the centre and in the states are notorious for 
immense  land  grabs  both  in  rural  and  urban  areas,  for  maintaining  and  utilizing  land  mafias  for  forceful 
evictions of the peasants, particularly the Adivasis and the urban poor and for making the most of the state 
machinery for suppressing the people opposing displacement. In fact, any politician of some stature in these 
parties who is not involved in land grabs and fattening of his/her purse would be a rare breed. And the NGOs 
true to their original purpose of formation are acting like a safety valve – acting as if raising some genuine 
concerns of the people but in reality keeping a check so that they do not raise the most basic question of the 
peasantry in our country – the issue of land ownership - in other words maintaining a deafening silence on 
genuine Land Reforms. 

The  CC,  CPI  (Maoist)  calls  upon  the  people  of  our  country  to  demand  and  fight  unitedly  for  the 
withdrawal of the proposed Bill and intensify the struggles against land grabs and displacement, for their 
inalienable  right  over  Jal,  Jungle,  Zameen  by  uniting  huge  cross  sections  of  people  ranging  from  poor, 
middle and rich peasants to the urban poor and urban middle classes who would be affected by this. It clearly 
reiterates that development means nothing in India without genuine Land Reforms. India is a semi-colonial, 
semi-feudal  country  where  70%  of  the  population  depends  on  land  for  their  livelihood.  But  instead  of 
implementing  genuine  land  reforms  the  looters  are  grabbing  the  lands  of  the peasantry  for  peanuts  in  the 
name of development and making mind boggling profits. The millions of poor peasants and landless laborers 
are getting pauperized further and their increasing number of suicides is just one significant indicator of the 
larger tragedy.  

With the increasing intervention of the imperialists, particularly the US imperialists in all the affairs 
of  our  country  and particularly  the  economic  and  political  system,  the  process  of  neo-colonization  of our 
country  without  the  imperialist  troops  actually  entering  our  country  is  speeding  up.  Doing  away  with  the 
laws of our country in SEZs had already made a mockery of even the paltry sovereignty left. With increasing 
neo-colonization  of  our  country  under  various  garbs  the  need  for  genuine  national  revolution  against  the 
imperialists that is an inseparable part of the New Democratic Revolution (NDR) is increasing more than 
ever. The interests of the big land lords are also inseparable from those of the imperialists and the CBB. That 
is why our CC once again declares in no uncertain terms that only Agrarian Revolution as the axis of New 
Democratic Revolution would overthrow these three enemies of the people and lead to genuine land reforms 
in our country, establish genuine democracy, self-reliance and sovereignty in our country and put an end to 
these devastating land grabs. It calls upon the people of our country to unite against the traitors and lackeys 
of imperialists who are in the power under the garb of parliamentary democracy and selling-out our country 
on wholesale and to intensify and expand the Protracted People’s War for the victory of NDR. 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, CPI (Maoist) 

 

3

