Glimpses of Comrade Koteswarlu’s

Revolutionary Life

Born  as  the  second  son  of  Madhuramma  and  Venkataiah  in  a  middle
class  family  in  Peddapally  town  of  Karimnagar  district  in  AP  on  November
26
Active  role  in  movement  for  a  separate  Telangana  state
Active  role  in  revolutionary  student  movement,  studied  degree  in
Karimnagar  town
Started  work  as  a  party  organizer
Participation  in  the  Telangana  Regional  Conference  of  the  party  in
Nagpur
Crucial  role  in  the  peasant  revolutionary  upsurge  famous  as  the  ‘Jagityal
Jaitrayatra’
Election  as  the  secretary  of  the  Karimnagar-Adilabad  Joint  District
Committee  formed  for  the  first  time
Election  as  the  state  committee  member  of  erstwhile  CPI  (ML)  [PW]  in
September  in  the  AP  state  conference,  later  takes  up  responsibility  as
the  secretary
Responsibility  of  DK  movement
Election  as  member  of  Forest  Committee  in  the  first  conference  of  DK
party  in  February
Co-option  into  Central  Organizing  Committee,  takes  up  responsibility
of  Bengal
Election  as  CC  member  in  the  All  India  Special  Conference  of  the
erstwhile  CPI  (ML)  [PW]
  Election  as  CC  member  in  the  erstwhile  CPI  (ML)  [PW]  9th  Congress,
takes  up  responsibilities  as  PB  member  and  secretary  of  NRB
Prominent  role  in  merger,  takes  up  responsibilities  as  united  CC
member,  PB  member  and  ERB  member  after  the  formation  of  the  CPI
(Maoist)
Election  as  CC  member  in  the  Unity  Congress-9 th  Congress,  takes  up
responsibilities  as  PB  member  and  ERB  member

1954

1969
1974

1975
1977

1978

1978

1980

1986
1987

1993

1995

2001

2004

2007

1993-11 Worked  as  CC  member  for  18  years
2001-11 Worked  as  PB  member  for  11  years
2011

Martyrdom  on  November  24  near  Kushboni  in  Burishol  forests  in  West
Midnapore  district  of  West  Bengal  in  a  fake  encounter

Party Letter : 1/2012

     For Party Members

Great Leader of Indian Revolution,

People’s War General and

Politburo Member of CPI (Maoist) Comrade

Koteswarlu is Immortal !
It is Impossible To Stop

The Advance of The Movement with

The Murders of Revolutionaries !

Dear Comrades !

Another revolutionary general laid down his life in the Indian revolutionary
movement. On November 24, 2011 we have lost the great leader of Indian

revolution,  CPI  (Maoist)  Politburo  member  and  our  beloved  comrade
Mallojhala  Koteswarlu.  This  would  remain  another  dark  day  in  our
revolutionary  movement’s  history.  The  fascist  ruling  clique  of  Sonia-
Manmohan-Pranab-Chidambarm-Jairam Ramesh carrying on an unjust war
on the oppressed masses colluded with West Bengal Chief Minister Mamta
Banerji and prepared the conspiratorial ‘covert operation’ plan for murdering
comrade Mallojhala Koteswarlu. With the coordination of central IB and West
Bengal state intelligence, the most cruel officers in the high-command of the
commando forces under the leadership of CRPF Director-General Vijayakumar
with the help of counter-insurgency SP Manoj Verma caught him unarmed in
a covert plan. The cowardly enemy mercenary killer gang tortured him in the
most unspeakable manner and his body was turned into pulp in the most
horrible manner. His right eye was pulled out. His fingers were cut off. His
hands and legs were broken. His ribs were crushed. They fired a bullet into
his mouth and his face was rendered beyond recognition. His feet were burnt
on an electric heater. He was brought in the last stage of his life to Burishol in
Kushboni forest of West Midnapore district (in West Bengal), shot dead and
then  a  false  encounter  story  was  circulated.  Our  beloved  leader  Kishenji
breathed his last and his martyrdom proclaimed to the world that revolutionaries
who lay down their lives for the people are immortal, that final victory belongs
to the people, that no force in this world can stop the victory of the revolution
and  that  final  defeat  and  destruction  is  that  of  the  exploiting,  oppressing
classes.

Comrade Koteswarlu is a great revolutionary. He was a brave fighter who
did not waver in the face of tortures by the enemy. He set up a great ideal for
the future generations by holding aloft the revolutionary flag while preserving
the party secrets spilling his warm blood.

Comrade Koteswarlu was a revolutionary of the post-Naxalbari generation.
Though Naxalbari suffered a setback he was influenced with the lessons of
that great revolutionary tide and started his political career when the party
was making preparations for a new revolutionary upsurge. He became a part
of that upsurge and when that was developing as a higher level People’s War,
he developed along with it and became one of the prominent leaders who led
that  movement. With  a  vast  experience  of  38  years  comrade  Koteswarlu
developed  step  by  step  along  with  revolutionary  movement,  won  the
confidence of the entire party cadres and stood as a brave general in the path
of Protracted People’s War (PPW).  As part of expanding the revolutionary
2

experience in the long revolutionary movement and were experts in respective
fields. All of them were heirs of the glorious Naxalbari movement which
gave a turn to the Indian revolutionary movement history. At this juncture
where we are advancing by fighting back the Green Hunt military offensives
of the enemy and putting efforts to build an united movement by mobilizing
people of various sections, their martyrdom is a further serious loss. It is not
easy to fill their place in the movement. But it is a fact that they all have been
born and developed in Protracted People’s War. It was due to the tough class
struggle that they have steeled so. In the future too several such revolutionaries
would definitely be made in the same manner. It is the people and the people’s
movements that gave birth to such brave and dedicated revolutionaries like
comrade Koteswarlu. The worker and peasant oppressed masses would arm
themselves with the revolutionary message spread by him from Jagityal to
Junglemahal and would definitely advance the Indian NDR along the path of
victory.  Let  us  fulfill  their  losses  by  advancing  the  PPW  with  resolute
determination. People are the makers of history. Final victory belongs to the
people.

• Let  us  build  liberated  areas  by  fulfilling  the  central,  principal  and

immediate task set by the Unity Congress-9th Congress!

• Let us protect the leadership and mold our party into an impregnable

secret party in a Bolshevik manner!

• Let us fight tirelessly to defeat the fascist Green Hunt offensive which
is going on as part of the LIC conspiracy of the enemy! Let us intensify
the guerilla warfare!

• Let us adhere firmly to our party line and fight against various kinds of
revisionism, right opportunism and left adventurism with the inspiration
of comrade Koteswarlu!

• Let us create people’s revolts in the model of Lalgarh and Narayanapatna

and strengthen our mass base!

• Let us build strong urban movement and plain movement to advance
the PPW! Let us expand the revolutionary movement to new areas
and  spheres!

Date : 14 January 2012

Central  Committee
CPI (Maoist)
23

Let Us Hold Aloft The Aims of Comrade Koteswarlu!
Let Us Intensify People’s War To Create Thousands Of
Koteswarlus!

Comrade Koteswarlu was a warrior steeled in the flames of class struggle.
Since he joined the party he worked amidst many an ebb and tide and was
steeled by becoming a part of the twists and turns, ups and downs of the
movement.  For  nearly  four  decades  thousands  of  cadres  and  hundreds  of
leaders - many of whom were colleagues who worked along with him - laid
down their lives in the revolutionary movement. Severe repression and dangers
lay in wait at every step. He stood firmly and bravely in the face of all such
odds and led the movement in various areas in the country. He stood steadfast
amidst fascist repression and massacres and worked. With his martyrdom
the Indian revolutionary movement faced severe loss.

Comrades! The enemies are celebrating that they have murdered comrade
Koteswarlu.  They  are  eager  to  wipe  out  our  revolutionary  movement
completely. This eagerness is not at all coincidental. This is a result of the
world economic crisis which is erupting in new forms with each passing
day. The flames of anger and protest of the entire people of the world are
leaping up to the sky. The Arab people’s upsurges, the various nationality
liberation struggles, the mass agitations of Europe, the ‘Occupy Wall Street’
agitations  which  have  spread  like  a  wild  fire  to  90  countries,  the  Maoist
People’s Wars that are advancing in countries like Philippines and India, the
democratic, nationality liberation and anti-displacement agitations that are
going on in our country for land, food and liberation and against the exploitation,
oppression, sham development policies of the ruling classes are all a result of
these. The conspiracy of the imperialists to loot this world at their will by
wiping out these agitations and movements before the economic crisis turns
into revolutionary crisis is the real reason for this eagerness.
Dear comrades !

Our CC is still to get clear details regarding the fake encounter of comrade
Koteswarlu. The CC is still to examine deeply and concretely the conditions
which led to it and the reasons behind the incident. After the CC-3 meeting,
our party suffered heavy losses with the arrest of one PBM, three CCMs and
the murder of PBM comrade Koteswarlu. In the past five years our party lost
most  valuable  comrades.  It  lost  great  comrades  who  have  gained  vast
22

movement he worked in several areas and built mass movements. He worked
tirelessly in taking the revolutionary movement to new heights by taking up
several responsibilities in the course of development of the party. Ideals such
as the superior revolutionary commitment and determination, initiative and
presence of mind, comradely love and affection, dedication, study and serving
nature  of  that  martyr  would  remain  a  model  to  follow  for  communist
revolutionaries. He carved a niche of his own in the revolutionary movement
under many names such as Prahlad, Pradeep, Sankar, Ramji, Vimal, Kishenji
etc. In the initial days, peasantry and close comrades called him affectionately
as Koti and Kotanna. Comrade Kotanna fought with unbending courage till
the end for the sake of the revolutionary ideology he believed in and dedicated
his invaluable services to the revolutionary movement selflessly. He etched
his name permanently with blood soaked letters in the history of sacrifices of
the Indian revolutionary movement, set up an ideal and imparted an ideal
spirit of struggle for many generations to come.

In his long revolutionary life, he played a prominent role in several spheres,
dedicated everything for the liberation of our country and finally shed his
blood on the historic Lalgarh soil. Our Central Committee is humbly paying
red homage to martyr comrade Koteswarlu with respect, a heavy heart and
eyes filled with tears on behalf of the entire party, People’s Liberation Guerilla
Army, Revolutionary Janatana Sarkars, revolutionary mass organizations and
revolutionary  masses.  It  is  vowing  that  we  would  strive  with  boundless
commitment to fulfill his aims with the inspiration of the ideals he set up and
by learning from the movement experiences he imparted. It is vowing that
we would intensify revolutionary mass struggles, mass resistance movements
and People’s War. The enemy classes are celebrating that they have given a
severe  blow  to  the  revolutionary  movement  by  murdering  comrade
Koteswarlu. But let us wipe our tears and take up this challenge courageously
on behalf of the oppressed people and the revolutionary camp. Let us declare
clearly to the enemies that we would definitely take revenge for the murder
of Koteswarlu by expanding to the four corners of the country and developing
the Maoist People’s War to lofty heights. Let us vow one more time with
clenched fists that we would sacrifice everything by taking as an ideal comrade
Koteswarlu and all the martyrs to fulfill the aims of our beloved martyr comrade
Koteswarlu by destroying this exploiting society.

On this occasion, our CC is expressing deep condolences to his mother
Madhuramma, his life partner, his other family members, relatives and to all
3

the comrades who worked with him. It is sharing its grief with the party
ranks, revolutionary masses and all his friends who have been immersed in a
sea  of  grief  after  they  lost  a  beloved  comrade  with  his  martyrdom.  The
murderers who killed our beloved comrade Koteswarlu are the same ones
who are behind our difficulties, travails and tears. CC is calling upon all of
you to fight the enemy with doubled hatred and steeled determination.

Let us look briefly at the prominent events in the long revolutionary life of
comrade Mallojhala Koteswarlu who fought till he shed his last drop of blood
and sacrificed everything for the sake of revolution, not bending in the face
of the enemy.
Family Background

Comrade Koteswarlu was born on November 26, 1954 in Peddapally town
of Karimnagar district in the state of Andhra Pradesh. His father was Mallojhala
Venkataiah. He was a Congress person who participated in the Indian freedom
struggle and supported the struggle against the Nizam in Telangana. His mother
was Madhuramma. She developed progressive ideas with the influence of
her  husband’s  politics. They  raised  their  children  amidst  many  financial
difficulties and influenced them with democratic ideas. He studied up to high
school in Pedddapally. With the encouragement of his father, he studied the
writings of progressive writers and imbibed anti-feudal and progressive ideas
since his childhood. In the later period when comrade Koteswarlu carried on
revolutionary activities on a vast scale, he always got revolutionary sympathy,
moral support and help in all manners from his parents and relatives. During
the period of legal opportunities gained after Emergency, their house also
served  as  a  revolutionary  centre.  In  those  days  many  comrades  used  to
frequent their home and they were like parents to all of them. They loved all
like their own children and helped them. Though they faced severe repression
from the police and their house was destroyed two times they did not surrender
to enemy counseling. Their support for the district movement was present in
this manner. Their encouragement in the development of Koteswarlu as a
revolutionary is immense.
Initiation into The Movements During Student Days

Like his father, Koteswarlu too had patriotic ideas. By the time his high
school study was completed, the movement for separate Telangana came to
the fore in 1969 and immersed the youth in its upsurge. Young Koteswarlu

4

encouraged the good things in them and motivated them. He took special
care  to  provide  medical  care  for  the  injured  comrades  in  revolutionary
movement. One must learn from him how to provide suitable work to them
according  to  their  physical  condition  and  how  to  give  encouragement.
Comrades facing problems wished for his presence or read letters written by
him again and again for inspiration.
Huge  Protests  Against  The  Murder  of  Comrade
Koteswarlu

After hearing about the horrible murder of comrade Koteswarlu, the Maoist
parties  and  organizations  all  over  the  world,  democratic,  progressive  and
revolutionary organizations and peace-lovers expressed their anger and protest
against the Indian government and the Mamta Banerji government of West
Bengal. They condemned this brutal act in no uncertain terms. They sent
condolence message to our party expressing their grief at his murder. Several
human rights organizations, democratic organizations, several writers, artistes,
journalists  and  media  friends  condemned  the  murder  and  demanded
independent  judicial  enquiry.  Many  prominent  persons  wrote  articles  in
magazines. In this backdrop an international week of solidarity for the Indian
People’s War was declared between January 15 and 22. In a word, the working
masses, the democratic and revolutionary camp of our country and abroad
felt it was a loss to them. They felt the grief as their own.

On this occasion our CC, on behalf of our party is expressing thanks to
all these organizations and persons. It is such democratic and revolutionary
consciousness  and  solidarity  that  gives  constant  inspiration  to  the  world
proletarian mass movements.

The entire party, PLGA and people in all the states in our country and in
the guerilla zones wiped their tears and vowed to spread PW to all the four
corners of the country and mobilize millions of masses into the revolutionary
movement and to create thousands of ‘Koteswarlus’ and several ‘Lalgarhs’
and ‘Narayanapatnas’ to fulfill the dreams of comrade Koteswarlu.  They
vowed to overthrow this murderous brutal state and make success the New
Democratic Revolution.

21

training  the  guerillas  and  teaching  them  guerilla  warfare  techniques.
Revolutionaries must learn from his efforts in building Lalgarh movement as
a model for the whole country.
Contribution  in  Ideological,  Political,  Propaganda  and
Literary  Fields

Comrade  Koteswarlu  played  main  role  in  enriching  the  party  basic
documents and in formulating party’s policy documents. While leading the
AP movement and while he was the in-charge of Bengal state and as a CC
and PB member, he played prominent role in formulating internal circulars
and letters. He worked actively in running the magazines Kranti, Radical
March, Karmika Patham, Prabhath, People’s War, Vanguard, Jung and Bengal
state magazines. He contributed significantly in conducting polemical debates
against right opportunists and CPM neo-revisionism. He wrote many poems
under the pen names of Godavari, Asidhara, Babu, Anna, Oka koduku (A
son)  etc.  He  contributed  extensively  in  the  propaganda  sphere. As  the
spokesperson  of  ERB  and  as  PB  member  he  stated  the  stands  of  the  CC
through press statements and interviews on various issues.

From his initial days he conducted political classes to the cadres and put
lot of efforts for their development. In 1996, after he took up the responsibility
of Central Political School and SCOPE, he concentrated on teaching theory
to the leadership cadres and planned for a teaching campaign. He participated
in preparing notes along with teachers on selected topics and imparted them
to the party.
Beloved Leader Who Won The Confidence of The Party
Ranks

Comrade Koteswarlu won the affection of thousands of party cadres in
his 38 year long revolutionary life. He got the immense love of the people. He
used to enquire about the needs of the cadres. He remembered and fulfilled
the needs of the cadres acquainted with him. He used to meet the available
cadres definitely. When not possible to meet, he used to write letters to them.
He used to ask the guerillas and his close associates about their experiences
in people’s war and gain knowledge. Whenever cadre met him, they used to
feel that they have met their much-loved political teacher who loved them in
turn. They felt it was an unforgettable experience to meet him, that they have
learnt  many  things,  that  they  have  identified  their  weaknesses,  that  he
20

participated in it militantly. He developed into one of the student leaders of
the movement for separate Telangana in Peddapally town.

Comrade Koteswarlu was intelligent in his studies. Mathematics was his
favorite  subject.  He  was  popular  among  the  students.  Koteswarlu  who
completed  his  high  school  studies  (11th  standard)  in  Peddapally  went  to
Karimnagar (the district head quarters) for higher studies. He joined the PUC
there and was acquainted with revolutionary politics and Literary Friends.
With each year, his relations with revolutionary politics deepened. He passed
PUC with good marks and joined BSc (Mathematics) and completed this
degree course in 1974.

In  1973  he  burnt  the  ‘national’  flag  in  his  college  along  with  his
revolutionary  friends  as  part  of    boycotting  sham  independence  day
celebrations and got arrested. He participated in the building of revolutionary
student organization in 1974 and laid the foundations for the building of a
strong revolutionary student organization in the district. While participating
actively in the revolutionary student movement, he abandoned his studies
and developed into a full time party activist. In 1975, after the formation of
the Radical Student Union (RSU), he strove to spread the student movement
in the district. Kotanna who developed contacts with revolutionary literary
and cultural organizations which had already been formed and were involved
in the building of revolutionary movement, became a part of the civil rights
movement too which emerged newly and was expanding and strove to build
these organizations in the district. Comrades Bhoomaiah and Kista Goud had
contacts with the revolutionary movement in Adilabad district and were arrested
as the accused in the annihilation of a local traitor of the people. They were
sentenced to death. Comrade Koteswarlu participated in the agitations that
flared up all over the state against the death sentences and also involved the
students in the district in the agitation.

On June 26, 1975 Emergency was declared in India. In the most fascist
manner, the  then Prime Minister of India, Indira Gandhi did not spare even
the ruling class opposition parties all over the country and put in jail all of her
opponents, in their thousands. She transformed the whole country into a jail.
Mass organizations came into existence as a result of the serious involvement
of our party in the building of the revolutionary mass movement by overcoming
the leftist tactics of the Naxalbari period. Soon they became victims of the
fascist Emergency. During the Emergency, all the revolutionary parties and

5

revolutionary mass organizations were banned and had to go underground.
Comrade Koteswarlu too went underground at that time. During the dark
rule of Emergency, he worked among the rural peasantry of Vemulavada in
Sircilla taluq in the district and learnt his first lessons in agrarian revolution.
As there were no regular contacts with the secret party leadership during the
Emergency, the cadres led their revolutionary life with Bolshevik determination
keeping their whereabouts very secret to the enemy and fulfilling their daily
needs and traveling expenses etc with the little money they got as funds from
revolutionary sympathizers. Comrade Koteswarlu took shelter near his friends
and relatives and transformed them into revolutionary sympathizers and played
a revolutionary role in involving his younger brother in the revolutionary
movement along with him. During Emergency, police shot dead comrades
Surapaneni  Janardhan,  Sudhakar, Anand  Rao  and  Murli  Mohan  in  a  fake
encounter at Girayipalli and in this backdrop all the revolutionaries had to
conduct their activities in the most secret manner. Comrade Koteswarlu was
arrested near Marigadda in Sircilla area while expanding revolutionary activities
immediately after the lifting of Emergency.
Rebuilding  The  Party  –  1977  Telangana  Regional
Conference

To overcome the setback of Naxalbari and Srikakulam, the Andhra Pradesh
State Committee (APSC) belonging to the stream of erstwhile People’s War
party in its document named ‘Let us review the past and advance the armed
struggle’ (Self-Critical Report – SCR) had summarized the positive and negative
lessons imparted by the glorious revolutionary upsurge of those days. The
party came to the conclusion that only by basing on these lessons and carrying
on ideological, political and organizational work by depending on the remaining
limited subjective forces we could create another new revolutionary upsurge.
Party concentrated its efforts in this direction while carrying on a serious
struggle with right opportunism. SCR document made us change our leftist
tactics. It steered our practice in the correct direction. It had a great impact
on the party. Emergency was lifted due to the deluge of mass protests against
Emergency fascist rule and due to the severe contradictions between ruling
classes. As a result favorable conditions were created for open activities.

In the beginning of 1977, Telangana Regional Conference of the party
was held in Nagpur. This conference passed the ‘Viplavaniki Baata’ (‘Path
for  Revolution’)  document  formulated  by  the  COC  in  1974-75.  Comrade
6

government had to bend to the people’s might in Singur and Nandigram and
was forced to withdraw Tata’s Nano car manufacture and Salem’s chemical
hub. Comrade Koteswarlu worked tirelessly to steer these mass struggles in
the  correct  direction  towards  success.

PLGA guerillas blasted a mine under the convoy of Jindal, state Chief
Minister Buddhadev Bhattacharya and central steel minister Ram Vilas Paswan
who were returning after laying the foundation stone for the construction of
Jindal steel industry on November 2, 2008. Using this as a pretext the state
unleashed repression on Lalgarh. People resisted the atrocities of the police
forces under the leadership of PCAPA (People’s Committee Against Police
Atrocities). In each village hundreds of people united and agitated on a huge
scale on their just demands. They dug up roads to stop the police. They held
protest rallies with thousands of people. People used all kinds of struggle
forms from peaceful struggles like Arandhan (not lighting the cooking fire)
to armed resistance in several places. They formed the Sidhu-Kanu militia.
The entire Junglemahal area was boiling with militant mass agitations. The
‘Marxists’ who earned notoriety since decades for terrible rule were taken
aback with these revolutionary mass agitations. They resorted to armed attacks
with their goon forces such as Harmad Vahini to stop these agitations. State
police, central paramilitary forces and Harmad Vahini together intensified the
attacks.  They  resorted  to  atrocities,  burning  of  houses  and  destruction.
However people did not step back and fought bravely. Guerilla warfare was
intensified by conducting ambushes and raids under the leadership of PLGA
forces and the Sidhu-Kanu Jan Militia. 24 Eastern Frontier rifles jawans were
wiped out in Silda raid and people’s strength was demonstrated. In the villages,
CPM offices which served as torture chambers were destroyed by the people
with hatred. Propaganda war was conducted against the psychological warfare
of the enemy. Schools, hospitals, protected drinking water facilities and even
public distribution system began to be seized by the people to fulfill the basic
needs of the people. Lalgarh people’s struggle created tremors in  the CPM
power centre. Solidarity movement spread all over the country in support of
Lalgarh people’s struggle. International solidarity was expressed.  Lalgarh
people’s power came into existence at a primary level. Comrade Koteswarlu
played the main role in guiding this Lalgarh people’s revolt in the correct
direction, in taking up appropriate tactics and implementing them in practice,
in  strengthening  PLGA,  party,  mass  organizations  and  mass  base  and  to
advance with the aim of establishing liberated areas, in arming the PLGA, in
19

Nationality Question in Delhi in 1996, MCC, PW and Party Unity parties
participated  with  initiative  and  submitted  papers  regarding  their  stand  on
Nationality Question. These parties played an active role in the formation of
CCOMPOSA against imperialism, Indian expansionism and state violence on
movements. Comrade Koteswarlu played main role in this effort.

Comrade Koteswarlu developed friendly relations with several fighting
organizations in the country. He played a praiseworthy role in developing an
united struggle understanding against the expansionism of the Indian exploiting
ruling  classes  by  maintaining  revolutionary  relations  with  the  nationality
liberation organizations that are fighting for the right to self-determination
including  the  right  to  secession  in  states  such  as Assam,  Nagaland  and
Manipur. He strove hard for building an united front with the fighting mass
organizations of Kashmir. The nationality liberation struggle organizations
have lost confidence on the so-called communists who are bogged down in
revisionism since decades. His role in developing good relations with those
nationality liberation fighting organizations on the basis of our party policy
and in making common struggle memoranda of understanding with them is
exceptional.
Role in Building The Historic Lalgarh People’s Revolt

Foreign capital flooded our country as a result of the imperialist globalization
policies and hundreds of Special Economic Zones (SEZs) came into existence.
They are mainly grabbing the fertile lands of the peasantry who are nearly 70
percent in our population and have become a life and death problem. The
peasantry in West Bengal opposed grabbing of their land for the construction
of Tata’s Nano in Singur, chemical hub of Salem group in Nandigram and
Jindal steel industry in Lalgarh and the indiscriminate loot of the vast and
invaluable natural resources of our country. They chose the path of struggle
stating that they are ready to give their lives but not their lands. In Nandigram
the peasantry formed the BUPC and carried on militant struggle. The peasantry
faced many atrocities of the police such as murders, missing of dead bodies,
rapes  on  women,  arrests,  jails,  tortures  etc  and  put  up  armed  resistance
under the leadership of the party for their lands. Our party led the armed
resistance  of  the  Nandigram  people  and  united  with  all  the  forces  which
could come together for the building of a broad united front. Democrats all
over the country including students in Kolkata and the intellectuals in the
state  rallied  in  support  of  the  Nandigram  people’s  struggle.  Buddhadev

18

Koteswarlu attended this conference as a delegate. Later APSC released the
‘August  Resolution’  according  to  the  concrete  conditions.  Plans  were
formulated to develop the revolutionary movement in its light with new tactics
and basing on mass line.

As result of the armed agrarian revolutionary work carried on by firmly
implementing  this  plan,  another  new  revolutionary  upsurge  began  with
Karimnagar, Adilabad, Chittoor, Anantapur and Visakha struggles in Andhra
Pradesh  and  with  Gaya, Aurangabad,  Hazaribagh,  Giridih,  Palamau  and
Jehanabad struggles in Bihar due to the efforts of erstwhile MCC and Party
Unity streams. As one of the leading comrades of Karimnagar district, comrade
Koteswarlu played a prominent role in expanding the revolutionary activities.
New  Upsurge  of  Karimnagar  and  Adilabad  Peasant
Revolutionary  Struggles

The second conference of RSU was held in 1978. RYL (Radical Youth
League)  was  formed  in  1979  and  state  Rytu-Coolie  Sangham  (APRCS  -
Peasant-Laborer Association)  was  formed  in  1981.  Comrade  Koteswarlu
played an active role in these. The development of RSU activities in the state
led to the formation of RYL. Students and youth took up the ‘Go to Villages’
campaign since 1978 and gave a fillip to the armed agrarian revolutionary
activities in the rural areas. Civil rights movement developed in this course.
As  a  result  of  this  movement,  the  government  was  forced  to  appoint  the
Bhargava Commission to conduct an enquiry into fake encounters including
the Girayipalli fake encounter. PUCL formed another committee under former
High Court Justice Tarkunde. The student leaders of those days strove to
provide evidences on fake encounters. Party intensified revolutionary activities
in all spheres utilizing the legal opportunities available. Karimnagar and Adilabad
districts  became  centres  for  peasant  movement.  It  was  these  movements
which laid the foundation for comrade Koteswarlu to develop into a leader.
Karimnagar  was  one  of  those  most  backward  districts  in Telangana,
notorious for severe feudal oppression. In 1977, peasantry rose like a hurricane
due to the revolutionary movement which developed in areas like Jagityal,
Korutla, Metpally and Sircilla in Karimnagar district. They questioned the
feudal exploitation and oppression of ages. The peasants and laborers began
the ‘rule of Sangham’ declaring that the rule of land lords will no longer
apply. On September 9, 1978 a huge public meeting was held in Jagityal with

7

thousands  of  peasantry.  This  won  a  permanent  place  in  the  history  of
revolutionary movement as ‘Jagityal Jaitrayatra’ (Victory March of Jagityal).
It suppressed the arrogance of the land lords in hundreds of villages and
stopped  giving  ‘fire  and  water’  (i.e.,  social  boycott)  to  them. This  was  a
people’s struggle form which terrified the age old feudalism in those days.
Sanghams  (peasant-labor  organizations)  calculated  all  the  illegal  money
forcefully collected from the oppressed peasantry by the feudal lords during
their rule and put conditions that all that money must be repaid to the people.
They gave judgments that all the peasants’ lands forcefully occupied by the
land lords must be returned to the owners and that village common lands
must  be  identified  by  the  Sanghams  and  distributed  to  the  landless  poor
peasants.  The  land  lord  class  that  was  alarmed  by  the  upsurge  of  the
revolutionary peasantry, increased pressure on the government and made it
proclaim Jagityal and Sircilla areas as disturbed areas. State unleashed its
repression  on  the  rural  revolutionary  peasantry.  Police  forces  established
camps  in  the  villages  for  protecting  feudalism.  On  the  one  hand,  police
intensified arrests of peasantry on a large scale and sent them to jails. On the
other  hand  land  lords  resorted  to  the  murders  of  peasant  activists  like
Lakshmirajam and Posetti. Due to this, party was faced with the higher task
of transforming anti-feudal struggle into anti-state struggle.

Party began strengthening as a result of the upsurge of peasant movements
in Karimnagar and Adilabad districts. After APSC formulated new tactics in
the light of the SCR in August 1977, comrade Kotanna was elected the secretary
of the party’s joint district committee of Karimnagar and Adilabad which was
formed for the first time in 1978. In the party district conference held in the
beginning  of  1979,  two  separate  district  committees  were  elected  for  the
two districts. Comrade Kotanna took up responsibility as the secretary of the
Karimnagar district committee.

In  the  course  of  expansion  of  the  revolutionary  movement  to  various
spheres within a short period, the district level leadership that newly came to
the fore in the various movements gained new experiences. Basing on the AP
state movement and the Dharmapuri peasant movement in Tamilnadu, the
APSC and the Tamilnadu state committee came together and formed the CPI
(ML) [People’s War] on April 22, 1980. The 12th party state conference of
AP was held in September 1980. The conference reviewed the SCR document
prepared by the APSC on the Naxalbari upsurge and its setback, the correctness
and shortcomings of its new tactics and their practice. It summarized the
8

and was taken into the PB in the CC. He was part of the East Regional Bureau
(ERB) and looked after responsibility of West Bengal as its in-charge.
Role in Unifying The Revolutionaries as a CC Member

After the temporary setback of Naxalbari, in the course of making efforts
to once again build a strong revolutionary movement in the strategic areas
and among the various oppressed classes and sections, the efforts for unifying
the genuine revolutionaries in the country intensified. In the 1990s, this effort
began yielding results. Comrade Koteswarlu too put efforts for unity with
fellow revolutionaries and organizations in the country on the basis of the
Strategy-Tactics, SCR of 1980 and policy documents as the CC member of
the erstwhile PW. Particularly, he played the main role in the unity of the
erstwhile CPI (ML) [PW] and CPI (ML) [PU] in 1998. Due to the review
done by the erstwhile PW party’s 2001 Congress in ideological, political,
military, organizational and tactical matters and its practice and due to the
results already achieved by MCCI in these matters a basis was created from
the ML stream and the MCCI stream for the unity of the two parties. The
role  of  comrade  Koteswarlu  in  the  historic  unity  of  the  two  prominent
revolutionary streams in India on September 21, 2004 and in both the streams
becoming  a  mighty  surge  after  unity  is  invaluable.  Comrade  Koteswarlu
participated as a member in the delegation of CPI (ML) [PW] in the bilateral
meetings held in several phases between the two parties. Comrade Koteswarlu
contributed in the exchange of documents, study, conducting talks in a balanced
manner, synthesizing the positive aspects in the practice of the two parties
and incorporating it in the new united party’s documents. In the annals of
Indian revolutionary history comrade Koteswarlu’s name would be prominently
displayed in the unity efforts of communist revolutionaries.
In Advancing Fraternal Relations

Basing on the revolutionary movement developing in various areas in India
and the People’s War which came to the fore rapidly, our party worked with
initiative in the direction of building a revolutionary coordination centre in
South Asia. Under the circumstances where there was no revolutionary centre
in the world after the Third International was dissolved and after the death of
comrade Mao,  RIM  (Revolutionary  International  Movement) was  formed
with the efforts of some proletarian parties. Even while maintaining relations
with them separately, our party developed fraternal relations with the Maoist
revolutionary parties and groups in South Asia. In the seminar conducted on
17

the new economic policies taken up by the ruling classes of our country. He
strengthened the party structures from below and put efforts to build district
committees. He drove the party leadership to consolidate the dalits into class
struggle against the entrenched feudalism in the rural areas of Haryana. He
put efforts to develop student, women and cultural movements in Haryana.
He gave guidance to consolidate the movement and conduct party propaganda
among students and youth in Punjab. He put efforts to consolidate the party
forces which were scattered in various states into party structures.
The Historic Unity Congress – Ninth Congress of 2007

The unification of two parties which had been striving to build revolutionary
movement in considerable areas in the country and had considerable mass
bases and their emergence as a single party – the Communist Party of India
(Maoist) has changed the very pace of the New Democratic Revolutionary
movement  in  our  country.  CPI  (Maoist)  conducted  its  Unity  Congress-9th
Congress in January 2007 in the most enthusiastic atmosphere.

This Congress analyzed the party basic documents, policies, POR (Political
and Organizational Review) and the vast experience of the four decade long
revolutionary movement and enriched them. Party’s understanding towards
party, army and united front was improved further. It gave a clarity towards
the central, principal and immediate task and gave a call to develop guerilla
warfare into mobile warfare and PLGA into PLA with the aim of establishing
liberated areas. In order to develop people’s alternative political power and to
speed  up  the  process  of  building  guerilla  bases  it  gave  further  clarity  on
construction and destruction. It formulated a plan for rectification campaign
against the non-proletarian trends to bolshevize the party. In order to defeat
the suppression-annihilation campaign of the enemy all over the country, it
gave call for tactical counter-offensive campaigns, wide scale political mass
agitations and people’s resistance struggles. While exposing the conspiratorial
LIC policy implemented by the enemy, it gave clarity that this should be
defeated with Maoist People’s War by depending on mass base. It decided
that unity efforts must be done with nationality movements against the common
enemy. In order to come to a correct theoretical understanding towards the
international revolutionary parties and forces and for making united efforts
with them, it formulated guidance with proletarian internationalism. Comrade
Koteswarlu played an active role in the preparations for this Congress, in
conducting it and in the discussions. He was elected as a CCM in this Congress

16

experiences. This conference took up the necessary tactics to take the AP
state  movement,  particularly  the  peasant  revolutionary  movement  that
developed in Karimnagar and Adilabad districts to newer heights. The most
important among them were – building the people’s army following the path
of PPW that would establish area-wise political power, sending squads to
Dandakaranya (DK) with the aim of establishing liberated areas, expanding
the revolutionary movement all over the AP state, expanding the revolutionary
movement to five districts as part of developing North Telangana into a guerilla
zone  and  giving  utmost  importance  to  achieve  unity  with  the  genuine
revolutionary forces. The document released under the title ‘Let us develop
the peasant movements of Karimnagar-Adilabad districts to the higher stage’
(popular  as  Guerilla  Zone  document)  explained  these  tactics.  Comrade
Koteswarlu  participated  actively  as  a  delegate  in  that  conference.  The
conference elected him into the state committee (SC). In the SC meeting
held after three months, he was elected as its secretary and became popular
among party ranks as ‘Prahlad’. He worked as the state secretary till October
1984 and as an SC member till end 1986. In end 1984, he married a full time
party activist.
Tireless Efforts as The APSC Secretary

Braving  the  severe  repressive  methods  of  the  enemy,  the  party  and
revolutionary movement sustained and were strengthening all over AP and in
DK. In 1981, the historic 56-day strike of the coal mine workers of Singareni
went on in an unprecedented manner and laid the foundation for the formation
of Singareni Karmika Samakhya (Sikasa). All India organizations like the All
India Revolutionary Students Federation(AIRSF) and All India League for
Revolutionary Culture (AILRC) were formed. On the other hand, party ranks
stood firm in isolating the liquidators and in preserving the correct political
line in  the internal struggle against opportunism that arose in the party. The
then leader Kondapalli Seetharamaiah (KS) who played the important role in
the re-consolidation of the party was released from the enemy’s custody in a
most daring action by a special guerilla squad. The SC took up a rectification
campaign against the six wrong trends that arose in the party.

 In order to defeat the fascist undeclared war launched by the central and
state governments since the beginning of 1985, the SC formulated tactics of
self-defence war. Even while fighting back the severe repression of the enemy
all over the country, anti-imperialist and anti-state mass agitations came to

9

the  fore.  The  efforts  of  mass  organizations  among  the  people  and  united
front work in the movements developed. Under the leadership of Agitation
and Propaganda Committee (APC) of the APSC, publication of magazines of
party and mass organizations and propaganda were carried on a huge scale.
Party formulated correct tactics in student-intellectual and worker fields and
worked  creatively.  People’s  resistance  actions  were  conducted  on  a  huge
scale all over the state against the repression of the enemy. Revolutionary
movement took another step forward by defeating the enemy offensive and
preserving the movement. Party cadres were sent in a planned manner to DK
from AP, particularly from North Telangana. The erstwhile PW party and the
movement developing under it had a strong impact on the genuine revolutionary
forces in the country and the revolutionary masses. Comrade Prahlad’s role
as the secretary of APSC in all of these is prominent.
Role as The General of PW in DK

By the beginning of 1985, in the vast area of DK, i.e., in the vast forest-
adivasi areas stretching from Adilabad in the West to Visakha agency in the
East  via  Maharashtra,  Chhattisgarh  and  Odisha  borders,  revolutionary
movement, party, people’s guerilla forces and class struggle expanded and
developed. As a result conditions were created to form a separate leadership
structure of its own for this movement. However, it took two more years to
formulate tasks with the higher aim by forming a separate leadership team
while  facing  the  undeclared  war  launched  by  the  enemy,  carrying  on  the
internal two-line struggle inside the party in the correct direction and reviewing
the DK movement in time. Under these conditions, in end 1986, APSC decided
to lessen the number of members in the SC, to rebuild it as a shorter committee
and to send some of the leadership from there to DK. As part of that, comrade
Prahlad  went  to  give  direct  leadership  to  the  DK  movement  as  ‘Ramji’.
Comrade Ramji who was in the forefront in guiding the DK movement as the
APSC secretary and secretariat member till then, now directly became a part
of it.

In the first party conference of DK held in February 1987, comrade Ramji
was elected as a member of the Forest Committee (FC) which was formed
in that conference. He applied the experience gained in AP directly in DK and
stood in the forefront in developing it. He particularly concentrated on the
development of Gadchiroli movement. He also went to East Division for
some time to fulfill the needs of the movement. As a FC member he led the

10

enrichment of the party basic documents with the lessons learnt by reviewing
the Indian revolutionary movement which was carried on under the leadership
of the stream that had united the various groups, individuals and forces in the
revolutionary stream of CPI (ML), enrichment of the various party policies
and the appropriate tactics as part of these, formulation of tactics keeping in
view the concrete conditions of the various movements, consolidation of the
people’s guerilla army with the aim of establishing liberated areas by keeping
in  view  the  concrete  conditions,  formulation  of  guerilla  warfare  tactics,
election of central and state committees with the teams that developed in the
course  of  the  development  of  the  movement,  creation  of  ideological  and
political basis for achieving unity with the MCC, another principal Maoist
stream in the country by avoiding the ongoing clashes with it, development
of  class  struggle,  expansion  of  the  party,  achievement  of  unity  with  the
movements  of  the  oppressed  nationalities  and  the  various  democratic
movements in the country and an appropriate role in the international Maoist
movement  by  strengthening  the  relations  with  Maoist  parties  in  various
countries. Comrade Koteswarlu played a prominent role in all of these as a
CC member. He held aloft the party line by exposing the left adventurist
politics which came to the fore in that Congress and by keeping aloft the
revolutionary flag of the party. In that Congress, comrade Koteswarlu was
elected as a CC member and was elected as a Politburo (PB) member inside
the CC and as the secretary of the North Regional Bureau (NRB).
Role as The Secretary of North Regional Bureau

As  the  secretary  of  NRB,  comrade  Koteswarlu  made  several  concrete
suggestions for the development of Bihar-Jharkhand movement and put efforts
to advance it. The efforts put by comrade Koteswarlu are worth mentioning
in developing the strategic areas of Koel-Kaimur guerilla zone basing on the
analysis of the 9th Congress of the erstwhile PW, in developing guerilla warfare
in Magadh, in taking up guerilla bases perspective, in building of people’s
democratic power organs, in intensifying the struggles against feudalism and
against the private armies of the land lords, in formulating concrete tasks to
take up rectification campaign and tactical counter-offensives in a planned
manner and in driving the party leadership and ranks in that direction.

Comrade Koteswarlu worked hard to develop movements in the student,
intellectual and worker fields. He took initiative to build peasant united front
forum in the backdrop of the crisis that arose in the agricultural sector due to

15

erupted as an upsurge of revolutionary mass struggles.
The  All  India  Special  Conference  of  The  Erstwhile  PW
Party in 1995

In  1995  the  erstwhile  PW  party  held  its All  India  Special  Conference
(AISC). After the eighth Congress held in May 1970 by the CPI (ML), this
was the first time that a party conference was held on such a vast scale and
at such a higher level. This conference paved the way for advancement by
deeply reviewing the revolutionary practice between 1980 and 1995. Comrade
Koteswarlu actively and creatively put ideological efforts as one of the members
of  the  steering  committee  in  making  preparations  for  the  conference,  in
formulating draft documents, in reviewing the other important calls given by
the party and giving them final shape. This conference enriched the basic
documents of the party. It took appropriate lessons by reviewing the developed
movements in AP and DK and the movements that are at a primary level in
Tamilnadu,  Karnataka,  Maharashtra, West  Bengal,  Delhi  and  Haryana.  It
decided that work must be carried on with the aim of establishing liberated
areas in North Telangana and DK and formulated the necessary tasks for that
sake.  Comrade  Koteswarlu  played  an  important  role  in  all  of  these.  This
conference unanimously elected comrade Koteswarlu into the CC.

After this conference, united front work advanced a step forward with
an All India perspective under the leadership of the CC. Contacts with Maoist
parties of various countries developed. Efforts were put in a planned manner
to develop agrarian revolutionary guerilla warfare in North Telangana, North
Andhra-Odisha border and DK areas. Concrete perspectives were formulated
for the development of revolutionary movement in South Telangana, South
Coastal-Rayalaseema and North Andhra-Odisha border (East) Regions in AP.
Efforts were put in a planned manner for party consolidation and for the
political and military training of party and military leadership and members.
As proper importance was given to running magazines and propaganda, the
work in this field was done relatively better. Comrade Koteswarlu played a
prominent role in all of these works.
 9th Congress of The Erstwhile PW Party in 2001

After the unity of the erstwhile CPI (ML) [PW] and CPI (ML) [PU], the
newly formed CPI (ML) [PW] successfully held its 9th  Congress  in  2001
March. The Congress was held successfully with the following successes –
14

movement from 1987 to 1993. He won the confidence of the party cadres,
guerilla soldiers, commanders and people. In that period, the DK movement
consolidated and expanded. Mass base developed and class struggle intensified.
Subjective  forces  developed.  They  made  the  political,  military  and
organizational preparations to carry on guerilla warfare even while resisting
the enemy. They launched the guerilla warfare and developed it. Comrade
Ramji’s role in developing the DK movement in this seven year period as a
participant in it is prominent.

The guerilla life he led in DK is an ideal one. He played a valuable role in
the course of development of the movement as  a guerilla fighter, commander
and party leader. His played an important role in introducing the system of
urban organizers and the system of mass organization organizers, in taking
up the task of building revolutionary women’s organizations, in encouraging
women in various spheres and molding them into brave guerilla commanders
and efficient party leaders, in conducting anti-patriarchal struggle, coordinating
urban  and  forest  movement  and  in  the  manufacturing  of  grenades  and
weapons. He was a military expert who realized the importance of military
training camps in the practice of guerilla warfare. He participated in several
military  training  camps  as  a  student  and  instructor  since  1981  to  his  last
days. The military training camps conducted by the party in 1987 and 1989
would remain milestones in the development of guerilla warfare. In these
camps relatively better new training was imparted. They introduced to the
guerillas  the  necessary  military  skills  and  techniques.  Comrade  Ramji
participated in these training camps as a student and became a marksman. He
was a sniper. He implemented discipline which is like lifeline for the soldiers
of PW and made others implement discipline too and was ideal in this matter
as a commander. He played an important role in formulating the standing
orders by the FC. He played an active role as a FCM and CCM in consolidating
and expanding the guerilla squads as platoons and companies. His role was
also crucial in building the PLGA. He was an expert in using various kinds of
weapons. He studied with interest several military books such as History of
rifle written by Engels, military manuals written by Sher Jung and the history
of weapons etc. He escaped with knack from the attacks of the enemy to
wipe him out several times with the support of the people.

11

Keeping The Party Line Aloft In Internal Struggles of The
Party

The APSC decided to take up rectification campaign against the six wrong
trends (non-proletarian trends) inside the SC of the erstwhile CPI (ML) [PW]
in 1985. As a continuation of this, the first internal struggle inside the party
was conducted in the PW party in 1985. Satyamurthi, Veeraswamy and others
in the CC created a crisis situation inside the party. As APSC secretary and
member, Comrade Prahlad played a great role in making the cadres of AP and
DK stand steadfast and united around the party line during the crisis. He put
in lot of efforts in the party plenums to isolate the liquidationist opportunists,
to preserve the party from their conspiracies and for uniting the party.

In 1991, the second internal struggle arose inside the erstwhile PW party.
The then party secretary KS himself was the reason behind this crisis. On
that occasion comrade Ramji fought back very efficiently the liquidationist
politics of opportunists and careerists like KS, Bandaiah, Prasad etc.

Comrade Ramji played a prominent role as one of the members of the
new  leadership  team  in  the  internal  struggles  of  the  party  against  the
opportunist, liquidator cliques that arose inside the party.
Immense Contribution as a CC Member

Comrade  Ramji  was  co-opted  into  the  Central  Organizing  Committee
(COC) in 1993 and was elected as the Central Committee member in the All
India Special Conference held in 1995. Since then he took up higher level
responsibilities as Bimal and Kishenji. The new leadership which came to the
fore after isolating and defeating the opportunists from the party, formulated
a plan for expanding the revolutionary movement inside the country and he
played a prominent role in this as a member of that team. Till then PW party
was limited only to South India. The CC also took up unity with genuine
revolutionaries as an important and immediate task

In such circumstances, the CC decided that comrade Koteswarlu must
go to West Bengal for expanding the movement. Since then for eighteen long
years he lived and worked among the revolutionary masses and comrades of
Bengal, learnt Bangla language, understood the social, economic and political
situation in Bengal, built the movement and breathed his last there while
working as its leader. While particularly concentrating on Bengal, he worked
for expanding the party in the various states of North India.
12

Rebuilding The Bengal Movement

After the setback of Naxalbari, though various groups in the ML stream
made many attempts, as they were entrenched in left and right deviations and
due to their wrong tactical lines, they could not achieve any considerable
results.  Under  such  circumstances,  comrade  Koteswarlu  conducted  an
ideological struggle sharply and firmly against the neo-revisionism of CPM
and its social fascism entrenched in Bengal since decades. He got acquainted
with the old friends belonging to the revolutionary camp. He conducted sharp
polemical debates against the right opportunists and exposed the true colors
of those persons who were dogmatic and were known for conducting unending
debates. He worked tirelessly to creatively apply the party line and experiences
to the concrete conditions in Bengal. He fought back the ideological and
physical  attacks  of  the  social  fascists  on  the  one  hand  and  the  attacks  of
reactionary forces on the other hand and strengthened the party by fighting
back the right politics entrenched since decades in the garb of revolutionary
parties.

People of West Bengal suffered unspeakable atrocities at the hands of the
neo-revisionists. Under the rule of the social fascists, there was no opposition
to the orders of the CPM right from the universities in Kolkata to the remote
villages in the state. But they set up a din of propaganda that land reforms
were implemented in West Bengal as never before in the whole country and
that peasantry were leading happy lives. Revolutionary activities put a stop to
that propaganda. As revolutionary activities once again began in several areas
in West Bengal, vast oppressed masses became enthusiastic.

Comrade Koteswarlu put serious efforts in West Bengal to rebuild the
party, to unite the genuine revolutionaries into the party and to strengthen the
party. He began work for building the student, youth and workers’ movements
in Kolkata and tried to turn the city into a revolutionary centre. He drove the
party leadership there to conduct militant struggles on mass issues by going
into  various  sections  in  the  Kolkata  city.  He  played  a  prominent  role  in
formulating the Bengal-Jharkhand-Odisha (BJO) border region perspective
and in developing it into a guerilla zone with the aim of establishing liberated
area by developing guerilla warfare in that area. He mobilized the support of
the Bengal intellectuals and democrats to the revolutionary movement. It was
as a result of all of these efforts that the Singur and Nandigram movements
came to the fore and later in  legacy of Naxalbari, the historic Lalgarh revolt

13

