COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

November 30, 2010 

 
Dear Comrades and Friends of Indian Revolution, 

 
On  behalf  of  our  Party,  the  CPI  (Maoist),  People’s  Liberation  Guerilla  Army  (PLGA), 
Revolutionary  People’s  Committees  (RPCs),  revolutionary  mass  organizations  and  revolutionary 
people  of  India,  firstly,  we  send  our  heartfelt  Laal  Salaam  (Red  Salutes)  to  all  the  parties, 
organizations,  various  forums  and  individuals  from  India  and  abroad,  who  had  sent  condolence 
messages  to  our  CC  and  who  had  condemned  the  brutal  murders  of  comrades  Cherukuri 
Rajkumar (Azad) and Hemchand Pandey on July 1, 2010 by the fascist Indian ruling classes. As all 
of you have acknowledged, losing comrade Azad is one of the biggest blows our party and Indian 
revolution  had suffered. Azad  was one  of  the  topmost  leaders  in  our  party.  He  has  been  leading 
the  Indian  revolution  since  a  long  time.  In  our  country,  People’s  War  is  intensifying  with  each 
passing  day.  With  the  aid  and  support  of  imperialists,  particularly  the  American  imperialists,  the 
Indian  reactionary  ruling  classes  are  trying  to  suppress  the  revolutionary  movement  and  are 
carrying on ruthless atrocities in an unprecedented severe manner. In this war between the people 
and  the  ruling  classes,  the  enemy  had  particularly  schemed  to  murder  our  leaders  and 
concentrated on comrades like Azad who are leading the revolution. It is as part of that conspiracy 
that comrade Azad was caught and killed in the most brutal and cowardly manner. Comrade Azad 
was leading the entire urban movement on behalf of our Central Committee and was also looking 
after political propaganda, party periodicals, party education and other such crucial responsibilities. 
He  was  a  most  experienced  and  popular  mass  leader.  He  maintained  close  relations  with  many 
comrades at various levels and with the revolutionary masses. In the midst of severe repression, 
he  worked  selflessly  and  unflinchingly  in  spite  of  the  many  risks  involved.  It  is  under  such 
circumstances that the enemy came to know about his  whereabouts somewhere and could catch 
him by laying in wait.  

Your  messages  and  condemnations  released  in  the  true  internationalist  spirit  had  given  the 
necessary moral support to the oppressed peoples and the comrades who were grief-stricken with 
this  shocking  news.  Due  to  the  severe  repressive  conditions  here,  we  could  not  receive  all  the 
messages  and  even  the  messages  we  received  had  reached  us  very  late.  Hence  we  feel  very 
sorry for this delay in sending you a reply.  

Comrade  Azad  was  attracted  to  the  revolutionary  movement  while  he  was  studying  in  the 
Warangal  Regional  Engineering  College  in  1972.  Azad  who  was  exceptionally  brilliant  in  his 
studies  had  played  a  dynamic  role  in  the  revolutionary  movement  too.  He  played  a  role  in  the 
formation of the Radical Students Union (RSU) in 1974. He was elected as the state president of 
RSU  in  1978. He  was  one  of  the  founders  of  the  All  India  revolutionary  student’s movement  and 
guided  it  from  its  inception  in  1985.  He played  a  key  role  in  conducting  a  seminar  on  Nationality 
Question  in  the  then  Madras  city  in  1981.  Later  he  took  up  the  responsibility  of  building  the 
revolutionary movement in Karnataka and build up the Maoist party in this State for the first time. 
He attracted many comrades like Saketh Rajan into the party. When opportunistic elements tried to 
split the party in 1985 and in 1991, comrade Azad had played a crucial role in defending party line 
and  keeping  it  united  and  strong  enough  in  defeating  their  opportunist  politics.    He  worked 
tirelessly for twenty years as a CC member and Politburo member from 1990 till now. We cannot 
separate Azad’s life from the history of revolutionary movement of the past forty years. Particularly, 
he played a key role in the ideological, political spheres, party education and running of periodicals. 
He  fulfilled  the  responsibility  of  the  party  spokesperson  since  three  years  as  ‘Azad’  in  the  most 
excellent and exemplary manner. He used his intellect and sharp pen outstandingly in fighting back 
the  ‘War  on  People’  led  by  the  Manmohan  Singh-Sonia-Chidambaram  gang.  He  stood  as  the 
powerful  voice  of  the  people  against  the  rulers  and  exploiters.  In  the  development  of  the  party’s 
political line, in the development of the party, people’s army and mass organizations, in expanding 
the  movement,  in  the  emergence  of  new  democratic  power  organs  and  in  all  the  victories  won, 
Azad’s ideological, political work and practice played a key role. Unflinching commitment in face of 
any  odds  and  during  the  ebb  and  flow  of  the  movement,  great  sacrificing  nature,  selflessness, 

simple  living,  indefatigable  work  for  the  revolution  and  for  the  interests  of  the  people,  astounding 
study, study of changing phenomena in the society from time to time, being with the people always 
are some of the great proletarian ideals established by Comrade Azad. Though he is no more, it is 
undeniable  that  he  would  serve  as  a  revolutionary  role  model  to  every  revolutionary  and 
particularly to the youth, students and intellectuals.  

Hemchand Pandey was a progressive free lance journalist from Uttarakhand who had used his 
pen  to  bring  to  light  the  plight  of  the  poor  oppressed  people  of  our  country.  He  was  killed  as  he 
could  bring  out  the  truth  behind  Azad’s  murder.  The  brutal  murder  of  this  pro-people  young 
budding intellectual is just another instance of the callousness of the fascists. 

You  have  rightly  condemned  these ghastly  murders by  exposing  the  conspiracy  of  the  Indian 
ruling classes in killing Azad, which is to crush the ever expanding revolutionary movement under 
the leadership of CPI (Maoist) and to render the people and party leaderless. Azad’s murder is the 
latest one in a series of such murders of our leaders carried out in the name of ‘encounters’ for the 
past 40 years and especially since the successful completion  of our Unity Congress-9th Congress 
in 2007. The government had declared CPI (Maoist) to be the biggest internal security threat and 
launched many suppression campaigns to crush the movement, the latest being Operation Green 
Hunt, launched in mid-2009. This is the biggest offensive launched on the revolutionary movement 
in India so far and it has resulted in unprecedented destruction of lives and property of the people. 
Extra-judicial  killings  of  leaders  and massacres  of  people  are  all  part  of  this  counterrevolutionary 
multi-pronged offensive. 

All  of  you  had  condemned  this  war  on  Indian  people,  particularly  on  the  adivasis,  with  right 
indignation and demanded that it be immediately stopped. The people of revolutionary movement 
areas  warmly  remember  this  international  solidarity  expressed  by  various  parties,  organizations, 
individuals and the proletariat of various countries as this is exactly the kind of support which must 
be extended to any genuine movement of the people when it faces such fascist onslaught. We very 
much  appreciate  this  kind  of  support  and  solidarity  and  firmly  assert  that  we  will  reciprocate  the 
same  towards  other  fighting  masses  in  various  parts  of  the  globe.  This  kind  of  solidarity  infuses 
great confidence and reassurance among the fighting people that there are not alone in their fight. 
It  also  points  sharply  one  more  time  towards  the  common  enemies  we  all  are  facing,  namely 
imperialism  and  all  kinds  of  reactionaries.  It  enhances  the  fighting  spirit  of  the  people  and  helps 
them to advance the movement firmly. Our party, PLGA, RPCs, Revolutionary Mass organizations, 
revolutionary people and all progressive and democratic forces of our country exactly wish for such 
unity and solidarity at  the domestic and international scale. This  is extremely  important to defend 
the people’s movement and to advance it.  

We  once  again  pledge  before  all  of  you  that  we  would  carry  on  the  lofty  aims  of  all  great 
martyrs of the world proletarian revolution including Comrade Azad and announce that no amount 
of  fascist  repression  can  subdue  the  fighting  spirit  of  our  Party  and  the  revolutionary  people  of 
India.  We  will  march  forward  with  renewed  determination  braving  all  kinds  of  odds  and  making 
sacrifices  till  the  final  victory.  This  is  our  promise  to  all  the  friends  and  well-wishers  of  Indian 
revolution. 

 

 

 

 
  LONG LIVE PROLETARIAN INTERNATIONALISM! 

  LONG  LIVE  THE  UNITY  OF  INTERNATIONAL  PROLETARIAT,  REVOLUTIONARY 
AND  DEMOCRATIC  FORCES  AND  THE  OPPRESSED  NATIONS  AND  PEOPLES 
ALL OVER THE WORLD! 

With revolutionary greetings, 

 
 (Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

