To, 
The Central Committee, 
Communist Party of Philippines 
 

Dear comrades, 

Red Salutes.  

We convey our warmest revolutionary greetings to all the CC comrades on the occasion of the advance of 
the  Philippines  revolution  achieved  by  fighting  back  bravely  the  “Oplan  Bayanihan”  campaign  of  the 
reactionary US-Aquino regime and we congratulate you for your appropriate plan to develop to the stage 
of  strategic  equilibrium  from  the  stage  of  strategic  defence.  Please  convey  red  salutes  from  our  entire 
party to the entire rank and file of the party and brave commanders and fighters of New People’s Army. 
We humbly pay homage to all the great martyrs of Philippines who have laid down their precious lives in 
the  fight  to  smash  imperialism  and  all  kinds  of  local  reactionaries  and  establish  a  new  democratic 
Philippines and then to march forward to establish socialism and communism.  

As you had mentioned in the  special issue of your magazine Ang Bayan, “Oplan Bayanihan” is nothing 
but a counter-revolutionary war on the Philippines people. The Philippines ruling classes are propagating 
that  this  is  a  plan  formulated  for  the  sake  of  peace-development  and  human  rights.  This  is  done  in 
accordance  with  the  US  counter-insurgency  guide-2009.  With  the  connivance  of  the  lackey  Philippines 
ruling  class  representatives  like  Marcos,  Acquino,  Arrayo  and  Jr  Acquino,  the  US  is  scheming  to  turn 
your country into a strong neo-colony through its military bases. Oplan Bayanihan has nothing to do with 
peace-development  and  human  rights  and  the  promise  to  make  them  available  for  the  people  is  nothing 
but  a  big  sham.  We  communist  revolutionaries  are  aware  that  on  the  contrary  this  is  a  conspiracy  to 
brutally suppress and divert the deluge of people’s struggles and revolutionary agitations. That is why, as 
you had mentioned, the Oplan Bayanihan which was launched for the interests of the imperialists and the 
Philippines comprador ruling classes is bound to face defeat. 

Our  party  the  CPI  (Maoist)  is  extending  its  full  support  to  the  People’s  War  being  waged  by  the 
revolutionary  and  democratic  forces  of  Philippines  under  the  leadership  of  CPP  which  also  took  up 
concrete tasks to defeat Oplan Bayanihan. We are striving to vastly propagate about your struggle in our 
country and rally the support of the people of our country for it. We promise to take up this propaganda at 
the international level too. 

Our  Central  Committee  on  behalf  of  our  entire  party,  PLGA,  emerging  organs  of  new  people’s  power, 
revolutionary mass organizations and the revolutionary masses of India conveys its red salutes to the CPP 
for  building  a  solidarity  campaign  against  Operation  Green  Hunt  as  part  of  the  international  solidarity 
against  War  of  the  Indian  state  on  the  people.  This  international  solidarity  campaign  of  your  party  and 
other International revolutionary parties in true international spirit has given great moral support to all of 
us in our fight against imperialism and all kinds of local reaction.  

The  Protracted  People’s Wars  (PPWs)  in  Philippines  and  India  under  the  leadership  of  our  parties  have 
gained  recognition  as  genuine  alternatives  to  the  decadent  and  corrupt  systems  in  our  countries  against 
whom  we  are  fighting.  Maoist  parties  of  Turkey,  Bangladesh  and  some  more  countries  are  trying  to 
consolidate themselves and are trying to advance the people’s war. This is an optimistic situation in terms 
of  the  development  of  revolutionary  subjective  forces  in  the  world.  Wishing  that  the  Philippines 
revolution would advance and achieve more successes.... 
 
With Revolutionary Greetings, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist). 
 
25 June 2011 

