COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

March 31, 2011 

Condemn the war of occupation on Libya by US-France-Britain! 

Express solidarity to the people of countries like Tunisia, Egypt, 

Yemen, Bahrain, Algeria, Morocco and Jordan 

who are fighting for democracy and independence! 

Oppose the intervention of imperialists, particularly of US, Britain and 

France in the internal matters of Arab countries! 

For  the  past  few  weeks,  the  people's  upsurges  in  Arab  world  are  shaking  the  imperialists, 
particularly  US  imperialists  while  at  the  same  time  greatly  influencing  the  people  of  the  world. 
Starting from Tunisia this spread to many Arab countries. Ben Ali, the President of Tunisia who has 
been suppressing the people of Tunisia since 23 years and Hosni Mubarak, who was ruling Egypt 
since 30 years had to step down and run away dreading these mass upsurges. The mass movements 
in countries like Yemen, Bahrain, Algeria, Morocco, Jordan etc are ongoing in the same vein. The 
Arab population is demanding with one voice that their rulers who have been carrying on dictatorial 
rules  since  decades  colluding  with  the  imperialists  should  step  down.  Lakhs  of  Arab  people, 
particularly  the  youth  are  defying  ban  orders  and  are  pouring  into  the  streets.  Streets  and  squares 
have become seas of masses for weeks together. Hundreds have laid down their lives and thousands 
were  injured  in  the  crackdown  by  the  governments.  But  now  with  the  war  on  Libya  by  NATO 
countries led by US, the entire Arab world phenomena took a crucial turn.  

In  the  name  of  stopping  Libya  from  using  its  armed  forces  to  suppress  the  rebels  opposing 
Qaddafi's rule, the Security Council made the 'No fly zone' resolution. The NATO countries led by 
US voted in favor of the resolution while Russia, China, Germany, Brazil and India abstained from 
voting.  Nor did the ones with Veto power use it to stop this resolution. Obviously these countries 
had indirectly condoned the military action  by not opposing the resolution. The Manmohan Singh 
government  is  deceiving  the  people  of  India  and  the  world  by  shedding  crocodile  tears  in  the 
aftermath of the attacks without even caring to condemn the attacks formally. US which had never 
condemned the arbitrary killings of Palestinians carried out by the Zionist Israel umpteen number of 
times by confining dozens of UN resolutions to the dustbin and which had used its Veto power for 
Israel most indiscriminately and other western powers have immediately started bombing Libya as 
soon as the UN resolution was made. On the very first day of this attack which is said to be part of 
an  international  campaign,  18  bomber  jets  belonging  to  France  had  rained  at  least  40  bombs  on 
several  targets.  The  US  and  Britain  navies  have  targeted  the  security  systems  in  Libya  and  have 
launched  missiles.  18  Air  Force  B-2  war  planes  of  US  launched  more  than a  hundred  missiles  on 
Libya  and  bombed  several  targets.  In  this  war  launched  in  the  name  of  preventing  massacres  that 
could be perpetuated by Qaddafi forces, hundreds of civilians have lost their lives. Nothing could be 
more  callous  than  asking  the  world  people  to  believe  that  the  value  of  the  lives  (deaths)  of  the 
Libyans  change  according  to  which  bombs  took  their  lives!  The  very  media  houses  which  have 
been relaying badly twisted news items supporting this NATO war on Libya hiding the facts on the 
ground had to admit that in the first attacks many children had died. They have once again nakedly 
displayed their class nature in the reportage of this one-sided war. 

The UN which calls itself a neutral organization has once again proved itself to be a puppet in 
the hands of imperialist countries like US,  Britain,  France etc. Secretary  General Ban-Ki-Moon is 
behaving like their poodle. In the inhuman attacks on Gaza launched by Israel in December 2008, 
nearly 1,417 Palestinians (most of them women and children) lost their lives and many thousands of 

them  were  injured;  Israel  illegally  used  white  phosphorus  on  the  Gaza  people  and  many  of  them 
became  cancer  patients  due  to  this;  it  used  F-16  bombers  and  resorted  to  'targeted  killings'  and 
virtually  made  15  lakhs  of  Gaza  people  live  in  conditions  of  an  open  jail  without  even  drinking 
water  or  electricity  –  but  all  these  were not  enough  for  the  UN  to  make  a  no-fly-zone  resolution. 
The  neo-Nazi  Rajpakse  government  launched  a  genocidal  war  on  Tamils  to  decimate  LTTE  and 
rained tonnes of bombs on residential areas and civilian targets and had killed 20,000 Tamils just in 
the  last  two  days  of  the  war;  the  atrocities  committed  by  the  Sinhala  chauvinist  army  on  the 
captured women tigers not sparing even their dead bodies have horrified the world – but the UN did 
nothing.  In  the  past  quarter  of  a  century  the  Indian  government  through  its  army  had  crushed  to 
death  more  than  80,000  Kashmiris  under  its  iron  heel  –  but  the  UN  could  not  be  woken  from  its 
slumber. And now the UN wants the world people to believe that this war on Libya is indeed being 
fought  to  protect  the  Libyans  from  Qaddafi  forces.  Shame  on  it!  There  is  not  even  one  instance 
where  it  had  acted  for  the  interests  of  the  oppressed  nations  or  the  people  while  we  can  quote 
dozens of instances where it had jumped to save the US, Israel or other western countries' interests 
even if there is so much of a scratch.  

The war on Libya defies the very spirit of the no-fly-zone resolution of the UN too. In the name 
of  implementing  the  UN  resolution  made  to  prevent  Libyan  planes  from  bombing  the  rebels  US, 
Britain  and  France  are  indiscriminately  bombing  Libya.  This  is  nothing  but  a  war  of  occupation. 
The real motive is to oust Qaddafi and replace him with their favorable ruling clique and loot the oil 
resources there. Nobody is so innocent as to believe that Obama is bombing Libya to protect Libyan 
rebels while he had sent Saudi Arabian troops into Bahrain through the back  door to suppress the 
people's rebellion there. This blood-thirsty 'Nobel Peace Prize Laureate' who is killing hundreds of 
innocents in drone attacks in Afghanistan and western Pakistan has no moral right to  utter even the 
words  'lives  of  innocents'.  The  western  countries  which  never  bothered  about  the  lives  of  people 
when  the  armed  forces  of the  dictators  of  Saudi  Arabia,  Yemen,  Jordan  etc,  whom  they  had  been 
supporting all these years, fired upon people killing them in scores are now bent upon dethroning 
Qaddafi – mind you, not for any selfish interests but 'to save the Libyans'. Unadulterated imperialist 
hypocrisy!  

Ben Ali of Tunisia, Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, Ali Abdullah Saleh of Yemen, Isa Al Khalipha of 
Bahrain  and  King  Abdullah  of  Jordan  are  the  dictatorial  rulers  who  have  been  suppressing  the 
people of their countries since decades colluding with the western imperialists, particularly the US 
imperialists.  The  façade  of  democracy  and  elections  in  these  countries  can  be  gauged  from  the 
fantastic statistics that Ben Ali always got 97 to 99 percent of the votes?! There was no semblance 
of  any  democratic  or  civil  rights.  The  police  and  intelligence  departments  were  developed  to 
monstrous proportions and they had been controlling the lives of people suppressing even an iota of 
dissent.  Unemployment  is  on  the  rampage.  Yemen  alone  has  40%  unemployment.  On  the  other 
hand the rulers are amassing immense wealth due to the rich oil resources there.  Countless billions 
of  dollars  are  stashed  away  in  foreign  banks.  The  world  was  astonished  to  find  that  Ben  Ali  had 
actually  carried  one  and  half  tonne  of  gold  physically  with  him  while  running  away.  Tip  of  an 
'oilberg'?  The  ill-effects  of  the  worldwide  financial  crises  on  the  Arab  people  since  2008  are  as 
severe as in any other part of the world. More than half the population there is living on less than 
two  dollars  a  day.  These  dictators  are  spending  people's  money  indiscriminately  in  the  'War  on 
terror'  launched  by  US  in  the  name  of  suppressing  Al  Qaeda.  Yemen  started  a  counter-terrorist 
training programme with 750 millions of dollars. Such misuse of people's exchequer while cutting 
subsidies  on  essential  services  etc earned  the  wrath  of  the  people.  All  these  years  the  imperialists 
have  stood  in  support  of  all  the  exploitation,  oppression  and  repressive  measures  of  these 
dictatorships on the people of their countries and have been cashing in on the several contradictions 
between various religions, tribes, nationalities and between sects like Shias and Sunnis. Now seeing 
the  scale  of  the  upsurges  the  imperialists  have  decided  to  trade  new  horses  getting  rid  of  the  old 
ones.  They  made  Ben  Ali  and  Mubarak  step  down  and  had  the  power  transferred  to  the  military 
generals. In other countries the western powers are still supporting the dictators. The 22 nation Arab 
League  is  behaving  like  a  stooge  of  the  western  powers  in  this  entire  episode  and  is  neither 

 

2 

displaying any shades of Arab nationalism nor giving voice to the anti-imperialist aspirations of the 
Arab people. 

Only those rulers who fulfill the democratic aspirations of the people and unite them and 
oppose imperialism unequivocally can defend and preserve the independence and sovereignty 
of  their  countries.  Any  ruler,  whether  it  is  Qaddafi  or  any  other,  who  resorts  to  autocratic 
rule  over  his  people  can  never  fight  imperialism  uncompromisingly.  He  can  never  unite 
people against imperialism.  

The  imperialists  have  been  resorting  to  many  conspiracies  and  scheming  right  from  the 
beginning to establish their authority in West Asia and North Africa which are home to immense oil 
resources.  They  have  stood  in  support  of  the  dictators  who  bent  their  knees  and  preserved 
imperialist interests. If they think that he is a hindrance to their interests they are not hesitating to 
'use and throw'.  

Call of CPI (Maoist) to the Arab people 

The  Arab  people  should  continue  their  agitations  against  dictators  and  imperialists  with  great 
determination. They should firmly oppose the attempts of imperialists, particularly US, Britain and 
France to hijack their movements. They should stay alert towards the military councils which came 
to power in place of the dictators. We are cautioning the whole Arab population not to get deceived 
by  believing  that  the  military  generals  who  had  all  along  supported  the  dictators  would  now 
guarantee  democracy.  All  the  anti-imperialist,  democratic,  patriotic  sections  including  workers, 
peasants  and  middle  classes  should  unite.  The  only  path  before  the  Arab  population  is  to  fight 
uncompromisingly with imperialism under the leadership of the proletariat. The recent phenomena 
in the Arab world has once again proven clearly that guidance of Marxist ideology and leadership of 
the  vanguard  of  the  proletariat,  i.e.  of  a  revolutionary  communist  party  are  inevitable  for  the  true 
liberation  of  the  oppressed  masses.  The  namesake  independences  won  by  these  countries  from 
colonialism has given way to neo-colonial exploitation resulting in unbearable living conditions and 
the Arab people are direct victims of this since the past 40-50 years. If the Arab people have to win 
real  independence  then  they  have  to  stand  on  their  own  legs,  destroy  neo-colonialism  and  fight 
imperialism firmly. They should fight a united war against US, Britain and France imperialists who 
are waging an unjust war on Libya. CPI (Maoist) is hopeful that the struggles against the comprador 
bureaucratic rulers supported by the imperialists would definitely  grow into determined resistance 
struggles  against  imperialists,  against  their  intervention  and  against  the  unjust  wars  imposed  by 
them. Only then could the Arab world be liberated from the clutches of dictators and imperialists. 

Call of the CPI (Maoist) to the people of India and the world  

The upsurges of the Arab people for freedom and democracy are entirely just struggles. Though 
there  are  some  reactionaries  like  religious  chauvinists  among  the  agitators,  these  movements  are 
democratic  and  progressive.  Express  solidarity  to  these  movements.  Condemn  with  one  voice  the 
unjust war imposed on Libya by the Western imperialists and the intervention of the imperialists in 
the Arab world.  

  Stop immediately the unjust war on Libya by NATO forces led by US! 

  The imperialists have no right to intervene in the internal matters of Libya! 

  Expose  the  interventionist  policies  of  imperialists,  particularly  of  US,  Britain  and 

France in the Arab world! 

  Support the just people's movements in the Arab countries! 

 

3 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

