 

Press Release : 

Joint Declaration Between the CPI (Maoist) and the 
Revolutionary People’s Front on 22nd October 2008 

 

  A  two  days  joint  meeting  was  held  between  the  CPI  (Maoist)  and  the  Revolutionary  People’s 

Front (RPF) at the Council Head Quarters of the Revolutionary People’s Front on 21-22 October 2008. At 
that  meeting,  both  sides  have  unanimously  condemned  the  hegemonic  capitalist  design  of  the  Indian 
regime  and  have  agreed  to  consolidate  the  mutual  understanding  and  friendship,  further  more  agreed 
firmly to stand hand in hand to overthrow the common enemy, the present Indian reactionary regime and 
to gain political goals of the respective two Parties. 
 
 
The  CPI  (Maoist)  strongly  condemned  the  annexation  of  Manipur  by  the  Dominion  of  India,  which 
was done under the instigation of reactionary Indian Congress led by Gandhi, Nehru and Sardar Patel and 
their hegemonic and colonial designed. The so-called Merger Agreement of Manipur with the Dominion 
of India was, indeed, illegal and unconstitutional. The very verdict was given by the two days convention 
on  Manipur  Merger  Agreement  held  at  GM  Hall,  Imphal,  on  22-29  October  1993.  Now  it  becomes  the 
voice of the people of Manipur. 
 
  A  revolutionary  movement  was  born  under  the  leadership  of  Comrade  Hijam  Irabot  to  liberate 
Manipur  from  the  yoke  of  the  British  remnant  India  style  Black  Raj.  As  a  continuation  of  liberation 
struggle  and  a  total  revolution,  the  Revolutionary  People’s  Front  has  been  struggling  for  their  political 
rights  to  self-determination.  Therefore,  the  CPI  (Maoist)  upholds  the  true  nature  of  the  revolutionary 
movement in Manipur and support the liberation struggle recognizing the sovereignty of Manipur. 
 
  Moreover, the Revolutionary People’s  Front  stands and supports the revolutionary movement of  the 
CPI  (Maoist)  as  well.  The  downtrodden  proletariat  Peoples  of  all  over  India  are  facing  the  suppression 
and subjugation of the reactionary regime of India since the departure of the British Raj from the Indian 
soil. Under the new leadership of Comrade Charu Majumdar and Comrade Kanhai Chatterjee two streams 
of  revolutionary  movement  was  founded  in  1969  to  give  the  Indian  people  the  rights  to  political 
emancipation. Comrade Charu Majumdar was assassinated by the repressive  Indian regime in the police 
custody and Comrade Kanhai Chatterjee embraced martyrdom in 1982 suffering from kidney failure.  In 
2004,  the  two  revolutionary  streams,  CPIML  (People’s  War)  and  MCC  (Maoist  Communist  Centre) 
merged and formed one new Party – The Communist Party of India (Maoist). Following the footsteps of 
the  two  founder  leaders,  the  CPI  (Maoist)  is  still  struggling  arms  in  hand  to  overthrow  the  Indian 
reactionary regime and to bring the victory of the Indian people. 
 
 
The Revolutionary People’s Front firmly believes that the  general Indian peoples are not our enemy. 
In  fact,  they  are  under  privileged  and  downtrodden  people  who  are  gravely  suffering  under  the  semi-
feudal, semi-colonial regime of India. 
 
 
 

1. That, both sides will honour and support the Sovereignty of the two countries (the Sovereignty of 

Joint Declaration: 
 
 
Today, the 22nd days of October 2008, after having a thorough discussion, session for two consecutive 
days,  in  every  aspect  of  the  two  organizations  the  Communist  Party  of  India  (Maoist)  and  the 
Revolutionary People’s Front, unanimously declare the following agreement: 
 
 
India and the sovereignty of Manipur). 
 
struggles to overthrow the common enemy, the Indian reactionary and oppressive regime, respectively. 
 
two countries viz. Manipur and India. 
 
 
 

Signed by : 

2.  That,  both  sides  will  extend  full  morale  and  political  support  to  each  other  in  the  liberation 

3. That, both sides deem to recognize and honour the historically endorsed territorial integrity of the 

          

                                                                                   

 

               (Aloke)                                                                                      (S Gunen) 
  Political Bureau Member                                                                 Secretary General 
  On behalf of CPI (Maoist)                                                                On behalf of R P F 

 

 

[From People’s Truth bulletin, #4, Jan.-March 2009.] 

