 
 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

North Bastar Divisional Committee 

 

 

 

 

Press Release:  February 25, 2009 

 
 

Mahanakal Attack—A fitting reply to the ongoing police 

repression, illegal arrests and fake encounters 

 
 
  On  18th  February  2009,  the  PLGA  forces  attacked  the  CRPF  forces  stationed  at  village  Mahanakal 
under Koylabeda Police station area, killing 3 police personnel and injuring 9. This daring day light attack 
lasted over 2 hours. In this attack on the 3 platoons of CRPF and District police forces, our PLGA forces 
hit them without a single casualty on our side. Though there was not even a slightest scratch to anyone of 
our forces, Kanker SP Ajay Yadav has been falsely claiming that the state forces have killed 10 Naxalites. 
He is lying in a desperate attempt to boost up the sagging morale of the police forces. 
 
In fact, right from the time of the assembly elections in the state, there have been a number of attacks 
 
on the masses by Police and Para military forces. Dozens of innocent  villagers  have been arrested from 
the  villages  Rekabhat,  Partapur,Kesekodi,  Gattakal  etc.  In  October  2008,  police  attacked  and  terrorized 
school children in people- run school at Kumudgunda. On 14th November, the day of election, policemen 
murdered  an  innocent  villager,  Karmaram  of  Korenar.  On  6th  December,  Fateram  and  his  daughter 
Sagenbai were brutally murdered by the police. The most glaring example of Raman Singh Government’s 
cruelty is the incident in Singaram, in which the police killed 18 tribals in cold blood. Out of those killed, 
were four young girls, who were tortured and gang raped by the policemen before being murdered. It is 
these atrocities that forced people to retaliate against the police. 
 
  We warn Raman  Singh Government that the  Mahanakal  incident will be repeated if police does not 
refrain from fake encounters, illegal arrests and atrocities on innocent people. We demand the immediate 
release of the villagers who have been illegally put behind bars. We appeal to all the police personnel and 
para-military men and petty bureaucrats not to enter our areas and torture our masses. Instead they should 
try to take transfer to other areas and should not to follow orders of their officers to torture the masses. In 
case of any encounter with our PLGA forces surrender to us and we assure no harm shall come on those 
who  surrender.  You  too  belong  to  poor  and exploited  families.  You  are  not  our  enemies.  Recently,  one 
policeman Kiran Usandi from Pakhanjur police station and 3 men from Aambeda police station resigned 
from their jobs following our appeal. 
 
  We appeal to all democratic minded people, civil rights organizations and people at large to condemn 
the  brutal  state  repression  unleashed  on  the  people  of  Dandakaranya.  Defeat  the  fascist  and  repressive 

policies, and shatter the day-dreams of the reactionary, exploitative government to perpetuate their fascist 
rule by drowning the democratic and revolutionary people’s struggles in rivers of blood. 
 
 
Sujatha Nuroti, 
Secretary, 
North Bastar Divisional Committee, 
CPI(Maoist) 
 
 
 

[From: CPI(Maoist) Information Bulletin, #7, April 15, 2009, p. 52.] 

 

