Hkkjr dh dE;qfuLV ikVhZ¼ekvksoknh½ 

  COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA(MAOIST½ 
If	Syria	is	guilty,	Manmohan	Singh	is	criminal!	

 

Punish	Manmohan	Singh	for	the		

usage	of	chemical	weapon	on	his	own	countrymen!!	
 
America  shows  no  reluctance  &  seems  to  be  eager  to  attack  Syria  for  the  usage  of  chemical 
weapon.  some  of  the  European  countries  backed  up  to  its  global  propaganda.  The  Indian  premier 
Manmohan  Singh  offered  his  support  to  America  over  the  usage  of  chemical  weapons  but  stood  with  
Russia  as  far  as  attack  is  concerned.  The  same  Manmohan  Singh  who  spoke  against  the  usage  of 
chemical  weapons  with  no  disinclination,  using  the  chemical  weapons  on  his  own  countrymen.  If  the 
Assad regime of Syria is guilty then Manmohan Singh is liable for punishment. The basic down trodden 
people  never  accepted  the  comprador  regime  of  the  imperialism  and  has  been  waging  the  struggle 
against,  since  it  has  been  established.  People  with  number  of  mass  movements  countrywide  had  been 
unabatedly carried forward this legacy. This mass movement, now with a firm strategy is advancing with 
the aim of establishing new democratic revolution. By undergoing through the intense fascist repression, 
to  keep  alive  the  movement,  people  have  understood  that  there  is  no  alternative  except  the  armed 
struggle. And so that the Indian people have acknowledged this form of struggle and since last 44 years 
this struggle is continue unabatedly like the heartbeats of the people. Till date the Indian government had 
perpetuated severe repression on people but they never could suppress the revolutionary movement. So 
that the madden government had begun using chemical weapons and evidence were found in recent one 
sided attacks on large scale on revolutionary people by Garhchiroli police this year, in which several have 
been killed. Now, according to international law would Obama come forward to punish Manmohan Singh 
and his Government? 

 

Maoists  are  the  citizens  of  this  country.  The  adivasi  people  of  the  Garhchiroli  are  also 
citizens of this country. The Manmohan Singh led united progressive alliance (UPA-2) Government has 
waged a war against the people of India in the name of operation green hunt. Weather Maoist or not, rural 
or  urban  area,  mass  struggle  or  armed  struggle,  whether  it  is  hunger  strike  or  candle  march,  either  a 
simple  statement  or  criticizing  cartoon,  nothing  is  being  tolerated  by  the  government.  If  an  idea  of 
opposing the government comes in your mind that too becomes a threat for the country. Is it the biggest 
democracy of the world persisting in India and Manmohan Singh boasts about? What does democracy 
mean to them? They give you the direction and finally give rise to some planned dissent just for a show 
and  that  would  be  well  within  their  control  and  they  display  that  fabricated  dissent  as  a  model  of 
democracy.  And  within  few  days  this  opponents  becomes  a  minister  or  president  of  mahamandal  or 
owner of an educational institution, without any surety a billion dollar creditor or comes into limelight as 
honorable rewarded social server. And while playing this game they use poverty and other such problems 
of the people on a large proportion. One could see the proliferation of such awarded social servers in 
Garhchiroli district. In front of the very eyes of these so called social servers, adivasis are being murdered 
in  the  district  but  they  have  nothing  to  do  with  that.  Their  lips  are  locked  with  the  government 
subvention. 

 

The  people  who  were  killed  by  police  in  the  last  eight  months  were  all  adivasis.  For 
Garhchiroli operation green hunt is nothing but an excretion campaign. As they are running short of rifle 
bullets now they begin using chemical weapons to kill adivasis. Through this, it is very clear now that 
this is a defeat alarm for the government. On April 12, in village Sindesur of Dhanora taluka of district 
Garhchiroli in an encounter conspired by police in which 7 people got martyred, 2 villagers and 5 mass 

 

1 

organizers  were  among  the  dead.  Among  them  5  people  got  killed  by  bullets  but  no  scars  of  bullet 
injuries were found on 2 dead bodies. Among these two are Mukesh a villager and Com. Champa, their 
death seems to be suspicious. when the PLGA warriors, directly engaged in exchange of fire gave the 
whole report to the committee, we were completely astonished hearing this shocking experience. When 
firing was going on they experienced exhaustion, vommiting, headache, allergy, inhalation problem and 
infection and cough. Initially we considered that it might have happened due to dust. But when on 19 
May in an encounter in village Hetadkasa of the same district, all the PLGA members had undergone 
through  the  similar  problems  of  exhausting,  throat  infection  and  inhalation  problem.  The  PLGA 
commander present at that moment, when carefully paid attention to this, he realized that the police was 
shelling some types of bombs that are exploding in the air and fired some particular type of bullets that 
have given rise to this problem. At the same time at another side where encounter did not take place, none 
of the comrade had experienced this. After this incident it has become clear now that the police is using 
chemical  weapons.  Then  it  reveals that  the  usage  of  chemical  weapons  is  the  exact  reason  behind  the 
suspicious  death  of  two  people  in  Sindesur  incident.  The  comrades  involved  in  these  incident,  made 
complaints  about  inhalation  problem  for  several  days.  They  recovered  after  receiving  good  medical 
treatment  by  PLGA  doctors.  Now  it  is  clear  like  sunlight  that  the  Indian  government  in  cahoots  of 
Maharashtra government with no reluctance is using chemical weapons. This act is not only shameful for 
humanity but a biggest crime against humanity too. Who knows, the government must be using chemical 
weapons in Kashmir, north-east and on rallies and against the agitators to disturb them? If anybody would 
have paid attention towards this, then only it will get exposed. We call upon justice-loving people and 
intellectuals of the country and worldwide that they should with pro-people chemical experts and human 
rights activists investigate and impartial probe of the arms depository, ammunition of the police camps of 
the  Gadchiroli  must  be  done  to  unmask  the  truth.  Their  arsenal  of  chemical  weapons  and  weapons  of 
mass destruction would show that the government is waging war against people.  

Murdering  and  taking  the  photographs  of  those  scattered  bodies  full  of  blood  and  preparing 
flexible  banners  of  those  photographs  and  putting  them  in  villages  to  terrorize  and  all  above  official 
stamping of Gadchiroli police is an act of ignominious to humanity. This mentality screams loudly and 
tells that there is no value of human being for this government. For them Adivasis are nothing but wild 
animals to be hunted and they are proud of it. People cried loudly when they saw the photographs of 
women activists martyred in Medri. The people never been part of the movement their heart cried too but 
police  along  with  ministers  seen  celebrating  in  five  star  hotels.  The  chief  minister  of  Maharashtra 
Prithviraj  Chavan  and  home  minister  R.R.  Patil  are  seen  giving  awards  to  them  for  killing  their  own 
citizens. The throne of these comprador rulers has stood on the dead bodies of Adivasis. This is shame for 
humanity.  

The superintendent of police Suvez Haq speaks brazenly that they will shoot the people, which 
constitution has given him this right? Whether Maoists or anybody else, has anybody got the right to kill 
his own citizens? Killing the political opponents is the policy of the government. Political opposition is 
being finished by physical annihilation. This is not a democracy but regime of medieval age. great human 
being  wrote  the  constitution  in  a  hope  to  give  justice  to  poor,  wretched,  Dalits,  Adivasis  and  affected 
people  but  it  is  being  naked  in  the  capitalist  market.  The  peak  of  the  shamelessness  is  that  the  5th 
Schedule of the constitution being crushed under iron boots and it is called the development of Adivasis. 
This is happening all over in India. Just as Maoist leadership is concerned more than 3 lakh police and 
paramilitary  forces  were  given  mandate  for  conducting  atrocities  on  people  of  the  region.  Displacing 
Adivasis from the jungle or terrorizing them so much so that they could not think about anything else 
rather than saving their lives. They not even should think about their water-forest-land and dignity. Such 
is the fascist attacks are being perpetuated by the government. Is this the biggest democracy of the world? 
The neo-liberal policies of the imperialism adopted by Indian comprador rulers takes this country 
towards  back.  Resources  and  sovereignty  has  already  been  sold  to  foreign  companies.  Consumerist 
comprador culture is being injected in the blood veins, consequently crushing human values and social 
thoughts  without a feeling of shame. In retrospect this is being assumed as a development by a section of 
the  society.  I  have  done  enough  progress,  my  life  is  better  than  others,  this  type  of  seeds  of  social 

 

2 

Darwinism are being sowed. As a result the compassion for Adivasis and Dalits has become a thing miles 
away. In retrospect, some rewarded social servers through their NGOs in the name of removing poverty, 
they  have  made  it  their  business  to  earn  money  and  to  grab  some  awards.  Which  officer  kills  more 
Adivasis and increases his scores of death is being made a hero in the democracy. The comprador leaders 
who make the corruption of crores of rupees and fills up their Tijoris are selling industries of the country 
to the foreign companies. Water, forest and land is being sold, without forest there will be no Adivasis in 
a true sense, without Adivasis forest, forest vultures, various living species will not be protected. In a 
protection  of  these  two,  against  government  loot  and  repression  by  sacrificing  their  lives  the  Maoist 
guerillas has constructed the great human wall of China. And crossing this ladder has become impossible 
for the government.  

That  is  why  the  cruel  grisly  attacks  of  chemical  weapons  are  being  launched  on  the  people. 
Punishment must be given to these attackers. Manmohan Singh, Prithviraj Chavan, R.R. Patil and other 
officers,  are  cognate  to  this.  Manmohan  Singh  is  a  criminal  for  using  chemical  weapons  on  his  own 
people. He is liable to the punishment and has no right to speak on Syria. They must be punished for their 
crime against humanity. The number one enemy of the world people America, however; cries loudly over 
Syria but using chemical weapons against Maoists in India is the policy belongs to none another than 
America  itself.  The  people  who  waged  armed  struggle  in  Syria  for  democracy  are  tenable  then  the 
Maoists in India are carrying forward the revolutionary movement for new democracy since 44 years. 
How would they become a threat for India? Obama and the Indian comprador rulers must have to check 
their  minds;  they  are  selfish  and  are  to  be  all  mouth  and  no  trousers.  They  don’t  have  even  a  little 
honesty; human values are worthless to them. By putting forward the welfare and development of the 
people they carry out the agenda of loot and repression. They commodify hunger, disease, illiteracy and 
in true sense are implementing the neo-liberal theory of Reagan – Thatcherism as Manmohanamics and 
Obamics to decimate the millions of people to get rid of economic crisis. The usage of chemical weapons 
on  people  is  the  gist  of  this  policy.  Pulling  them  down  and  punishing  them  is  patriotism  and  great 
righteous  work  done  for  humanity.  That  is  why  we  call  upon  the  youths,  the  citizens  in  whom  the 
humanity is still alive and true democracy loving people of the country to fight against this war on people 
especially against the usage of chemical weapons to punish the rulers in the people’s court for their crime 
against humanity.  

 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

   secretary 

 

 
CPI(Maoist),Maharashtra state committee 

com. sayhadri 

 

3 

