      COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

      CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Unite, organise, and fight to smash the world imperialist system!  

Advance to build a world socialist system! 

May Day Statement of the Central Committee, CPI(Maoist) 

 
 

 

 

15 April 2018 

 

This year the world proletariat is celebrating the birth bicentenary of Karl Marx. Born two 
centuries ago when capitalism was still in its progressive stage, Marx deeply studied the social 
conditions and the class struggle of his time, combined the best that German philosophy, English 
political economy and French socialism had to offer and forged the most advanced weapon for 
the proletariat not only to interpret but to change the world. The result was scientific socialism, 
which for the first time united on a scientific basis the revolutionary theory of socialism with the 
practical  movement  of  the  working-class.  In  carrying  out  his  lifelong  investigation  into  the 
development  of  capitalist  mode  of  production,  Marx  discovered  the  basic  laws  of  social 
development,  provided  answers  to  the  outstanding  questions  confronting  humanity  and 
theoretically equipped the proletariat to fulfil its world-historic mission of building a new society 
free from classes and class slavery. The emergence of Marxism was an earth-shaking event, a 
complete  revolution  in  the  development  of  human  knowledge  and  the  dawn  of  a  new  era  in 
human history.  

Marx’s teachings demonstrated the absolute irreconcilability of the class interests of the 
bourgeoisie and the proletariat. It drew a clear line of demarcation between the bourgeoisie and 
its allies and the proletariat and its allies engaged in class struggle. It showed the inevitable doom 
of  capitalism  and  the  equally  inevitable  emergence  of  communism  to  take  its  place.  While 
capitalism in its first stage developed the productive forces and generally played a progressive 
role,  in  its  present  imperialist  stage  it  has  become  utterly  reactionary,  taking  the  exploitation, 
oppression, wars and destruction of productive forces to an unprecedented scale. In its rapacious 
pursuit  of  profit,  imperialism  has  enslaved,  dominated  and  subjugated  a  large  majority  of 
countries, nations and peoples of the world, brought untold misery and suffering to billions of 
toiling masses and caused widespread destruction of nature to an extent unheard of in the first 
stage of capitalism. On the other hand, though the proletariat in the first stage of capitalism was 
still relatively weak, unorganised and inexperienced in its struggle against the bourgeoisie, in the 
era of imperialism the proletariat have became strong, organised and experienced enough to rise 
to  the  position  of  the  ruling  class  for  the  first  time.  It  smashed  the  old  state  machinery  and 
established the dictatorship of the proletariat – a completely new state without any precedent in 
human history. For the first time, the banner of Marxism emerged victorious through the October 
Revolution under the leadership of Lenin. 

The  successful  proletarian  revolutions  of  the  twentieth  century  demonstrated  beyond 
doubt  that  when  it  grips  the  proletariat,  Marxism  transforms  into  a  material  force.  It  is  then 
capable  not  only  of  sweeping  away  the  rule  of  the  bourgeoisie  and  all  oppressors  but  is  also 
equally  capable  of  creatively  building  up  the  rule  of  the  oppressed.  They  showed  that  by 
establishing  its  state  power,  the  proletariat  can  destroy  all  forms  of  reactionary,  decadent  and 
moribund  economy,  politics,  culture,  ideology,  customs  and  ethics  of  the  exploitative  ruling 
classes  and  create  a  completely  new  and  progressive  economy,  politics,  culture,  ideology, 
customs and ethics in its place by passing through a long process of transformation. Freed from 
wage-slavery, the wretched of the earth enjoys for the first time in this new society the fruits of 

 

1 

liberty,  equality,  fraternity  and  democracy  –  the hallowed  bourgeois  catchwords  which  remain 
mere empty words under the dictatorship of the reactionary classes. 

Though equipped with the most advanced ideology of Marxism, i.e., today’s Marxism-
Leninism-Maoism  (MLM)  and  enriched  by  over  one  and  a  half  century  of  revolutionary 
experience, the world proletariat today finds itself weak and disorganised, while the bourgeoisie 
still remains organisationally and materially powerful. The class enemy is in power everywhere 
after the once-powerful socialist camp got dissolved mainly due to the treachery of all kinds of 
revisionists and neo-revisionists. It is ruthlessly suppressing the people by taking advantage of the 
weak organisational position of the revolutionary working-class camp. Even in countries where 
revolutionary  struggles  are  going  on  under  the  leadership  of  genuine  communist  parties,  the 
imperialists and domestic reactionary rulers consciously perpetuate the reactionary politics and 
culture  of  the  old  society.  They  maintain  social  evils  to  sow  the  seeds  of  division  among  the 
people  and  keep  them  under  subjugation.  In  spite  of  this,  the  oppressed  people  seek  real 
democracy,  independence,  sovereignty  and  equality;  they  seek  freedom  from  all  forms  of 
exploitation, oppression, discrimination and humiliation. They are also struggling to achieve them 
in various forms. But after the coming of class society, after the transformation of capitalism into 
imperialism, and particularly after the temporary defeat of socialism in the last century, there is 
no  other  way  to  achieve  them  other  than  through  proletarian  revolutions. After  the  loss  of  the 
socialist  camp,  carrying  out  such  revolutions  today  has  become  much  more  challenging,  the 
present period from this point of view being similar to the one prior to the October Revolution. 
Nevertheless, proletarian revolutions have remained as indispensable as ever not only to put an 
end  to  the  economic  slavery  of  the  oppressed  but  also  their  ideological,  political  and  cultural 
enslavement, whereby they give up even their dream for a better future.  

With the expansion of the capitalist world economy to unprecedented degrees in the last 
four decades of imperialist neo-liberalism, the inherent contradictions between imperialism and 
the  oppressed  nations  and  peoples,  between  the  bourgeoisie  and the  proletariat  and  among  the 
imperialist powers have developed to unprecedented degrees. Imperialist aggression against the 
oppressed nations and peoples and the onslaught of capital against labour too have grown in that 
proportion  all  over  the  world.  The  proletariat,  peasantry,  the  middle  classes,  women,  religious 
minorities, oppressed nationalities, persecuted races and communities, etc. are under more severe 
economic,  political,  social  and  cultural  exploitation  and  oppression  as  a  result.  The  disparity 
between the rich and the poor, the wealthy and the impoverished has soared to an unprecedented 
level. The parasitic, predatory and destructive nature of imperialist ‘globalisation’ is becoming 
more and more unbearable for the toiling masses, forcing them to seek a way out of all forms of 
enslavement. The present crisis of the world capitalist system therefore brings not only untold 
misery  and  suffering  to  the  working  people  but  also  new  opportunities  for  revolution.  The 
proletariat of our country and the world needs to think seriously and deeply about the ways and 
means to utilise this favourable condition in the fight for emancipation. 

In our country too, the proletariat and all other oppressed classes and social sections are 
facing the unprecedented brutal assault of the ruling classes aided by imperialism in the form of 
Brahmanical  Hindu-fascism.  Led  by  RSS-BJP  and  aided  by  the  repressive  state  machinery, 
exploitation and oppression in different forms is intensifying throughout the country. They are 
facilitating more aggressive plunder of the imperialists and the domestic ruling classes. As a part 
of their long-standing goal of transforming the country into a ‘Hindu Rashtra’ and a big power, 
Modi-led  NDA  government  and  the  state  governments  are  browbeating  the  democratic 
movements  of  the  workers,  peasants,  employees,  small  and  medium  traders,  the  unemployed, 
students,  youths,  Dalits,  Adivasis,  women,  religious  minorities,  oppressed  nationalities, 
environmentalists, etc. The Maoist movement, which is a beacon of hope for all the oppressed 
classes and sections of people in the country, is also under an intense counter-revolutionary attack 
as a crucial part of this. All this are in essence direct or indirect forms of class oppression and 
class war.  

 

2 

Even after the last World War, the imperialists have never for a moment ceased their class 
war against the working people and their counter-revolutionary wars against the revolutionary, 
national liberation and democratic movements across the world. The overt and covert unjust wars 
of aggression, ‘regime changes’, military coup, etc. across the continents in the last half a century 
– be it in Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Syria or Yemen, to take just a few recent examples – provide 
ample proof of this. The imperialist powers are now dragging the people of the world to the brink 
of  a  new  imperialist  war  through  fresh  tariff  barriers,  trade  wars,  diplomatic  rows,  sanctions, 
military  provocations,  interventions  and  aggressions.  They  are  preparing  for  war  against  one 
another to extricate themselves from the gravest economic crisis since the ‘Great Depression’ of 
the 1930s. The proletarians of all countries are once again confronted with the revolutionary duty 
of strongly opposing and organising the people against the outbreak of new imperialist wars, and 
in  case  such  wars  break  out,  to  turn  them  into  revolutionary  civil  wars  in  their  respective 
countries with the aim of seizing political power. Only by organising the broad masses militantly 
and  with  initiative  can  the  proletariat  and  its  vanguard  parties  in  different  countries  overcome 
passivity, stop being a mere spectator from the sidelines and effectively intervene in the political 
arena to utilise the imperialist crises and wars for the cause of revolution. 

The  enormity  of  this  task  demands  that  the  proletariat  in  each  country  scientifically 
analyse the concrete present-day conditions of the world and of their respective countries in the 
light  of  Marxism  (MLM),  build  vanguard  communist  parties  where  such  parties  are  absent, 
consolidate where they are weak and find appropriate forms of struggle and organization to wage 
revolutionary class struggle against the enemy with the perspective of seizing power. Today there 
are two strategic tasks before the genuine vanguard parties and organisations of the international 
proletariat. The first is to lay down the general political line of proletarian revolution for each 
country by correctly analysing its concrete economic and social conditions, the character of the 
society, its classes and class relations as well as its fundamental contradictions and the principal 
contradiction. Only in this way can the party of the proletariat correctly identify its friends and 
foes, formulate appropriate strategy and tactics of class struggle and unite its allies against the 
class  enemies  under  its  leadership.  In  this  way,  the  proletariat  can  initiate  revolutionary 
movements  of  the  workers  and  other  oppressed  social  sections  in  the  capitalist-imperialist 
countries  and  national-democratic  movements  by  organising  and  leading  the  working-class, 
peasantry  and  other  democratic  classes  and  social  sections  in  semi-colonial  and  semi-feudal 
countries where such movements are yet to be initiated. The second strategic task is to build a 
strong  united  front  of  the  communist  movements  of  the  capitalist  countries  and  the  national-
democratic movements of the neo-colonial and semi-colonial countries against imperialism and 
its  henchmen.  To  facilitate  this,  genuine  proletarian  parties  and  organisations  will  need  to 
establish  an  appropriate  international  revolutionary  proletarian  organisation  according  to  the 
present concrete conditions. In addition, Maoist forces will need to unite with all the progressive 
and democratic forces in each country and with all anti-imperialist, democratic forces worldwide 
against  the  enemy.  The  above  two  strategic  tasks  will  complement  each  other  and  play  an 
important role in advancing the world socialist revolution.  

In our country, it is the call of the hour that the proletariat becomes more organised under 
the  banner  of  revolutionary  Marxism  and  unite  all  the  oppressed  classes,  social  sections  and 
individuals  in  a  movement  against  the  ruling-class  onslaught  presently  spearheaded  by  the 
Brahmanical Hindu-fascist forces. This is the time to build a united movement as a part of the 
vast stream of the country’s national-democratic movement. The entire people, except a handful 
of  ruling-class  parasites  constituting  a  miniscule  minority,  are  in  urgent  need  of  such  a 
movement.  But  it  cannot  succeed  merely  by  raising  demands,  making  criticisms,  or  offering 
resistance  in  a  passive  and  disorganised  way.  Only  by  getting  organised  on  the  basis  of  a 
voluntary unity of the exploited and oppressed people to fight the enemy through to the end can 
this  movement  successfully  defeat  the  enemy,  build  a  new  society  which  is  truly  democratic, 
egalitarian,  independent,  sovereign,  self-reliant  and  environment-friendly,  and  resolve  the 

 

3 

rd  of  the 

ry  way.  Our
art in fulfillin
ly bourgeois
delude the w
at repeatedly
the worldw
at capitalism
e  supersede
munism.  M
utions. Unde
fully  compr
classes  and 

r  Party,  as  t
the  vanguar
 
ng this task. 
r reactionary
sie and other
sses, it is im
working mas
y plunges it i
into ever de
nist moveme
ide commun
ransient stag
m is but a tr
ew,  more  ad
ed  by  the  ne
odern  impe
erialism,  the
his basic tea
erstanding th
take  up  its 
rehend  and 
social  sect
tions  in  the 

y classes 
mpossible 
eper and 
ent since 
ge in the 
dvanced, 
e  highest 
aching of 
historic 
light  of 

the world h
ggles have b
orking-class 
ggle for the
o they must
onism and fo

have been v
been going o
limits  its 
 end of wag
t extend thei
for the seizur

valiantly figh
on since the
struggles  to
ge-slavery, t
ir partial stru
re of politica

hting for 
e birth of 
o  partial 
there can 
uggles to 
al power 

arx’s birth b
the world i
(today’s ML
ply study, th
revolutionar
world imper
-colonial co
ne,  the  Bols
nal  liberatio
ments across
conditions.
owing  the  p
cipate in thi
Let us inten
subjective fo
the Maoist m
the  interna

bicentenary y
in the spirit 
LM) as the o
oroughly lea
ry class strug
rialist system
untries. We 
shevik  Revo
on  wars  of 
s the world.
.  This  is  th
path  pointed
is final class
nsify the gu
orces to defe
movement o
ational  prole

year, the CC
of the inter
only ideolog
arn and firm
ggle. In its l
m and of ea
must learn 
olution,  the 
f all  other  c
. We must c
he  historic 
d  by  Marx 
s war as par
errilla war, 
eat the new 
of India by 
etariat  to  rea

C of our 
rnational 
gy for the 
mly grasp 
light, we 
ach of its 
from the 
Chinese 
countries 
correctly 
task  the 
and  the 
rtisans of 
mobilise 
counter-
the year 
alise  the 

ding  problem
proletariat, is
No matter w
ng the revisi
talism to res
tive crises an
nd Engels h
pment  of  cla
sive,  rationa
f capitalism,
m,  the  inter
ibility,  orga
and lead them
It is true th
onomic dem
sm.  But  M
ds alone and
nd to their e
ggle against
lish the dict
On the occa
alls upon th
ay calls of pr
on of the opp
chings of Ma
orrectly anal
the individu
e  and  negati
tion  and  the
ng ours and 
eatively  app
tional  Day 
rian revoluti
oppressed an
ple, expand 
ionary ‘Sam
Let  us  renew
call of The I

ms  of  the  p
s sincerely c
what the apo
ionists and n
solve its inh
nd wars. Ma
has proved w
ass  society, 
al  and  just 
 is but the e
rnational  pro
anise  and  un
m in the stru
hat the work
mands in var
arxism  teac
d do not conn
conomic and
t economism
atorship of t
asion of the
he proletaria
revious year
pressed. We
arxism to m
lyse the conc
ual capitalist,
ive  lessons 
e  GPCR,  re
the ongoin
ply  these  le
of  Labour  p
ons of the la
nd advance o
the mass ba
madhan’ plan
w  our  pledg
Internationa

people  in  a  r
committed to
ologists of th
neo-revision
herent contra
arxist theory
with absolut
which  is  do
social  syste
eve of prolet
oletariat  wil
nite  all  the 
uggle for libe
kers of our c
rious forms.
ches  us  tha
nect them w
d social ens
m, reformism
the proletari
e May Day 
ans of our c
rs to reaffirm
e appeal to th
master its app
crete condit
, neo-coloni
of  the  Pari
evolutionary
g working-c
essons  to  ou
places  befo
ast century, 
on the path 
ase and stren
n aimed at w
ge  as  a  deta
ale:  

revolutionar
o play its pa
he monopol
nists say to d
adictions tha
y as well as 
te clarity tha
oomed  to  b
em  of  comm
tarian revolu
ll  have  to  f
oppressed 
eration. 
country and 
. Such strug
at  if  the  wo
with the stru
lavement. S
m and revisio
iat. 
in Karl Ma
ountry and 
m Marxism (
hem to deep
plication in r
tions of the 
ial and semi-
is  Commun
y  and  natio
class movem
ur  concrete 
ore  us.  Follo
let us partic
of struggle. 
ngthen our s
wiping out t
achment  of 

ll bind us, 
rall! 
ndations  
be all; 

e tradition’s
e slaves! No
rth shall rise
e been naug
final conflic
h stand in hi
ernational P

s chains sha
o more in thr
e on new fou
ght, we shall 
ct, 
is place, 
Party shall b

e the human

n race. 

outstand
Indian p

includin
for capi
destruct
Marx an
develop
progress
stage of
Marxism
respons
MLM a

their ec
capitalis
demand
be no en
the strug
to estab

Party ca
May Da
liberatio
the teac
must co
parts – t
positive
Revolut
includin
and  cre
Internat
proletar
all the o
the peop
revoluti
2022.  L
abiding 
 
No more
Arise, y
The ear
We have
’Tis the 
Let each
The Inte
 

 

 

4 

y) 
(Abhay
erson 
Spokespe
C
Central Com
mmittee 
oist) 
CPI(Mao

