Present Political Situation

- Our Tasks

CPI (Maoist)

To The Reader

It is gratifying to note that the Resolution of CPI (Maoist) Polit Bureau, on
the current international and domestic situation as adopted on December
20, 2008 has reached me at a time when the Kolkata Book Fair ’09 has
started. As a Maoist practitioner I consider that it is time I bring it out for a
wider circulation of Maoist view point on the tumultuous situation
occasioned by capitalism’s worst economic crisis. Hence the publication.

26th January, 2009

Gour Chakraborty

CPI (Maoist)
West Bengal

Present Political Situation – Our Tasks

First Edition – Kolkata Book Fair 2009
Copies – 1000

Printer and Publisher:

Gour Chakraborty
Post – Midnapur
Vill. – Midnapur (Paschimpara)
Dist. – Nadia, West Bengal
Pin – 741245

Suggested Contribution – Rs. 2.00

For Copies

Radical Publications
Bangla Peoples’ March, NHBT, Book Mark and all other leading book
Shops of Kolkata

Printed At –

Kolkata Graphics (Pvt.) Ltd.
3A, Maniktala Industrial Estate
Kolkata – 700 054

Utilise the Excellent crisis situation!

Intervene and carry on each and

every struggle of people!

- A call by Indian Maoists

International Situation

During the past one year the crisis in the world capitalist-imperialist sys(cid:173)tem
has grown to levels unprecedented since the Great Depression of the 1930s.
Manifested initially in the form of bursting of the sub-prime mortgage bubble in
the US, it soon became the deepest financial crisis mainly in the US and then
spread to EU, Japan and other parts of the world. By November 2008 it assumed
the form of world recession after the US, 15-member Euro Zone and Japan
officially declared their economies had entered a period of recession. Panic over
the ever-deepening financial crisis soon gripped the real economy; exports fell
and production had to be slowed down due to decrease in consumer spending in
the US and Europe. The ongoing global crisis is not merely a financial crisis but a
crisis encompassing all sectors of economy, social and political spheres in all
countries.

The past year had seen many fluctuations in the prices of crude oil and
commodities rising steeply in the first half and declining in the second half of the
year. Reduction of area under food grains production led to acute shortages of
food grains worldwide and high prices persisted for most part of the year. Food
crisis has now become a worldwide phenomenon which will worsen further
throwing a greater proportion of the world population into the clutches of poverty
and hunger. In 2008 another 40 million people had joined the ranks of
the
hungry. Prices of oil ruled at record highs during the first eight months reaching a
peak of $147 a barrel in August and then suddenly plummeting to more than half
by September and reaching $40 a barrel by the third week of November due to
drastic decline in automobile sales,
lack of demand for land, air and sea
transport. Not only oil prices but prices of many commodities like platinum,
copper, steel and zinc have fallen by 35-40 % between July-September and
agricultural commodities like soya and corn by over 50% due to the fall
in

demand resulting from steep declines in purchasing power of
the people,
industrial closures due to credit crunch and falling demand, and overall economic
downturn. Widespread speculation in these commodities is also an im(cid:173)portant
reason for the extreme fluctuation in their prices. Fall
in prices of agricultural
commodities has affected commodity-producing countries like Australia,
Argentina, India and several countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America. Partial
or complete closure of industrial giants and lay-offs of mil(cid:173)lions of workers has
become a world-wide phenomenon in 2008. 17 out of 29 steel mill blast furnaces
in the L S closed down due to lack of demand. Sales in automobiles, steel,
software, electronics, retailing, transport had gone down steeply. Big Three in
automobile Industry, which were the icons of American industrial supremacy until
a few years ago, are now on the verge of collapse. House prices are the lowest
since 1991. In Germany, G.M’s Opel plant was closed down. BMW and Diamler
had ceased production for some months. Thus gloomy scenes of Depression are
looming large on the scenario with continuing fall
in demand for capital and
consumer goods and even food grains. Agriculture too is badly affected due to
non-availability of loans from banks.

failures of

the financial

The stock markets saw continuous shocks for most part of the year. The Black
Monday of September 15 and the crisis-ridden third week of September
witnessed the biggest
institutions. Lehman Brothers,
Merill Lynch. AIG Bear Stearns, Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, and a host of
other bankruptcies shook the US and world economy In spite of huge bail(cid:173)out;
announced by the Rush administration, big hank, and companies contin(cid:173)ued to
fail not to speak of smaller fry. The case of Citigroup, the pride of America, failing
in mid-November showed the depths of the crisis. The so-called rallies of stock
markets for a while in October proved fleeting moments in the ever-deepening
crisis. Stock market: continued to crash even after massive financial assistance
by the various governments. Interest rates were cut several times by the Central
in the US, Germany, Japan and several countries including India but all to no
avail. In the third week of October Japan’s Nikkei 225 plunged by 24.5% in five
days-the worst weekly performance in Nikkei’s 50-year history. Japan initially
sanctioned $18 billion to stave off the crisis but w hen this did not prevent its
economy from sliding into recession by mid-November, it had to announce a
huge package of $265 billion to bail out the financial speculators. Losses in Asia
in eight top markets during the third week of October totalled $870 billion.

The epi-centre of the world crisis lies in the US economy and is rooted in the
unbridled growth of various forms of financial speculation such as securitization
of debt, sub-prime lending, forward contracts etc., all of which are completely

divorced from the real productive economy. Financial parasitism and the rise of a
coupon-clipping, financial aristocracy, which com Lenin described as the essence
of moribund capitalism had assumed the most vulgar and rapacious forms in the
US at the cost Of industry and trade. It is the unprecedented crisis in the US
economy that had exacerbated the crisis in the world economy due to heavy
dependence of the world on the US dollar and markets.

The Bush administration, representing the corporate-financial parasitical elite
ruling America is desperately striving to push the burden of the ever(cid:173)deepening
crisis onto the backs of the toiling people of the country and on the people of
semi-colonial, neo-colonial countries of the world. It had already spent over $2.5
trillion of taxpayers’ money to bail-out the bankrupt financial
institutions. The
allotment of huge funds to the financial sharks is meant to further fatten them by
promoting a wave of take-overs and buy-outs of the smaller sharks leading to
further concentration and centralization of wealth. Bail-out plan of Bush had
facilitated the take-over of Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual by JP Morgan
Chase, Merill Lynch by Bank of America. Wachovia by Wells Fargo and National
City by PNC. Tax-breaks and write-offs were announced for the big banks that
took over the relatively smaller ones. The ultimate outcome of the ‘rescue plan’ of
Bush will be financial parasitism at its peak by way of further consolidation of the
US banking system and domination of the entire economy by a few mega-banks.
Only a small, negligible fraction of the funds will be spent to help the productive
sphere and the masses of working people, such is the reactionary essence of the
bail(cid:173)outs which are vehemently opposed by the vast majority of
the toiling
masses of America. Hence Republican Bush and Democratic Obama have the
same solution for the crisis in the US-militarism, war (mainly in the form of
regional wars or proxy wars), intervention in other countries in the name of `war
against terror’, economic bullying of countries of Asia-Africa and Latin America,
and ruthless conquests and plunder of the world resources and people. US
imperialism is trying to offset its economic decline by military means. War is also
used as a weapon to divert people’s attention the deep internal all-round crisis by
placing the blame on external factors.

In the November, 4 Presidential election, the ruling financial aristocracy in the
US brought Democratic Party’s Barack Obama to power to placate the mass of
the American people who are totally disenchanted and furious with the policies of
republican Bush that led to mass impoverishment at home and anti-Americanism
abroad. The American ruling class think’)
that Obama’s African-American
descent and his relatively clean image and young age will help refurbish the
battered image of American imperialism abroad and that they can more smoothly

and efficiently carry out the interests of the corporate-financial elite than under a
Republican candidate. But Obama can do precious little to improve the image of
America abroad or resurrect
the US economy which is bogged down in a
perennial crisis. Obama’s policies, both internal and foreign, are not different in
anyway than those of Bush. Obama’s slogan of helping the Main Street is a
shield to hand over tax-payers’ money to the Wall Street. And his war-mongering
will be even more aggressive than that of Bush. The gravest crisis of American
imperialism logically leads it to unleash more wars which, in turn, create greater
crisis and social explosion at home and isolation abroad. Moreover, the so-called
war on terror is strengthening the religious fundamentalist
forces worldwide
leading to further proliferation of terrorist attacks.

Today the situation is even more fragile and unstable than during the years of
the Great Depression, for the simple reason that unlike the earlier period. when
the epi-centre of world crisis lay in Europe and US imperialism could bring
relative stability owing to its industrial supremacy and huge financial resources,
today it has lost its economic supremacy, became transformed into the largest
debtor nation, and. thriving on financial speculation, has no ability whatsoever to
ensure stability in the world. On the contrary, today it is American imperialism
itself that has become the greatest source of instability and crisis in the world. It
has decided to increase its public debt from $10 trillion to $113 trillion by next
year which is done through heavy borrowings from China and other countries. If
China and other countries demand that its loans be paid back it will have a
disastrous impact on the US economy. EU and Japan, being themselves crisis-
ridden, have no resources or wherewithal to bring any soil of order in the present-
day world. Moreover, every, country will try to grab a share of the shrinking
markets at
the expense of others through protectionism leading to wars of
aggression and collapse of some countries. Keynesianism and monetarism had
the present
completely failed and, unable to understand the causes for
stagflation, even mainstream economists are turning to Marx’s Capital
to
understand the phenomenon. After decades of rhetoric about free enterprise,
non-intervention of the state in the economy, total privatization of industrial and
service sectors, and market being the regulator, there is a massive intervention
of governments in a bid to rescue a tiny corporate-financial elite in every country.
Besides giving out huge fund to this parasitic class, stock of major banks and
financial institutions are bought over by governments, what the media has been
depicting as ‘partial nationalization’. Hence no talk of Bretton Woods II or any
international regulat(cid:173)ing body in place of the World Bank. IMF and other US-led
Agencies can bring any order despite the boasts of G-20 countries during their

meeting in November. In fact, huge sums of FII money are leaving the countries
of Asia, Africa and Latin America. From China alone, sums ranging from $10 to
25 billion were said to have fled the country until September 2008 itself.

In turn,

China, the fourth biggest economy in the world, which has been hailed as an
engine of growth in the Asia-Pacific region, is also ridden with grave crisis and
has closed down thousands of export-oriented industries as it
is heavily
dependent on the US and EU for export of
its goods. For instance,
more than half of the toy-exporting industries in China closed for most
part of 2008.
this has a deep impact on the economies of
Japan and South Korea which are the biggest exporters of capital
goods to China. To overcome its crisis China announced a $590 billion
stimulus package.
is more likely that China and other Asian
economies will strive to become less dependent on the US and EU and
promote more intra-Asian trade and investments which will push the US
and EU deeper into crisis.

The gravest global economic crisis since the 1930s has led
to an accentuation of all
the fundamental contradictions in
contemporary world-between imperialism and oppressed nations
and people; between the various imperialist powers; and between
capital and labour and is leading to political and social crisis of
unparalleled dimensions.

It

The global economic crisis has intensified the inter-imperialist
contradic(cid:173)tions further. Particularly the contradictions between the US
and Russia have grown sharper over oil-rich Caucasian region and
NATO’s Missile Defence system in Europe. Russia threatened to
destroy the European Missile Defence system if US-led NATO goes
ahead with its plan to place the missiles in Poland. US recognized
Kosovo in February. It pushed Georgia to occupy Tbilisi, the Capital of
South Ossetia.
In retaliation Russia declared war on Georgia and
seized not only South Ossetia but also parts of Georgian territory. After
the cease-fire, Russia and SCO (Shanghai Cooperation Organisation)
then an
recognized South Ossetia and Abkhazia (which was until
autonomous
countries.
Submerged in its own crisis American imperialism chose not to confront
Russia at this point of time. Possessing the second largest oil reserves
in the world and less dependent on exports, Russia’s economy is
relatively less vulnerable to the ongoing world economic crisis. It also
improved ties with several European countries, China,
Iran, North
Korea, Venezuela and other countries. Of particular significance is the
grow(cid:173)ing strategic relationship between Russia and China which can
have far-reaching consequences in global power equations. The crisis
has also created cracks in the European monetary system and has
promoted nationalism and xenophobia among some countries.

in Georgia)

independent

re(cid:173)public

as

It

imperialist powers.

China has emerged as a big competitor in the world market to the
US and other
It has been the fastest-growing
economy in the world with over 12% growth rates for several years.
Although it has been badly affected by the present world crisis,
its
growth rate continues to be around 9%.
is trying to develop trade
relations with countries of Africa. Asia and Latin America besides
political and military alliances in order to extricate itself
from over-
dependence on US and EU and to eat into their spheres of influ(cid:173)ence.
The recent official visits of top-level Chinese delegation to African and
Latin American countries,
in the APEC (Asia-Pacific
Eco(cid:173)nomic Cooperation) Summit, and development of bilateral ties with
several countries of the world should be seen as part of this move to
seek alternative sources for
its exports and investments. China is
already the biggest trading partner of Japan replacing the US. It is also
striving to stimulate its domestic
consumption through massive
investments in infrastructure, construction of housing, social welfare
programmes and massive defence outlays. It is increasing its military
might and is building its first aircraft carrier. Countries of BRIC (Brazil-
Russia-India-China) have been playing an increasingly impor(cid:173)tant role
in world affairs.

its growing clout

The outcome of

the current crisis will witness a realignment of
various powers in the world which would inevitably weaken US
imperialism further. Hence American imperialism is desperately trying
to rope in India to its side to use it as a bulwark against the growing
clout and might of China which it thinks will be the chief rival to US in
future.
India has become a willing strategic partner of American
imperialism in order to fulfil
its own expansionist inter(cid:173)ests not only in
South Asia but also in Asia as a whole.

Iraq and Afghanistan continue to deliver deadly blows against US
occupation forces thereby aggravating the economic, political and
social crises in America. The Taliban has gained control of almost 40
% of Afghanistan, has presence in most parts of the country and is now
within reach of Capital Kabul. 2008 witnessed the highest number of
casualties of US and NATO troops in Afghanistan ever since the
fighting commenced in late 2001. Hence American imperialism is
planning to increase its troops in Afghanistan by an(cid:173)other 30,000 by
mid-2009. The anti-US sentiment
is so great due to indiscrimi(cid:173)nate
bombing of civilians with a large number of women and children
becom(cid:173)ing victims, and Taliban has become such a strong force. that
even the US puppet Karzai
is compelled to propose talks with Taliban.
Obama’s assurance that US occupation forces would be withdrawn
from Iraq is a sheer ploy to pacify the growing anti-war sentiment of the
people in the US and elsewhere in the world. Moreover, American
imperialism stands isolated in Iraq as one country after another had
pulled out
its troops. Despite US pressure. Britain was compelled to
announce its plans to pull out its last soldier from Iraq by May 2009.

Although American imperialism tried through back-door methods to
keep its forces for another three years in Iraq under the fig-leaf of a
decision by the Iraqi cabinet. It was flatly rejected by the people of Iraq.
Israeli Zionist
terrorists had stepped up attacks on the Palestinian
territories virtually razing down Palestinian residential areas in Gaza Strip.
Hamas has put up brave resistance against the Israeli state attacks.

In South Asia the situation has become explosive. In Nepal, monarchy was
overthrown in the elections to the Constituent Assembly and CPN (Maoist) had
come to power in coalition with other parties of
the exploiting classes. The
position of Maoists is quite delicate and unstable as it is dependent on the mercy
of the other comprador-feudal parties to continue in power. The abandonment of
base areas, demobilization of PLA and participation in elections is a blow to the
revolutionary movement in South Asia. However, inner-party struggle within CPN
(M) is likely to break out in future as it hogs down deeper into the morass of
bourgeois democracy and revisionism.

In Sri Lanka the fighting between the LTTE and the government’s Sinhala
chauvinist armed forces has increased in intensity in the past one year after
Rajapakse broke the cease-fire in 2007. With the aid of several
imperialist
powers and the Indian expansionists, Rajapakse government had acquired
helicopter gunships, bombers, naval
fleet, and a huge arsenal of deadly
munitions, and has unleashed a war of attrition. Sinhala troops have bombed
civilian areas creating a humanitarian crisis with thousands becoming refugees.
This has generated considerable reaction in Tamil Nadu. Indian government is
assisting the Sri Lankan government by all means though outwardly it is posing
as a neutral player to avoid adverse reactions from the people of Tamil Nadu.
The LTTE seems to have much weakened and has been pushed into a
defen(cid:173)sive position but is putting up stiff resistance against the combined forces
of Sri Lankan Army, Navy and Air Force. Considering the fact that the Sri Lankan
Army is seen as a foreign chauvinist occupation force by the Tamils, it becomes
clear that people of tile Tamil nation in Sri Lanka will continue their war against
the forces of occupation. It is impossible to suppress the demand for Tamil
Eelam and the national struggle for independence is bound to emerge stronger
even if it suffers a temporary setback.

In Pakistan the situation has become extremely explosive. Prime Ministerial
candidate Benazir Bhutto was assassinated. Musharraf was forced to abandon
power, and President Zardari has become an object of despise in the eyes of the
Muslim masses as he turned out to be a greater stooge of US imperialism than
even Musharraf. The incessant bombing on FATA and Baluchis by US helicopter
gunships and missiles killing hundreds of civilians is creating massive opposition

internally and more and more people are taking up arms against the US client
regime. Bush had signed a secret order in July authorizing the use of US ground
troops in Pakistan. Obama was even more aggressive than Bush in his attitude
towards Pakistan and he declared his policy of extending the fight against AI-
Qaeda onto Pakistani soil. Due to pressure from American imperialism,
the
stooge government of Zardari has amassed his troops along the Afghan border
and is indulging in a blood-bath. Taliban has intensified its attacks on NATO’s
transport trucks proceeding from Pakistan thereby disrupting the supplies of arms
and other materials to the NATO troops in Afghanistan. Engulfed in severe
economic crisis and high inflation, Pakistan begged the IMF and obtained a huge
loan in October in return for total servility to US and other imperialist powers. The
economic(cid:173)political-social crisis in Pakistan is giving rise to massive people’s
movements, fundamentalist attacks and separatist movements.

The global economic crisis has led to terrible deterioration of the stan(cid:173)dards of
living of the vast masses throughout the world. Job losses due to closures and
lay-offs are unprecedented: unemployment figures have reached record levels in
most of the imperialist countries with over 3 million in Britain and 8 million in
Germany. Temporary and partial employment in low-paid jobs has increased
greatly reaching 26.4% of total work force in Germany. The ILO has estimated
that 20 million jobs will be destroyed worldwide during 2008. 10.6% of the 30-
member OECD’s population lives in poverty.

A recent report of OECD pointed out: “the average growth of recent decades
has benefited the rich more than the poor.” It also ranked the US the third worst
in inequality and poverty among the Group’s 30 member states. Only Mexico and
Turkey fared better. Due to home foreclosures, more than 17 lakh families will be
losing their homes in 2008 and the figure is expected to reach 50 lakh by 2012.
In the US, top 10% of the population possesses 71% the national wealth; top one
per cent own between 25-33%

No wonder, in the Nov 4 Presidential elections in the US, there was massive
rejection of the regressive policies of Bush at home and aggressive wars and
militarism abroad. Obama is projected by the ruling elite of the US to create an
acceptable image to the American people and the rest of the world who have
nothing but despise for the criminal acts of Bush. In the despotic two-Party
system in the US people have no choice but to elect what they felt as the lesser
evil Barack Obama. Obama has assured the parasitic ‘financial aristocracy that
he would continue the policies of militarism and war abroad with some cosmetic
changes. He openly declared that he would step up the war of occupation in
Afghanistan and extend it to Pakistan until the destruction of Al Qaeda and its

leader Osama Bin Laden. His stands with regard to Iran, Sudan, Russia.
Afghanistan and the so-called war on terror point to the increasing prospects of
wars just as under Bush. The danger of a resurgence of right-wing forces basing
on people’s discontent
is looming large on the political horizon due to the
weakness of the revolutionary forces.

Thus, overall, globalisation has created a volatile situation for the economies
of all countries of the world. The crisis is bound to extend in space and time
giving rise to massive movements of the working class and various sections of
people against the reactionary ruling classes and imperialism. The job losses,
wage cuts and mass lay-offs have created an objective situation for the rise of
militant working class movements. The recent eruptions of mass violence all over
Greece lasting for almost a fortnight point to the pent-up anger, frustration and
hatred towards the exploitative system that is weighing down the majority of the
people in the capitalist world. Such violent social eruptions as a manifestation of
the intensification of the contradiction between capital and labour, are likely to
increase in the capitalist countries as the crisis deepens.

Imperialist powers and their puppets and compradors in various countries will
resort to the most savage methods of suppression of people’s struggles; trample
underfoot the basic human and democratic rights; set up Latin American-type
death squads to murder leader; and activists of democratic move(cid:173)ments and
trade unions; snatch away the right to life of the vast majority of the people; and
enforce the most brutal
increase their war
preparations and undertake wars of aggression besides imposing fascist rule at
home which is the only solution imperialists can think of to come out of severe
crisis.

fascist rule. They will

forms of

Economic crisis leads to militarism, war and revolutionary upsurge. And
war leads to greater social-political crisis and to a new wave of revolutions.
This is a historically proved truth. Hence it is the task of revolutionaries
worldwide to consolidate and strengthen the subjective forces of
revolution and prepare themselves to seize the tremendous opportunities
arising from the current global economic crisis and the resultant political
and social crises. By utilizing the excellent situation worldwide the Maoist
parties can grow significantly and become a formidable force to challenge
imperialism and international capital. If appropriate tactics are adopted,
and the vast toiling masses, groaning under the heavy burden of the all-
pervading global crisis, are mobilized into militant revolutionary struggles
against the capitalist-imperialist system, we can surely make significant
advances in the world socialist revolution.

Domestic Situation

In India, the world economic crisis has affected all spheres due to the
its Integration into world economy and its implementation of
rapid rate of
imperialist- dictated globalisation policies. The growth rates had dropped to 7.6%
in the third quarter against 9.3% in the same period last y ear. The BSE Sensex
had touched a record 21.000 points in January 2008 which the Congress-led
UPA government had boasted as indicating the soundness of
the Indian
economy. But soon the Sensex began to plunge reaching 15,000 points in
March, 10.000 points in September and a record low of less than 8.000 by
November. The government tried to counter the falling demand and downturn in
production by decreasing the interest rate; decreasing the cash reserve ratio held
by banks, and tried to promote borrowings and consumption alI to no avail.
Consumption continued to fall drastically. Due to the dearth in cash flow and
bankruptcies of
institutions in the US and Europe, FIIS
withdrew their funds from the markets at a rapid pace to the tune of $9.6 billion in
the first nine months of 2008. This outflow is a reversal of the record inflow of
$17.2 billion into the economy last year. It is estimated that the total outflow by
the end of
the year could reach $13.5 billion. The cumulative market
capitalisation of Indian shares, which was $1.8 trillion in January has slumped to
less than $700 billion by November with the devaluation of the rupee adding to
the woes. This resulted in rapid decline in dollar reserves and depreciated the
rupee to a record level of Rs. 50 a dollar in November compared to Rs. 39 a
dollar in January 2008.

the major financial

Inflation Riled at two digits for most part of the year. Prices of food grains
and vegetables had reached unaffordable levels. And with the global slow-down,
even demand for consumer durables has reduced drastically. In a desperate
move, Finance Minister called on the companies, hotels and traders to reduce
the prices so as to increase consumption but it was flatly rejected by the big
business sharks. In spite of tile seemingly-confident statements of the Prime
Minister and Finance Minister that the world recession will not have any impact
the terrible consequences are felt by every citizen.
on the Indian economy,
Thousands of
the BPO (Business Process
Outsourcing) and KPO (Knowledge Process Outsourcing) sectors, airways and
construction projects, etc., have retrenched workers in hundreds of thousands:
the software industry is in a big due to dependence on US (61% of BPO-KPO
exports) and Europe for its exports. Obama had assured the people of US that
he would stop outsourcing of
lobs and bring back jobs outsourced to other

industries have closed down;

countries. This will throw lakhs of people out of jobs. The so-called export-
oriented industry which contributes a substantial share of the country’s GDP is
getting completely destroyed due to fall in demand. The crisis will worsen in the
days to come as prospects of an early recovery of the world economy are ruled
out by world economists.

Indian people or 77% of

The crisis is further accentuating all the contradictions in Indian society. It
is leading to a redistribution of wealth from the poor to the filthy rich. In tile past
few years there is staggering increase in the assets held by a handful of families:
just one lakh families hold assets worth $350 billion (Rs. 17.5 lakh crores) or a
little less than half the country’s GDP. India boasts of 53 billion(cid:173)aires whose
combined wealth amounts to 31% of India’s GDP. At the same time 83.6 crores
of
the population live on less than Rs.20 a day.
According to the Global Hunger Index of 2007,
India ranks 94 out of 118
countries tailing behind even countries like Pakistan and Ethiopia. In Spite of
such glaring inequalities, the reactionary rulers are continuing their regressive
policies of tax breaks and write-offs to the corporate-financial houses while taxing
the poor and resorting to cuts in social welfare spending. The current world crisis
and crisis in Indian economy will lead to further pauperization of the poor and
even a sizeable section of the middle classes on the one hand and a further jump
in the number of billionaires and millionaires on the other. India is undoubtedly
heading towards a grave social explosion.

During this period the Indian ruling classes have gone further into the grip
of the US imperialists. By signing the civilian-nuclear deal the Manmohan Singh
government has sold out the Country’s interest, completely to the American
imperialists. In the name of SEZs it has continued to displace people, particularly
peasantry, from fertile lands and hand over the same to the real estate mafia.
Corporate retail trade is driving lakhs of small retailers into bankruptcy.

The political crisis has further aggravated during the past year. The
governments in Karnataka, Jharkhand and Mizoram collapsed due to internal
dog tights. The UPA government itself was on the verge of collapse after the
withdrawal of support by the so-called Left over the civilian-nuclear deal with the
US. The Manmohan Singh government managed to survive through horse
trading, support by Samajwadis and spending huge sums for bribing MPs In what
has become infamously known as for Votes scandal. In the elec(cid:173)tions to some
state Assemblies in February-March. BJP won a majority of seats in Gujarat,
Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and later in Karnataka.

The so-called Left stands nakedly exposed after it sold out the interests of
the people of West Bengal to the Tatas, Jindals, Salem, and imperialist capital.

Tatas had to pull out of Singur after sustained agitation by the people and parties
Iike Trinamool Congress. The role of the revisionists in endorsing several of the
anti-people policies of Manmohan Singh’s government and stand(cid:173)ing so] idly
behind the government even when it was going against every promise it made in
the Common Minimum Programme, earned the wrath of the people. Hence, not
to get isolated and rejected in the parliamentary elections next year, it decided to
withdraw its support to the UPA government after four years of hob-nobbing with
it.

The crisis is reflected mainly in the form of outbursts of people’s anger like
those of the Gujjars in Rajasthan, mass upheaval in Kashmir. strikes by banks
and public sector employees, doctors and teachers in several states, massive
people’s protests against rising prices of essential commodities and petrol-diesel
price hikes, protests by small retail traders against the monopolisation of retail
trade by a handful of the comprador big business houses and MNCs. the militant
struggle of adivasis and peasantry against
their dis(cid:173)placement by mining
projects, so-called mega development projects, SEZs, etc.

Under the pretext of fighting terrorism following the bomb blasts in Jaipur,
Bangalore, Ahmedabad and Delhi. Muslim youth are arrested and tortured in
thousands and many are incarcerated in jails. Some are murdered in the name of
encounters as in Jamianagar in Delhi. The persecution and hounding of Muslim
community is taking place irrespective of whoever is in power. While the BJP is
using its various saffron outfits with the aid of the state machinery wherever it is
in power, the Congress too has unleashed an equally ferocious offensive in
Maharashtra, Delhi, AP where it is in power by using the intelligence Bureau (IB)
and state machinery. Myths regarding organisations like Indian Mujahideen are
floated by the IB to divert the people and step up fas(cid:173)cist rule. The involvement of
saffron terrorists has at last come out in the open after the blasts in Muslim-
majority Malegaon in end September and Samjhautha Express.

The state’s complicity in the bomb blasts and the attacks on tile religious
minorities is nakedly exposed before the people at large. The government has
done nothing even after the involvement of
the Bajrang Dal was proved in
Kanpur blasts in May and the brutal carnage on Christians in Orissa, and state-
sponsored attacks on Christian community in Karnataka and MP. Now it has
become clear that most of the bomb blasts, particularly the blasts in Masjids and
Muslim residential areas, that had taken place in the country, are the handi(cid:173)work
of the saffron terrorists with an eye on the elections. The RSS-VHP(cid:173)Bajrang Dal-
Shiv Sena and other saffron terrorist gangs are allowed to roam scot-free and
unleash attacks on the religious minorities. We should demand a re-investigation

of all incidents of bomb blasts that had taken place in the country and to ban the
saffron terrorist organizations. While concentrating our attack on the saffron
terrorists, we should also ideologically expose the danger of Muslim
fundamentalism which diverts the Muslim masses from finding the real solution to
their problems. Indiscriminate acts of killing of civilians and terrorist acts such as
the Nov 26 attacks in Mumbai and in Assam on October, 31 in which civilians
were killed in big number should also be condemned irrespective of who had
committed these. We should strive to build the class unity of the people of
Muslim minority and the Hindu majority and wage united struggle against the
common enemies. We should explain to the people that such bomb blasts are
not a solution to the problems faced by the religious minorities and expose the
conspiracies of
fascist
legislation and brutal reign of terror on all revolutionary, democratic, national
liberation movements. The reactionary
classes are also propping up
organizations like MNS in Maharashtra to fan Marathi national chauvinism and
launch attacks on North Indians. The Congress Government in the state has
been acting as a passive onlooker in order to pander to Marathi chauvinists.

the ruling classes to utilize such incidents to enact

Overall, social and political crisis is deepening and the ruling classes are
conspiring to bring in more draconian measures and unleash brutal suppression
of people s struggles. File religious divide and communal passions are
deliberately roused in a conspiratorial manner by the reactionary ruling classes
so as to create a sense of insecurity and helplessness among the people : it
large and thus use this to pin legitimacy to their fascist black laws and to brutally
drown the people’s struggles, particularly the revolutionary movement in rivers of
blood. Anti-Pak war hysteria is also consciously incited in a systematic way by
the reactionary rulers to divert people’s attention from the internal crisis and
actual problems confronted by the people, Utlising the bomb blasts, particularly
the November 26 attacks in Mumbai, a series of measures were announced by
the government to strengththen the state machinery, such as setting up four NSG
centres, a national
investigation agency, anti-terror act, beefing up coastal
security, unified commands, strengthening the intelligence machinery, increasing
the strength of the police, para-military and the Indian armed forces etc. Plans
are also afoot to enact legislation to bring some aspects of law & order in the
states into the central list, Indo-Pak war and the so-called war against terror are
also promoted by the imperialists and the Indian comprador big business houses
in order to find a way out of the current economic crisis. Such measures will only
accentuate the crisis further. The strain on financial resources due to the severity
of the current global economic crisis will have an adverse impact on the plans of

the Imperialists and the reactionary ruling classes of India to further sharpen the
fascist fangs of the state and intensify their offensive against the revolutionary,
democratic and national liberation movements in the Country. Moreover, wasteful
expenditures on defence, state machinery and war preparations places limits on
the ability of the ruling classes to allot funds for social welfare which will lead to
grave social and political crises.

increase in fire-power,

During the past year the offensive against our Party and ongoing people’s
war has been stepped up to an unprecedented level. The mechanisms and
methods of the enemy are being constantly refined ever since the merger and
particularly since the successful completion of the Party Congress. The Prime
Minister has stressed upon the need to improve the intelligence mechanism in
states,
various
intelligence sharing and coordination between states,
modernisation of
imparting special
the police forces,
training in counter-insurgency warfare, setting up nodal centres, and joint
co(cid:173)ordinated offensives against
the Maoist revolutionaries, besides initiating
reforms as part of the policy of LIC. Ten Cobra Battalions with personnel selected
from the CRPF are being raised in the next two years. Two companies are
already sent to DK. The government also announced plans to set up twenty
jungle warfare schools over the next three years to train the police forces of
various states and the central
forces in jungle warfare to counter Maoist
guerrillas. Coordinated joint offensives are undertaken by the police in AP-
Chhattisgarh-Orissa-Jharkhand-Bihar-West Bengal in all border regions. Setting
up intelligence network in various states has been more or less completed by the
beginning of this year. The focus of enemy attack and his main concen(cid:173)tration
has been to destroy our movement in DK and BJ as well as to eliminate the
central and state leaderships of our Party. As we did not change our former
methods despite the above changes on the part of the enemy, we suffered
serious losses in the past year. Two PB members were arrested along with
several members of other Party committees. Around 240 comrades, including
several members of the Party committees, commanders, fighters and members
of organs of revolutionary people’s power and revolutionary mass organisations
became martyrs.

The past one year had witnessed heroic counter-offensive operations by
PLGA such as the historic Nayagarh multiple raid in Orissa that shook the
reactionary rulers, Balimela (Chitrakonda ) ambush in AOB wiping out 38 AP
Grey Hounds personnel which shattered the myth of Invincibility built around this
elite
force,
MV-126 ambush eliminating 17 Orissa policemen and SOG personnel, Gollapally

commando

mercenary

( Battigudem), Dantewada Jailbreak, Tadikel, Kursanar, Chhindpal, Vakulavayi,
Battum (Orchha), Cheribeda, Mardoom ambushes, attack on the district collector
and SP of Kanker, Narayanpur ambush wiping out 7 CRPF men, Kongupalli
ambush in Bijapur wiping out 12 CRPF personnel, Mahamaya mine area ambush
in Dalli Rajahara, Korepalli ambush in Gadchiroli district in Maharashtra, Jhajha
raid in which 44 arms were seized, Ranigunj Bazaar ambush in Gaya, Parasnath
ambush, Ranchi Pundidhin ambush, Galobad ambush in Hazaribagh. Tamar
ambush wiping out Bundu DySP and two other policemen, Burudih Dam ambush
in East Singhbhum Wiping out 11 policemen, Purulia and Midnapur ambushes,
Samri Pat ambush in North Chhattisgarh and attack on the IG of Ambikapur
range and so on. All these counter-offensives have demonstrated the potential of
the PLGA to trans(cid:173)form into PLA and guerrilla war into mobile war. Some of
these operations were carried out by Battalion-size formations which fought the
enemy forces for hours and succeeded in seizing arms and wiping out the enemy
forces in big numbers. Besides the attacks on the policemen and central forces
PLGA had also carried out attacks on several reactionary political leaders and
counter(cid:173)revolutionaries such Laxmananda Saraswati of the VHP, former minister
of
JD(U), BJP’s Baliram Kashyap in
Dandakaranya, and recently West Bengal’s social-fascist Chief Minister
Buddhadeb Bhatacharjee in Midnapur. We also carried out a systematic
campaign to root out the enemy’s informer network in several areas thereby
cutting off his eyes and ears.

Jharkhand Ramesh Munda of

All

the class enemies of

these heroic actions against

the oppressed
people had enthused the entire people’s camp and sent shivers down the spines
of the rulers. Seeing the ever-growing strength of their own army, people of our
country have become more confident of victory in the Indian revolution. The most
significant victory of tile PLGA is over the Salwa Judum - state joint offensive in
Dandakaranya. It had not only defeated the savage offensive but also played a
key role in setting up and defending the revolutionary organs of people’s power in
various parts of Dandakaranya.

the global and domestic level

The present excellent revolutionary situation arising from the ever-growing
throws up
economic-social-political crisis at
imperialism,
immense possibilities for building broad-based fronts against
particularly American imperialism and in South Asia, against
Indian
expansionism. It throws up great possibilities for waging united militant struggles
of the working class worldwide and in India against retrenchments, wage cuts,
wage freeze, casualisation and infermalisation of labour, cuts in social benefits.
and against class exploitation in various forms. It throws up favourable conditions

for uniting the vast masses of
toiling people the working class peasantry,
adivasis, women, dalit masses, middle classes, sections of national bourgeoisie
against price rise, plunder by MNCs and comprador big business houses, against
increasing famine and food shortages, against tax cuts for the rich and tax hikes
for the poor, against massive displacement of people by SEZs, mining projects
and so-called mega development projects, and so on.
throws up (Treat
opportunities to unite the religious minorities and the secular-democratic forces
among the Hindu majority to fight state terror and state-sponsored terror, and
Hindu fascist terror of the BJP-RSS-VHP-Bajrang Dal-Shiv Sena(cid:173)Hindu Munnani-
Rashtriya Jagaran Manch-Abhinav Bharat etc. It matures the conditions for the
naked exposure of the social-fascists such as the revi(cid:173)sionist CPI, CPI(M) which,
despite their anti-capitalist rhetoric, increasingly become apologists of capitalism
and collude with the monopoly capitalist class in their offensive against
the
working class in the period of crisis.

It

Overall,

revolution to its ultimate victory.

the present world crisis provides immense possibilities for
advancing the world socialist
Its terrible
consequences in India will accelerate the pace of the ongoing revolutionary war
and provide excellent opportunities for making big gains politically(cid:173)militarily-
organisationally thereby hastening the onward march of people’s war to its
ultimate goal. Our Party has to rise to the occasion, seize the opportunity, and
steadfastly advance with unflinching determination and spirit of self-sacrifice to
carry forward the responsibility placed on us by history. Towards this end, we
must work out the correct tactics, deploy our subjective forces in accordance with
the needs of the present situation and execute the tactics with Bolshevik spirit.

Utilise the excellent objective situation created by the world economic
crisis and the all-round domestic crisis to initiate a wave of militant mass
struggles countrywide! Leave no stone unturned to intervene and participate in
every type of people’s struggle on just demands!

Political Bureau

CPI(Maoist)

December 20, 2008

“The highest development of this basis itself
(the flower into which it transforms itself; but
is always this basis,
this plant as flower;
hence wilting after the flowering and as a
consequence of
flowering) is the point at
which it is itself worked out, developed into
the form in which it is compatible with the
highest development of forces of production,
hence also the richest development of
individuals. As soon as this point is reached,
the furthest development appears as decay,
and the new development begins from a new
basis.” [Marx, Grundrisse, p. 541]

