COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Hail the formation of Maoist Communist Party of Manipur 
Message of CC, CPI (Maoist) to CC, Maoist Communist Party of Manipur 

October 1, 2012 

To 
The Central Committee, 
Maoist Communist Party of Manipur 

 
The CC, CPI (Maoist) extends its heartfelt warmest revolutionary greetings to the Central 
Committee and the entire rank and file of Maoist Communist Party of Manipur. We are immensely 
happy for this great significant development in South-Asia, i.e., the formation of your new party.  

Manipur  and  other  oppressed  nationalities  situated  to  the  North-East  of  India  have  a  rich 
tradition of struggles against the colonial British rule and later against the imperialist lackey Indian 
expansionists.  The  people  in  these  states  have  suffered  for  a  long  time  under  the  exploitation, 
oppression, control and repression of the British colonial rulers and the Indian expansionists. The 
glorious people of Manipur and these states have established great heroic traditions of sacrifice in 
their protracted fight for national liberation while fighting the British imperial army and the Indian 
paramilitary forces and the Army at present. 

In such a backdrop, our party considers the formation of a proletarian revolutionary party by 
the name Maoist Communist Party of Manipur as an event of historical significance in the annals of 
the  history  of  revolution  in  South-Asia  and  that  it  would  facilitate  the  way  for  liberation  of  the 
oppressed nationalities and people of oppressed classes not only in Manipur but in entire North-East 
of the sub-continent. The successful advance of the revolution in Manipur under the leadership of a 
Maoist party also would positively impact the advance of the struggles at various levels in other 
states in the NE and New Democratic Revolution in India. So our CC considers the formation of 
your party as a matter of strategic significance for the Indian revolution and other revolutions in 
South-Asia.  

Since the forceful annexation of the sovereign nation states in the NE by the Indian ruling 
classes,  the  people  there  have  been  fighting  heroically  against  this  historical  injustice  for  their 
liberation  or  right  to  self-determination  including  cessation.  The  Indian  state  deployed  lakhs  of 
paramilitary and Army in these states to suppress these struggles and the atrocities committed by 
these forces are one of the worst in the world. Thousands of worthy daughters and sons of these 
oppressed nationalities have laid down their precious lives in this entire bloody trial left by one of 
the cruelest forces in the world. Our party salutes all the great martyrs of Manipur and once again 
vows to stand firmly with Manipuri people in their struggle for national liberation and against class 
exploitation and oppression. 

Our party hopes that the newly formed Maoist party would hold aloft the flag of struggle for 
national liberation and independence and all the heroic traditions that the people of this region of 
South-Asia  established  in  the  course  of  the  various  glorious  struggles.  We  firmly  believe  that  it 
would be one of the foremost tasks of the Maoist party to unite the various sections of people and 
nationalities  in  this  entire  strategic  area  to  defeat  the  ‘divide  and  rule’  policies  followed  by  the 
Indian expansionists as a legacy of their British imperial masters and that have caused enormous 
harm  to  the  liberation  of  the  people  in  the  NE  since  decades.  Our  party  gives  assurance  with 
clenched fists to your party and the entire Manipur nation that it would fight shoulder to shoulder 

with them in the fight against the common enemy – the Indian State - that is the biggest hurdle to 
the liberation of the people of both Manipur and India - and in defeating it.  

We wholeheartedly aspire that you would strengthen in the process of Protracted People’s 
War  and  would  also  in  this  course  unite  all  the  genuine  revolutionary  forces  and  all  broad 
democratic  forces  that  oppose  Indian  expansionism  in  Manipur  on  the  basis  of  correct  line  and 
correct politics and that you would achieve great successes during the course of New Democratic 
Revolution in Manipur and advance to final victory.  

With Warm Revolutionary Greetings,  

 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

