COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

August 31, 2012 
Hail the formation of Communist Party of Nepal-Maoist 

Message of CC, CPI (Maoist) to the CC, CPN -Maoist 

 
To  
Comrade Kiran,  
The Chairman, 
CPN-Maoist 

 
The CC, CPI (Maoist) is sending its warmest revolutionary greetings to you and all the CC 
members and the entire rank and file of the CPN-Maoist on the formation of the new revolutionary 
party in Nepal after a prolonged internal ideological and political struggle against the opportunist 
and  neo-revisionist  leadership  within  the  party  who  betrayed  the  Nepalese  revolution  and  by 
demarcating and making a break with them.  

Even while the Nepal Revolution reached the stage of strategic offense, the UCPN (Maoist) 
leadership  assessed  the  national  and  international  situation  subjectively,  took  erroneous  tactics 
which  themselves  led  the  party  get  bogged  down  in  the  quagmire  of  parliamentarianism  with 
capitulationism uninterruptedly since end 2005. The opportunist faction that was dominant in the 
party rapidly  went on taking  modern revisionist  positions  including 12-point Agreement, 8-point 
Agreement and Comprehensive Peace Agreement etc thus betraying the cause of the Nepal people 
and causing enormous harm to the New Democratic Revolution. The revolutionary faction of the 
UCPN  (Maoist)  led  by  Comrade  Kiran  and  other  revolutionaries  put  up  a  fight  against the  neo-
revisionist stands that harmed the interests of the Nepal oppressed masses and have split at various 
stages  from  the  revisionist  leadership.  Our  CC  considers  such  splits  resorted  to  by  genuine 
revolutionaries demarcating from the neo-revisionist leadership and its erroneous right opportunist 
line  as  correct  steps  that  would  advance  the  revolution  in  Nepal  and  serve  the  interests  of  the 
oppressed classes and all oppressed social sections in Nepal. Our CC hails the formation of CPN-
Maoist and offers its support and solidarity to the new party with Proletarian Internationalism. We 
wholeheartedly wish that your Congress scheduled to be held  in February 2013 would be a great 
success and that it would be successful in adopting a correct ideological political line and path of 
the revolution and on this basis in uniting and consolidating all the genuine revolutionary forces in 
the country.  

On this joyous occasion, we would like to put in a word which we learned from our own 
experience. The CPN (Maoist) and  heroic people of Nepal waged Protracted People’s War (PPW) 
for seizure of political power, got steeled and strengthened in war and achieved great successes. But 
now for a long period of more than 7  years the PPW has been abandoned  and the party and the 
people have been engaged in parliamentary, peaceful and legal activities. In such a backdrop, the 
great  qualities  that  were  gained  due  to  PPW  may  have  diluted significantly  now. Even  after the 
formation  of  the  new  party  there  is  a  possibility  for  dilution  of  revolutionary  qualities  due  to 
working in a legal setup for a long period. So those have to be regained and sustained with correct 
ideological  and  political  line,  path  of  revolution,  class  struggle,  conscious  effort  and  practicing 
proletarian life style and work style. Ideological, political and organizational mistakes done during 
the  internal struggle are to be  identified  correctly and  rectified  very seriously. The  mistakes  you 

realized and rectified while forming the new party give us good hope that you are advancing in this 
direction and we wholeheartedly hope that it would continue.  

Revolutionaries may still be present in the neo-revisionist Prachanda-Bhattarai faction of the 
party, so your stand of continuing internal struggle and keeping the doors open till the Congress is 
correct.  We  feel  that  efforts  must  be  put  later  too to  unite  the  genuine  revolutionaries  and  there 
should a scope for them to join the genuine revolutionary party. Some comrades had left the party 
beforehand and we  hope that you would put efforts to unite with  all  such genuine revolutionary 
forces that have demarcated  themselves  from the neo-revisionists. This unity of all revolutionary 
forces on correct ideological and political line would be very necessary to isolate revisionists and to 
unite  people  in  the  larger  interests  of  the  revolution.  As  we  are  all  aware  any  one  country’s 
communist  party  cannot  intervene  in  another  country  regarding  the  political  line,  strategy  and 
tactics to be  followed  by the communist party there. But  it would  be  necessary to hear and  pay 
serious  attention  to  the  critical  opinions/observations  that  would  be  placed  before  you  by  the 
International Maoist parties with proletarian internationalist spirit.  

We sincerely hope that your new party would play its role in the liberation of the oppressed 
masses of South Asian people with International Proletarianism as  before. Just a few  years  back 
Nepal was on the threshold of building a revolutionary base for the World Socialist Revolution and 
we hope the new party would continue to work to fulfill this task by putting efforts for advancing 
towards  victory  in  Nepal.  Still  there  is  every  possibility  of  capturing  power  in  Nepal  in  a  new 
manner  in  spite  of  great  dangers.  We  hope  that  our  two  parties  along  with  all  fraternal  Maoist 
parties in South Asia would put up a united, consistent and tough fight against Indian expansionism, 
imperialism and all kinds of reactionaries.  

We hope that the new party would boldly uphold MLM, creatively apply it to the concrete 
new  context  and  the  nature  of  the  society  in  Nepal,  would  oppose  all  types  of  revisionism, 
particularly  Prachanda-Bhattarai  modern  revisionism  in  Nepal  to  fulfill  the  revolutionary 
aspirations of the proletariat and oppressed people of Nepal and the world.  

We  end  this  letter  with  the  great  hope  that  CPN-Maoist  would  uphold  revolutionary 
traditions of the great oppressed  masses of Nepal and  Proletarian Internationalism and  fulfill the 
dreams of thousands of great martyrs of Nepal revolution.  

With Revolutionary Greetings,  

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

 

