Maoists in Kerala shun mobile phones to 
prevent tracking by agencies
Kannur Range Inspector General Balram Kumar Upadhyay said the police were taking 
all necessary steps to track the activities of the Maoists in the forest areas of Wayanad.
The New Indian Express
Published: 28th December 2018 02:53 AM  |   Last Updated: 28th December 2018 06:55 AM

Express News Service
By Ajay Kanth
TAGS
Comments
maoists
 naxals
 
 
 
KOCHI: The Kerala police now face a new challenge in their operations against the rising threat of Left 
(Get the news that matters from New Indian Express on WhatsApp. Click this link and hit 'Click to Subscribe'. Follow the instructions
Wing Extremism (LWE). Maoist cadres in the state are totally discarding mobile phones for 
Stay up to date on all the latest Kerala news with The New Indian Express App. Download now
after that.)
communication, giving a tough time to investigating agencies to trace their locations or gather information.
Though special teams of Kerala police have been combing four districts (Wayanad, Palakkad, Kozhikode 
and Malappuram) for a while, they have not been able to track the details of the CPI (Maoist) cadres 
though they have appeared in public with arms a couple of times.
Police officers said that the insurgents have stopped using mobile phones or other digital communication
devices with the clear intention of avoiding any sort of tracking by the enforcement agencies. “They are
more into using conventional communication methods, such as using human couriers,” said a senior police
officer.
Kannur Range Inspector General Balram Kumar Upadhyay said the police were taking all necessary steps
to track the activities of the Maoists in the forest areas of Wayanad. “They know that we are in hot pursuit
of them as we have strengthened the combing operations,” he said.
Another   intelligence   officer   said   that   the   Maoists   have   gone   back   to   using   longhand   notes   for
communication with their cells. A detailed analysis by agencies based on documents seized from Maoists
had found the guidelines issued by the central leadership on the usage of mobile phones and internet.  
The cadres have been warned against carrying mobile phones or downloading any data using them. They
have also been asked to access internet with great caution. All this to avoid the tracking of location by the
investigating agencies.

http://www.newindianexpress.com/states/kerala/2018/dec/28/maoists-shun-mobile-phones-to-prevent-tracking-by-
agencies-1917478.html 

 

