 

CMC message on the occasion of tenth anniversary of  

People’s Liberation Guerilla Army (PLGA) which was born out of 

the inspiration of our beloved comrades and the leaders of 
Indian revolution, Comrades Shyam, Mahesh and Murali! 

 

Let us defeat the ‘War on People’  

carried out by the Indian exploiting ruling classes  
in the name of Green Hunt through People’s War! 

 

Let us intensify and expand the People’s War  

and declare to the world that  

our people and PLGA are invincible! 

Let us fulfill the tasks set by our Unity Congress – 9th Congress! 

 

 

Dear comrades and our beloved people! 

 
December  2,  2000.  This  was  the  day  when  the  oppressed  people  of  India  formed  their 
own  worker-peasant  army,  the  People‟s  Liberation  Guerilla  Army  (PLGA).  The  ray  of  hope 
they had been waiting for since decades shone brightly on the Indian revolutionary skies on 
that day. For the victory of the Indian New Democratic Revolution carried out as an integral 
part  of  the  World  Socialist  Revolution,  PLGA  had  been  formed  as  a  detachment  of  the 
international  army  of  the  proletariat.  It  gave  a  deep  assurance  to  the  entire  oppressed 
classes, nationalities and tribes of India and to the oppressed people of the world on the day 
of its birth. Realizing the dreams of our great teachers of Indian revolution, Comrades Charu 
Mazumdar and Kanhai Chatterjee, to fulfill the aims of our beloved martyr comrades Amulya 
Sen,  Chandra  Sekhar  Das,  Saroj  Datta,  Sushitalrai  Chowdary,  Babulal  Viswakarma,  Johar, 
Jagdish Master, Panchadi Krishna Murthy, Nirmala, Vempatapu Satyam, Adibatla Kailasam, 
Babu Bhuja Singh, Diya Singh, Appu and Verghese who played a prominent role in bringing 
armed  struggle  to  the  agenda  again  in  India  and  with  the  inspiration  of  comrades  Shyam, 
Mahesh,  Murali,  Puli  Anjaiah,  Prakash  Master,  Krishna  Singh,  Srikanth,  Bhaktida,  David, 
Suryam,  Mahendra  Singh,  Damodar,  Mahender,  Reddappa,  Snehalata,  Padma,  Chittekka, 
Premlatha, Belli Lalitha and other hundreds of such leaders who played a great role in again 
developing  the  movement  to  a  higher  stage    after  the  temporary  setback  of  the  Naxalbari 
armed struggle and with the  inspiration of  martyrs Jaheer, Krishna, Sankar and Praveen of 
the  Special  Action  Team  who  had  sent  chills  down  the  spines  of  the  enemy  through  their 
brave actions in AP and laid down their lives unflinchingly and with the inspiration of many, 
many more martyr comrades - the PLGA was formed.  

By  December  2,  2010,  it  would  be  one  decade  since  the  formation  of  PLGA.  On  this 
occasion,  Central  Military  Commission  is  giving  a  call  to  celebrate  the  tenth  anniversary  of 
the PLGA with revolutionary enthusiasm and spirit of jubilation for a month in all the guerilla 
zones  and  red  resistance  areas  all  over  the  country.  It  is  requesting  all  Commissions  and 
Commands  to  use  this  excellent  opportunity  to  train  our  entire  PLGA  fighters  regarding  the 
successes and failures in our battle experiences gained in this period.  

In  the  severe  repression  of  the  past  one  decade  the  generals  of  our  people‟s  war 
comrades  Karam  Singh,  Ajayda,  Anuradha  Gandhi,  Vadkapur  Chandramauli,  Sande 
Rajemauli,  Patel  Sudhakar,  Saketh  Rajan,  Maimuddin  (Ravi),  Somanna,  Anupuram 
Komaraiah,  Ramakrishna,  Padmakka,  Lalithakka,  Sukdev,  Krishna,  Madhav,  Dadhichi  Rai, 
Devanna (Jaipal), Kaumudi, Suguna, Erra Satyam, Asim Das (Kanchan), Yadanna, Mangtu, 
 

1 

 
Bhim,  Ramesh,  Sridhar,  Gautam,  Vikas,  Sudarshan,  Ravi,  Pran,  Sravan,  Raghavulu, 
Sukanto,  Randev,  Komma,  Sagar,  Mastan  Rao,    Ramchander,  Naveen  (Bala  Krishna), 
Niranjan,  Madhu,  Tirupati,  Mohan,  Vinay,  Vikas,  Amruth,  Arjun,  Satyam,  Arun,  Sanjeev, 
Krishna  Yadav,  Chotangond,  Pariman,  Jagdish  Mahato,  Babulal,  Sardar  Yadav, 
Jagdeeshwar Turi, Sundar Yadav, Sudheer, Abhishek, Manohar, Naveen, Surendra, Raghu, 
Kundan, Surya, Yodh, Surju, Bhola Oraon, Vyas and other district, sub-zonal and area level 
leaders,  commanders  and  fighters,  and  the  brave  women  soldiers  who  fought  as  part  of 
People‟s  War  for  half  their  share  in  the  sky  –  comrades  Vidya,  Karuna,  Ratnamala, 
Bhagyalakshmi,  Rajeswari,  Swarupa,  Aruna,  Ramana,  Sarita,  Vijaya,  Sasi,  Shakila,  Girija, 
Jyoti,  Chinnammi,  Nagamani  of  AP,  Parvati,  Hajima,  Kaveri  of  Karnataka,  Manju,  Anju, 
Amita,  Mamata,  Kavita  of  B-J,  Swarupa,  Kalpana,  Karuna,  Somari,  Syamala,  Meena, 
Narmada,  Kamala  (East  Bastar),  Kamala  (Central  Company),  Rambatti,  Soni,  Reena, 
Mainabai, Sujata of DK, Sunanda, Jenya, Aruna of Maharashtra, Rinki of Odisha and others 
and the  brave guerillas of special action teams comrades  Ramana, Sagar, Hari, Ratna had 
laid down their lives and had developed People‟s War to greater heights. 

Particularly,  this  year  on  July  1,  the  enemy  intelligence  dogs  had  caught  and  killed  our 
beloved  leader  and Polit Bureau  member comrade Cherukuri Rajkumar (Uday, Gangadhar, 
Madhu, Azad). Comrade Azad had worked relentlessly for the past four decades to develop 
people‟s war and people‟s army contributing in various fields. On March 12, the same Grey 
Hounds had caught our Central Military Intelligence Director Comrade Shakamuri Appa Rao 
(Ravi,  Jailal),  tortured  him  and  unable  to  extract  anything,  killed  him  in  a  fake  encounter  in 
Nallamala forest. The political commissar of Central Regional Company-2 comrade Suryam, 
comrade  David  of  Jharkhand,  Lal  Mohan  Tudu  of  West  Bengal,  Kongera  ambush  martyrs 
Bandu,  Sankar  and  Ramesh,  Daya,  Punnam,  Suresh  of  North  Telangana,  Com.  Anand  of 
Karnataka,  Com.  Rinki  of  Odisha,  eight  martyr  comrades  of  Mukaram  (Tadimetla)  ambush 
including  Rukmati  and  Wagal  who  had  sent  chills  down  the  spines  of  the  Indian  ruling 
classes,  five  comrades  who  died  in  the  brave  raid  of  Silda  (West  Bengal),  dozens  of 
comrades  who  died  in  the  encounters  in  Hathilot,  Bandugaon  and  Ranja  encounters  which 
took place on the borders of Jharkhand-West Bengal as part of the head on fight against the 
brutal Green Hunt, dozens of people, people‟s militia, the local leaders of Sangam-party and 
Janathana Sarkars in the Dandakaranya villages  of Korunjed, Gumiyapal,  Toter, Pollevaya, 
Vechapal,  Kotrapal,  Alvur,  Rangaiguda, Takilod,  Ongnar  and  Kutrem,  Comrades  Singanna, 
Andru  and  other  comrades  who  were  martyred  in  Narayanapatna  armed  peasant  rebellion 
and  in  other  parts  of  AOB  –  all  these  martyrdoms  happened  in  the  past  one  year.  CMC  is 
paying  revolutionary  red  homage  to  all  our  beloved  martyrs  on  the  occasion  of  the  tenth 
anniversary of PLGA. Let us pledge to intensify our People‟s War to fulfill their aims. 

In  this  same  period,  our  beloved  leaders  who  played  a  crucial  role  in  establishing  an 
united party and a unified PLGA, comrades Barunda, Vijayda, Janardhanji, Sumithda, Kobad 
Ghandy,  Balraj  and  also  comrades  Tapas,  Sheela  didi,  Mohit,  Vijay  (Maharashtra), 
Chintanda,  Ashutosh  and  many  more  Party,  PLGA  central  and  state  leaders,  commanders 
and  members of various  levels of  party, PLGA, RPC  and  mass  organization structures  and 
ordinary  people  were  arrested.  The  enemy  is  trying  to  permanently  put  them  in  the  dark 
dungeons  and  strangle  their  voices  there.  But  these  comrades  are  transforming  jails  into 
revolutionary  centers,  spreading  revolution  to  the  jails  and  proving  that  bars  cannot  stop 
revolution.  CMC  is  sending  special  revolutionary  greetings  to  all  the  leaders  and  cadres  in 
jails  who  are  standing  firmly  and  fighting  the  enemy  even  in  incarceration.  CMC  is  deeply 
aspiring for their release and is promising that the PLGA would try its level best to get them 
released to join the revolutionary movement outside the jails. 

When our PLGA took birth, it was in the form of small organizing squads and in the form 
of small special  military squads and  was in a very weak position. Nobody had  imagined on 
the day it was formed that this weak people‟s army would become so popular all over India in 
one decade. There were even some skeptics who did not consider it an army. But in the past 
one decade, our PLGA has not only expanded into many platoons but is also developing into 

 

2 

 
companies  and  is  giving  birth  to  battalions  too.  To  fulfill  the  great,  main,  central  and 
immediate  task  of  developing  guerilla  war  into  mobile  war  and  developing  PLGA  into  PLA 
with the aim of establishing Base Areas, the task set by the Unity Congress-9th Congress of 
our  party,  our  PLGA  has  been  bravely  advancing  with  innumerable  sacrifices  at  each  step 
and is posing a great challenge to the Indian ruling classes and their imperialist masters. In 
this decade, thousands of daughters and sons of India had laid down their lives unwaveringly 
and had developed people‟s war to newer heights. The hundreds of tactical counter offensive 
actions  conducted  by  the  PLGA  in  the  past  decade  had  sent  chills  down  the  spines  of  the 
enemy classes. With the support of the PLGA, the question of power came on the agenda in 
many  strategic  zones  and  people  got  consolidated  into  People‟s  War.  As  a  result,  the 
confidence of the people increased gradually. People‟s power organs came into existence. 

In 2001, Kalimela-Motu, Uppalada, Chintakarrapalem, Maredmilli raids and annihilation of 
CI Gandhi inside the Salur court in the AOB region, Yallamanda, Srisailam-Sundipenta raids, 
raid on the NCC training camp, Remidicharla ambush in AP, Gadwa, Jagpura, Balaganj in B-
J, Eturunagaram in NT, Gorka in DK ; in 2002, Anakapalli-Chodavaram raids in AP, Etagatta, 
Somanpalli  ambushes  in  DK;  in  2003,  Bara,  Ladipur-Sahuganj,  Chandrapura,  Sitamarhi, 
Dhaba,  Japla  in  B-J,  Kuner  in  AOB,  Gidam  in  DK,  Takilod,  Kummariguda,  Modugupalli  in  
DK, the massive attack on AP Chief Minister Chandra Babu in Alipiri; Tekari, Pratsila (Gaya), 
Devkulidham  (Seohar),  Simrani  (Paschim  Champaran)  in  Bihar,  Khoradi  (Mirzapur)  in  UP, 
Matari,  Dudhumania,  Kataras,  Baniyadih,  Bagodar,  Navadi,  Teesri,  Gorhar,  Tundi, 
Topchanchi,  Dembotand,  Churchu,  Palamu,  Satganwa,  Saranda  (December,  2002)  in 
Jharkhand, Palma, the raid on the forest office in Kamrup in Assam; in 2004, the Koraput raid 
and the Saranda ambush which have become historical models, Hinaithghati (Chandauli) in 
UP, Belpahad, Lalgarh, Bardwan bus raid in West Bengal, Bada Jaamda raid in Jharkhand, 
Vinjaram  in  DK,  Operation  Talash,  Bharatpur  in  North  Chattisgarh;  in  2005,  Giridih, 
Jehanabad, Rania, Chabalapur, Battitola, Bhimbandh, Baniyadih booby trap in B-J, Indrapur 
Kori  in  North  Chattisgarh,  Venkatammahalli  in  AP,  raid  on  Dantewada  helipad  in  DK,  first 
attack  on  mine-proof  vehicle  in  Padeda  ambush,  Karremarka,  Vinjaram,  Bhatgaon  in  North 
Chattisgarh,  Navatola,  Malegaon  in  Gondia,  Gotlabhadra,  Gampakonda,  Kuner  in  AOB, 
Madhuban  in  3-U,    Megabyle  in  Karnataka;  in  2006,  Kotha  Cheruvu,  NMDC,  Murkinar 
attacks  on  Salwa  Judum  sibirs  of  Gangalur  and  Basagudem  (two  times),  Manikunta, 
Vinjarram,  raid  on  Salwa  Judum  Base  Camp,  Errabore  raid,  Darbhagudem  in  DK,  Ara  in 
North  Chhattisgarh,  ambush  in  Medinipur  district  in  West  Bengal,  Kolarghat  in  Gondia, 
Bokaro,  Rafigunj  raids,  Kiriburi,  Bokaro  ambushes  in  Jharkhand,  R.  Udayagiri  raid  in  AOB, 
Atmakuru raid in AP; in 2007, Ranibodili, Dantewada jail break, Jaraghati, Pundri booby trap, 
Kuduru, Urpalmetta, Tadimetla, Tonguda, Banda, Gollapalli-Battiguda, Asirguda, Michmod in 
DK, Baghudia in West Bengal, Khas Mahal in Jharkhand, Rajpur-Baghela in Bihar, Nargunjo, 
Avatarnagar in 3-U, MV-79 in AOB, raid on police in a train in WB, raid on ex-Chief Minister 
Janardhan    Reddy  in  AP;  in  2008,  „Operation  Ropeway‟  conducted  in  the  most  valiant 
manner in Odisha under the Joint Command of Eastern and Central regions, Rushikund raid, 
Jhajha raid in Bihar, Bereweda, Battum, Tadkel, Adejhari, Murliguda, Cheribeda, Banjarghati, 
Modugupal raids, the attack on helicopter in Pidiya, Korepalli, Mardapal in DK, Dulwadih area 
ambush,  Wanso  two  person  ambush,  Tati  Jharia,  Pundidhiri,  attack  on  ICICI  bank  vehicle, 
attack on the explosive vehicle, Rahe in Jharkhand, Bardwan ambush, Burudi, Jhargram  in 
West Bengal,  the historical Balimela, Tellarayi and Gunukurayi ambushes in AOB, Ranigunj 
bazaar,  Goghi-Bariyapur,  Karmahi  in  Bihar,  attack  on  Laxmanananda  in  Odisha,  Samaripat 
in  North  Chattisgarh;  in  2009,  Markanar,  Mugner,  Tavvetola,  Mallampodur  (Laheri) 
ambushes  in  Gadchiroli  (DK),  Mandagiri,  Kokawada,  Madanweda,  Gidam,  Bijapur  Ghati, 
Minapa  in  DK,  Lakhisarai,  Badhania,  Khunti,  Goelkera,  Navadih,  Mahuliatand  in  Bihar, 
Biramdih in Jharkhand, Buwandi in West Bengal, Nalco and Paluru in AOB – in hundreds of 
such small,  medium and large scale  actions the  main, secondary and base forces of PLGA 
had  inflicted  considerable  losses  to  the  enemy.  They  had  annihilated  nearly  2,000  police 
jawans  and  had  injured  an  equal  number  of  them.  By  applying  the  principle  „enemy  is  the 

 

3 

 
main source for our weapons‟ in practice, PLGA had seized 2,500 weapons and  more than 
one lakh cartridges in these guerilla raids. 

In the past one year, as a result of the successes we won in the various counter-offensive 
actions and the campaigns carried out in the most valiant manner, the aggressive posture of 
the  mercenary  troops  in  the  Operation  Green  Hunt,  propagated  on  a  huge  scale  by  the 
enemy  was  stopped  in  the  tracks.  Though  the  enemy  has  achieved  some  successes  in 
catching and  exterminating  our  leaders, his schemes were  not so successful in the guerilla 
zones.  The  historic  Mukaram  (Tadimetla)  Operation,  Kongera,  Singavaram,  Peda  Kodepal, 
Buskigaon,  seizing  of  explosive  vehicles  in  two  places  (Gadchiroli,  East  Bastar)  in  DK;  the 
raid  on  the  government  toll-plaza,  Tandwa  bazaar,  Latehar,  Vishnupur,  Sital  Korachi 
(Kazara)  in  B-J;  Silda,  Ramgadh-Pingboni  in  West  Bengal,  Mantriyamba  ambush  on  the 
Andhra-Odisha border helped in achieving this. In the total actions conducted by the PLGA in 
the past ten months, 257 special police, commando, paramilitary and SPO forces had been 
annihilated and 102 had been injured. 193 weapons, 5,000 ammunitions and other material 
were seized  by the PLGA.  Most  of them are  modern weapons. Since the  enemy  is coming 
with modern weapons to crush our movement, the number of modern weapons the PLGA is 
seizing  from  the  enemy  is  also  increasing.  In  these  attacks,  17  brave  commanders  and 
fighters were martyred while fighting the enemy bravely. In this period, nearly 200 enemies of 
the people, oppressors, informers and coverts who are reactionaries have been annihilated. 
Due  to  destruction  of  corporate  properties  of  comprador  bureaucratic  capitalists  and  the 
government against the exploitative policies of the government, „War on People‟ in the name 
of Green Hunt, fake encounters and due to a number of bandhs conducted in the movement 
areas on a wide scale, hundreds of crores of rupees of enemy property was destroyed. 

Particularly,  turning  upside  down  the  assessments  of  the  enemy  and  challenging  the 
strategic  offensive  tactics  of  the  enemy,  the  Mukaram  (Tadimetla)  ambush  stood  as  the 
highest model for our Maoist People‟s War in many ways and the slogan „Let us create many 
more Mukarams‟ has been adopted all over the country. In this massive ambush conducted 
on  April  6,  2010  with  the  guerilla  battalion  as  the  centre  in  South  Bastar  of  DK,  a  whole 
company of the enemy was annihilated (76 jawans died and seven were injured). This brave 
attack of our PLGA at Mukaram as an answer to the Green Hunt bloody offensive launched 
by the enemy with the aim of completely destroying the  revolutionary movement gave great 
revolutionary  impetus  to  the  PLGA  forces  all  over  the  country.  It  gave  great  hope  to  the 
people  that  PLGA  would  be  able  to  face  the  enemy‟s  bloody  offensive.  Our  politically 
motivated  forces  charged  aggressively  over  the  enemy  in  the  most  valiant  manner  and 
exterminated  the  enemy  forces.  The  Mukaram  attack  is  a  step  forward  in  our  battle 
operations. We can call this a  mobile war operation. We must teach to all  the PLGA forces 
that Mukaram attack is a new experience and encourage them to conduct more such attacks 
basing  on  that  experience.  With  the  inspiration  of  this  attack,  in  Kongera  too,  PLGA  had 
annihilated a platoon of enemy forces. 

Since  the  beginning  of  this  year,  we  conducted  10  to  12  large  scale  military  operations 
against  Green  Hunt.  These  successful  attacks  greatly  enhanced  the  enthusiasm  and 
confidence of the people in the movement areas about the victory of the People‟s War. The 
political demands of the people that the MOUs signed by the central and state governments 
with  the  MNCs  and  CBB  be  annulled  and  that  adivasis  not  be  displaced  gained  legitimacy 
due to our military operations. These military operations greatly helped in bringing forth more 
powerfully all over the country, the demand that Green Hunt be stopped. 

Since  the  beginning  of  the  previous  year,  people‟s  movements  like  in  Lalgarh  and 
Narayanapatna are continuing on a large scale. As part of Operation Green Hunt, the enemy 
is deploying paramilitary and special commando forces in various phases and they are killing 
people  on  a  large  scale,  arresting  them,  destroying  people‟s  properties,  raping  women  and 
resorting to many such ghastly acts. In spite of this, people are fighting in a united manner. 
Our PLGA forces, revolutionary Janathana Sarkars, People‟s militia, mass organizations and 
people are displaying higher level class consciousness under the leadership of the party and 

 

4 

 
are  fighting  by  putting  their  lives  at  stake  in  one  to  one  combats  with  the  enemy.  It  is  as  a 
consequence of this that these struggles are still advancing in the path of victory. In these life 
and death struggles, Comrade Lal Mohan Tudu, the leader of PCAPA and Suchitra Murmu in 
Lalgarh,  Comrades  Singanna  and  Andru  in  Narayanapatnaa  laid  down  their  lives  and 
became immortal. As a result, a broad base was created for innumerable people‟s struggles 
to  erupt  against  the  imperialist,  CBB  and  feudal  exploitation  and  oppression  all  over  the 
country.  

 

Preparations of the enemy 

 
The  enemy  has  been  making  preparations  with  the  aim  of  completely  destroying  our 
movement within three to seven years. Due to the counter offensive campaigns of the PLGA, 
particularly after the Mukaram (Tadimetla) ambush, the morale of the police and paramilitary 
along  with  that  of  the  Cobra  forces  is  decreasing  to  some  extent.  Discussions  reached  a 
pitch  that  paramilitary  forces  cannot  crush  the  Maoist  movement  and  that  military  and  Air 
Force should be immediately deployed. The UPA government led by the Congress is making 
some  changes  in  the  strategy  to  destroy  the  revolutionary  movement  and  preparing  new 
tactics to facilitate the execution of the economic interests of the CBB and the imperialists.  

Right from the beginning, the Indian ruling classes have been competently implementing 
the  conspiratorial  scheme  of  destroying  the  revolutionary  movement  by  exterminating  the 
central  and state  leadership  of the revolutionary  movement. Particularly,  after the  formation 
of CPI (Maoist), we know that the concentration of the enemy increased many fold. After our 
Unity  Congress-9th  Congress,  the  enemy  concentrated  on  annihilating  and  arresting  our 
leadership and inflicted heavy losses on our party. At present, with the support of the armed 
forces,  the  enemy  is  trying  very  hard  to  annihilate  the  central  and  state  leaders  in  the  field 
and he is also trying to annihilate revolutionary activists and small teams through reactionary 
secret vigilante gangs in the movement areas. The enemy had already gained successes to 
some extent in this. 

The  Indian  army‟s  central  command  established  a  sub-area  command  head  quarter  in 
Raipur  in  May  2010.  The  Cabinet  committee  meeting  on  security  concerns  under  the 
chairmanship  of  the  Prime  Minister  held  in  Delhi  on  10  June  approved  the  deployment  of 
army in Chhattisgarh. The Indian army is planning to deploy 60,000 army, eight battalions of 
Rashtriya  Rifles  which  is  a  counter  insurgency  force  of  the  army  and  Air  Force  along  with 
these in the red corridor (naxal affected) areas. 

In  the  July  14  meeting  of  the  Chief  Ministers  of  Naxal  affected  areas,  it  was  decided  to 
form  unified  commands  in  four  states  to  crush  the  naxalites  and  to  appoint  retired  Major 
Generals of the army as advisors and thus bring improvement in Command-Control and Co-
ordination  system.  It  was  decided  to  use  Air  Force  helicopters  to  crush  the  naxalites,  to 
establish  four  hundred  fortified  police  stations  in  the  next  two  years  in  Chhattisgarh, 
Jharkhand, Bengal and Odisha states and to allot two crore rupees to each of these police 
stations. 

It was decided to establish 34 new IR battalions by recruiting 75,000  into the paramilitary 
forces  and  to  give  prominence  to  recruitment  of  youth  from  the  naxal  affected  areas.  They 
are  about  to  appoint  16,000  SPOs  in  Chhattisgarh,  Jharkhand,  Bengal,  Odisha,  Bihar  and 
Uttar Pradesh. As a result, the number of forces in the camps/stations will reach the scale of 
a battalion (400-500).  

It  was  decided  to  increase  co-ordination,  cooperation  and  intelligence  cooperation 
between local/state police and CRPF forces in order to decrease losses to the CRPF forces 
in  PLGA  attacks.  They  decided  to  launch  attacks  on  naxalites  only  in  the  form  of  joint 
operations. The ratio of CRPF and local/state police should be 2:1 in them. These two forces 
should share intelligence and should carry on operations with the aim of getting quick results 
and  it  should  be  based  on  intelligence  based  planning.  They  took  up  the  tactics  of 
redeployment of paramilitary forces in all our movement areas. They are about to open more 

 

5 

 
counter-insurgency  guerilla  warfare/jungle  warfare  training  schools  and  give  training  in 
counter insurgency-counter guerilla warfare to the police in naxal  affected states and to the 
paramilitary which would be deployed in those areas. The Indian army has already given this 
training to 47,000 police and paramilitary for the suppression of naxalites. 

As part of the two-pronged policy of reforms and brutal annihilation offensive, the central 
Planning  Commission  has  decided  to  take  up  construction  of  roads,  schools  and  hospitals 
and electrification of villages in the name of unified development plan with a budget of 13,742 
crores in 34 districts identified as the most naxal affected districts.  

While on one hand, the armed resistance of our PLGA is intensifying against the „War on 
People‟ in the name of Green hunt by the central and state governments, on the other hand 
democratic  movements  of  democrats,  patriots  and  green  activists  have  intensified.  So  the 
Indian  ruling  classes  have  as  part  of  the  deceptive  LIC  tactics,  even  while  egging  on  the 
bourgeois  media  to  spit  venom  on  the  revolutionary  movement,  are  intensifying  the 
psychological war that naxalites should stop violence and come for talks. Proposing for talks 
even while carrying on fake encounters and  massacres in the movement areas is  meant to 
put a stamp that Maoists advocate violence. They want to create a feeling among the middle 
classes and the intellectuals that Maoists are not at all favorable for talks even though central 
government  is  ready  for  peace  talks.  Taking  the  Singavaram  and  Gnaneshwari  Express 
incidents as an excuse (though the majority of the dead in the Singavaram incident are Koya 
commandos and SPOs and we have apologized for the civilian losses and though we have 
given statements that we have nothing to do with the Gnaneshwari incident) they took up a 
big  foul  propaganda  campaign  that  Maoists  are  terrorists  too  and  that  they  are  killing  even 
ordinary people. 

 

Our Preparations 

 
In the coming days, the  massive  military offensive of the enemy (Green  Hunt) would be 
carried  out  more  cruelly  and  in  a  higher  form.  The  people,  cadre  and  the  PLGA  fighters 
should understand more deeply the unjustified and cruel nature of this offensive. Taking into 
consideration the intensity, cruelty and the brutality of this offensive, our revolutionary camp 
should prepare itself to defeat the enemy offensive by valiantly fighting with the resources at 
hand  and  withstanding  all  kinds  of  difficulties  and  problems.  For  this,  we  have  to  take  the 
following steps. 

This multi-pronged offensive of the enemy is against the oppressed people belonging to 
working  class,  peasantry,  adivasis,  dalits  and  minorities  and  is  favorable  to  the  imperialist, 
comprador bureaucratic bourgeois and feudal forces of our country. So, we must conduct an 
incessant  propaganda/psychological  warfare  to  expose  its  nature.  We  must  strive  to  form 
united  fronts  in  various  forms  with  revolutionary,  democratic  and  progressive  organizations, 
parties and individuals who wish for the development of adivasis. 

We must build up a people‟s movement against the deployment of the army. If at all the 
army  is  deployed,  we  must  utilize  the  contradiction  which  arises  between  the  central  and 
state  governments  due  to  that  and  take  up  propaganda  warfare/psychological  warfare  and 
united front work in our country as well as abroad and isolate the enemy/central government. 
Conditions  are  ripening  for  the  working  class,  peasantry,  adivasis  and  students  to 
mobilize in militant struggles against imperialism and comprador bureaucratic bourgeoisie as 
contradiction between the people of our country and the imperialists, comprador bureaucratic 
bourgeoisie is intensifying more with the new mining  law, new seed  law and new education 
law. We must completely utilize this for developing the People‟s War.  

In  the  past  one  year,  we  have  lost  some  comrades  at  the  Central  and  State  levels  and 
some  were  arrested  and  put  in  jails.  This  is  an  irreparable  loss  for  the  revolutionary 
movement.  The  need  to  particularly  concentrate  to  reduce  these  losses  as  far  as  possible 
has  increased  ever  more.  For  this,  we  have  to  implement  strictly  all  the  rules  we  have 
formulated  after  many  rounds  of  discussions.  We  must  take  appropriate  precautions 

 

6 

 
regarding the travel plans, place of operation and work plans of the leadership comrades as 
the  enemy  is  now  concentrating  on  decimating  the  leaders  in  the  field.  We  must  guard 
against  the  infiltration  of  coverts  and  continuously  educate  the  people,  cadres  and  PLGA 
fighters  that  becoming  a  covert  or  a  police  informer  means  betraying  the  interests  of  the 
oppressed  people  and  try  to  increase  such  class  consciousness  and  class  hatred  among 
them. 

We have to make changes/increases in our formations to defeat the enemy offensive. For 
this, we have to increase recruitment into PLGA on a large scale. We have to consolidate the 
present  combat  forces  and  secondary  forces  politically,  militarily  and  organizationally  and 
increase  their  fighting  capacity.  For  this,  we  have  to  study  the  book  “Guerilla  Air-defence” 
published by the APSMC. We have to give training to the PLGA, militia and the people on a 
wide scale by preparing higher level training syllabus even while preparing the people, party 
and PLGA to face the air attacks of the Indian Air Force. The people and PLGA should carry 
on nonstop small, medium and large scale attacks in coordination.  

We  have  to  implement  the  extension  plan  taken  up  with  a  strategic  view  point  and 
develop  vast  areas  into  guerilla  zones.  Through  this  we  have  to  create  limitations  to  the 
deployment  of  the  enemy  forces.  We  have  to  create  a  situation  where  the  enemy  cannot 
concentrate  anywhere.  Through  this  we  have  to  drag  the  enemy  into  a  never  ending 
quagmire and inflict losses on them in central and eastern India.  

Keeping companies at the core, we have to concentrate on attacking with battalion level 
formations.  If  the  army  or  the  Rashtriya  Rifles  is  deployed,  the  PLGA  formations  should  be 
concentrated  to  fight  them  back.  We  must  isolate  and  annihilate  the  weaker  units  and  the 
units  which  are  on  the  periphery  during  enemy  operations.  We  have  to  make  appropriate 
preparations  for  this.  The  crucial  aspects  in  defeating  Operation  Green  Hunt  and  army  (if 
deployed) are the concentration of PLGA forces and  carrying of annihilation operations. We 
have  obtained  good  results  in  the  past  few  years  through  such  tactics.  Basing  on  these 
experiences,  we  have  to  take  up  higher  level  annihilation  operations  (like  destroying  two 
platoons or one company). 

We must patiently explain to the people and revolutionary ranks that the reforms taken up 
by the central and state governments are part of the deceptive LIC policy. We must deal with 
the reforms according to the strength of our movement. We must develop alternate people‟s 
economy by strengthening alternate people‟s political power. The development we achieve in 
this  work  would  be  useful  in  mobilizing  the  support  of  the  democratic  classes  all  over  the 
country.  We  must  follow  mass  line  while  dealing  with  reforms.  We  must  correct  the 
shortcomings of our RPCs/Janathana Sarkars in our political work regarding reforms and in 
the  establishment  of  people‟s  economy.  We  must  fight  back  the  counter-revolutionary 
reforms of the exploiting ruling classes by dealing correctly with reforms. 

In the military operations of the PLGA on the enemy forces and in the destructive actions 
on  the  properties  of  exploiting  ruling  classes  and  the  government,  we  must  take  the 
necessary precautions to avoid any harm to the ordinary people. Such actions done without 
proper  information  about  the  enemy  are  creating  a  negative  impact  on  the  whole 
revolutionary  movement.  The  passenger/express  trains  should  not  be  targeted  at  any  cost. 
Only goods trains should be targeted. People should be widely mobilized during  bandh calls 
and  various  forms  of  protests  and  resistance  actions  should  be  taken  up.  PLGA  should 
compulsorily  implement  the  CC  resolution  titled  „Our  policy  regarding  military  actions‟  of 
2007. 

 

Concentrate on annihilating the reactionary vigilante gangs  

 
As part of the LIC policy formulated by the imperialists, particularly the US imperialists, for 
decimating the revolution, the central and state governments are forming reactionary special 
commando  forces  (Cobra  (SAF),  Special  Intelligence  Bureaus,  Grey  Hounds,  Special  Task 
Force,  Koya  commando,  Special  Operations  Group,  Special  Auxiliary  Police,  C-60,  Anti-

 

7 

 
Naxalite  Squad  etc)  with  special  budgets.  Paramilitary  forces  are  given  commando  level 
training  and  are  sent  in  support  of  these  commando  forces.  These  murderous  forces  are 
above  the  constitution  and  are  criminal  forces  which  have  been  formed  to  massacre  most 
brutally the political democratic progressive forces  of our country (our party leaders, people, 
people‟s  leaders,  PLGA  commanders,  fighters)  in  a  conspiratorial  manner.  These  are 
imposing civil war on the people of our country to continue economic exploitation, oppression 
and suppression. In this fierce war between revolution and counter-revolution going on in our 
country, revolution cannot survive without annihilating such forces which are challenging the 
revolution.  

These are spreading distorted anti-people culture, increasing greed for money in order to 
turn  a  section  of  people  into  reactionaries  and  trying  to  „win  the  hearts  of  people‟  through 
fake  reforms.  For  example,  Salwa  Judum  and  Koya  Commando  in  DK;  Sendra  Abhiyan, 
many reactionary armies like TPC, JPC, Loric Sena, PLFI, JLT, SPM, Gram Raksha Dal and 
Santi  sena  in  Bihar-Jharkhand;  the  social  fascist  Harmad  Bahini,  Nagarik  Suraksha  Samiti 
(NASUS), Maobadi Daman Sena, Gan Pratirodh Manch, Sendra committee in West Bengal; 
Santi Sangams in Narayanapatna of Odisha have been formed as black gangs and vigilante 
forces. These local reactionary gangs have the freedom to exploit the people, to  perpetuate 
atrocities and to lead a luxurious life and to further their self-interests. Such criminal section 
is increasing and is serving the imperialists, comprador bureaucratic bourgeoisie and feudal 
classes.  The  increasing  activities  of  this  comprador  section  since  many  years  are  having  a 
negative impact on the anti-imperialist and anti-feudal people‟s struggles. In fact, these are in 
a way diminishing the successes of the PLGA in guerilla war (People‟s War) and increasing 
its losses. So, we have to work untiringly to fight back the LIC conspiracies and to increase 
the  class  consciousness  of  the  people.  We  have  to  prepare  the  people  and  formulate 
appropriate  counter  tactics  cleverly  in  sink  with  the  time  and  concentrate  on  completely 
annihilating these reactionary vigilante gangs. If we ignore this, we may lose our initiative and 
get defeated. Where our secondary forces and the leadership are not so strong, it would be 
easier for the enemy to inflict losses on us. The PLGA should work with a plan so that such a 
situation does not arise. 

 

A better plan 

 
The PLGA should strive hard to formulate a better plan which would effectively coordinate 
its  three  forces  in  the  campaigns  or  in  the  tactical  counter-offensive  operations  we  take  up 
against  the  enemy  in  any  division/zone/district;  or  in  region;  or  in  any  special  area/special 
zone/state. If we have to practically fulfill the task of developing guerilla war into mobile war, 
the  plan  of  PLGA  should  be  formulated  with  the  aim  of  annihilating  the  enemy,  seizing  of 
arms and conducting small, medium and large scale guerilla operations on a wide scale with 
coordination.  Our  aim  will  not  be  fulfilled  if  we  carry  on  passive  guerilla  operations  without 
coordinating  it  with  the  main  aim.  We  cannot  develop  guerilla  war  into  mobile  war.  But  in 
some areas, our PLGA forces are trying to conduct passive guerilla operations forgetting our 
main  aim.  As  they  are  concentrating  on  these,  their  energies  are  getting  limited  to  smaller 
actions. Due to this we are not getting results and on top of it we  are failing in fighting back 
the enemy offensive and we are in turn suffering losses. We can never reach our main goal 
in this manner. Developing guerilla war into mobile war has a lot of significance in changing 
the equation of forces between us and the enemy. 

We are finding the following weaknesses in some commanders and fighters  – during the 
daily battle operations, PLGA soldiers are not sticking to their duties (  to the place they are 
allotted  to  be  in)  and  making    retreats  which  are  not  in  sink  with  the  commander‟s  orders; 
they  are not following the commander‟s orders  and  are going away by loosening command 
and  control;  they  are  taking  independent  decisions  (  unnecessary  freedom)  and  are  not 
fighting bravely and courageously, they are not working hard and not maintaining timings. 

 

8 

 

The PLGA should in its daily life follow the principle of democratic centralism and behave 
like a collective leadership and collective command. They have to display the art of fighting 
like one person with discipline. The people and the army should be unified. The army and the 
revolutionary people‟s government (revolutionary Janathana Sarkar) should be unified. There 
should be unity between the commanders and the fighters. The total army should be unified. 

 

Dear comrades and people! 

 
Since  mid-2008, the imperialist economic crisis which intensified in US has engulfed the 
whole  world  and  is  seriously  affecting  the  European  countries.  In  this  situation,  the  present 
crisis  has  spread  more  deeply  and  is  facing  a  serious  danger  like  in  the  days  of  the  Great 
Depression  of  the  1930s.  This  crisis  is  having  a  serious  impact  on  the  proletariat  of  the 
imperialist  countries  and  the  imperialists  are  trying  to  overcome  this  crisis  by  exploiting 
backward  countries.  On  the  other  hand,  G-20  countries  are  resorting  to  bail-outs  worth 
hundreds of billions of dollars to overcome this crisis. While they are trying to overcome the 
crisis in one sector, the financial crisis is spreading to another sector. The impact of this crisis 
is  very  serious  on  the  ordinary  people  and  the  middle  classes.  The  working  class  in  the 
capitalist countries is losing jobs. The working class which lost jobs and the entire population 
are  getting  mired  in  poverty.    The  people  of  these  countries  are  taking  up  anti-government 
struggles expressing serious discontent. This crisis of the imperialist economy is intensifying 
the  contention  between  the  imperialists.  As  a  result,  imperialist  countries  which  could 
conduct  a  unified  war  against  countries  like  Iran  and  Afghanistan  in  the  90s  are  no  longer 
able to do so. One of the main reasons for this is the guerilla warfare of the people of those 
countries,  particularly  that  of  the  Afghan  guerillas  against  the  NATO  forces  led  by  the  US. 
Russia  has  gradually  overcome  its  worst  condition  and  revived  its  economy  and  China‟s 
economic growth has led to the formation of groups like the Shanghai cooperation and BRIC 
between Russia, China, East Europe, Asia, Africa and Latin American countries. So the US, 
Europe and Japan imperialists are facing new competition with these formations. 

India  has  also  been  seriously  affected  by  the  imperialist  economic  crisis.  The  UPA-2  is 
aggressively implementing second  generation reforms  as soon as it came  to power without 
considering  people‟s  opposition  to  them.  Disinvestment,  full  convertibility  of  the  rupee, 
increase  in  imperialist  capital  share  to  70  percent  in  sectors  like  insurance  and  imperialist 
investments in retail and education sector are on the rise. India signed the nuclear deal and 
perched  itself  on  the  top  of  a  volcano. The  foreign  institutional  investments  and  the  foreign 
direct  investments  (FII  and  FDI)  are  aggressively  entering  India  and  imperialism  has 
established  its  hegemony  in  all  the  sectors  in  our  economy.    As  part  of  these  policies, 
permission  was  given  to  imperialists  and  MNCs  for  SEZs  and  to  loot  the  natural  resources 
like  minerals  which  actually  belong  to  the  people.  Due  to  this,  lakhs  of  people  are  getting 
displaced. Ecology is facing serious danger.  Investments in  manufacturing, service sectors 
are  increasing  in  leaps  and  bounds.  Investments  like  the  FII  are  destroying  the  small 
investors  in  the  stock  exchanges.  It  is  seriously  affecting  the  export  sector  and  lakhs  of 
workers  are  becoming  unemployed.  Price  rise  has  reached  unprecedented  levels  and  the 
economic lives of middle class people have become unbearable. 

The  governments  are  conveniently  ignoring  even  the  5th  and  6th  schedules  won  by  the 
adivasis  through  struggles  and  is  displacing  them  from  their  lands.  Due  to  this,  the  whole 
population  of  the  country  along  with  the  adivasis  has  started  rebellions  against  the 
imperialists  and  their  stooges  the  comprador  bureaucratic  capitalists  all  over  the  country. 
Right  from  Singur  and  Nandigram  to  Lalgarh  and  the  land  struggle  in  Narayanapatna  of 
Koraput  district  to  the  struggles  against  bauxite  mining  in  Mali,  Devmali  and  Niyamagiri  in 
Odisha and in Visakha, against displacement in Lohandiguda of DK, against opencast mining 
in Singareni of North Telangana, against Polavaram, against Sompeta Thermal Power Plant 
–  the  people‟s  struggles  are  continuing.  The  ground  is  ripening  for  more  rebellions.  The 
militant separate state movements like separate Telangana and Gorkhaland  are shaking the 

 

9 

 
ruling classes. Due to the new mining law and new education law, the contradiction between 
the imperialists and the people of our country is sharpening. Due to the impact of the crisis, 
new  forces  are  coming  to  the  fore  in  anti-government  struggles.  Petty  bourgeois  forces, 
students, teachers, lawyers and employees are coming forth militantly into movements along 
with basic classes. 

Most favorable conditions are increasing for the revolution in our country. The government 
and its parliamentary system have been exposed more than ever among the people. People 
have  understood  the  fakeness  of  the  parliamentary  system  and  have  prepared  themselves 
for militant people‟s movements; they are advancing in the path of struggles with the slogans 
of Land-Power-Democracy-Building of people‟s army and Self Reliance. “When governments 
are not able to rule in the old methods and when people do not feel that their problems could 
be  solved  in  the  ambit  of  the  old  laws,  we  can  say  that  conditions  had  ripened  for  the 
revolution” said Lenin. People  are taking up struggles defying the government  laws  all  over 
the country. Protracted People‟s War politics are added to these struggles. On the one hand, 
the  exploiting  ruling  classes  are  getting  more  and  more  isolated  from  the  people  and  the 
Maoist party is gaining the confidence of the people as an alternative to the present system.  
In this background, the exploiting ruling classes have launched a  massive military offensive 
in the name  of Operation Green Hunt to destroy the  Maoist  movement.  We have to realize 
that this is a new aspect on the political landscape of our country. Basing on this, we have to 
advance our revolution with more confidence and determination.  

 

Call of the CMC 

 
Workers, peasants, Adivasis, Women, Students, Youth and Intellectuals! 
 
The Green Hunt Operation carried on by the state and central governments to bestow the 
mineral  resources  of  our  country,  particularly  in  the  adivasi  areas,  to  the  imperialist  multi-
national companies and Indian comprador bureaucratic bourgeoisie and feudal forces and to 
get rid of the forces which are opposing this loot is nothing but a „War on the People‟. Defeat 
this  unjustified  war!  Support  the  fighting  adivasi  revolutionary  people!  Mobilize  militantly  to 
stop the brutal attacks of the mercenary police who are massacring hundreds of adivasis and 
looting their properties by portraying them as terrorists! Do not believe the foul propaganda of 
the bourgeois media spitting venom on the revolutionary movement! Maoist guerillas are the 
daughters  and  sons  of  the  soil.  They  are  the  people‟s  liberation  forces  who  have  armed 
themselves  to  fight  the  mercenary  forces  to  liberate  our  land  from  the  clutches  of  the 
exploiting  classes  and  who  consider  that  people‟s  interests  are  their  interests.  So,  take  the 
side  of  the  revolutionary  movement!  If  this  enemy  offensive  is  not  defeated  and  if  the 
conspiracy of the enemy to destroy the revolutionary movement, the Maoist Party, the PLGA, 
the  alternate  people‟s  power  organs  and  mass  organizations  is  not  defeated,  then  the 
valuable gains made by the revolutionary movement will be lost. So play your role in isolating 
and fighting back the enemy! Join PLGA in large numbers and increase its strength manifold! 
Wake  up  to  the  struggles  carried  on  widely  with  the  slogans  of  Land-Power-Democracy-
Building  of  the  People‟s  Army  and  Self  Reliance!  Join  hands  with  these  struggles!  Support 
the armed resistance struggles of the PLGA! No basic change is possible without completely 
destroying the exploiting classes! The reforms thrown as crumbs to the people would worsen 
their  lives  further  and  would  achieve  nothing  for  them.  Let  us  expose  these  reforms  which 
destroy  the  unity  between  the  people  and  let  us  march  forward  for  an  alternate  New 
Democratic Society by fighting them  back! Final victory belongs to the people if we  dare to 
fight! 

 
  Let us develop guerilla war into mobile war and PLGA into PLA with the aim of 

establishing Base Areas! 

 

 

10 

 

 

 

 

  Let us fight back the conspiracy of the Indian ruling classes to deploy army to 

crush the revolutionary movement! 

 
 

If army is deployed let us teach it a lesson through our Great People’s War! 

  Let us develop Maoist Style of Fighting to its zenith! 

  Let us declare that People’s War is invincible! 
 
  Let us fight relentlessly and bravely giving birth to more and more  Nayagadhs 

and Mukarams! 

 
  Let us annihilate the special commando forces and secret vigilante gangs of the 

enemy!  

  Let us annihilate the enemy in large numbers and seize arms! 
 
  Let us identify the weaknesses in the Carpet Security System of the enemy and 

take initiative to give it a death blow! 

 
  Let  us  defeat  the  Operation  Green  Hunt  carried  on  with  the  aim  of  destroying 

the revolutionary movement! 

 
  Let us establish a strong people’s counter-intelligence network and defend the 
revolutionary  leadership,  PLGA,  people’s  power  organs  and  revolutionary 
movement like the pupils of our eyes! 

 
  Let  us  unite  the  people-PLGA;  party-PLGA-revolutionary  people’s  government; 
commanders-people’s  soldiers  and  all  the  three  forces  in  the  PLGA  to  defeat 
Green Hunt! 

 
  Let us develop strict discipline in PLGA and develop it into an invincible army! 
 
  Long live the Communist Party of India (Maoist)! 
 

Date: 13-9-2010 

 

 

 

With revolutionary greetings, 

 

 

 

Central Military Commission, 

Communist Party of India (Maoist)  

 
 

Let us celebrate the PLGA 10th anniversary  

for one month from December 2  

with revolutionary enthusiasm and a spirit of jubilation! 

Let us inspire the vast masses of people  

with the ideology and politics of Maoist People’s War! 

 

 

11 

