CPI (Maoist) Message to the People of Lalgarh 

 

We Hail Your Glorious Struggle! 

Your Mass Upsurge Inspires Millions to Spread the Red  

Flame of Lalgarh to Every Corner of the Country!! 

 

Your revolt, with arms in hands, has risen like a storm against decades of social fascist neglect, 
misrule and terror. You have stormed the police camps, CPM offices – the centres of state terror 
–  and  chased  them  out  of  the  area.  For  over  seven  months  you  and  your  comrades  from  the 
surrounding areas have practically paralysed the whole administration in a vast region. Not only 
that,  while  exposing  the  hoax  of  so-called  development  of  three  decades  of  the  social-fascists, 
you  have  yourselves  undertaken  numerous  development  works  through  shramdan,  like  health 
projects, irrigation, roads, schools, etc. It is indeed an inspiring example of new forms of struggle 
for all of us to learn from resulting in the Call to build thousands of Lalgarhs in every corner of 
the country! 

 
Terrorised by  your mass upheaval, the central and state forces, along with the Harmad bahini 
goonda force of the social fascists, have launched massive attacks on the entire people of your 
area. With wide-scale anti-propaganda the government turned your area into a war zone. Armed 
people, with traditional weapons, have heroically resisted the attack launched by 40 companies 
of  central  para-military  forces,  the  special  forces  of  the  Cobras,  Helicopters,  along  with  State 
forces and the CPM goonda bahini.  

 
It  is  known  to  all  that  there  was  resentment  of  the  people  against  the  handing  over  of  4,000 
acres of forest land to the Jindal plant, on which it is you and you alone that have the rights. It is 
you, the villagers of the area, who alone have the rights over this land, and not the government.  
After  the  attack  on  the  convoy  of  the  Chief  Minister  and  others  while  returning  from  the 
inauguration  of  this  plant  and  the  terror  then  unleashed  by  the  police,  your  movement  took  a 
political  shape  with  thousand  and  thousand  of  masses  mobilised  against  the  police  and 
administration.  Along  with  the  heroic  mass  resistance  against  the  police  and  para-military 
attacks,  this  mass  upsurge  has  created  a big  political  impact  over  the entire  country  arousing  a 
hope  and  inspiration  amongst  the  toiling  masses  fighting  against  all  kinds  of  exploitation, 
repression and injustice. This has had the added political impact to thoroughly expose the social 
fascist face of the CPM revisionists and accelerated the process of polarisation of the forces of 
revolution and reaction.  

 
The Politburo of the CPI (Maoist) hails your glorious mass uprising and strongly condemns the 
cruel repression unleashed on the masses in your area by the central and state forces. It calls on 
the  whole  Party  and  PLGA,  its  mass  organisations  and  each  and  every  section  of  the 
revolutionary masses, to come forward in support of your movement and rise against the brutal 
attack on the struggling and fighting people of Lalgarh. We further call on the Party and people 
in  the  surrounding  areas  to  take  proper  actions  and  conduct  necessary  activities  in  support  of 
your  great  uprising.  We  vow  to  lend  you  all  support  in  every  possible  way,  particularly  the 
support of the oppressed masses throughout the country.  

 
The  most  significant  aspects  of  the  struggle  from  which  we  can  all  learn  and  emulate 

throughout the country are: 
(i)  Yours was a truly armed mass movement which drew into it the entire masses of the area 
with the ability to keep out the entire reactionary state machinery for a full seven months.  
(ii)  Your form of mass organisation of constituting a committee in every village comprising 
five men and five women was a truly new example of a real mass-based democratic organisation 
which can mobilise and organise the vast masses of the people. 
(iii)  Yours was not a movement for mere economic interests but a political upsurge for your 
political rights and self-respect of the adivasi and non-adivasi toiling masses.  
(iv)  Your movement was an example of how to truly build a united front of all forces drawing 
in  all  sections  of  the  masses  and  also  involving  the  progressive  and  intellectual  forces  of  the 
cities  as  well,  combining  a  skilful  balance  between  reform  work,  political  agitation  and  armed 
resistance against the state and government. 

 
Comrades,  
 
Our entire Party will learn from this heroic experience, vow to spread Lalgarh-type movements 
throughout  the  country,  propagate  your  movement  throughout  the  country  and  lend  your 
movement all kinds of necessary assistance. 

 
July 15, 2009 

 

 

 

 

 

[From: People’s Truth, #7, August 2009.] 

