 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 
Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee 

Press Release:  14 January 2009 

 

 
 

Condemn Brutal Massacre of 17 Adivasis in Fake  

Encounter near Singaaram in South Bastar! 

 

Observe Black Day and Bandh on 26 January in  

Protest against the repressive, blood-thirsty  

regime of Raman Singh! 

 
 
 
Police  and  SPOs  once  again  unleashed  massacre  on  January  8  near  Singaaram  village  under 
Gollapalli  PS  in  South  Bastar.  About  200  goondas  and  Khaki  uniformed  killers  raided  Singaaram  and 
other  nearby  villages,  took  17  persons  including  four  women  to  a  canal  and  butchered  them  in  a  brutal 
manner. The thugs  gang-raped the women before murdering them, which was revealed by media on the 
basis  of  evidence  provided  by  many  villagers.  After  seeing  the  badly  mutilated  bodies  of  the  dead, 
villagers also told the media that all the victims were hacked to pieces barbarically with knives and axes. 
To cover up such a heinous massacre as an “encounter”, police concocted a story that three SPOs and one 
constable were wounded during the “encounter” that continued for more than an hour. As the actual 
truth  started  flashing  out  in  the  media  and  the  police  story  of  the  “encounter”  got  exposed,  the  SP  of 
Dantewada hurriedly shifted away the so-called wounded from Dantewada to a hospital in Sukma so that 
they would be out of reach of the media persons. The manner in which the dead bodies were disposed was 
yet another grave crime committed by the killer police. These murderers simply threw away all their legal 
responsibilities,  such  as  conducting  Panchnama,  post-mortem,  et  cetra  after  the  so-called  encounter,  to 
the winds. What better example could there be for the unconstitutional atrocities perpetrated by the very 
same fellows who cry hoarse about upholding the “constitution”? 
 
  New  Home  Minister  of  the  state,  Nankiram  Kanwar,  congratulated  the  police  forces  for  this 
“encounter”  in  a  great  hurry  on  the  very  evening  of January  8  in  Raipur.  Further,  he  claimed  in  a  press 
meet that it was a great success for the police. Even after it was confirmed beyond doubt not only by the 
media but also by local representatives of the CPI and Congress party that the encounter was in fact a fake 
one,  Raman  Singh  government,  instead  of  arresting  the  culprit  police  officers  and  the  SPOs,  hushed  up 
the incident by merely issuing an order for magesterial enquiry. The government did the same in the case 
of Kodenar and Hulghat massacres also that took place a few weeks earlier. 
 
 
The  visit  by  the  state  Governor  Mr.  Narasimhan  to  the  Jegurugonda  “relief”  camp  just  3  or  4  days 
before  the  January  8  massacre  and  his  attempts  to  boost  up  the  morale  of  salwa  judum,  and  later,  the 
claim by the most hated leader of Salwa Judum from Konta area, Sattar Ali, that „salwa judum got a new 
spirit‟  –  all  these  indicate  undoubtedly  that  the  conspiracy  for  the  massacre  was  hatched  at  the  highest 
echelons  of  the  government  for  which  none  else  than  the  Chief  Minister  Raman  Singh,  Home  Minister 
Nankiram and the Governor Narasimhan should be held responsible. 

 
In  fact,  several  massacres  were  perpetrated  since  2005  when  salwa  judum  was  started.  About  800 
 
people were killed. More than 150 women were gang raped. Most of them were murdered after the rape. 
Thousands  of  houses  in  more  than  750  villages  were  burnt  to  ashes.  Property  and  belongings  of  the 
people was looted. Thousands of villagers were forcibly shifted to the so-called relief camps and about 2 
lakhs people were forcibly evicted from their villages. Today in Dantewada and Bijapur districts there is 
no  civil  administration  at  all,  even  for  name-sake.  Salwa  judum  itself  has  become  a  terrorist  institution 
that is being run by the government itself by vesting all kinds of unconstitutional powers in it. In spite of 
all this, faced by the counter attacks by the people and their army, the PLGA, the government could not 
achieve any success in its conspiracy to root out the revolutionary movement by massacring thousands of 
people.  Moreover,  several  democratic  and  human  rights  activists  and  organizations  thoroughly  exposed 
the state-sponsored terror of salwa judum and raised the demand to disband salwa judum. Even then the 
government continued with its barbaric attacks. Particularly during the past 2-3 months dozens of people 
were  murdered  in  fake  encounters.  In  a  word,  all  the  encounters  announced  by  the  police  in  which 
naxalites  were  claimed  to  have  been  killed  during  the  past  three  months  were  nothing  but  fake.  Of  all 
these, the Singaaram “encounter” is the most barbaric and brutal massacre. 
 
  Although  the  government  issued  an  enquiry  order  due  to  mounting  opposition  from  people  and  all 
other  democratic  forces  against  the  massacre,  everyone  knows  what  will  be  the  outcome  of  such  an 
enquiry. The same outcome as in the case of the dozens of massacres that took place, from Jeeram Tharai 
to  Ponjer,  Maatwaada,  Kodenaar,  Hulghat,  etc.,  would  be  seen  in  the  case  of  the  latest  Singaaram 
massacre  also.  The  people  of  Singaaram  told  the  media  even  the  names  of  some  of  the  killer  SPOs.  In 
spite of it, the government did not arrest them because the conspiracy of this massacre was not drawn in 
Bastar, but in Raipur. 
 
 
Raman Singh‟s government had been perpetrating fascist terror under the  direct guidance and aid of 
the  central  government  with  the  sole  aim  of  crushing  the  ongoing  revolutionary  movement  in 
Dandakaranya  for  the  past  28  years  and  the  organs  of  new  people‟s  state  power,  and  to  transform  the 
abundantly  resourceful  land  of  the  Chhattisgarh  into  a  grazing  land  to  be  exploited  by  Multi  National 
Companies as well as Tatas, Essar, Jindals, Mittals and such other comprador capitalists. After coming to 
power  for  the  second  time,  Raman  Singh‟s  government  has  further  intensified  the  fascist  terror.  Behind 
this  is  certainly  America‟s  tacit  guidance.  The  conspiracy  of  Singaaram  massacre  is  only  the  tip  of  the 
iceberg.  The  Indian  ruling  classes  are  day-dreaming  to  smash  our  just  struggle  by  brazenly  murdering 
revolutionaries and the ordinary masses. But  history has been a witness to how the  greatest fascists like 
Hitler bit the dust finally  in the  hands of the people. Anyone  who knows history  need not be told about 
what  would  be  the  fate  of  Raman,  Karma,  Nankiram,  Narasimhan,  Manmohan  and  such  others. 
Repression begets resistance – such is the inexorable law of development of human society. The people of 
Bastar will certainly settle the account with the killers for the blood of their children. 
 
  We  appeal  to  all  of  the  toiling  people,  students,  intellectuals,  teachers,  lawyers,  doctors  and  media 
personnel  of  Chhattisgarh  to  raise  their  voice  against  this  cruel  massacre.  When  people  were  killed  in 
Mumbai attacks, the news and condemnation of it continued to flash for many weeks. The anger roused 
among people against the culprits got a platform to express it. But, is it that the lives of the unfortunate 
tribal  people  of  Bastar  are  so  cheap  that  the  government  forces  and  the  government  nurtured  SPOs  can 
kill the Bastar tribals whenever, wherever, however and as many as they want? Who gave them the right 
to play at will with the pride of the mothers and sisters of Bastar with unlimited brutality? Let us certainly 
raise our voices on these issues. Let us demand severe punishment to Chief Minister Raman Singh, Home 
Minister  Nankiram  and  Governor  Narsimhan,  the  culprits  responsible  for  this  brutal  massacre,  and  also 
the  police  officers  and  SPOs  involved.  Let  us  express  our  opposition  on  a  massive  scale  against  the 
massacre by observing 26 January  as a Black Day and also observing  Bandh on the day. Let  us express 
our opposition against the fake Republic by hoisting Black Flag in each and every village on the day. Let 

us  demonstrate  our  anger  by  keeping  all  the  shops,  business  establishments  and  such  other  activities 
closed.  In  this  context  we  call  upon  the  fighting  people  and  the  PLGA  forces  to  intensify  further  the 
resistance  struggle  to  avenge  the  blood  spilled  by  the  17  innocent  tribal  women  and  men.  Let  us  give  a 
fitting reply to killer police and paramilitary forces and the terrorist SPOs deployed in Bastar. 
 
 
Signed/ 
Gudsa Usendi, 
Spokesperson, 
Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee, 
CPI(Maoist) 
 
 
 

[From: CPI(Maoist) Information Bulletin, #6, Nov. 5, 2008.] 

 

