Message 

 

Let us develop the mass base, intensify and expand the guerilla war and firmly resist and 

defeat the counter-revolutionary offensive Mission-2017! 

Celebrate with revolutionary enthusiasm and spirit the 13th Anniversary of the Party from 

September 21st to 27th! 

Central Committee, Communist Party of India (Maoist) calls upon the Party Committees, Members, 
Military Commanders and Warriors of the People’s Liberation Guerilla Army, Party sympathisers, the 

leadership and members of the Revolutionary People’s Committees, Revolutionary Mass 

Organisations and the Revolutionary Masses! 

To  start  with,  the  Central  Committee  of  our  Party  conveys  hearty  revolutionary  greetings  to  all  the 
cadres of the Party Committees and Members, the Commanders and Fighters of the People’s Liberation 
Guerilla  Army  (PLGA),  Party  sympathisers,  the  leadership  and  members  of  the  Revolutionary  People’s 
Committee (RPC), the Revolutionary Mass Organisations and the revolutionary masses on the occasion 
of the Thirteenth Anniversary of our Party. The CC also conveys revolutionary greetings on this occasion 
to  the  Maoist  parties  and  organisations  that  are  garnering  support  all  over  the  world  to  the  People’s 
War going on in the country under the leadership of our Party. 
Dear Comrades! 
September  21st  is  a  very  important  day  for  our  Party  and  the  revolutionary  masses.  Two  main 
revolutionary streams merged to form our Party Communist Party of India (Maoist) on September 21st in 
2004. The CC  calls  upon  all  the  Party Committees  and  members, the  commanders  and  fighters of  the 
People’s  Liberation  Guerilla  Army  (PLGA),  Party  sympathisers,  the  leadership  and  members  of  the 
Revolutionary People’s Committees (RPC), Revolutionary Mass Organisations and revolutionary masses 
to celebrate the Thirtieth Anniversary of the Party from September 21st to 27th all over the country in 
our movement areas, in the towns and cities with revolutionary enthusiasm and spirit with the aim  of 
firmly  resisting  and  defeating  the  counter-revolutionary  offensive  Mission-2017  by  intensifying  and 
expanding the guerilla war. 
In  the  countrywide  counter-revolutionary  offensive  the  enemy  is  unleashing  with  the  aim  of  entirely 
eliminating  the  revolutionary  movement  in  the  leadership  of  our  Party,  nearly  180  of  our  beloved 
comrades and people have laid their valuable lives in fake encounters like Neelambur, encounters with 
the enemy forces in Ramguda (AOB) and Budhanadi (BJ), covert operations, ambushes of the enemy on 
the PLGA forces, in the attacks of murderous counter-revolutionary gangs like the  TPC, JJMP of Bihar-
Jharkhand,  in  the  courageous  attacks  of  our  PLGA  forces  on  the  police,  commando  and  paramilitary 
forces, due to old age, ill health, snake bite and other such reasons. Of them, fifty were women activists 
and village women. 

 

1 

In  the  past  one  year  the  martyrdom  of  two  leaders  of  Indian  Revolution,  members  of  the  Central 
Committee, Politburo members of our Party Comrade Narayan Sanyal (Bijayda)(80), member of the CC 
Comrade  Kuppu  Devaraj  (Ramesh,  Yogesh)(62)  is  an  irreparable  loss  to  our  revolutionary  movement. 
Comrades  Devaraj  and  Ajitha  were  going  to  Kozhikode  to  receive  treatment  for  the  serious  ill  health 
they were suffering when they were apprehended by the central and the state intelligence officers as a 
part of ‘Operation Brahmagiri’, severely tortured and killed in the Neelambur forest area on the 24th of 
November.  Comrade  Narayan  Sanyal  passed  away  on  the  16th  of  April  in  Kolkata  due  to  cancer. 
Members  of  the  State  Committee  –  senior  comrade  Raghunath  Mahato  of  Bihar-Jharkhand  (BJ), 
Comrades  Prasad  and  Daya  of  Andhra-Odisha  Border  (AOB),  Comrade  Ajitha  (Kaveri)  of  the  Western 
Ghats were martyred. Regional Committee member Comrade Sangram Murmu (BJ), District Committee 
members comrades Prabhakar and Kiran of AOB, comrades Yatin (Koel-Sankh), Sailesh and Ajit Yadav of 
BJ, comrades Jagath (West Bastar), Pali (Darbha), Kailash (East Bastar) of Dandakaranya (DK), Sub-Zonal 
Committee member Comrade Nagendra Yadav (BJ), Area Committee Secretary Comrade Shameela (RKB 
of DK), 38 Area Committee/Platoon Party Committee members (many were  Squad, Section or Platoon 
Commanders or Deputy Commanders), three leaders of Village Party Committee, RPC, five commanders 
of  the  People’s  Militia,  three  leaders  of  the  Revolutionary  Mass  Organisations  and  scores  of  Party 
activists, PLGA and People’s Militia fighters, revolutionary sympathisers and people became martyrs in 
the People’s War. 
Among  the  women  cadres,  comrades  Mamatha  and  Latha  (Bharathi),  senior  party  activists  like  Kanta 
Nana (Didi), comrades Budri, Manjula (Ungi) and Tubri (Koraput) of AOB, Comrades Hemla Anju (South 
Bastar), Rammo (RKB), Comrades Sukki, Jogi of Darbha, Comrade Jagbati Yadav (Soni) of EBT, comrades 
Mali  and  Karuna  of  Maad,  Comrade  Anupriya  (Koel-Sankh)  of  BJ  and  others  were  martyred  fighting 
heroically  with  the  enemy  forces  in  various  encounters.  A  few  women  comrades  were  caught  in  an 
injured  state  in  the  encounters  or  caught  in  their  homes,  gang-raped  and  murdered.  There  are  a  few 
village women too. 
Let  us  pay  humble  revolutionary  homage  to  our  great  leaders,  teachers  and  founders  of  the  Party 
comrades  Charu  Mazumdar  and  Kanhai  Chatterjee,  thousands  of  heroic  fighters  who  have  been 
martyred until now starting from the Naxalbari armed agrarian revolutionary movement and each and 
every one of the heroic fighters who were with us together and laid down their lives in the past one year 
fighting  heroically  with  the  enemy  in  the  ongoing  People’s War.  CC  conveys  deep  condolences  to  the 
relatives and friends of the martyrs and assures that the Party is with them. 
On this occasion, the CC pays revolutionary homage to the heroic fighters who have laid down their lives 
in  the  movements  going  on  in  the  leadership  of  Maoist  parties,  organisations  and  groups  in  various 
countries with the aim of making the World Socialist Revolution successful. 
The  people  fought  against  the  pro-feudal,  pro-imperialist  and  anti-people  social,  economic,  political, 
military, cultural and environmental policies of the central and the state governments. The sacrifices of 
the  Party  cadres,  PLGA  fighters,  Revolutionary  People’s  Committees,  revolutionary-democratic 
organisations and the people of the country, especially the fighters who have laid down their lives in the 
war of resistance of the people of the movement areas, in the leadership of our Party against Operation 
Green Hunt going on in a most cruel manner with the support of the imperialists, are very valuable and 
exemplary. They laid down their lives for a new, just society where there will be no place for inequality, 
discrimination and exploitation of one by another. On the occasion of the Thirteenth Anniversary of our 

 

2 

Party, let us pledge with raised fists to fight with firm will, sacrifice and bravery for accomplishing their 
ideals for achieving a new world and to advance on the path of the martyrs. Let us now have a look at 
the  successes  we  have  achieved  in  facing  the  repressive  campaigns  of  the  enemy  as  a  result  of  the 
sacrifices of the  martyrs in the  past  one  year  and the weaknesses we have  to overcome  in  facing the 
enemy’s  repressive  campaigns.  Let  us  place  them  before  the  Party  cadres,  PLGA  forces  and  the  vast 
masses and take pledge to enhance their active and militant role in the People’s War. 
Our successes in the past one year 

1.  People’s  War  has  been  sustained  by  retaliating  the  counter-revolutionary  offensive  of  the  exploitive 
ruling  classes  –  It  has  been  three  years  since  the  NDA  government  in  the  leadership  of  Modi-led  BJP 
came  to  power  at  the  centre  and  BJP/NDA  governments  were  formed  in  many  states,  with  which 
Brahmanical Hindu-fascist offensive has reached its peak all over the country. As a part of it, white terror 
campaigns  with  the  names  of  Mission-2016  and  Mission-2017  as  per  the  LIC  strategy  have  been 
intensified in all the  areas of the revolutionary movement  in the past one year to eliminate our Party 
and the revolutionary movement under its leadership that is resolutely fighting against imperialist and 
feudal exploitation. Fascist mercenary police, commando and paramilitary forces intensified attacks on 
the  PLGA  forces  and  committed  massacres  of  revolutionaries  and  people  in  fake  encounters.  In  2017 
alone, 78 revolutionaries and people were murdered till now. They launched large-scale attacks on the 
villages  and  destroyed  the  properties  and  crops  of  the  people.  They  burnt  houses.  In  Bihar  and 
Jharkhand,  they  are  seizing  the  properties  of  our  Party  activists.  Atrocities  on  women  are  being  used 
indiscriminately as a weapon to suppress the movement. Bourgeois reforms are implemented in a big 
way  and  are  trying  to  bring  splits  in  the revolutionary masses.  Fascist  offensive  has  been  perpetrated 
against  journalists  that  bring  to  light  incidents  of  state  terrorism  in  the  movement  areas.  Democrats, 
social activists, human rights activists and women’s activists, professors, students and even the leaders 
and  activists  of  the  opposition  parties  and  government  higher  officials  showing  dissent  are  not 
exempted  from  this  fascist  offensive.  They  are  foisted  with  fascist  laws  like  the  UAPA  in  the  name  of 
‘Maoists’ and ‘sedition’ and put in jails. Various bourgeois courts are sentencing revolutionaries and the 
revolutionary masses, intellectuals supporting them, the democratic forces and traders with long-term 
rigorous  imprisonment  and  capital  punishment.  A  reign  of  white  terror  is  maintained  in  Chhattisgarh, 
Maharashtra, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, West  Bengal, Asom, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Tamil 
Nadu and other states where our revolutionary movement is going on. 
PLGA forces including people’s militia have retaliated the white terror of the enemy in the leadership of 
our Party in the past one year. The people are resisting in legal and illegal forms in a timely manner the 
massacre  of  the  people,  fake  encounters,  mass  atrocities  and  murder  of  women  and  destruction  of 
people’s property. PLGA conducted Tactical Counter Offensive Campaigns  (TCOC) and actions with the 
support  of  the  revolutionary  people.  The  enemy  forces  were  given  a  blow  in  incidents  like  Mungaru 
Gummi-Sunki  Ambush 
(Rajnandgaon, 
Chhattisgarh),  Cherli  Ambush  (Bijapur,  CG),  Tumdiwaal  Ambush  (Kondagaon,  CG),  Hariyal  Ambush 
(Bijapur, CG), Kothacheruvu-Bejji Ambush (Sukma, CG), Burgum Pahad Counterattack (Dantewada, CG), 
Burkapal  Ambush  (Sukma,  CG),  attack  on  Mine-Proof  Vehicle  at  Karampalli  (Gadchiroli,  Maharashtra), 
Pokheri Ambush (Kandhamal, Odisha), Thondamarka Counterattack (Sukma, CG), Chinna Bodkel Ambush 
(Sukma,  CG).  In  a  situation  where  the  enemy  closed  supply  routes  and  made  war  equipment 
inaccessible,  PLGA  conducted  guerilla  war  and  carried  out  nearly  170  guerilla  attacks  with  local  and 

(Koraput,  Odisha),  Bhave  Ambush-1,  Bhave  Ambush-2 

 

3 

limited  resources  in  various  Guerilla  Zones  and  Red  Resistance  Areas  of  Chhattisgarh,  Maharashtra, 
Bihar,  Jharkhand,  AOB,  Odisha,  Telangana,  West  Bengal,  Western  Ghats  and  other  such  states  in  a 
period of ten months. While 85 policemen died in these guerilla attacks, nearly 140 were injured. Nearly 
80 enemies of the people, anti-people political leaders, counter-revolutionaries, informers, and coverts 
were  wiped  out.  These  Tactical  Counter  Offensive  Actions,  especially  Burkapal  Ambush,  baffled  the 
exploitive ruling classes. 

2.  People’s movements and united activities on the rise 

United  activities  increased  in  all  the  movement  areas.  Tribal  and  non-tribal  peasants,  students, 
intellectuals, workers, women and artists are in struggle in the united activities taken up by our Party on 
the  problem  of  displacement,  against  state  violence,  against  Operation  Green  Hunt  and  Brahmanical 
Hindu-fascism.  The  oppressed  people  mobilized  on  a  large  scale  in  the  leadership  of  many  mass 
organisations  in  Kerala,  Tamil  Nadu  and  Karnataka  in  protest  against  the  false  encounter  of  Comrade 
Kuppu  Devraj  and  Comrade  Ajitha.  Many  rallies,  meetings  and  struggles  were  conducted  across  the 
country  against  state  violence  and  OGH.  There  were  armed  actions,  bandhs  and  Protest  Days  in  the 
movement areas. People all over the country are struggling against the intensifying Brahmanical Hindu-
fascism in the name of Goraksha (cow protection). Our Party is supporting these struggles. The Party is 
consolidating  the  people  against  the  fascist  measures  of  the  Sangh  Parivar  in  the  areas  of  the 
movement.  It  is  building  forums  of  UF  and  is  taking  up  struggles.  Vast  masses,  especially  the  young 
generation, are influenced by our politics through these struggles and are coming into contact with us. 
All these struggles brought new experiences to our Party. 

3.  Struggles  against  displacement  –  Imperialists  and  Comprador  Bureaucratic  Capitalists  are  establishing 
mining,  big  dams,  National  Parks,  mega  steel  plants,  thermal  power  plants,  open  cast  mining,  railway 
lines and many such heavy projects and industries for the exploitation of resources. They are displacing 
the people from Jal-Jangal-Zameen. People and PLGA are standing united in the leadership of our Party 
against this. People’s War continued in various forms like people’s struggles, people’s retaliatory actions 
and guerilla war. Struggles were conducted against Kuvvemari mines, Dilmili project and National Parks 
in Chhattisgarh, against  the  amendments  by the state  government to Chotanagpur Tenancy Act  (CNT) 
and  Santhal  Pargana  Tenancy  Act  (SPT)  and  other  mines  and  projects  in  Jharkhand,  against  Surjagarh 
and  other  mines  in  Maharashtra,  open  cast  mines  in  Telangana,  against  Polavaram  project,  against 
bauxite in Visakha in Andhra Pradesh, various mines and National Parks in Odisha and various National 
Parks  in  Tamil  Nadu.  Crores  of  rupees  worth  of  properties  of  the  multinational  companies  and  their 
Comprador Bureaucratic Bourgeois companies were destroyed in the retaliatory actions of the people. 
Party gave indirect support to the anti-displacement struggles in places outside our movement areas. It 
helped to consolidate various forums of people’s resistance. As a result, there were countrywide anti-
displacement  struggles  against  the  imperialist  multinational  companies  and  their  compradors.  This 
brought the mines and project works of the Tatas in Lohandiguda and of Essar in Dhurli of Chhattisgarh, 
POSCO project in Odisha, bauxite mining in Visakha in Andhra Pradesh to a standstill. The exploitative 
ruling  classes  and  their  government’s  mercenary  police  and  paramilitary  forces  are  forcibly  opening 
some  projects  and  are  using  brute  force  to  see  to  it  that  they  start  operating.  Thus,  the  anti-
displacement  struggles  in  the  leadership  of  our  Party  are  showing  the  path  to  the  anti-displacement 
struggles  all  over  the  country.  They  are  providing  us  good  experiences  in  taking  up  struggles  against 
Imperialism and the Comprador Bureaucratic Bourgeoisie. 

 

4 

4.  Bolshevization  campaign  yields  good  results  –  The  Bolshevization  campaign  our  Party  took  up  is 
yielding  good  results  to  an  extent  in  the  expected  direction.  Along  with  field  training,  Leadership 
Training Program (LTP) and Military Leadership Training Program (MLTP) taken up at various levels too 
are  helping  the  movement  to  overcome  the  difficult  situation.  The  entire  Party  and  the  people  were 
imparted education and training about the experiences of the Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution and 
the  Great  Naxalbari  on  the  occasion  of  their  50th  anniversaries.  Political-military  training  camps  were 
taken up in various Guerilla Zones to strengthen the Party leadership in the PLGA. While this campaign 
was  completed  in  some  States/Special  Zones,  it  is  going  on  in  some  States/Special  Areas.  Constant 
practice is needed to Bolshevise the Party with the experience of this campaign. The Party ranks from 
top to bottom are taking up practice with firm will in view of this. They prepared an action plan and are 
firmly  implementing  the  decisions  and  tactics  formulated  in  the  plenums  in  the  State/Special 
Zone/Special Area up to the Area level last year. 

5.  Social investigation, class analysis – The leadership ranks of the Party took up social investigation and 
class  analysis  last  year  with  the  objective  of  developing  the  tactics  of  People’s  War  according  to  the 
changing  social  conditions.  The  Party  Committees  in  the  rest  of  the  State/Special  Zone/Special  Areas 
took this up this year. They are formulating new tactics according to the Strategy and Tactics of the Party 
and the specific conditions. They are planning and implementing a campaign and education campaign in 
a specific way to consolidate the Party, PLGA, various levels of Revolutionary People’s Committees and 
Revolutionary Mass Organisations. 

6.  Revolutionary  armed  agrarian  reform  programme  –  People  took  up  land  seizure  struggles  in  various 
states  as  a  part  of  the  anti-feudal  struggles  in  the  leadership  of  the  Party.  The  lands  seized  from  the 
landlords  were  distributed  among  the  landless  poor  peasants.  In  the  places  where  the  power  of  the 
exploitive  classes  was  brought  down,  Village,  Area,  Division-level  RPCs  were  formed,  developed  and 
revolutionary  agrarian  reforms  were  implemented.  The  revolutionary  people  are  implementing  them 
amidst severe enemy attacks  by retaliating them. They are developing an alternative New Democratic 
Economic  system.  They  are  sustaining  the  Guerilla  Bases.  Anyhow,  a  few  of  the  Guerilla  Bases  have 
weakened in the severe offensive of the enemy. 
Let us overcome shortcomings-weaknesses-limitations 

  We  must  reduce  losses  –  The  exploitive  ruling  classes  are  conspiring  to  suppress  the  revolution  by 
eliminating the various levels of leadership of our Party. We must defeat this. It is necessary to sacrifice 
lives  for  the  revolutionary  movement,  but  the  revolutionary  forces  need  to  reduce  losses  which  are 
unnecessary and are not inevitable to the extent possible, thereby protecting their forces and giving a 
blow  to  the  enemy  forces  to  the  extent  possible.  Thus,  they  can  develop  from  a  weak  situation  to 
become a strong force. Only thus can we make the revolution successful. 

  We must rectify mistakes in understanding the counter-guerilla tactics of the enemy – The enemy is 
constantly  training  their  forces  with  LIC  strategy  and  tactics.  At  times  they  are  also  bringing  rapid 
changes in their tactics. Since our Party Committees are not studying these rapidly-changing tactics in a 
deep manner, they are unable to understand the strength and weaknesses of the enemy. So they have 
to study the enemy tactics in time and formulate tactics to fight them back. We must train up our Party 
ranks and PLGA forces according to them and continue our work in a successful manner. 

 

5 

  We  must  enhance  our  skill  in  identifying  coverts  and  counter-revolutionaries  –  We  must  be  always 
alert  towards  such  kinds  of  persons.  Since  we  are  not  paying  proper  attention  we  are  facing  severe 
losses. So we must strive to overcome this weakness immediately. 

  We  must  bring  down  the  number  of  surrenders  –  We  must  take  up  conscious  revolutionary  political 
work among the Party ranks and instill class hatred and class consciousness in them. We must conduct 
regular meetings to Bolshevise them and review the movement and our work. By reducing the problems 
and mistakes and providing proper guidance with an understanding towards the ongoing changes, we 
must reduce the number of surrenders. 

  We must eradicate shortcomings in taking up political work among the people – The work of making 
the people politically conscious must be the nucleus of all our practice. We have to unrelentingly strive 
to remove the various kinds of illusions among the people towards the reforms that the exploitive ruling 
classes and NGOs are bringing  forward  in a big way and towards the  parliamentary elections. We  can 
thus develop class hatred and consciousness among the people and strengthen the mass base. 

  We must overcome the shortcomings in dealing with the revolutionary agrarian reforms together with 
guerilla  war  and  revolutionary  political  power.  It  means  that  we  have  to  coordinate  political 
mobilization, armed actions and revolutionary agrarian reforms. 

  We  must  overcome  the  shortcomings  in  consolidation.  The  process  of  consolidating  the  people  that 
come  up  in  various  agitations  in  the  mass  organisations  and  developing  the  Party,  PLGA  and  United 
Front from them must be taken up constantly along with recruitment drives. 
Dear Comrades! 
In  this  background,  we  need  to  understand  the  international  and  domestic  situation  and  take  up  the 
necessary tasks. 
International  situation  –  The  world  capitalist  economic  system  is  still  in  the  mire  of  crisis.  All  the 
economic, financial and political policies that the imperialists took up to solve this crisis have failed. On 
the  other  hand,  speaking  of  Socialism-Communism,  China  has  come  up  as  a  new  Social-Imperialist 
country  with  which  the  world  economic  crisis  intensified.  China  is  severely  exploiting  the  natural 
resources  and  the  labor  power  of  the  workers  in  Africa,  Asia  and  Latin  American  countries.  It  is 
interfering  in  the  internal  affairs  of  countries  like  Chad  (Africa)  that  does  not  follow  its  diktats.  In  an 
attempt to expand its sphere of domination in the world, China is deploying military force in South and 
East  China  Sea  waters  belonging  to  Vietnam  and  the  Philippines  and  in  countries  like  Pakistan  and 
Djibouti and is becoming a danger to the sovereignty of these countries. Chinese Social-Imperialism has 
become the enemy of not only the Chinese people but also of the oppressed nations and people of the 
world. 
Instigating  racist  chauvinism  to  transform  America  into  a  ‘great  country’,  Trump  came  to  power  and 
immediately  imposed  sanctions  on  seven  Muslim  countries.  He  made  the  regulations  of  migration 
stringent  by  amending  the  H1B  Visa  Act.  He  openly  took  up  anti-environment  policies.  In  addition  to 
intensifying threats of war with the pretext that they are preparing nuclear weapons he imposed severe 
economic sanctions to pressurize Iran and North Korea. He is getting ready to make war on North Korea. 
He is taking up political and economic attack on Mexico, Cuba and other countries. He is interfering in 
the internal affairs of Venezuela and is making preparations for a military attack. 

 

6 

In fact,  due  to the crisis of US imperialism that began in 2008, its economic system  based on war has 
become much more burdensome for the society and its sources are deteriorating. It has thus politically, 
economically  and  strategically  got  weakened.  Due  to  its  economic  crisis,  the  US  is  increasingly  in 
competition with the EU and therefore it is not able to allot maximum funds to the NATO alliance like 
before. In this situation, it is unable to keep the alliance united and in its favour as like before. So it is 
trying desperately to consolidate its position. 
In this situation, imperialist Russia is attempting to sustain its sphere of influence. Since Donald Trump 
came to power, there appeared friendship between the US and Russia, due to which Trump had to face 
serious opposition from the US ruling classes. In view of strategic issues like Syria, Ukraine and Iran, US 
imposed new sanctions on Russia. In protest against this, Russia has decided to expel US diplomats on a 
large scale. 
On the other hand, China has developed as an imperialist power and emerged as a strong adversary to 
the US in re-dividing the world in the economic sphere. It is developing its hold on Asia. With the One 
Belt, One Road (OBOR) it is speeding up world domination at present. 
US-formulated Asia-Pivot policy in 2011 itself to give a blow to China that was increasingly developing as 
an  imperialist  country  competing  with  US  in  the  economic,  political  and  military  fields.  Trump  too  is 
following the  same  policy and enhancing anti-China  aggressiveness. In the  pretext  of the judgment of 
the International Court at the Hague supporting the arguments of the Philippines for its right over the 
South China Sea waters, the US is deploying warships on behalf of its allied countries and is intensifying 
conflicts with  China.  The  increasing  competition  between  China  and  the  US  for  domination on  the oil 
and  natural  gas  reserves  and  the  waterways  in  the  South  China  and  East  China  Seas,  it  is  intensifying 
tensions  in  the  Asia  Pacific  region.  This  region  is  becoming  an  important  area  of  intensifying 
contradictions between the imperialists in the International sphere. 
Chinese  Social-Imperialism  is  exploiting  natural  resources  and  markets  in  many  backward  countries, 
especially  in  more  than  20  Arab  countries  and  it  is  increasingly  competing  with  the  US  and  various 
imperialists. Competition is increasing between Germany, France and Britain for domination in Europe. 
In this situation, there is a change in the geo-political polarisations of the world. 
Imperialists and their compradors in the respective countries are implementing fascism to suppress the 
revolutionary, democratic and national liberation struggles of the oppressed nations and people of the 
world  against  the  imperialist  wars  of  occupation  and  against  exploitation  and  oppression.  They  are 
trying  to  divert  the  people  from  the  path  of  struggle  by  instigating  communalism,  racist  chauvinism, 
national  chauvinism  and  warmongering.  The  worldwide  corporate  media  is  constantly  battering  the 
minds  of  the  people  with  these  ideas.  On  the  other  hand,  imperialist-sponsored  NGOs  are  actively 
working  in  the  backward  countries  to  weaken  the  consciousness  of  militancy  and  struggle  among  the 
people. Post-modernism is launching theoretical attacks against the unity of the oppressed masses on 
class  basis.  In  addition  to  the  neo-revisionism  of  Prachanda-Avakian,  many  kinds  of  revisionism, 
parliamentarism  and  Gandhism  too  are  trying  to  divert  the  people  of  our  country  from  the  path  of 
struggle. 
Rightist, conservative, fascist Parties are gradually gaining strength encouraging fascist ideology on the 
basis of racist chauvinism and are coming to power. In Germany, Angela Markel’s party faced defeat in 
the provincial elections last October-November and parties with fascist trends became victorious. None 
of the economic, political, military and foreign policies of Obama helped solve the economic crisis of the 

 

7 

US and ended in utter failure. In this situation, the US ruling classes are instigating racist chauvinism in 
the  leadership  of  the  new  President  Donald  Trump.  Racist  attacks  on  the  Blacks,  Muslims  and  the 
migrant people are on the rise. 
On  the  whole,  the  fundamental  contradictions  of  the  world  –  contradiction  between  imperialism  and 
the  oppressed  nations  and  people;  contradiction  between  the  bourgeoisie  and  the  proletariat  in 
imperialist /capitalist countries; contradiction among the imperialists are daily intensifying.  Worldwide 
conditions are turning more favorable for revolution. 
Utilizing  the  favorable  conditions  for  revolution,  revolutionary  movements,  democratic  struggles  and 
national  liberation  struggles  are  intensifying  all  over  the  world.  Struggles  of  the  proletariat  and  the 
middle class people against racism and religious chauvinism are on the rise in the capitalist-imperialist 
countries.  People  of  Asia,  Africa  and  Latin  America  are  agitating  against  the  imperialist  policies  of 
exploitation,  intervention  and wars  of occupation. National liberation struggles have  been going on in 
Palestine,  Afghanistan,  Pakistan,  Kurdistan,  Yemen  and  other  backward  countries  for  many  years. 
World-wide  movements  against  imperialist  policies  of  total  destruction  of  environment  are  going  on. 
Revolutionary movements in the leadership of Maoist Parties in the Philippines, India, Turkey, Peru and 
other countries have stood as a challenge to the imperialists and big feudal and comprador bureaucratic 
bourgeois classes. 
Domestic situation 
Under  the  diktats  of  the  imperialists,  BJP-led  NDA  government  of  Modi  and  the  various  state 
governments have been implementing imperialist-sponsored Globalization policies in a more aggressive 
way. Everything that the Modi government is doing in the name of ‘Sab ke Sath Sab ka Vikas’, ‘Make in 
India’, ‘Startup India’ are only to loot the country for the sake of the imperialists and the Indian ruling 
classes. The lives of workers, peasants and the middle classes are suffocated with the indiscriminate loot 
of the country by the imperialist multinational corporations and Indian comprador corporate giants to 
open up all the sectors for FDI to provide super profits for them and to turn the country’s market into a 
dumping  ground for the  products from the imperialist  countries. Anyhow,  due to the world economic 
crisis the investments of the imperialists into the country are not in the expected manner and so even 
after three years of its rule there is no progress in ‘Make in India’ of Modi government. The industrial 
sector of the country is declining. The prices of daily necessities and agrarian crisis have grown and are 
exposing the shallowness of the ‘development’ he speaks of. The various schemes of the government in 
the  name  of  eradication  of  poverty  have  failed.  With  the  increase  of  agrarian  crisis  due  to  the  anti-
farmer  policies  of  the  Modi  government  twelve  thousand  farmers  are  committing  suicide  every  year. 
The central government is covering this up and is introducing fake schemes like the Prime Minister Crop 
Insurance Scheme that would earn super-profits for the public and private companies with the promise 
that it would double the income of the farmers in the coming four years only to create illusions among 
the peasantry. 
The negative results of the pro-imperialist, anti-farmer policies led to the intensification of the agrarian 
crisis and agriculture-based ‘higher’ castes like the Jats, Patidars, Marathas and Kapus are pushed into 
an  inevitable  position  of  struggle.  These  castes,  which  earlier  opposed  reservations  for  the  Dalits  and 
OBCs, are now demanding reservations for themselves in education and jobs. 
In the name  of ‘One  Country,  One Market,  One  Tax’,  Modi government  has amended the indirect  tax 
system stamping out the powers of the states and introduced the Goods and Services Tax (GST), putting 

 

8 

heavy  burden  of  taxes  on  the  people  including  small  and  medium-size  traders  in  the  interest  of  the 
Imperialists and the Comprador Bureaucratic Capitalists. It is conducting the deceptive propaganda that 
this  would  reduce  the  prices  of  all  commodities  and help  the  poor.  Since  the  introduction  of the  GST 
policy, the government did not declare the index of retail prices. There is confusion in the country. There 
is  no  change  in  the  growth  of  prices  of  the  goods of  daily  necessity.  In  fact,  GST  was  imposed on  the 
people  of  the  country  as  a  part  of  the  Hindu  fascist  offensive  in  the  economic  sector  to  fulfill  the 
interests of the multinational organisations and their compradors. 
The Narendra Modi-Amit Shah-Mohan Bhagwat clique is provoking Brahmanical Hindu-fascist ideology, 
nationalist  frenzy  and  fake  patriotism  against  Pakistan  regarding  Kashmir  and  against  China  regarding 
the border problem to divert the unrest and discontent against the government among the oppressed 
masses and to liquidate the people’s movements. In fact, this clique has declared that the establishment 
of  Hindu  Rashtra,  construction  of  Ram  temple  in  Ayodhya,  abolition  of  Article  370  that  provides 
autonomy to Kashmir, implementation of Uniform Civil Code were not in their agenda and deceived the 
people  that  ‘development’  was  its  agenda  and  came  to  power.  But  since  its  coming  to  power,  it  is 
working  in  a  planned  manner  to  achieve  the  aim  of  establishing  Hindu  Rashtra.  As  a  part  of  it,  many 
Brahmanical Hindu-fascist organisations of the Sangh Parivar are working actively all over the country. 
New  ones  are  coming  up  with  various  names.  These  organisations  seriously  are  trying  to  implement 
their above-mentioned actual agenda with the aim of establishing Hindu  Rashtra.  In the name of cow 
protection,  they  are  supporting  the  mass  lynching  of  religious  minorities  and  Dalits,  which  is  growing 
and  creating  an  atmosphere  of  terror.  These  organisations  are  killing  Adivasis,  students,  professors, 
women and other such sections and are indulging in indiscriminate atrocities. They are Hinduising the 
names of villages and railway stations. For example, the name of Sherpura was changed to Sivapuri and 
Mughal Sarai Railway Station to Deendayal Upadhyay Railway Station in Bihar. At present, ban on cow 
slaughter  all  over  the  country  and  the  building  of  Ram  temple  in  Ayodhya  is  in  Modi  government’s 
agenda. The Supreme Court too gave an outrageous suggestion of compromise between the two sides 
and with this the Sangh Parivar that had until now said that it would follow the decision of the Supreme 
Court took the initiative in its hands, and is creating a split between the Shia and Sunni Muslims fighting 
the Babri Masjid case in a conspiratorial manner and is preparing its agents among them. It is seriously 
trying to saffronise the judicial system and provide legality to its fascist rule. 
Due  to  these  conditions  of  the  country,  pro-imperialist  Brahmanical  Hindu-fascism  with  outright  anti-
country  policies  and  decadent  regressive  policies  became  a common enemy  of  the oppressed classes, 
nations and communities. People’s resistance in various forms is on the rise. This is a new development 
in the politics of our country in the last three years. 
Recently, this Sangh Parivar clique in the leadership of Hindu-fascist Modi said that we have to change 
the theory according to the changed conditions in the country that terrorism, religious fundamentalism 
and casteism must be eradicated by 2022, ‘New India must be built’ for the development of the country 
and  poverty,  malnutrition  and  corruption  must  be  eradicated  in  the  country  and  gave  the  slogan  of 
‘Karenge, Karke Rahenge’. It has started a propaganda campaign ‘Sankalp se Siddhi’ in a big way. In the 
name of elimination of corruption it demonetized big notes, heavily exploited the money of the people 
and  accumulated  it  in  banks  and  fulfilled  the  interests  of  the  multinational  companies  and  the  big 
bureaucratic bourgeois class. This clique follows pro-imperialist Globalization policies and is making the 
lives of the poor and middle classes, the peasantry, small traders and capitalists miserable. It is trying to 

 

9 

deceive the people with the most deceiving slogans and schemes once again. In fact, the main objective 
of the campaign of this clique is to establish a Hindu-fascist state, to wipe out the Maoist movement and 
the national liberation struggles in Kashmir and the Northeast; to eliminate the Muslims, Christians and 
other religious minorities, the struggling forces of Adivasis; to suppress the forces resisting Brahmanical 
Hindu-fascism, all revolutionary, democratic forces, people of the oppressed castes, Adivasis and other 
oppressed sections, giving a blow to the opposition political parties and nothing else. 
Apart from the centre, in many states the NDA in the leadership of BJP came to power and the Sangh 
Parivar  became  more  aggressive.  Initially,  Modi  said  that  he  would  make  India  ‘Congress-free’,  but 
presently he is concentrating on eliminating any parliamentary opposition in the country. He is bringing 
down governments led by opposition parties in various states, putting pressure on the leaders of these 
parties  by  any  means,  buying  them  out,  making  secret  opportunist  agreements,  employing  the 
intelligence  machinery  on  those  who  do  not  buckle  under  pressure,  launching  attacks  by  deploying 
police forces and framing them in false cases. 
Revolutionary, democratic, secular  and  patriotic forces  are coming together in many  united  forums to 
fight back the Brahmanical Hindu-fascist offensive against the people of the country that is on the rise 
each day. In the background of these attacks starting from Dadri in Uttar Pradesh to Saharanpur, Una in 
Gujarat  and  Alwar  in  Rajasthan  the  Dalits,  Muslims,  the  forces  of  Adivasi  and  other  oppressed  castes 
came  together  in  Una  and  formulated  an  action  plan  to  fight  back  Hindu  communalism.  Workers, 
peasants,  students,  youth,  women,  intellectuals,  professors,  employees,  teachers,  doctors,  health 
workers and the unemployed are in struggle. The united agitation of the students and professors of the 
universities and colleges of 14 states against the attacks of the Sangh Parivar on progressive students in 
Ramjas College of Delhi is an example of this. 
More than 15 crore workers went on a countrywide strike last September in the leadership of the  Left 
trade  unions against  the  anti-worker policies of the Modi government. On 28th  February  this year ten 
lakh  public  sector  bank  employees  went  on  a  general  strike  in  protest  against  the  anti-people 
government  policies like  amendments  to labour  laws and outsourcing. The ruling classes are trying to 
weaken  the  leadership  of  the  militant  trade  union  movement.  A  few  months  back  the  trade  union 
leadership of Maruti Suzuki Company was given life imprisonment. The working class must fight it back 
in a united manner. 
The  peasants  all  over  the  country  are  fighting  against  the  anti-farmer  policies  of  the  central  and  the 
state  governments.  Farmers  are  making  militant  struggles  demanding  waiver  of  bank 
loans, 
remunerative prices and subsidies in Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttar 
Pradesh,  Chhattisgarh,  Telangana  and  other  states.  The  governments  are  unleashing  cruel  repression 
through  their  armed  forces  on  them.  They  are  foisting  cases  on  organisations  and  intellectuals  that 
oppose  the anti-people bureaucratic policies  with fascist  laws like  the  UAPA  and putting them in jails. 
Each and every struggling oppressed class, section and nation is under severe repression. 
The people of Kashmir, Nagaland, Manipur and Asom are fighting for the right to self-determination and 
secession. The Bodo and Gorkha people are fighting for separate states. Since last July when the Indian 
Army  killed  Burhan  Wani  of  Hijb-ul  Mujahiddeen,  the  national  liberation  movement  of  Kashmir 
intensified and the wave continues even now. The central and the state governments are perplexed by 
the fight of the people of Kashmir against the Indian Army and the paramilitary forces with ‘stones’. For 
the  past  one  year  the  students  of  Kashmir  too  have  become  very  militant  in  this  struggle.  The 

 

10 

organisations  of  national  liberation  struggle  in  the  Northeast  have  consolidated  again,  formed  into  a 
United  Front  and  are  fighting  against  the  Indian  expansionists.  The  Modi  government  is  perpetrating 
large-scale  massacre  of  national  liberation  activists,  especially  in  Kashmir,  and  is  unleashing  severe 
repression to suppress these struggles. Recently, it is also trying to abolish ‘Article 35 A’ that is said to be 
the last support for the autonomy of Kashmir. There is great anger among the Kashmir people against 
this. The political parties here too are opposing this. Indefinite bandh is going on for the past 57 days for 
separate Gorkhaland. Though the state government deployed large-scale police forces and the army and 
in  spite  of  the  prohibitory  orders,  arrests,  tear  gas  and  massacre  by  firing  on  the  people,  the  heroic 
Gorkha people are fighting militantly. 
Atrocities on women are daily increasing in the country. According to the available statistics, violence on 
one woman is committed in every three minutes. Eight thousand women are killed for dowry every year. 
There  are  fifty  thousand  incidents  of  atrocities  every  year  and  forty  thousand  women  are  being 
kidnapped.  Acid  attacks,  child  marriages,  forced  prostitution,  female  feticide,  killing  of  girl  child  and 
other crimes against women are the result of the large-scale growth of feudal and imperialist culture. 
Women’s and democratic movements are coming up against these all over the country. 
Dear Comrades! 
Our  people’s  guerillas  carried  out  two  ambushes  in  March-April  this  year  in  Sukma  district  of 
Chhattisgarh in which 37 CRPF jawans were wiped out and another ten were injured, in the background 
of which the Central Home Minister Rajnath Singh held a high-level meeting on the 8th of May in New 
Delhi  with  the  Chief  Ministers,  top  police  officials  and  District  Collectors  of  ten  states  in  which  the 
Maoist movement is going on. In this meeting he preached that “we must be aggressive in every issue 
and if we are defensive it will ultimately weaken the efficiency of counterattack”. This aggressiveness is 
not limited to the military field. This is mainly related to ideology. The saffron army has already started 
this attack with the total support of its state. As a part of it the ‘white-clothed’ Naxalites, i.e., the civil 
rights activists, social activists and democrats were declared to be in the target. It is clear that this attack 
is  not  only  against  Maoism.  It  is  going  on  against  all  progressive  ideas  and  even  against  liberal 
democratic thought. Their aggressiveness reveals that the namesake parliamentary ‘democracy’ too will 
no longer exist. 
Since  the People’s  War  in the  country  is  going  forward  under  the  leadership of  our Party  overcoming 
many  ebbs  and  flows,  ups  and  downs,  difficulties  and  losses,  twists  and  turns,  an  alternative 
revolutionary path is coming up for the people of the country. The exploitive Indian ruling classes feel 
this  to  be  potently  dangerous.  They  formulated  a  scheme  to  entirely  wipe  out  the  revolutionary 
movement with imperialist-sponsored counter-revolutionary LIC strategy. As a part of it they prepared 
schemes for wiping out the movement in the guidance of military officers in the May 8th meeting while 
on  the one  hand ruling out  the  possibility of deploying  the Indian Army  in the movement  areas. They 
decided  to  shift  the  CRPF  (LWE)  Central  Zone  Command  from  Kolkata  to  Raipur;  to  form  Unified 
Commands up to the district level and strengthen the Tactical-Operational level commands; to form a 
Committee  for  better  coordination  of  the  state  and  the  central  forces;  to  shift the  Naxal  special DG’s 
office in Raipur to Jagadalpur (Bastar); to expand and strengthen the intelligence system, especially to 
strengthen  human  and  electronic  intelligence; to  effectively  utilize  electronic  system (UAVs,  satellites, 
GPS, thermal imaging, Infrared technology, CC TV cameras, radars and others) for real-time intelligence 
during  operations;  to  utilize  the  air  force  during  operations  too  (to  deploy  commando  forces  by 

 

11 

helicopters,  and  strafing  from  them);  to  train  the  forces  in  a  new  way;  to  form  counterinsurgency 
schools  in  Sukma  and  Bijapur;  to  improve  coordination  between  the  central  and  the  state  forces;  to 
utilize  modern  technology  and  complete  the  roads  in  the  movement  areas  as soon  as  possible  in  the 
protection of the paramilitary forces; and to build some more communication towers. It was announced 
that  the  National  Security  Adviser  Ajit  Dobhal  and  the  Internal  Security  Advisor  K.  Vijay  Kumar  shall 
guide  the  annihilation  campaign  against  the Maoists. The most  important  decision  taken was to  carry 
out  surgical  strikes.  All  these  reveal  the  aim  to  eliminate  the  revolutionary  leadership  and  subjective 
forces of our Party in a planned manner and thus defeat the Indian revolutionary movement before the 
parliament  elections  in  2019.  Mission-2017  started  very  aggressively  with  murderous  attacks  bearing 
this aim. The next two years shall be a serious challenge for the Indian revolutionary Movement. 
History  has  repeatedly  proved that  no matter  how  much  cruel  repression  the  exploitive  ruling  classes 
unleash to suppress the people’s struggles, it is ultimately bound to fail. With this experience we must 
take up the immediate task of defeating Mission-2017, protect the party leadership from the top to the 
bottom and advance the movement. We have to develop mass base and take up people’s war-guerilla 
war by basing on class-line – mass-line. In order to be victorious in this, we must protect our forces to 
the maximum extent possible. We must utilize the weaknesses of the enemy, and as soon as we get the 
opportunity we must centralize the PLGA forces, attack the separate units of the enemy forces or after 
dividing them  up  and  seize  their  weapons. For this purpose,  let  us implement with initiative  the rules 
and principles of guerilla war – secrecy, speed, firm will, change of place and other such offensive self-
defensive  tactics  to  intensify  and  expand  the  guerilla  war.  Let  us  fight  with  sacrifice  for  achieving  the 
immediate objectives of securing self-defense, developing the mass base, developing and consolidating 
the subjective forces, expanding the movement, etc. and advance the People’s War one more step. Let 
us endeavor to complete the following tasks – 
Tasks:  

  Defeat Mission-2017! Advance with the aim of achieving many more victories in the People’s War as a 
part  of  implementing  the  central  task  assigned  by  the  Unity  Congress-Ninth  Congress  of  the  Party  to 
overcome the difficult situation of the revolutionary movement! We must understand the People’s War 
that has continued under the leadership of our Party against Mission-2016 and Mission-2017 unleashed 
by  the  Indian  ruling  classes  in  the  last one  year.  We  must  synthesise  these  experiences  and  learn  the 
positive  and  negative  lessons.  We  must  formulate  appropriate  tactics  and  tasks  based  on  class-line  – 
mass-line to advance with many more victories. We have to build United Fronts by bringing together the 
democratic  forces  from  the  local  level  to  the  central  level  and  the  democrats  in  the  areas  of  the 
revolutionary  movement  against  the  war  of  the  exploitive  ruling  classes  on  the  people  as  a  part  of 
Mission-2017. We have to activate the already existing UF forums so that they function energetically. 

  Constantly  Bolshevise  the  Party  by  basing  on  the  experiences  of  the  Bolshevization  campaign!  The 
Bolshevization campaign taken up by our Party is bringing good results in the expected direction to an 
extent.  We  have  to  continue  relentless  practice  to  Bolshevise  the  Party  with  the  experience  of  this 
campaign. In view of this the Party cadres  from the top to the bottom have to continue their practice 
with  firm  determination.  In  places  where  this  campaign  is  not  complete  it  must  be  planned  to  be 
successfully completed with a proletarian spirit. 

 

12 

  Take up social investigation and class investigation in all the States/Special Areas/Special Zones with the 
aim  of  developing  the  tactics  of  People’s  War  according  to  the  changing  social  conditions!  Formulate 
appropriate tactics, creatively apply them to the specific conditions and advance the People’s War! 

  Celebrate from 7th to 13th November 2017 the centenary of the Russian Bolshevik Revolution that shook 

the world and the bicentenary of the birth of Karl Marx from 5th to 11th May 2018! 

  Concentrate  on  revolutionary  land  reforms  that  are  the  main  essence  of  the  New  Democratic 
Revolution!  Revolutionary  land  reforms  are  the  main  essence  of  the  democratic  revolution.  They 
liberate the majority of the peasant masses among the vast masses economically, socially, politically and 
culturally.  This  is  the  only  way  to  successfully  complete  the  New  People’s  Democratic  Revolution 
through  Protracted  People’s  War  by  gaining  firm  and  strong  support  of  the  peasant  masses.  The 
revolutionary land reforms we take up will create favorable conditions for revolution. 

  Mobilise  and  build  large-scale  agitation  of  the  oppressed  masses  against  the  neo-liberal  policies  of 
imperialism and the problems of displacement and other social, political, economic and environmental 
problems and the peasantry with severe discontent due to agrarian crisis and combine them with  the 
People’s  War!  Mobilise  the  revolutionary  and  democratic  organisations,  forces,  individuals  and  the 
broad masses and build a strong and broad-based people’s movement! 

  Build a strong militant movement uniting the revolutionary forces, democrats, progressive  and secular 

forces and organisations as well as the minorities against Brahmanical Hindu-fascism! 

  Concentrate  on  the  problems  of  the  Adivasis,  Dalits,  women  and  religious  minorities,  organize  the 

people on common platforms and build a broad-based mass movement! 

  Expose the neo-revisionism of Prachanda-Avakian and many kinds of revisionism, Gandhism, the trend 
of  legal  struggle,  reformism,  economism,  parliamentarism,  post-modernism  and  other  such  bourgeois 
theories!  Declare  that  Marxism-Leninism-Maoism  is  the  only  theory  that  buries  imperialism  and 
liberates the oppressed nations and people of the world! 

  Mobilise  the  people  and  democratic  forces  against  the  government  mercenary  police,  commando, 
paramilitary forces and state-sponsored counter-revolutionary organisations and gangs violating human 
rights  in  the  areas  of  the  revolutionary  movement  and  take  up  struggle!  Build  a  strong  movement  of 
people’s resistance! 

  Mobilise the people in a big way in support of the Kashmir, Nagalim, Asom, Manipur and other national 
liberation movements fighting for their right to self-determination and secession as well as movements 
like Bodoland and Gorkhaland! 

  Unite the people in support of the anti-imperialist movements across the world! Mobilise their support 

for the Indian Revolution! 

 
With Revolutionary Greetings, 
Central Committee, 
Communist Party of India (Maoist)  
11-8-2017 
 

 

13 

