TENTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE FORMATION OF CPI(MAOIST)

COMMEMORATIVE VOLUME

Messages of the CC, CPI(Maoist)
on the  Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

(2005-2014)

CENTRAL COMMITTEE

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST)

Foreword

On the occasion of the ten years celebrations of the formation of CPI
(Maoist), as part of our endeavor to republish a number of valuable party
documents, we are publishing bringing out here a compilation of Messages
for the Martyrs’ Memorial Week (observed every year) issued by the Central
Committee, CPI (Maoist) since its formation on September 21, 2004.

The Martyrs’ Memorial Week is observed every year from July 28 to
August  3  to  commemorate  the  countless  martyrs  of  the  new  democratic
revolution (NDR) in India and also the martyrs of the world socialist revolution.
It was on 28 July, 1972 that one of the founder leaders of the party, comrade
Charu Mazumdar, breathed his last in police custody due to the callous treatment
meted out to him under inhuman illegal custody and neglect of his health by
the authorities. The other founder leader of the party, comrade Kanhai Chatterji
was martyred on 18 July 1982 due to ill-health. Since six women, two children
and a peasant had laid down their lives in Naxalbari on 25 May 1967, thousands
of comrades and people have been martyred in the course of the protracted
people’s war (PPW) waged in our country for the victory of the NDR.

The revolutionary movement strives to keep alive the memories of the
martyrs through various forms – meetings, building of martyrs’ columns,
publication  of  pamphlets,  books,  photographs,  producing  revolutionary
literature, songs and cultural forms etc depicting their lives, contributions
and sacrifices. As the PW intensified, the sacrifices also increased and so the
party decided to observe the Martyrs’ Memorial Week to commemorate all
the martyrs, particularly those who were martyred in the one year since the
previous  memorial  week.  The  date  of  martyrdom  of  comrade  Charu
Mazumdar  was  chosen  by  our  party  in  September  2004  for  this  and  the
commemoration would continue the entire week starting from that date.

The CC, CPI (Maoist) issues a message every year on this occasion to
humbly pay its red homage to the martyrs and vows to fulfill their lofty aims.
In these messages it calls upon the party ranks, comrades in PLGA and the
united front to emulate the ideals established by the selfless martyrs. It also
gives a brief explanation about the context, both domestic and international,
in which these martyrdoms happened and sets some tasks to be fulfilled to
carry forward the aims of the martyrs.

So these July 28 messages have a great political, historical significance

for the revolutionary movement and also have an emotional appeal for the
cadres and the people. These messages are widely propagated among the
party  ranks,  PLGA,  people’s  government  and  mass  organisation  activists
and the revolutionary masses during the memorial week. This memorial week
is observed in every guerilla zone and movement area, in the prisons by our
political prisoners, in every urban area where our party units are present and
by comrades belonging to various departments working in secrecy in urban
areas. The entire revolutionary camp observes this solemn occasion in various
forms  evading  the  enemy’s  eyes  amid  severe  repressive  conditions. The
parents, relatives and friends of the martyrs also participate in huge numbers
in the programmes organised on the occasion in the movement areas, hoist
the red flag, inaugurate the martyrs’ columns and speak about their beloved
family members who selflessly sacrificed their lives for the liberation of the
people. In the movement areas, observing this week is like waging a battle
with the enemy forces as they try everything under their means to stop the
people from commemorating the people’s heroes. But the most consistent
happening over all these years about this week is that people observe it no
matter how severe the repression, emerge victorious in this battle and vow to
carry forward the ideals of the martyrs.

We appeal to the readers to go through these messages and grasp the
significance of not only the sacrifices of these martyrs but also the context in
which such martyrdoms are becoming inevitable. This is an era of revolutions
and our revolution is advancing by bitterly confronting the counter-revolution.
People  realise  the  need  for  sacrifices  in  such  an  era  and  come  forward
selflessly. This explains the countless sacrifices including the supreme sacrifice
the  people  are  making  as  part  of  the  NDR  in  India  as  recorded  in  these
messages.

We  urge  the  readers  to  follow  the  shining  path  shown  by  these  great
martyrs  of  the  Indian  revolution  to  build  a  society  free  of  all  kinds  of
exploitation  and  oppression,  where  the  ruled  become  the  rulers  and  the
expropriators are expropriated. This would be the true homage one can pay
to the selflessness of our beloved martyrs.

September 1, 2014

With Revolutionary Greetings

Central  Committee

CPI(Maoist)

Year
2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

CONTENTS

Page No.

.......

.......

.......

.......

.......

.......

.......

.......

.......

.......

7

15

19

27

36

41

47

58

73

89

Observe Martyrs Week
from 28 July to 3 August!

Hail, Defend and Advance the great cause

of our beloved martyrs!!

Dear  Comrades!

As we are all aware, the newly-unified Party had taken the decision to
observe 28 July as the Martyrs’ Day and 28 July to 3 August as the Martyrs’
Week every year. The coming July 28 will be the first Martyrs’ Day after
the historic September 21 merger of the two Maoist revolutionary parties
leading the people’s war in the country. Hence the Martyrs’ Day this year
will have great significance and will also have great impact on our entire
Party, PLGA, revolutionary Mass Organizations and the revolutionary
masses throughout the country. Our newly-unified Party should observe
the Martyrs’ Week beginning with 28 July with redoubled spirit and vigour
and declare to the world the significance of the sacrifices of the thousands
of martyrs, their aims and dreams.

 In the past six months since 21 September 2004 when the CPI (Maoist)
was formed, there are a total of 60 martyrs all over the country. 44 of
these comrades were killed in the three zones of AP, 12 are from B-J, and
two each from Karnataka and DK. We must focus on the comrades who
became martyrs after the formation of the new Party.

In  Karnataka  we  suffered  the  biggest  loss  with  the  martyrdom  of
comrade Saket Rajan, the secretary of the SC and an elected alternate
CCM  of  erstwhile  CPI(ML)[PW].  He  was  the  main  spirit  behind  the
initiation of armed struggle in the Western Ghats and is one of the best-
known intellectuals in Karnataka and his book ‘Making History’ has become
a popular history textbook in Karnataka that gives a Marxist interpretation
of the state’s history. Comrade Saket’s martyrdom is a great loss not only
to Karnataka but to the entire Party and the Indian revolution.

The reactionary ruling classes had become so shaky after the formation
of the CPI(Maoist) that they unleashed their fascist onslaught and began a

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

7

killing spree in AP from the first week of January by breaking off from the
peace talks. The killings of the ten comrades in Manala in Nizamabad
district in North Telangana on March 11th has hardly any parallel in the
history of our movement. They were poisoned through a covert agent,
caught after they became unconscious, tortured throughout the night and
killed. In this incident we lost the DCS comrade Ramesh, another DCM
comrade  Babanna  and  three  LGS  commanders  along  with  five  squad
members of the PLGA.

We lost comrade Yadanna, Warangal DCS and a member of the Special
Zonal Committee of NT and three others in another incident. Another
three DC members—comrade Ranjit of Adilabad, Seenu of Karimnagar
and Santosh of Mahboobnagar were caught and killed. Laxmi, an organizer
and EC member of AP CMS was caught and killed. Ten of the total martyrs
are women comrades. All these comrades faced the brutal tortures with
great courage without divulging anything to the enemy and hence were
killed in fake encounters. In Jharkhand, we lost Platoon commander Chandan
of our PLGA while fighting bravely against CRPF in Tamar PS limits in
Ranchi  district  in  December  ’04. And  in  March  ’05,  another  platoon
commander  along  with  three  platoon  members  became  martyrs  in
Barachetty PS limits in Gaya district of Bihar. All these comrades of the
CPI(Maoist) will remain immortal in the annals of our Party history.

While hailing the sacrifices of these and over several thousand
great Martyrs of our Party, armed guerilla squads and the PLGA, and
revolutionary mass organisations all over India in the period since the historic
Naxalbari armed agrarian uprising, starting with the first martyrdom of
comrade Babulal Biswakarmakar, and narrating their exemplary valour,
steadfastness, determination and the firm ideological-political commitment
and loyalty to the Party, revolution and the oppressed masses, special focus
during the Martyrs’ Week should be on the two great founder leaders and
teachers of our Party—comrade Charu Majumdar and comrade Kanai
Chatterjee.

Comrade CM, who led the Naxalbari armed uprising and founded the
CPI(ML), was arrested by the police in Kolkata on 16 July 1972, and was
tortured and killed on 28 July. Comrade KC, the founder-leader of erstwhile

8

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

MCCI, died due to severe ill health on 18 July, 1982. Both these great
Maoist  leaders  played  a  historic  role  in  breaking  away  from  age-old
revisionism,  establishing  the  correct  revolutionary  line  in  the  Indian
Communist Movement and thus initiating the armed agrarian revolution
that had been growing from strength to strength over the years.

The contributions of these leaders of our Party should be explained in
detail to the Indian people and their exemplary lives should be highlighted
in our propaganda.

On the occasion of this first Martyrs’Day of the newly-unified Party,
we must unfailingly remember all those great martyrs of the India revolution
like Com Amulya Sen, Com Saroj Dutta, Com Sushital Roy Chowdhuy,
Com Chandra Shekhar Das, Com Vempatapu Sathyam, Com Adibhatla
Kailasam, Com Panchadi Krishnamurthy, Com Bhuja Singh, Com Subbarao
Panigrahi, Com Sudipto Banerjee, Com Appu and others.

Our Party’s history is filled with numerous examples of brave martyrs
with exceptional communist qualities and revolutionary traditions such as:
total dedication to the cause of revolution, selflessness and adherence to
communist values and ethics, indomitable will and steadfastness, exemplary
courage, proletarian discipline, simplicity in habits and lifestyle, deep affection,
love, respect and an attitude of serving the basic classes and the oppressed
masses, determination to bear hardship and ‘swim against the tide’, hard
work, and so on.

Comrades Shyam, Mahesh, Murali, Puli Anjanna Bhagya, Koumudi,
Suguna and many comrades at various levels in the Party, PLGA, and the
activists of the revolutionary mass organizations, had undergone the most
brutal tortures, but had not uttered a single Party secret. There are several
comrades from among the non-Party masses who had steadfastly guarded
Party’s secrets, protected the cadres and leadership of the Party, PLGA
and the revolutionary mass organizations, in spite of continuous tortures
and harassment, destruction of property and finally death itself.

Comrades Bhakti da, Dara, Bachan, Sunil, Gopal, Dadichi Roy, Sagar,
Jaishia, Ramchandar, Zacharia and several other comrades will remain
outstanding examples in the history of the ongoing people’s war in Bihar-
Jharkhand.

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

9

Besides the martyrs of India we must hail the martyrs who fell in the
course of advancing the people’s wars in Nepal, Philippines, Peru, Turkey
and other countries, and for the cause of the world revolution. We must
explain how all these martyrs in India and other countries represent the
best communist traditions as mentioned above and will remain shining stars
forever.

All these comrades had laid down their lives for the Party, people and
revolution without any hesitation and thus became glorious models to be
proudly emulated by all Party members, PLGA fighters and the revolutionary
masses. The lives of these martyr comrades from the village level up to
the CC should be popularised among the people through various means of
propaganda, construct Martyrs’ columns where possible, hold meetings,
both secret as well as open, and publish booklets from the district level to
the All India level.
Concrete Programme for the Martyrs’ Week:

1. Take up extensive propaganda campaign highlighting the cherished
aims and goals of the martyrs, their invaluable sacrifices, and their
exemplary lives and high communist values which they upheld.
We must use all means at our disposal. Press statements about the
Martyrs’ Week and about the martyrs should be given up to the
local level in every state. Interviews can be given as decided by
the  SC/SAC/SZC  but  only  after  taking  all  necessary  technical
precautions.  Leaflets,  posters  and  walling  should  be  taken  up
extensively. Banners should be placed in our stronghold areas. In
other areas too, these should be placed but must follow strictly
secret methods. Balloons can be put up wherever we have the
opportunity. Photos of martyrs and calendars with the photos of
the martyrs belonging to a particular district or region, front, women
comrades etc can be printed and sold among the people where
possible.

2. In all our statements, leaflets, posters, interviews, meetings etc.,
special focus should be on the two founding leaders of our Party. A
brief introduction of their lives and contributions should be given.
The  photos  of  the  two  leaders  should  be  included  in  all  the

10

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

propaganda material. Should call upon the people to march along
the path blazed by these leaders.

3. Martyrs’ Columns should be constructed wherever we have some
strength at the local level. In fact, our comrades and people have a
long experience of construction of columns and fighting with the
reactionary forces and the state in order to protect these columns.
Last year hundreds of Martyrs’ columns were constructed by taking
up a wide campaign. Local people and people from neighbouring
villages were mainly mobilized for the construction of the columns.
Some were very huge and took much time for construction. In
general, we should not go for huge structures that take much time,
money and involves several problems. Instead, we must try to build
small columns in as many villages as possible by mobilizing the
family members of martyrs and the people of the village. We must
try to complete the construction in the shortest possible time, keeping
in mind that we are in the midst of war. One or two huge structures
in states can be planned depending on the concrete conditions
prevailing if it helps in political mobilization of the masses.

4. We can form open committees consisting of the family members
and friends of the martyrs as done in some states already. These
committees can be formed from the district to the state levels for
the present. Construction of the martyrs’ columns can be taken up
under  the  banner  of  these  committees  in  some  places.  Open
meetings  can  be  organized  where  possible  and  extensive
propaganda can be taken up in this name. These forums of the
families and well-wishers of the martyrs should boldly propagate
that the martyrs are the beloved leaders of the masses and that the
people have the right to commemorate the martyrdom of their
beloved leaders. Prepare the people to confront the state and the
lumpen gangs if the latter disturb the construction of the columns
or the memorial meetings. We must try to include some prominent
progressive  personalities  in  these  forums  to  make  them  more
effective and appealing.

5. The meetings can be both secret and open. Generally, in all our
areas of armed struggle, these will be secretly organized. But in
11

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

the urban areas and other areas where our armed struggle is still in
the initial phase, we can take organize open meetings to the extent
possible.  Whether it is open or secret to protect these we must
prepare and engage our armed militia and PLGA forces to confront
the state if the police try to obstruct the construction of the columns,
destroy the columns or disturb the meetings. The police and the
Special Forces generally take up combing operations during the
Martyrs’ Week in order to disrupt our programmes, create terror
among  the  masses  and  thereby  try  to  prevent  the  people  from
attending our meetings. We have to engage a part of our PLGA
forces to stop the enemy forces and to inflict damage if they come
to  disturb. And  as  far  as  disturbance  to  the  open  meetings  is
concerned, we must mobilize the masses in a big way to resist the
enemy onslaught. We must place women and children and old age
people in the forefront of the demonstrations against the state.

6. Processions and torch-light processions—both secret and open—
silent demonstrations, gatherings of the families of the martyrs and
their press conferences, and other creative types of mass gatherings
and propaganda methods should be taken up.

7. Take out booklets at the district and higher levels. There is a vast
literature on the martyrs in the form of booklets and articles in the
magazines  of  erstwhile  CPI  (ML)[PW]  and  MCCI  in  various
languages. Some of these can also be reprinted in the name of the
new Party, along with the newly written booklets.

8. Encourage our comrades in the Party, PLGA and revolutionary
organs of power and mass organizations to take pledge in their
respective units or en masse or individually that they will fight till
their last breath and uphold the cause for which our beloved martyrs
had laid down their lives. They should pledge to imbibe the qualities
of thee martyr comrades and learn from their exemplary lives.
Pledge-taking will instill a new spirit and strengthen our resolve to
defeat the enemy offensive with great courage and advance to
complete the new democratic revolution and then to march on to
build socialism and communism.

12

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

9. We must take up the task of meeting all the families of the martyrs,
share their grief and suffering, bring solace to them and encourage
them to play whatever role possible for them in the revolution. It is
really unfortunate that we are not able to meet all the families of
the martyrs and involve them in some activity. Apart from the Party
cadre and mass organizations, the various forums formed with the
active family members and well-wishers of martyrs should also
meet the families of every martyr as soon as the news of martyrdom
is known. This should become a regular practice. They must also
be  encouraged  to  be  in  the  forefront  during  the  martyrs’
commemoration week and become part of the organizations formed
to commemorate the martyrs.

Comrades!
It is a fact that the enemy offensive is increasing and is growing more
and more brutal. The UPA government, led by the Congress party—the
arch-reactionary Party of the Indian comprador bureaucratic bourgeoisie-
big landlord parties, that has been serving imperialism most loyally ever
since its formation—has declared an all-out war and has intensified its
countrywide coordinated offensive after the formation of the CPI(Maoist).
We have to carry out all our activities while confronting the enemy forces.
We must politically mobilize the masses extensively and creatively and
follow the principles and methods of guerilla war while carrying out all our
activity. Preservation of our forces is very important while taking up the
task of destruction of the enemy forces and carrying out all other activity.
Hence, we must keep in mind the long-term perspective of our work,
the intensity of the enemy offensive, and the concrete local conditions
while taking up the campaign of Martyrs’ Week.

Let us commemorate the martyrs’ week with great revolutionary fervour

and élan!

Let us vow to avenge the death of the martyrs by further intensifying
and expanding the people’s war, destroying the enemy forces bit by bit
through guerilla war, transforming the PLGA into PLA, and establishing
Base Areas!

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

13

Let us take the revolutionary pledge in the name of our beloved martyr
comrades that we shall fight unto the last for fulfilling their cherished dreams
of ushering in genuine people’s democracy, socialism and communism by
completely rooting out imperialism, feudalism and comprador bureaucrat
capitalism from our country and all reactionaries worldwide!

Let us successfully organize the Martyrs’ Week as an ideological and
political educational and training campaign to mould our entire Party, brave
fighters and commanders of PLGA and the vast masses in the model of
the martyrs, to valiantly confront the enemy offensive and to overcome all
the hardships in this all-out, bloody class war against the enemy!

Long Live our great teachers and beloved leaders—comrades CM
and KC!
Long Live our beloved leaders—comrades Amulya Sen, Saroj Dutta,
Sushital  Roy  Choudhary,  Chadrasekhar  Das,  Panchadi
Krishnamurthy Vempatapu Sathyam, Adibhatla Kailasam, Subbarao
Panigrahi,  Baba Bhuja Singh, Appu, Sudipto Banerjee and others!
Long Live our beloved leaders  comrades Prakash Master, Shyam,
Mahesh and Murali!
Long  Live  Women  comrades  Panchadi  Nirmala,  Snehalatha,
Padma, Lalita, Suguna, Chittakka, Bhagya, Parvati, Kavita, Badki
Devi, Urmila, and others!
Long Live the thousands of our beloved  heroic martyrs of AP, Bihar,
Jharkhand, DK, Chathisgarh, Uttar Oradesh, West Bengal,  Orissa,
Maharashtra,  Madhya  Pradesh,  Karnataka,  Tamil  Nadu,  Punjab
Assam and Tripura and various parts of the country!
Hail, defend and march boldly to fulfill the aims of the Martyrs by
intensifying and expanding the people’s war!
Establishing  Base  Areas,  Transforming  PLGA  into  PLA  and
Expanding  the  people’s  war  throughout  the  country  is  our  real
homage to the beloved Martyrs!

22 April,  2005

Politburo,
CPI(Maoist)

14

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

Commemorate Martyr’s Week Countrywide
July 28th, the day comrade Charu Majumdar was martyred is celebrated
as Shahid Week (Martyr’s Week) throughout the country. A couple of
weeks earlier is the martyrdom day of Comrade Kanai Chatterji. In memory
of both comrades who paved the path of Indian revolution, July 28th has
come to be known as Martyr’s Day. It is these two comrades who brought
the issue of armed struggle and people’s war on to the political agenda of
India.

 Since then the Indian political scenario has never been the same. Since
the launch of the Naxalbari movement over 10,000 comrades have laid
down their lives for the cause of the Indian revolution. Just in the 20 months
since the unity of the two main streams of the Maoists and the formation
of  the  CPI(Maoist)  about  600  comrades  have  been  martyred.  They
comprise  the  best  sons  and  daughters  of  the  country,  examples  in
selflessness and dedication to the cause of the poor.

On this day we cannot but remember their self-sacrificing nature and
their spirit of selfless dedication to the cause of the oppressed masses of
the  country. All  these  comrades,  whether  leaders,  rank-and-file,
sympathizers, mahilla comrades or even the ordinary rural populace dreamed
of a new future of a genuinely free India, free from injustice and inequality
and for a genuinely democratic order. They all hated the present mafia raj
that only benefits the rich and wealthy and serves the imperialists to loot
our country. Can we ever forget their great and heroic sacrifice?

The government and its forces like ferocious monsters, man-eating
rakshas, are massacring hundreds of revolutionaries in the name of the
Salwa Juddum, Sendra, Cobra, etc. In DK even children of the age 12-14
were beheaded and their severed head put on their own houses. Pregnant
tribal women were gang-raped and their stomachs then ripped open and
brutally killed. Houses have been burned, crops destroyed and the meager
tribal belongings looted. In AP the extra-judicial Cobras torture and kill
mass leaders and even chop up their bodies while still alive. The greyhounds
brutally torture and kill any Naxalite they apprehend.  Similar is the trend in
the other states, where the Naxalite movement is present, like Jharkhand,

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

15

Bihar, West Bengal, etc. Besides this, thousands are being incarcerated in
false cases and tried in fast track courts like the senior Politburo members
Sunil Roy and Narayan Sanyal. Similar is the situation with the Nationality
movements of Kashmir and the North East.

Can one keep silent in the face of all this terror? To keep silent in the
face of such brutalities amounts to consent. Let us all break this conspiracy
of silence and celebrate Martyr’s Week in memory of these heroic and
dedicated comrades that gave their lives for the oppressed people of our
country and thereby voice our dissent on what is going on in the name of
‘democracy’. Thousands and lakhs need to come out on this week and
raise their voice in condemnation of the brutalities and in salute to the
martyred.

On this July 28th 2006 we particularly remember the lives of those
who were martyred in the last year. Leading amongst them is comrade
Karam Singh, the politburo member from Punjab who died of illness; unable
to get medical treatment in time due to the rigours of underground life.
Active for four decades he dedicated his entire life for the cause of the
Indian revolution. He was one of the founding members of the Maoist
movement in Punjab. He dedicated his entire life in the service of the
oppressed masses of the country and never feared any sacrifice. He will
remain a great symbol of revolutionary commitment, courage and sacrifice
for generation of revolutionaries to come.

Then the UP-Uttarkhand-Uttar Bihar suffered a great blow when the
police forces brutally murdered comrade Ravi (Naemuddin) the Secretary
of the Special Area Committee on the Dec.28th 2005. He too was an
exemplarily comrade who at a young age shouldered such an important
responsibility of the Indian revolution.

In AP the movement suffered a severe loss with the martyrdom of
Com Mattam Ravi Kumar a member of the secretariat of the AP State
Committee on June 16 2006.  In the past one year a number of other senior
comrades of AP and NT have laid down their lives, many of them District
Committee members. Com Jagdish was one such DCM from the district
of Khammam in North Telangana. Com. Kamlakar, a young guerrilla fighter,
was martyred on June 10th on the border of AP and Chhathisgarh (Cg)

16

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

during a joint combing operation by the AP and Cg forces. He hails from
Ranapur village of Karimnagar district in North Telangana. He joined the
Party in the 1990s at the age of 16. At the time of his martyrdom he was a
young guerrilla of around 30. He was very influenced by the peasant struggle
of Peddapalli in the 1980s and a number of professionals who joined from
his village were influenced at an early age. He joined the PLGA in 1992
and transferred to DK in 1999 as a section commander of a platoon. Later
he grew step by stem and became a divisional committee member in 2005.
He was a good fighter and participated in many an action as a daring
commander and was a model guerrilla fighter.

In Bihar and Jharkhand too a number of comrades have laid down
their lives. Women form a significant part of the martyrs this year. These
heroic women comrades, prove through their blood sacrifices that they are
at par with their male comrades in all aspects of revolutionary live. In fact,
in many instances of heroic attacks, ambushes and raids women comrades
stood in the forefront and died fighting valiantly.

On this solemn occasion the Central Committee of the CPI(Maoist)
has given a call to the people of the country. In a press release they have
said:

We call on the entire Party, the PLGA, the Mass organisations, the
revolutionary  organs  of  the  New  Power  and  the  entire  masses  of  the
country to observe the Martyr’s Week beginning from July 28th, taking
a pledge that come what may we will resolutely march forward on the
path  reddened  by  the  blood  of  thousands  of  our  beloved  martyr
comrades  and  that  we  will  fight  until  our  last  breath  to  achieve  the
goals for which our comrades willingly laid down their lives. We call
upon  you  to  propagate  by  all  possible  means  the  cherished  ideals  of
our great martyr comrades, by exemplifying their lives, their dedication,
their resoluteness while facing the worst odds, their courage and above
all  the  great  sacrifices  they  made.

During the past one year we lost more than 500 of our most beloved
leaders and cadres of the party, fighters and commanders of the PLGA,
leadership  lights  of  the  newly  emerging  organs  of  revolutionary
people’s  power,  and  the  leaders  and  ordinary  members  of  the

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

17

revolutionary and democratic mass organisations. In the last one year
around  250  comrades  became  martyrs  in  the  Dandakaranya  area,
the majority of them being members and leaders of the revolutionary
mass organisations, militia and Janata Sarkars; around 200 comrades
became  martyrs  in  the  three  areas  of  AP;  34  comrades  in  Bihar-
Jharkhand, 7 comrade is the 3-U area (Uttarkhand, Uttar Bihar, and
part  of  UP);  2  comrades  in  UP;  2  in  Karnataka  and  one  each  in
Maharashtra  and  West  Bengal.

One of the biggest losses faced this year was of com Karam Singh
a politburo member of our party and one of the founders of the Maoist
movement in Punjab. Other major losses were com Maemuddin (Ravi),
the secretary of the 3-U SAC Committee and com Ravi Kumar (Shridhar)
a  secretariat  member  of  the AP  State  Committee.    While  hailing  the
sacrifices of our women martyrs special mention should be made about
comrade  Eswaramma  of  AP  and  comrades  Korsa  Santu,  Modium
Sukki  and  Kursam  Lakki  of  Dandakaranya………..

The CC statement culminated with a call to all the oppressed and
democratic people of the country to honour these comrades and tread on
the path they laid for the liberation of our country and a bright genuinely
democratic future.

2006

Politbureau,
CPI(Maoist)

18

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

Hold High the Bright Red Flag drenched

in the blood of our great Martyrs!
       —-Call of the CC, CPI(Maoist) on the occasion of the

Martyrs’ Week from July 28-August 3

Dear  Comrades!

The decision to observe Martyrs’ Week from July 28-August 3 was
taken at the time of the formation of the CPI(Maoist) in September 2004.
In accordance with this decision, every year we pay our humble heart-felt
red  homage  to  the  heroic  martyrs  by  observing  the  Martyrs’  Week,
remember the great role played by our beloved martyrs by sacrificing their
lives in the interest of the people and take pledge reaffirming our resolve to
achieve their unfulfilled tasks.

This year we are preparing ourselves to observe the Martyrs’ Week in
the backdrop of the successful completion of our historic Unity Congress—
9th  Congress  which  gave  the  call  to  “advance  the  guerrilla  war  into
mobile war, transform PLGA into PLA, and guerrilla zones into Base
Areas”.

Our Unity Congress—9th Congress, while paying its heart-felt tributes
to our Party’s founder-leaders,  path-blazers and teachers–comrades Charu
Majumdar  and  Kanhai  Chatterjee—  remembered  their  historic  role  in
waging continuous struggle against revisionism and in establishing the line
and direction of the Indian revolution, and took firm pledge to advance
boldly along the path shown by them. The Congress also paid homage to
martyr comrades Amulya Sen, Sushital Roy Choudhary, Chandrasekhar
Das,  Saroj  Dutta, Vempatapu  sathyam, Adibhatla  Kailasam,  Panchadi
Krishnamurthy, Bhuja Singh, Subbarao Panigrahi, Sudipto Banerjee, Appu
and countless other martyrs. It paid homage to over 11,000 comrades who
became martyrs ever since the time of the historic Naxalbari revolt in the
savage repression and cruel attacks by the enemy; and to over 700 comrades
who had laid down their lives in the period since the formation of the
CPI(Maoist) in September 2004: to PB member comrade Karam Singh,

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

19

CC member and member of the CMC, comrade Chandramouli; to state-
level comrades in AP, NT, AOB, DK, Chattisgarh, Karnataka and 3U—
comrades Saket Rajan, Madhav, Mymuddin, Sridhar, Yadanna, Mangtu,
Pran, Sathyam, Vikas, Raghavulu, Gautam and Sravan; to comrades at
various levels of Party committees, PLGA Commanders and fighters, and
comrades of RPCs, people’s militia and revolutionary mass organizations,
among whom there are hundreds of women comrades. It also paid homage
to the comrades who became martyrs in the course of the revolutionary
and democratic movements in various countries in the world. The historic
Congress, by paying its red revolutionary homage to the immortal martyrs
of our country as well as all over the world, remembered their great deeds
and sacrifices and the great role played by them to establish a classless
society free from all exploitation.

Comrades!

After the successful completion of our Congress, the multi-pronged
enemy offensive was further stepped up and in this brutal repression, cruel
assault and fake encounters, several comrades had become martyrs. Eight
comrades in AP including six AC members, six comrades in NT, 24 comrades
in DK, 25 comrades in BJ, 7 comrades in Chattisgarh, became martyrs.
Among those who were martyred in the period after the Congress were:
comrade Nathunji, secretary of Badh-Shekhpura-Nawada zonal committee
under  BJSAC,  comrade  Manas,  zonal  committee  member  of  North
Chattisgarh, Naresh, a DC member of Adilabad in NT, women comrades
Bhavani, Swarna, Aruna and Lalitha in AP and NT, comrade Rammehar
of Haryana who died due to malaraial attack, and well-known intellectual
comrade Hari Singh Tark of Punjab. Six comrades, including a DCM and
command incharge of West Bastar, comrade Mohan, became martyrs in
the successful attack on the police-SPO camp at Ranibodili in Bijapur
police district in DK on March 13 after annihilating 68 enemy forces, which
is the biggest ever attack in the history of our revolutionary movement.
One SAC-level military instructor, comrade Pradeep, and a PLGA fighter,
comrade Nirmal, became martyrs in the successful raid on the CISF barrack
in Khasmahal in Bokaro district of Jharkhand.

In the past one year 202 comrades became martyrs throughout the
country. Some of these comrades had died in the course of daring raids,

20

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

ambushes and attacks on the enemy forces by our PLGA. Some comrades
died in the course of fierce resistance against the police and para-military
forces in real encounters but many were murdered by the police after
inflicting severe torture. Some comrades died in accidents while laying
booby-traps and mines. Over a hundred comrades, or more than half of
those who became martyrs in the past one year, were members of the
RPCs, people’s militia units and revolutionary mass organizations in DK
who were brutally murdered by the police and lumpen armed gangs of
salwa judum. Some martyrs were victims of the murderous lumpen gang
of TPC in the state-sponsored terrorism in BJ. Let us pay our heart-felt
red homage to all these beloved comrades on the occasion of the Martyrs’
Week.

In the ongoing new democratic revolution in India aimed at bringing
about total social transformation, where one class is waging a bitter struggle
to  overthrow  the  other  class  from  power,  where  armed  revolution  is
confronting armed counter-revolution, the exploitative ruling class is trying
by every means through its state machinery, i.e, its police, military and
brute force, to suppress the liberation struggles of its opposing class i.e.,
the exploited and oppressed class of workers, peasants and toiling classes.
Hence today, the entire country has become a battle-ground and giving
and taking life has become a daily feature in the ongoing revolutionary
war.  Even  while  we  pursue  the  principle  of  “destroying  the  enemy  to
preserve oneself” sacrifice is still inevitable as the enemy is strong and
aggressive. In order to destroy or inflict damage to the enemy forces some
self-sacrifices  are  inevitable.  However,  we  have  to  avoid  unnecessary
sacrifices.

Martyrdom has become the glorious revolutionary tradition of our Party.
Sacrifice of one’s life not for one’s selfish individual interest or for the
interest of a group, but for the interests of the people at large and for the
liberation of our motherland from the stranglehold of imperialist, feudal and
comprador big bourgeois oppression and exploitation, stands out as a shining
ideal. Our beloved martyrs are the best sons and daughters of our country.
Their martyrdom is heavier than the tallest mountain.

Our Central Committee calls upon all the Party committees, all the

PLGA forces, comrades belonging to RPCs, KKC, and members of

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

21

revolutionary mass organizations, to make all the necessary preparations
in order to commemorate the Martyrs’ Week from July 28—August 3 in
a befitting manner. The CC has chalked out the following concrete
programme for the Martyrs’ Week.

Concrete Programme for the Martyrs’ Week:
1. Strive by all means to mobilize the vast masses in the programmes
during the Martyrs’ Week; conduct wide political propaganda on the
occasion of the Martyrs’ week by taking up propaganda campaign.
In this campaign we must focus upon the cherished dreams of the
martyrs, their aims and ideals, their invaluable sacrifices, their life-
style of simplicity and hard work, the lofty ideals and communist values
which they held high and practiced during their lives, and call upon
the Party cadres to emulate these. To carry out this task we must
utilize all means available to us. In all states, press statements on
martyrs and martyrs’ week should be released. Leaflets, posters etc
should be brought out and wall writing should be done in a big way. In
areas of our stronghold banners should be put up using strictly secret
methods. Wherever possible, we must bring out calendars with photos
of martyrs of districts, regions, fronts and women comrades. Booklets
should be published at the ZC/DC/DVC and SAC/SZC/SC level.

2. In all our speeches, meetings, posters, leaflets, booklets, etc we must
specially focus on our two founder-leaders of our Party. Their life
histories and their contributions should be briefly introduced. In al
propaganda material the photos of these two leaders should be included.
We must call upon the people and Party cadres to march along the
path blazed by these two leaders.

3.  Wherever  we  have  some  strength  we  must  try  to  build  martyrs’
columns. In fact, our comrades and people have a long experience of
fighting  the  state  and  reactionary  elements  in  constructing  and
defending the martyrs’ columns. We must try to mobilize the families
and the people of the villages and try to construct small martyrs’
columns in as many villages as possible. We have to keep in mind that
we are in the midst of war, and hence must strive to complete the
construction of the martyrs’ columns in the shortest possible time.
However, if it is possible to undertake the construction of a martyrs’

22

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

memorial column in a centralized way in any state we must utilize the
opportunity to mobilize the people politically for the construction of
the columns in at least one or two places in the states. We can form
broad-based committees for this purpose.

4. We can build open committees by including the families and friends of
the martyrs. In some places we can build the martyrs’ columns under
the banner of these committees. Wherever possible we can organize
open meetings and wide propaganda can be taken up in this name.
The family members, friends and well-wishers of martyrs should
fearlessly propagate from these forums that martyr comrades are
the beloved leaders of the people and the people have the right to
commemorate their martyrdom. If the state forces or goondas and
reactionary gangs try to disrupt the memorial meetings or block the
construction of the columns we must prepare the people to confront
these  gangs  boldly.  In  order  to  make  these  forums  effective  and
appealing to the people we must try to involve some progressive and
eminent personalities in these forums.

5. Meetings can be both open and secret. In general, in all the areas of
armed  struggle,  these  meetings  should  be  conducted  secretly.
However, in towns and areas where our struggle is still in the initial
phase, we should also try to organize open meetings to whatever
extent possible. Whether it is open or secret we must prepare our
people’s militia and PLGA forces to confront the attempts of the
state to destroy the columns or disturb the meetings. During the martyrs’
week the police and special forces conduct combing operations in a
big  way  in  order  to  terrorise  the  people  and  prevent  them  from
attending the meetings and thus disturb our programs. We have to
allot one section of our PLGA forces to stop the enemy and to inflict
damage to the enemy if he dares to disturb our programs. So far as
open meetings are concerned we must try to mobilize the people in a
big way to confront the enemy. We must also strive to organize rallies
and torchlight rallies by mobilizing the masses. Open and secret rallies,
silent  processions,  meetings  and  press  conferences  of  the  family
members of martyrs, and similar creative ways of mass mobilization
and propaganda should be planned.

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

23

6. In the Party, PLGA, RPC, KKC, and revolutionary mass organizations,
we must encourage our comrades to take pledge in their respective
units either individually or together with the people that they will wage
struggle against the enemy until their last breath and shall strive to
hold aloft the ideals for which our beloved martyrs had given up their
precious lives. They must take pledge that they shall emulate the
remarkable qualities of the martyr comrades and learn from their
exemplary lives. We must all take the pledge during the martyrs’
week to fulfill the unfinished tasks of the martyrs and to make all-out
effort  to  successfully  carry  out  the  task  of    “transforming  the
guerrilla war into mobile war, PLGA into PLA, and guerilla zones
into base areas.” And only by carrying out the above-mentioned
task we will be able to advance in the direction of fulfilling the cherished
dreams of the martyrs. By taking the pledge a new fervour and new
determination is created in our minds to courageously confront and
defeat  the  enemy  forces,  fulfill  our  aim  of  advancing  the  new
democratic revolution to victory and thereby advance towards the
establishment of socialism and communism.

7. We must strive to meet the families of all the martyrs, share their
sorrow  and  grief,  give  them  solace  and  encourage  them  to  play
whatever role is possible for them in revolution. It is a very unfortunate
thing that we are not able to meet all the families of the martyrs and
involve  them  in  activities. Apart  from  Party  cadres  and  mass
organisations we must mobilize the organizations formed with families
and well-wishers of the martyrs as soon as the news of martyrdom is
known. This should be made into a regular practice. We must also
encourage them so that they are in the forefront in observing martyrs’
week and become part of the forums formed in commemoration of
the martyrs.

  Comrades!

It is a well-known fact that the enemy’s all-round offensive is growing
day by day and is becoming more and more cruel. The UPA government,
all the opposition parties, the revisionist and so-called Left parties led by
the social-fascist CPI(M)—all these have become polarized at one pole in
defence of the interests of imperialism, feudalism and the CBB and are

24

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

carrying out brutal attacks on all democratic and revolutionary movements
and the masses. Right from the time of the formation of the CPI(Maoist),
they had declared an open countrywide war on the revolutionaries and had
intensified their all-round offensive. We have to complete all our tasks and
carry on our activity while confronting every type of offensive of the enemy.
We have to politically mobilize the masses widely and in a creative way.
We should always follow strictly the theory and practice of guerrilla war in
all our activity. While destroying the enemy forces and carrying on our
activity it is very important that we preserve our forces.

Hence, while taking up the campaign of martyrs’ week we have to
keep in mind the long-term perspective of our work, intensity of the enemy’s
armed offensive and the local concrete conditions.

Come!  Let  us  observe  the  martyrs’  week  with  all  enthusiasm  and
revolutionary fervour.
Let us vow to take political revenge for the martyrdom of our comrades
by transforming the guerrilla war into mobile war, PLGA into PLA,
guerrilla zones into base areas by rooting out the enemy forces completely
and advancing the people’s war.
Let us take pledge in the name of our beloved martyr comrades to fight
unto our last breath to fulfill the dreams of our martyr comrades to
completely wipe out imperialism, feudalism and CBB from our country
and  all  reactionaries  throughout  the  world  and  to  build  a  genuine
democratic, socialist and communist order.
Let us observe the martyrs’ week as an ideological-political training and
education campaign for the entire party cadre, heroic commanders and
fighters of the PLGA, and the entire masses so that they can face the
enemy’s cruel offensive with courage and great spirit of self-sacrifice
and grapple with the difficult situations that arise in this bloody class
war with the enemy.
Let us imbibe the words of comrade Mao on the occasion of the martyrs’
week that “ A communist should never place his personal interests
as primary under any circumstances. He should place his interests
subordinate to the interests of the country and people. Selfishness,
looseness  in  work,  corruption,  desire  for  name,  etc  are  very
repulsive;  whereas  selflessness,  working  with  all  of  one’s  energy,

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

25

whole-heartedly involving in the work of the masses, silently doing
hard work, are all qualities that deserve respect.” This is the call of
the CC on the occasion of the martyrs’ week.
• Long Live our great teachers and beloved leaders—Comrade CM

and Comrade KC!

• Long Live our beloved leaders—comrades Amulaya Sen, Sushitalroy
Choudhary, Chandrasekhar Das, Saroj Duta, Panchadi Krishnamurthy,
Vempatapu Sathyam, Adibhatla Kailasam, Subbarao Panigrahi, Baba
Bhuja Singh, Appu, Sudipto Banerjee, and others!

• Long Live our beloved leaders Prakash Master, Shyam, Mahesh,

Murali , Puli Anjanna!

• Long Live our beloved leaders comrades David, Bhaktida, Jeevlal,
Dara, Bachan, Sunil, Gopal, Dadhichi, Sagar, Krishna, Sadan, Naveen,
Jachariah!

•  Long  Live  our  beloved  leaders  comrades  Karam  Singh  and

Chandramouli!

•  Long  live  our  beloved  leaders  comrades  Saket  Rajan,  Madhav,
Mymuddin,  Sridhar, Yadanna,  Mangtu,  Pran,  Sathyam,  Vikas,
Ragahavulu, Gautam, Sravan,!

• Long Live our women martyr leaders Panchadi Nirmala, Snehalatha,
Padma, Lalitha, Suguna, Chittakka, Bhagya, Parvati, Hajima, Kavita,
Prashanti, Badki Devi, Urmila, Anju, Karuna, and others!

• Long Live thousands of our beloved martyr comrades from AP, BJ,
DK,  Chattisgarh,  UP,  West  Bengal,  Orissa,  Maharashtra,  MP,
Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Assam, Tripura and various parts of
the country!

• Let us hail the cherished ideals of our martyrs, defend them and march

forward to fulfill their ideals!

• Transforming the guerrilla war into mobile war, PLGA into PLA and
guerrilla  zones  into  base  areas  and  expanding  the  people’s  war
throughout the country is the real homage that we pay to our beloved
martyrs!

25th  May  2007

Politbureau,
CPI(Maoist)

26

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

Celebrate the Memorial Week of the

Great Immortal Heroes!

LET US HOLD THE RED BANNER HIGH
AND MARCH AHEAD ALONG THE PATH
CRIMSON WITH THE BLOOD OF HEROIC

MARTYRS!!

—-Call of the CC, CPI(Maoist) on the Occasion of the

Martyrs’ Week from 28th  July to 3rd August 2008

“Thousands upon thousands of martyrs have heroically laid
down their lives for the people; let us hold their banner high
and march ahead along the path crimson with their blood !”  –
Mao [“On Coalition Government” (April 24, 1945), Selected
Works, Vol. III, p. 318]

Dear  comrades,

After the successful completion of our Congress, the multi-pronged
enemy offensive was further stepped up and in this brutal repression, cruel
assault and fake encounters, several comrades had become martyrs. After
the last year Martyrs’ Week of our Party, more than 250[a total of 337/
215/255] beloved leaders, members and sympathizers of the Party, brave
commanders and fighters of our PLGA, leaders and members of different
Mass  Organizations  and  Organs  of  People’s  Power  and  revolutionary
masses have sacrificed their invaluable lives while advancing the New
Democratic Revolution by valiantly fighting the enemy forces in the various
guerrilla zones and other struggle areas of our country. Hundreds of people
have been killed, especially in DK and Nandigram of West Bengal by the
“Salwa Judum,” the state sponsored counterrevolutionary fascist armed
organization and mercenary state forces combine, and the social-fascist

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

27

CPM armed goons and its mercenary state forces. Since last year 28th
July to present day comrades, including 1 Central Committee Members
and 1 State Committee Member had martyred. Of those martyred, 235/
219 were in DK, 49 in BJ, 7 in AP, 14 in AOB, 11 in NT, 6 in West Bengal,
5 in Karnataka, 2 in Maharashtra, 2 in Orissa, 2 in Chattisgarh, 1 in Haryana
and 1 in Punjab.

BJ  SAC  Member  In-charge  of  North  Chattisgarh  State,  Comrade
Rahul died due to snake bite, an unfortunate accident. In the successful
short-surprise attack on the base camp of the enemy forces by the brave
PLGA forces, in West Bastar-DK, Divisional Command In-charge comrade
Mohan and 5 other comrades were martyred; in different ambushes on the
enemy forces and in encounters with them comrades Madhu-Company-2
Commander, Rathan and Badru-Commanders of PLs and 4 other guerillas
of  this  Company,  Jagadish-PL  Commander  of  Company-1,  Sythu-
Commander and 3 fighters of PL-15, Baman-a Section Commander and 3
fighters of Company-3 in DK; in the succesful raid conducted by the PLGA
forces on the enemmy’s Police Station and a Camp of Rajpur-Baghaila,
Son-Ganga-Vindhyanchal ZC member comrade Arun attained martyrdom.
In the succesful raid of Bokaro by the PLGA forces, BJ Special Area
Military Instructor comrade Pradeep was martyred. Due to an accidental
explosion  with  a  booby  trap  comrade Vinay  (RCM),  Central  Military
Instructor, and comrade Nilesh, a Platoon member were martyred. Midnapur
comrade  Rohit  was  martyred  in  a  road  accident.and  elsewhere  in  the
country, who bravely and uncompromisingly resisted the onslaught of the
enemy at every step, is sure to carry on the agrarian revolutionary armed
struggle for people’s democracy even more resolutely in the coming days.
In  the  heroic  struggle  against  the  enemy  fores  to  advance  the
revolutionary movement several women comrades have laid down their
precious lives. Comrades Shyamala, Deve and Basanti, Radha, Gunni,
Rajitha(fighters or Section Commanders of different PLs), Shanthi[fighter
of Company-2) and 4 CNM Activists all in DK; Sukki(CRB PL member);
Bhavani(PM), Vijaya(MCM), Shakila(ACM) and Sweta(PM) in AOB;
Kaveri  in  Karnataka;  and Vanita  (PL  member)  and  Janiya  (ACM)  in
Maharashtra have become immortal martyrs. These immortal evershining

28

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

red stars shall continue to inspire us to march foreward to the victory.

Many  comrades  have  laid  down  their  invaluable  lives  in  the  New
Democratic Revolutions of  Philippines, Nepal, Bangladesh, Turkey  and
other countries.

We sincerely offers condolences to the families of all the bereaved
comrades, share with their grief and memories and pledge to always be
with them in their sorrows, happiness and struggles.

We humbly pay tributes to all the great martyrs of our country and
world who have sacrificed their priceless lives with highest consciousness
in the great world proletarian revolution for the  abolition of the exploitataive
system and for the emancipation of mankind world over. The great sacrifices
of these martyrs never will go in vain. We bow our heads and salute in
respect and memory of these martyrs. We vow to follow their great ideals
which brightened the red path of revolution. We pledge to follow their
great  ideals  and  path  till  the  attainment  of  great  cause  of  the  world
proletariat. The historic Congress, by paying its red revolutionary homage
to  the  immortal  martyrs  of  our  country  as  well  as  all  over  the  world,
remembered their great deeds and sacrifices and the great role played by
them to establish a classless society free from all exploitation.
Dear  Comrades!

This year also we are preparing ourselves to observe the Martyrs’
Week in the backdrop of several successes and severe losses in the People’s
War and striving hard to advance the revolutionary war with the Principal
&  Central  Task  formulated  by  the  historic  Unity  Congres-”While
strengthening  the  three  weapons  of  our  revolution  the  principal  and
central  task  must  be  to  advance  the  guerrilla  war  to  a  qualitatively
higher stage of mobile war and transform the PLGA into PLA in order
to  establish  base  areas  in  the  strategic  areas  of  DK  and  BJ.  Also
intensify  the  guerrilla  war  in  other  guerrilla  zones,  and  develop  red
resistance areas in the perspective areas and complete the preparations
for  building  guerrilla  zones  in  these  and  other  areas  also.  To  orient
the entire party PLGA and masses towards this principle and central
task.  to  achieve  this  we  must  formulate  other    political,  militar,

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

29

organizational  tassks”

 In the ongoing new democratic revolution in India aimed at bringing
about total social transformation, where one class is waging a bitter struggle
to  overthrow  the  other  class  from  power,  where  armed  revolution  is
confronting armed counter-revolution, the exploitative ruling class is trying
by every means through its state machinery, i.e, its police, military and
brute force, to suppress the liberation struggles of its opposing class i.e.,
the exploited and oppressed class of workers, peasants and toiling classes.
Hence today, the entire country has become a battle-ground and giving
and taking life has become a daily feature in the ongoing revolutionary
war.  Even  while  we  pursue  the  principle  of  “destroying  the  enemy  to
preserve oneself” sacrifice is still inevitable as the enemy is strong and
aggressive. In order to destroy or inflict damage to the enemy forces some
self-sacrifices  are  inevitable.  However,  we  have  to  avoid  unnecessary
sacrifices.

Martyrdom has become the glorious revolutionary tradition of our Party.
Sacrifice of one’s life not for one’s selfish individual interest or for the
interest of a group, but for the interests of the people at large and for the
liberation of our motherland from the stranglehold of imperialist, feudal and
comprador big bourgeois oppression and exploitation, stands out as a shining
ideal. Our beloved martyrs are the best sons and daughters of our country.
Their martyrdom is heavier than the tallest mountain.

Our Central Committee calls upon all the Party committees, all the
PLGA  forces,  comrades  belonging  to  RPCs,  KKC,  and  members  of
revolutionary mass organizations, to make all the necessary preparations
in order to commemorate the Martyrs’ Week from July 28—August 3 in a
befitting manner. The CC has chalked out the following concrete programme
for the Martyrs’ Week. Comrades!

This is the time to propagate the revolutionary politics among the people

widely.

We have to pledge to advance the line adopted by the Congress which
is  a  result  of  the  enormous  struggle  we  waged  to  advance  the  new
democratic revolution in our country.

30

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

Let us prepare the entire party members to lead the masses in political

battles, war and in partial struggles and in revolutionary propaganda.

Hence, while taking up the campaign of martyrs’ week we have to
keep in mind the long-term perspective of our work, intensity of the enemy’s
armed offensive and the local concrete conditions.

Let us remember all the fallen people’s great heroes and heroines
who have sacrificed their invaluable lives for the cause of the revolution.
Let us firmly uphold their ever inspiring ideals and pledge to rededicate
ourselves to the task of making the great Indian revolution successful.
Concrete Programme for the Martyrs’ Week:

1. Strive by all means to mobilize the vast masses in the programmes
during the Martyrs’ Week; conduct wide political propaganda on
the  occasion  of  the  Martyrs’  week  by  taking  up  propaganda
campaign. In this campaign we must focus upon the cherished
dreams  of  the  martyrs,  their  aims  and  ideals,  their  invaluable
sacrifices, their life-style of simplicity and hard work, the lofty ideals
and communist values which they held high and practiced during
their lives, and call upon the Party cadres to emulate these. To
carry out this task we must utilize all means available to us. In all
states, press statements on martyrs and martyrs’ week should be
released. Leaflets, posters etc should be brought out and wall writing
should be done in a big way. In areas of our stronghold banners
should be put up using strictly secret methods. Wherever possible,
we must bring out calendars with photos of martyrs of districts,
regions, fronts and women comrades. Booklets should be published
at the ZC/DC/DVC and SAC/SZC/SC level.

2. In all our speeches, meetings, posters, leaflets, booklets, etc we
must specially focus on our two founder-leaders of our Party. Their
life histories and their contributions should be briefly introduced. In
al propaganda material the photos of these two leaders should be
included. We must call upon the people and Party cadres to march
along the path blazed by these two leaders.

3. Wherever we have some strength we must try to build martyrs’

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

31

columns. In fact, our comrades and people have a long experience
of fighting the state and reactionary elements in constructing and
defending the martyrs’ columns. We must try to mobilize the families
and the people of the villages and try to construct small martyrs’
columns in as many villages as possible. We have to keep in mind
that we are in the midst of war, and hence must strive to complete
the construction of the martyrs’ columns in the shortest possible
time. However, if it is possible to undertake the construction of a
martyrs’ memorial column in a centralized way in any state we
must utilize the opportunity to mobilize the people politically for the
construction of the columns in at least one or two places in the
states. We can form broad-based committees for this purpose.

4. We can build open committees by including the families and friends
of the martyrs. In some places we can build the martyrs’ columns
under the banner of these committees. Wherever possible we can
organize open meetings and wide propaganda can be taken up in
this name. The family members, friends and well-wishers of martyrs
should  fearlessly  propagate  from  these  forums  that  martyr
comrades are the beloved leaders of the people and the people
have the right to commemorate their martyrdom. If the state forces
or  goondas  and  reactionary  gangs  try  to  disrupt  the  memorial
meetings or block the construction of the columns we must prepare
the people to confront these gangs boldly. In order to make these
forums effective and appealing to the people we must try to involve
some progressive and eminent personalities in these forums.

5. Meetings can be both open and secret. In general, in all the areas of
armed  struggle,  these  meetings  should  be  conducted  secretly.
However, in towns and areas where our struggle is still in the initial
phase, we should also try to organize open meetings to whatever
extent possible. Whether it is open or secret we must prepare our
people’s militia and PLGA forces to confront the attempts of the
state to destroy the columns or disturb the meetings. During the
martyrs’  week  the  police  and  special  forces  conduct  combing
operations in a big way in order to terrorise the people and prevent

32

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

them from attending the meetings and thus disturb our programs.
We have to allot one section of our PLGA forces to stop the enemy
and  to  inflict  damage  to  the  enemy  if  he  dares  to  disturb  our
programs. So far as open meetings are concerned we must try to
mobilize the people in a big way to confront the enemy. We must
also strive to organize rallies and torchlight rallies by mobilizing the
masses. Open and secret rallies, silent processions, meetings and
press conferences of the family members of martyrs, and similar
creative ways of mass mobilization and propaganda should be
planned.

6.  In  the  Party,  PLGA,  RPC,  KKC,  and  revolutionary  mass
organizations, we must encourage our comrades to take pledge in
their respective units either individually or together with the people
that they will wage struggle against the enemy until their last breath
and shall strive to hold aloft the ideals for which our beloved martyrs
had given up their precious lives. They must take pledge that they
shall emulate the remarkable qualities of the martyr comrades and
learn from their exemplary lives. We must all take the pledge during
the martyrs’ week to fulfill the unfinished tasks of the martyrs and
to  make  all-out  effort  to  successfully  carry  out  the  task  of
“transforming  the  guerrilla  war  into  mobile  war,  PLGA  into
PLA, and guerilla zones into base areas.” And only by carrying
out the above-mentioned task we will be able to advance in the
direction of fulfilling the cherished dreams of the martyrs. By taking
the pledge a new fervour and new determination is created in our
minds to courageously confront and defeat the enemy forces, fulfill
our aim of advancing the new democratic revolution to victory and
thereby  advance  towards  the  establishment  of  socialism  and
communism.

7. We must strive to meet the families of all the martyrs, share their
sorrow and grief, give them solace and encourage them to play
whatever  role  is  possible  for  them  in  revolution.  It  is  a  very
unfortunate thing that we are not able to meet all the families of
the martyrs and involve them in activities. Apart from Party cadres

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

33

and mass organisations we must mobilize the organizations formed
with families and well-wishers of the martyrs as soon as the news
of  martyrdom  is  known.  This  should  be  made  into  a  regular
practice. We must also encourage them so that they are in the
forefront  in  observing  martyrs’  week  and  become  part  of  the
forums formed in commemoration of the martyrs.

Comrades!
* Let us observe the martyrs’ week with all enthusiasm and revolutionary

fervor!

* Let us march forward firmly in the path shown by our Party founder

leaders and teachers comrades CM and KC!

* Let us defeat the enemy’s tactics of LIC to liquidate our Party

leadership and ranks!

* Let us vow to take political revenge for the martyrdom of our comrades
by transforming the guerrilla war into mobile war, PLGA into PLA,
guerrilla  zones  into  base  areas  by  rooting  out  the  enemy  forces
completely and advancing the people’s war!

* Let us boldly advance by rectifying our mistakes and shortcomings
to avoid unnecessary losses with the aim of achieving victory in the
war!

* Let us build truly proletarian fortress capable of confronting every
attack of the enemy! Orient all activity and remold the Party to serve
the needs of ongoing PPW!!

* Task on building a countrywide all-round mighty movement by
mobilizing our entire Party, PLGA and masses to fight back the new
counter-revolutionary offensive of the ruling classes!

* Let us hail the cherished ideals of our great teachers, beloved leaders
and  immortal  heroes  Comrades  CM  and  KC  and  thousands  of
Comrades West Bengal, AP, DK, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chattisgarh, Tamil
Nadu,  Orissa,  Maharashtra,  Karnataka,  UP,  MP,  Punjab, Assam,
Tripura and various parts of the country!

34

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

* Transforming the guerrilla war into mobile war, PLGA into PLA and
guerrilla zones into base areas and expanding the people’s war
throughout the country is the real homage that we pay to our beloved
martyrs!

* Let us observe the martyrs’ week as an ideological-political training
and education campaign for the entire party cadre, heroic commanders
and fighters of the PLGA, and the entire masses so that they can
face the enemy’s cruel offensive with courage and great spirit of
self-sacrifice and grapple with the difficult situations that arise in this
bloody class war with the enemy!

15th May 2008

With Revolutionary Greetings,

Politbureau,
CPI(Maoist)

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

35

Let us fulfill the lofty dreams of our

beloved martyr comrades, emulate their
communist qualities and create thousands

upon thousands of able successors !
Observe Martyrs’ Memorial Week

from 28th July to 3rd August !!

—-Call of the CPI(Maoist) to the people of India on the
occasion of  Martyrs’ Memorial Week, 2009

Let us fulfill the lofty dreams of our

beloved martyr comrades, emulate their
communist qualities and create thousands

upon thousands of able successors!
Observe Martyrs’ Memorial Week

from 28th July-3rd August!!

—-Call of the CPI(Maoist) to the people of India on the
occasion of the 2009 Martyrs’ Memorial Week

In the past one year since July 28, 2008, a total of 232 comrades had
laid down their precious lives in the course of the ongoing people’s war to
advance the new democratic revolution in our country to its ultimate victory.
The brutal enemy offensive was taken to a new pitch during the year in the
states  of  Dandakaranya,  Jharkhand,  Bihar,  Orissa,  West  Bengal,
Maharashtra  and Andhra  Pradesh  leading  to  the  martyrdom  of  226
comrades in these seven states. The martyrs include one central committee
member, comrade Patel Sudhakar Reddy alias Vikas alias Suryam, two
state committee members from Andhra Pradesh—comrades Mastan Rao
and Ramchandar, eleven members of DC/DvC/ZC, two sub-zonal committee
members, 20 AC members/PL commanders/section commanders, 79 PMs
and PLGA fighters, 39 village activists/militia members and 80 members
from the revolutionary masses. Several women comrades like  com Sasi in
AP and com Rinki in Kandhamal, com Jyothi in Koraput, com Mynabai in
Gadchiroli of Maharashtra were murdered by the police after cruel torture.
Through their heroic sacrifices, deep dedication and commitment to the
Party, people and revolution, extraordinary courage in facing the inhuman
torture by the enemy and guarding the Party secrets like the pupils of their
eyes all these comrades stand out as shining examples for one and all. Let
us pay our humble red homage to all these immortal martyrs of the past
one year, to the thousands of martyrs who had laid down their lives in the
course of the Indian new democratic revolution, to our founder-leaders—

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

37

comrade CM and comrade KC—and all those who fell fighting imperialism
and reactionaries in various countries of the world.

In the past one year, the reactionary ruling classes of India, with the
active  assistance  and  guidance  from  the  imperialists,  particularly  the
American imperialists, have taken their counter-revolutionary war to a
new pitch.  In this continuing massive state offensive and state-sponsored
terrorist offensive by the state-central forces and salwa judum goons in
Dandakaranya, 132 comrades became martyrs and over 60 comrades in
Bihar-Jharkhand. In the face of such severe state terror and state-sponsored
terror, our forces have shown remarkable resistance and carried out daring
and highly heroic tactical counter-offensives inflicting severe losses on the
side of the enemy. In fact, the enemy morale was very much shattered by
the increasing casualties on his side which are higher than those suffered
by the revolutionaries. In the past one year our heroic PLGA, people’s
militia and revolutionary masses have wiped out more than 300 police and
central forces while we had lost a total of 115 Party Members besides an
equal number from the revolutionary masses.  Even greater number of the
enemy forces was injured in our attacks. This is a significant development
in the overall development of the people’s war.

Our resistance has become particularly significant from the time of the
15th Lok Sabha elections. Over 150 enemy personnel were wiped out during
these four months alone.  During these ambushes, raids and attacks on the
enemy  forces  great  courage  was  shown  by  our  forces.  In  the  raid  on
NALCO in Damanjodi four of our comrade—Raju, Keerthi (ACMs), Raghu
and Sukhram (Party members)—became martyrs after heroically engaging
the  enemy  for  almost  ten  hours  and  finally  capturing  the  explosives
magazine. It is only by further stepping up our resistance to the enemy
offensive, throwing out his authority from the countryside and establishing
the  people’s  revolutionary-democratic  power,  strengthening  our  Party,
people’s army, revolutionary mass organizations and organs of power that
we can preserve our forces.

Stunned by the mounting casualties, the enemy has unleashed massacres
of ordinary people and village activists of our mass organizations/militia
members. The SP of Dantewada had openly declared that the ratio of the
casualties should change in favour of the police. Thus the most brutal

38

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

massacres began to be unleashed as the one in Singaram in Dantewada
district in Chhattisgarh where 18 adivasis were murdered on January 8
after being abducted from their villages by the Central-State forces and
salwa judum gangs. On Aprl 16, five villagers were murdered in Badhania
village in Latehar district of Jharkhand after picking them from their homes.
Five militia members were murdered in Dondem Paara hamlet in Indravati
area on January 24. Seven members were murdered after the Kokawada
ambush in Dantewada on June 22nd. Thus enemy attacks on the people
who support the revolution have continued to rise with the aim of creating
an  atmosphere  of  terror  and  dissuade  the  people  from  associating
themselves with the Party and the revolutionary movement in any way.

The cruel enemy has been concentrating on destroying the central and
state leadership  of the Party. In fact, he has achieved some degree  of
success in his regard. Enemy will step up his effort to eliminate the central
Party leadership as well as the leadership at various levels. He is trying to
eliminate the mass organization leadership and people’s militia at the village
level. Hence he is planning to unleash fake encounters and mass murders
on an unprecedented scale. Hence while preparing for great sacrifices we
should take special caution to preserve the central and state leadership as
well as the leadership of the mass organizations.

Particularly after the re-election of the Congress-led UPA government
in the centre the offensive was stepped up further and on a war footing. In
less than a month an All India ban was imposed on the Party and it was
declared as a terrorist organization. Central forces were deployed on a
massive scale in Lalgarh and together with the state’s forces and CPI(M)’s
lumpen harmad bahini goons a savage attack was launched on the people
of Lalgarh and surrounding areas. All these point to the inevitable escalation
of the war and the brutal atrocities, fake encounters by the state’s forces.
The entire people along with the Party and People’s Army should be prepared
to confront and defeat this cruel offensive by the reactionary ruling classes.
We send our revolutionary greetings to all the PLGA fighters, people’s
militia and people at large for having participated actively in the tactical
counter-offensive campaigns, election boycott campaign and various forms
of resistance against the enemy. The massive resistance by the people
after the Badhania murder of five villagers by the CRPF stands out as a

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

39

shining example of resistance against fake encounters during this period.
We call upon the entire Party rank and file, commanders and fighters of
PLGA, and revolutionary masses to step up such resistance against the
fake encounters and counter-revolutionary campaign of suppression.

We  call  upon  the  entire  Party  ranks,  PLGA  fighters,  organs  of
revolutionary  people’s  power  and  revolutionary  mass  organizations  to
observe Martyrs’ Week from July 28-August 3 throughout the country,
organize memorial meetings, publish life-histories of the martyrs, conduct
wide  propaganda  through  various  means  and  to  erect  columns  in
commemoration of the martyrs wherever possible.

Let us emulate the glowing communist qualities of the innumerable
martyrs, particularly the dedication, courage, creativity, self-confidence,
and revolutionary zeal of comrade Vikas, and prove ourselves as worthy
successors of these immortal martyrs. Let us make all out effort to produce
innumerable successors to those martyrs who fell in the course of advancing
the revolution.

Let us march ahead holding aloft the bright red banner drenched with
the blood of innumerable martyrs to establish base areas, transform the
PLGA into PLA, and guerrilla war into mobile war. Let us pledge to continue
the revolutionary war and expand it to vast areas of our country with
redoubled determination and with steel-like firmness in order to achieve
the cherished goals of our beloved martyrs i.e., the liberation of our country
from the vice-like grip of the imperialists, comprador bureaucrat bourgeoisie
and reactionary big landlords, and the establishment of people’s democracy,
socialism and ultimately communism.

July  10,  2009

Politbureau,
CPI(Maoist)

40

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

Hold High The Sacrifices Of

Our Martyrs!

Advance Firmly In The Path Of

People’s War

To Fulfill The Aims Of Our Martyrs!

Call of the Politburo, CPI (Maoist) to the party ranks, PLGA
commanders-fighters  and  the  revolutionary  masses  to  solemnly
observe  Martyrs’  Memorial  Week  from  2010  July  28  to August  3
Dear  Comrades,

Since 2009 July 28, more than 240 beloved daughters and sons of the
proletariat have laid down their invaluable lives in the protracted people’s
war path blazed by the great founders, leaders and martyr comrades Charu
Mazumdar and Kanhai Chatterji for a great cause. Our Politburo is paying
humble red homage to all these martyrs on behalf of our CC, CMC and
Sucomo. It is calling upon the party, PLGA, mass organisations and RPCs
to solemnly observe the Martyrs’ Memorial Week as we do every year.
These comrades breathed their last in the course of fighting back the
counter-revolutionary multi-pronged huge military offensive of the Indian
ruling classes with the full support and aid of the imperialists, particularly
the US imperialists, that was launched with the aim of decimating the
advancing people’s war (PW) in our country. The warm blood of these
martyrs  was  spilt  in  vast  areas  on  all  four  corners  of  our  country  –
Dandakaranya,  Jharkhand,  Bihar,  Bengal,  Odisha, Andhra  Pradesh,
Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka. The mountains,
hills, plains, mines, houses and fields turned red with their blood. They
sacrificed their lives while valiantly fighting to defend the successes of the
PW from the unprecedented offensive of the fascist ruling classes, to defend
the  people,  party,  people’s  army  and  new  democratic  power  and  the
advancement of the PW.

Among our beloved martyrs is our party’s Central Military Intelligence

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

41

Chief, senior State Committee member comrade Sakhamuri Appa Rao to
party members. Among them are Silda and Tadimetla fighters who displayed
unparalleled courage, bravery, valiance and sacrifice. Among them are
Division  Command  In-charge  comrade  Mangesh  to  militia  comrade
Sakuntala, senior women comrade Swarna to people’s agricultural activist
comrade Kumli, leaders of mass organisations comrades Singanna, Andru
and Sudhir Mahato and 70 year old elders to 10 year old small children.

Majority of the comrades were martyred in the murderous campaign
of the enemy perpetrated in the name of Operation Green Hunt (OGH).
The number of comrades who were martyred in the course of waging
courageous battles like Laheri, Silda and Tadimetla (Mukaram) to defeat
the OGH and in the course of fighting back the attacks of the mercenary
enemy troops is considerable. The enemy caught hold of, tortured and
murdered several comrades. Women were gang raped and killed. All the
murders in the name of encounters were nothing but fake encounters.
Some peasants committed suicide unable to bear the tortures and harassment
of the police. The killer gangs formed by the police caught hold of our
comrades, tortured and killed them. Some comrades died due to accidental
firing. Some comrades died due to ill-health too.

During attacks and counter-attacks between our forces and the enemy
forces and also in indiscriminate firings by enemy troops on the unarmed
people, many comrades were injured. Thousands of comrades of local
mass organisations, RPCs and people were arrested and severely tortured.
Hundreds among them were implicated in false cases and thrown into
prisons. Hundreds of comrades are incarcerated years together in prisons
in inhumane conditions. Several of them were booked under draconian
laws. Destruction of property, loot, razing down villages, destruction of
harvest,  loot  of  domesticated  animals  is  increasing  day  by  day. The
displacement of people is continuing. To be precise, the country wide
mopping up destructive campaign of the enemy is intensifying with each
passing day and creating turmoil in the lives of the people.

The  courage  and  valiance  displayed,  values  followed,  ideals  and
traditions of sacrifice established and the valuable experiences handed
over by the hundreds of comrades who laid down their lives fighting back

42

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

the repression of the enemy at each and every step have illuminated the
path of new democratic revolution and the World Socialist Revolution. On
the occasion of the Martyrs’ Memorial Week our Politburo remembers
with a heavy heart our beloved leaders, martyr comrades CM, KC and all
the known, unknown comrades who were martyred since Naxalbari to this
day and pays humble homage to them. It is vowing to fight tirelessly till
their goals are achieved. It is conveying its deep condolences to the relatives
and friends of martyrs and shares their grief. It is appealing to their dear
and near to come forward to fill up their loss. It is saluting the great spirit
displayed by the injured comrades and wholeheartedly wishes their quick
recovery and active participation in the movement again. The Politburo is
sending heartfelt revolutionary greetings to all the valiant comrades who
turned the prisons into centres of class struggle even amid inhuman conditions
displaying courage and sacrifice. It is sharing the travails of the lakhs of
people who became victims of OGH. It is appealing to them to fight with
renewed class hatred against the enemies who are behind all their hardships,
tears and difficulties, till the final victory is won.

Thousands of Maoists, workers, peasants, students, youth, intellectuals,
democrats, women and people belonging to oppressed nationalities were
martyred in our country and other countries during the course of struggle
for liberation from class exploitation, oppression, for democracy, national
liberation and while fighting against imperialism and all kinds of reactionaries.
Let us remember all of them during this Martyrs’ Memorial Week and pay
our homage to them.

Comrades,

The guerilla warfare led by our party in various parts of our country is
intensifying and expanding. It is achieving successes and creating new
democratic power. The historic militant people’s struggles of Lalgarh and
Narayanapatna that erupted in a new manner with the inspiration of militant
people’s movements of Kalinganagar, Singur and Nandigram created a
new tradition in the country’s polity and people’s movements. These are
proclaiming the need for the leadership of the Maoists in our country.

The history of our movement in the past ten months is a history of
struggle against the multi-pronged heavy military offensive of the enemy,

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

43

particularly against OGH by the PLGA and the people led by our party.
We cannot imagine even one success achieved by us in PW without the
sacrifices of our great martyrs and without the tears shed and hardships
suffered by the lakhs of oppressed masses. We cannot imagine the political,
military, production, people’s welfare, expansion etc campaigns taken up
by the party or the good results achieved by these without their sacrifices.
We cannot imagine the intensification and expansion of the guerilla warfare
to various parts of our country, successes in this warfare or the creation of
new power without the sacrifices of the martyrs. None of the successes
were achieved by the struggles of Lalgarh, Narayanapatna, Kalinganagar
etc without the sacrifices of martyrs. Sacrifices of the martyrs inspired the
democrats and progressive elements in our country to unite and agitate
against OGH. And we cannot also imagine the support extended by the
fighting forces in our country and the world to our people’s war (PW)
without the sacrifices of the martyrs. To be precise, it was the sacrifices of
the martyrs that provided the inspiration for each and every political, military
and organisational successes achieved by the party in this period.

Comrades,

Due  to  the  anti-people,  treacherous,  pro-imperialist,  expansionist,
reactionary economical, political, social and ecological policies of the Indian
ruling classes and due to imposition of counter-revolutionary war in the
name of suppressing the revolutionary movement, the social contradictions
in our country are sharpening further. Due to this, great opportunities are
coming to the fore for the Maoist forces, progressive democratic forces,
patriotic forces and the vast socially oppressed communities of people like
Adivasis, Dalits, religious minorities etc to unite and carry on a wider and
militant resistance. South Asia is burning. All the fundamental contradictions
in the world are sharpening. To be precise, the objective situation in the
world is excellent.

The cruelest counter-revolutionary offensive carried on by the enemy
on the revolutionary movement proves his political bankruptcy. Not just the
OGH but every policy taken up by the ruling classes against the people’s
movements turned ineffective with the resistance of the people and has
been defeated. Though the central and state governments deployed huge

44

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

numbers of military, paramilitary and special police forces against the
people’s movements they did not get crushed. The flames of Kashmir,
Manipur, Gorkhaland, Telangana and other people’s movements could not
be doused.

The oppressed masses in the struggle areas are severely resisting the
OGH with burning hatred. It is being resisted rigorously all over the country.
As a result of this resistance, people have created the historic Laheri,
Saranda, Singanamadugu, Gaya, Aurangabad, Silda, Tadimetla military
struggles and militant people’s movements like Lalgarh, Narayanapatna
and  Kandhamal.  The  oppressed  masses,  Maoist  revolutionaries  and
democrats are opposing OGH bitterly. The PW led by our party against
OGH launched by the fascist rulers and the imperialists is serving as the
rallying point for the people of our country. Moreover, the international
proletarian revolutionary forces and anti-imperialist forces are opposing
this offensive. All these forces that are dictating the direction in which the
society should move at present are helping the advancement of our PW in
various forms.
Comrades,

Our beloved comrades have sacrificed everything for fulfilling the
central task set by our Unity Congress and handed over that responsibility
to us. No revolution in this world emerged victorious without great sacrifices.
The sacrifices of the martyrs never go in vain. This is an era of revolutions.
This is an era of sacrifices and successes. Today, revolution is demanding
more sacrifices from us to achieve greater successes. Martyrs are inspiring
us to fight valiantly for victory. History is proclaiming that the people and
Maoists who dare to struggle are invincible. Advance with determination
in the path of PW walked by our martyrs, by keeping aloft the proletarian
red flag turned crimson with their blood, for a great cause.

Our path may be full of hardship, full of turns and twists but the future
is most bright and excellent. People are fighting under our party’s leadership.
They have immense faith in our party. A great historical responsibility rests
on our shoulders. Final victory belongs to us – to the oppressed masses!

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

45

Comrades,

Celebrate  the  Martyrs’  Memorial Week  all  over  the  country  with
revolutionary spirit. Take up the political task of smashing the OGH and
hold aloft the dedication, courage, valiance, creativity, communist values
and sacrifices displayed by our comrades while fighting back the enemy
amid severe repression. Publish the life histories of our ideal martyrs. Build
martyrs’ columns in all villages. Propagate widely and effectively about
martyrs through various forms like posters, pamphlets, wall-writing, banners
etc. Conduct meetings holding high the ideals of the martyrs. Successfully
observe the Memorial Week to fill the party, PLGA, mass organisations,
RPCs and people with revolutionary enthusiasm.

On this occasion of commemorating our martyrs, the Politburo is giving
a call to the entire party, PLGA, mass organisations, RPCs and the people
to fulfill the following tasks in the present concrete conditions to make the
dreams of martyrs come true.

· Ideologically and politically consolidate the party to generate new
successors in huge numbers to fill the void left behind by the fallen
heroes! Recruit countless new members! Avoid unnecessary losses!
Get rid of non-proletarian trends!

·  Create  countless  Laheris,  Sarandas,  Sildas,  Tanginigudas  and
Tadimetlas to defeat OGH! Mobilise the masses in huge numbers!
·  Create  countless  Kalinganagars,  Nandigrams,  Lalgarhs  and
Narayanapatnas  to  wipe  out  the  Indian  ruling  classes  and  the
imperialists with people’s upsurges!

· Adhere firmly to the party’s political line, class line and mass line to

strengthen the mass base!

1 June 2010

With  Revolutionary  Greetings

Politburo

CPI (Maoist)

46

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

Hail the Sacrifices of Martyrs
Who Laid Down Their Lives

in the People’s War Waged Against

Operation Green Hunt (War on People)!

Intensify the People’s War

in the Light of the Aims of Martyrs!
Call of the CPI (Maoist) to party, PLGA, ranks of the
revolutionary people’s government, revolutionary mass

organizations and revolutionary masses to observe Martyrs’

Memorial Week in all the movement areas

from July 28 to August 3, 2011!

Dear  comrades,

In the struggle for the victory of New Democratic Revolution in India
waged as part of the goal of establishing socialism-communism on this
globe, more than 225 leaders-members of our party, PLGA commanders,
fighters, leaders-members of various mass organizations, people’s militia
fighters, revolutionary and ordinary masses have laid down their lives in
the past one year. Our party Central Committee humbly pays homage to
all these comrades who sacrificed their lives in the path of the protracted
people’s war (PPW) paved by the great teachers of Indian revolution,
founders of our party and beloved leaders Comrades Charu Mazumdar
and Kanhai Chatterji. CC is giving a call to the party, PLGA, revolutionary
people’s governments, revolutionary mass organizations and masses to
observe Martyrs’ Memorial Week in memory of our beloved martyrs this
year  too  starting  from  July  28,  the  day  of  martyrdom  of  Com.  Charu
Mazumdar.

The  Indian  ruling  classes  were  aghast  with  the  historic  Mukaram

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

47

(Tadimetla-2) operation conducted by the PLGA against Operation Green
Hunt (OGH) launched with the aim of completely decimating the Indian
revolutionary movement with the guidance of imperialists, particularly US
imperialists. But within a few days the APSIB dogs hunted down our
beloved  leader  and  official  spokesperson  of  the  party  Comrade Azad
(Rajkumar) and journalist Hemchandra Pandey and killed them. Later OGH
phase-2 was launched by the ruling classes by intensifying their counter-
revolutionary offensive. In the process of fighting back this offensive and
in the process of expanding the People’s War to newer areas, the warm
blood of several comrades was spilled in the forests, plains and towns.
Among these comrades, 81 in Dandakaranya (DK), 53 in Bihar-Jharkhand-
North Chhattisgarh (B-J-N.CG), 25 in Odisha, 16 in Andhra-Odisha border
(AOB) area, five in West Bengal, 9 in Chhattisgarh-Odisha borders, three
in Maharashtra and one from North Telangana were martyred. More than
25 of these martyrs are women comrades. They realized that sacrifice is
an integral part of our revolutionary aim and that we cannot achieve our
aim without challenging death and have laid down their lives while bravely
fighting back the enemy forces to defeat the ‘War on People’, to defend
the people and to develop the budding new people’s power further in the
process of advancing the People’s War. The blood spilled by them is inspiring
the vast masses of our country and the world with a spirit of struggle.

In spite of the opposition from the people of various oppressed classes,
democrats, patriots, progressive social activists, environmental activists,
lawyers, writers, poets, artistes and various NGO organizations against
‘War  on  People’  (OGH),  the  ruling  classes  carried  on  indiscriminate
massacres with their mercenary police and counter-revolutionary gangs in
OGH phase-2. Fake encounters (Bhilai, Kotrapal, Vakulvahi, Timmapur in
DK, Burudhi in West Bengal, Hesia in Jharkhand etc) and massacres were
perpetrated in villages, fields and forests to damage the mass base of the
revolutionary movement and to terrorize the people. Countless firings and
mortar shelling were done on ordinary people (Savargaon in DK). Apart
from these, a large number of comrades were martyred due to poisoning
(on the banks of river Ganga in Munger of Bihar); ambushes on people
and people’s militia (Mettagudapara-Silinger, Gondumetta, Burgil in DK
and Cheruvuru in AOB) and encirclement offensives (East Champaran in

48

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

North Bihar, Kashipur etc in Odisha). In Padkipalli of Mahasamund district
on Chhattisgarh-Odisha borders six comrades were martyred in an enemy
ambush on a PLGA company which is working with the task of expanding
the revolutionary movement. Two villagers were also brutally killed by the
enemy in the wake of this incident.

Secret killer gangs of the enemy gang raped and brutally killed comrade
Chaithe,  the  member  of  DK  press  committee  in  Maad  division  (DK).
Counter-revolutionary PLFI (People’s Liberation Front of India) goons
have brutally murdered our party sympathizers and activist group members
in Kudroom, Kolebira Chowk, Ramjol Bazar Tand in Simdega district of
Jharkhand and some more comrades including our platoon commander
were killed in Ranchi distict by the goonda gangs of Dhanunjay.

Some comrades died in encounters with enemy forces (Barangbaru
and Samri in Gumla district of Jharkhand, Manjari in Banka district of
Bihar, the encirclement attack in Dharmaha village of East Champaran
district of Bihar, Kullenar in DK and others). Some comrades were martyred
in the courageous attacks carried out by our PLGA forces on the enemy
forces. Some comrades and people have gone missing in enemy repression.
Some comrades were martyred in some other incidents and accidents.

Among  the  martyrs  are  mass  leader  comrades  Umakant  Mahato,
Sasadhar Mahato, RC member Arun and another comrade Khokhan Mahato
of West Bengal; six comrades including one leaderhip comrade in Manjari
encounter under Katoria PS limits in Banka district of Bihar; Praful Naik,
Lakshman Munda, Gagri Kadeski in Odisha; Striking Company commander
com. Nitant (Central Military Instructor), Basadhara division committee
member com. Ravi in the Kashipur encirclement attack in Odisha, com.
Nagesh – the divisional commander-in-chief of North Bastar in DK, Com.
Nagesh, Gondia divisional C-in-C in Maharashtra, CCM guard and platoon
commander com. Kosa (Aitu) in Mahasamund district of Chhattisgarh,
revolutionary people’s teacher com. Chandana who was to join the DK
Education Development Committee and others. Along with them, comrades
Rajesh Munda, Bhuthnath, Salim Mahato of B-J-N.CG and Arup Mochi of
WB; area committee secretary com. Kishore (DK), platoon commander
com. Vikram Munda, section commander com. Ratan Yadav (Bihar), AC/

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

49

PPC  level  comrades  Chaithe, Vikram,  Keshal,  Mangdu  of  DK;  com.
Natasha in Mahasamund, two section/squad deputy comrades (DK), supply
department driver com. Badal (Madhu) in Odisha, DK special action team
member com. Prabhakar, division I-team member com. Ramesh, 27 PLGA
(company, platoon, section/squad) members (six comrades in DK including
Prameela, Kosal, 11 comrades in BJ including com. Vijaydas, five comrades
in AOB including CRC coy-3 member com. Sandeep, Bangaruraju and
Jyoti, five comrades in Mahasamund including Rajbatti and Lachu, three
comrades in Maharashtra including Manju and Mangu, com. Jeevan Tudu
in West Bengal); com. Ramaal, the president of village RPC (revolutionary
people’s committee) of North Telangana, KKC secretary com. Ramadhar
(Bihar), sangam leaders – comrades Seethanna and Singal in AOB, com.
Dharamdev in Bihar, senior leader of KAMS com. Vimala Devidas Kannake
(DK), Jan militia squad commander com. Korsa Sukkal (DK), Jan militia
members – eight in DK, two in Jharkhand, three activist group members
(JH), 11 village defence people’s militia members (AOB-six, DK-five)
were also martyred.

In the attacks conducted by our PLGA forces on the enemy, section
commander com. Ratan Yadav in Kajara ambush in Bihar, Oyam Budru
and Vetti Hidamal in Usur ambush (DK), section deputy com. Muchaki
Ganga in Morpalli ambush, PPCM and communication person in PLGA
battalion com. Mangdu in Bejji ambush, Gondia C-in-C com. Nagesh, PLGA
comrades  Manju,  Mangu,  another  comrade  in  Kobramenda  (Gondia)
ambush, Platoon-7 commander com. Maharu and member com. Rajesh in
the courageous attack at Nargonda (Gadchiroli) where the notorious and
cruel people’s enemy Chinna Venta was wiped out had laid down their
lives. One comrade was martyred in Sulungi ambush.

More  than  50  ordinary  and  unarmed  revolutionary  masses  were
martyred  in  the  ‘War  on  People’  launched  by  the  central  and  state
governments in DK, B-J-N.CG, Lalgarh and Odisha. Among them are
Adivasi people who were part of the Lalgarh mass upsurge, anti-mining
and displacement activists who were in the forefront in Odisha, revolutionary
sympathizers and people in DK and B-J-N.CG. Police, paramilitary forces,
Harmad  Bahini  and  Gan  Pratirodh  Committee  goons  in  WB,  Koya

50

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

commandos, SPOs and Salwa Judum goons in DK have murdered them in
the name of ‘Maoists’. The massacres perpetrated at Palaibani, Siyarbani-
Kotwali, Tougveda-Bhulaveda, Bandarboni, Jhargram and Netai villages
in Lalgarh area by Harmad Bahini goons, at Kotali-Jamirdanga, Patgaja,
Gojra-Barikul, Hainhadugi-Barikul villages by Gan Pratirodh Committee
goons; massacres by central and state joint forces in some more places;
Kutrem, Rangaiahgooda, Kottapalli, Kolar, Madapa, Gurugutta, Gorukonda,
Singannaguda, Murunga, Morpalli, Timmapur, Kesmundi, Chinari, Mankeli,
Pullum, and Mechanar massacres in DK are stark witness to this. All
these massacres happened between August 2010 and June 2011.

Comrades Kannabiran, Pattipati Venkateswarlu, RS Rao and other
revolutionary intellectuals and civil rights movement leaders who have fought
on the side of oppressed masses for people’s democratic rights since many
decades  breathed  their  last.  Their  martyrdom  is  a  great  loss  for  the
democratic movements.

People  are  waging  militant  struggles  against  the  ever  intensifying
problem of displacement in our country and in the fascist police firings on
these agitations at Kalinganagar (Odisha), Sompeta, Kakarlapalli (AP),
Jaitapur  (Maharashatra),  Bhatta-Parsaul  (  UP)  etc.  many  activists  laid
down their lives. Anti-mining activists Gangul Tarangi, M. Subba Rao in
Koraput area, Madhav Singh Thakur, Ramesh Sahu in Bargad (Odisha)
and  anti-Raoghat  mining  activist  Sanavu  Kumeti  (DK)  were  tortured
severely and killed. 14 activists including district committee member com.
Ravi who were participating actively and leading the anti-displacement
movement in Odisha laid down their lives in the police massacres in Jajpur
district and Kashipur of Niyamgiri area. The sacrifices of Niyamgiri and
Mahasamund martyrs who have taken up the strategic task of expanding
People’s War to newer areas as part of defeating the country-wide offensive
launched  by  the  enemy  with  the  aim  of  completely  decimating  the
revolutionary movement, are invaluable.

In  the  present  phase-2  of  OGH  it  is  a  fact  that  brutality  of  the
mercenary police-paramilitary forces and counter-revolutionary gangs has
increased further. Along with the incidents mentioned above, the murders-
atrocities, burning and loot perpetrated at Chintalnar and the massacre at
Netai perpetrated with the support of central and state joint forces and

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

51

CPM goons in Lalgarh area are naked examples for this. The white terror
unleashed  by  Cobras,  Koya  commandos  and  Salwa  Judum  goons  in
Morpalli, Tadimetla, Pulanpad and Timmapur villages in Chintalnar area
(three murdered, six women gang raped, property worth crores of rupees
and grains burnt, 300 houses looted and then razed down) and the cordoning
off of the area for weeks together by police, paramilitary, Koya commando
forces stopping any kind of relief from reaching the area from outside
show the intensity of the counter-revolutionary offensive. Democrats all
over the country protested against this. Similar were the agitations raged
on a large scale in West Bengal against the massacre at Netai by social
fascist CPM goons. Apart from this, hundreds of local mass organization
and revolutionary people’s government activists and people were arrested
and put in jails by booking them under black laws. Particularly, as part of
damaging  our  party  leadership,  in  the  man-hunts  launched  by  enemy
intelligence forces, three Central Committee members on April 29, 2011
and Comrade Bhupeshda in June and many other leadership comrades
and activists were arrested by the enemy. Dozens of cases were foisted
on them in various states to keep them in jails lifelong. The lives of people
are in turmoil due to the ‘War on People’ carried on by the enemy.

The traditions of sacrifices, valuable experiences, bravery, values and
ideals, displayed with democratic-communist consciousness by hundreds
of comrades who were martyred while fighting back the enemy repression
have brightened the path of our revolution. On the occasion of the martyrs’
memorial week the Central Committee is humbly paying red homage with
a heavy heart to our beloved leaders comrades CM, KC and to all the
known and unknown martyrs since Naxalbari. It is vowing that it would
fight untiringly for the fulfillment of their aims. On this occasion it is
expressing its deep condolences to friends, colleagues and relatives of all
the martyrs and is sharing their grief. It is appealing to all their beloved
colleagues to fulfill their loss. It is saluting the great consciousness displayed
by injured comrades and heartfully wishes that they would recover soon
and join the movement actively. CC is sending heartfelt greetings to all the
brave comrades who displayed courage, sacrifice in spite of cruel tortures
on them when they were arrested and are turning jails into an arena of
class struggles despite inhuman conditions prevailing there. It is sharing
the grievances of the lakhs of people who are suffering due to the repressive

52

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

OGH. It is appealing to the people to fight with increased class hatred till
final victory against the enemy who is the root cause for all their travais
and tears.

In the international arena, the Arab world is in turmoil with rebellions.
Though not led by revolutionaries, lakhs of Arab people are fighting militantly
against tyranny, corruption, unemployment and for democracy against their
lackey ruling classes of US imperialism. In these mass rebellions thousands
of people and people’s leaders have laid down their lives. On the occasion
of Martyrs’ Memorial Week, let us remember all the brave fighters who
have laid down their lives while fighting against all kinds of reactionaries
and imperialists for democracy, for national liberation and liberation from
class exploitation and oppression in various countries.
Comrades,

Guerilla warfare is intensifying in various areas of our country as part
of fulfilling our central task in response to the call of our party’s Unity
Congress-9th Congress. Due to the great sacrifices of our martyrs we are
advancing by achieving one success after another in People’s War. Without
the sacrifices of the martyrs, we cannot imagine any of the campaigns
taken up by the party in political, military, cultural, organizational, people’s
welfare spheres, campaigns for expansion into newer areas and newer
spheres and the good results achieved by these. In spite of the many schemes
and ploys of the enemy to stifle the movement through carpet security and
by increasing the police, paramilitary and commando forces, the sacrifices
of the martyrs are helping a lot in keeping the initiative in our hands in the
movement.  The  enemy  is  establishing  stronger  informer  networks  in
perspective areas to stop us from expanding to vast new areas in the country
and to confine our movement to limited areas. Despite this our forces
engaged in expansion of our movement are fighting face to face with the
enemy, making invaluable sacrifices in the tough guerilla warfare and are
playing their role in keeping People’s War alive.

In  the  TCOCs  taken  up  by  our  party,  military  commissions  and
commands to defeat the OGH of the enemy, small and medium actions
have taken place. Particularly,  the Kajara (Lakhisarai) ambush in Bihar
and our counter operation that failed the enemy attack in Saranda last

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

53

year; one of the bravest ambushes conducted by our PLGA in Dhardharia
forests in Lohardagga district in the midst of severe repression in Jharkhand
this year; in DK - the Morpalli (Chintalnar) ambush, Borguda night ambush
(Kerlapal), Amamora (Gariyaband) ambush, Jharaghati frontal attack, the
night ambush at Gatam on MPV, the ambush nearby Bejji camp, the night
ambush at Kirandul, Sulungi (Koilibeda) ambush etc have checked the
aggressiveness of the enemy. Particularly, these attacks which happened
when  the  enemy  was  intensifying  the  process  of  deploying  army  in
Narayanpur district in DK have greatly alarmed the exploiting ruling classes
and the enemy forces. Similarly in Jharkhand, our PLGA forces have most
bravely fought back the enemy attacks on our central camps which were
conducted in military style with thousands of forces.

On the other hand, the Lalgarh and Narayanapatna movements are
continuing militantly and developing without surrendering to the enemy
despite severe repression. The anti-state, anti-feudal struggles have taken
up the correct line for seizure of political power and have become part in
PPW. The anti-displacement struggles in Kalinganagar, Niyamgiri, Mali-
Deomali in Odisha, Lohandiguda, Raoghat, Bodhghat, Pallemadi in DK,
Sompeta and Kakarlapalli, against mining of China clay in Dumriguda,
against mining of bauxite in Visakha district in AP are advancing further in
the same path. Movement for separate Telangana is becoming stronger
with each day with the support of a vast sea of masses and is advancing in
a militant manner. This has been possible only due to the blood spilled by
several agitators. In recent times, with the inspiration of Singur, Nandigram
and Kalinganagar struggles and that of Lalgarh and Narayanapatna mass
rebellions which were carried out with the participation of revolutionary
forces, anti-displacement struggles are erupting in several areas in our
country. The people are everywhere rejecting the ‘development model’ of
the imperialist and the comprador ruling class rich-corporates and agitating.
Wherever such struggles are erupting the intelligence dogs are sniffing
around them for their links with Maoists and are trying to portray all of
them as Maoist movements. This in itself shows how nervous the ruling
classes are about Maoists. On the other hand, the Maoist People’s War is
enthusing the democrats and progressive elements in our country very
much. The sacrifices of our martyrs are giving them the inspiration.

54

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

Comrades,

Due to the launching of ‘counter-revolutionary war on people’ in the
name of OGH to suppress the revolutionary movement which proved to be
a hurdle to the reactionary, anti-people, anti-national, pro-imperialist, pro-
corporate, expansionist economic, political, social and ecological policies
of the Indian comprador ruling classes, all social contradictions in our country
are sharpening. Due to this, great opportunities are coming forth for the
Maoist forces, progressive democratic forces, patriotic forces, the national
liberation movement forces, the vast socially oppressed communities like
Adivasis, dalits, religious minorities etc to unite and continue the mass
resistance on a wider scale. On the one hand, South Asia and Arab world
are simmering and on the other hand anti-imperialist struggles are flaring
up against loot of resources in Asia, Africa and Latin America and lakhs of
workers and unemployed youth who have been thrown on the roads due to
the closure of several industries as a result of the capitalist economic crisis
are agitating. Due to this all the basic contradictions in the world are
intensifying. In one word, the objective situation in our country and the
world has turned excellent. In such a situation, the task of defending the
leadership by fighting back all conspiracies, strategies and tactics of the
enemy to annihilate the leaders of movements, particularly the Maoist
leadership  has  assumed  greater  significance  than  before.  By  deeply
understanding the dynamism of the theory of Maoist People’s War with
proletarian thinking, in an impregnable manner to the enemy, by giving
importance  to  committee  work  methods  and  discipline,  by  preserving
ourselves and wiping out the enemy our party must serve as a model to the
entire revolutionary ranks. We must properly understand the strength and
strategic goal of the enemy. We must change our old tactics and functioning
methods and formulate new tactics and functioning methods. We must be
very firm in implementing the tactics formulated and secret functioning.
Thus  we  can  decrease  our  leadership  losses  and  prevent  unnecessary
losses.

 We must intensify and expand the guerilla warfare by continuously
conducting small, medium and big operations in a planned manner depending
on mass base in order to damage the initiative of the enemy forces which
are aggressively coming to attack us with the help of carpet security in our

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

55

movement  areas.  Our  plans  for  operations  should  be  such  that  they
guarantee  success.  We  must  creatively  use  combat  skills,  weapons,
grenades, mines, cocktails etc in coordination in our battle operations. We
must intensify anti-imperialist, anti-feudal, anti-state and anti-state violence
mass struggles and agitations in support of guerilla warfare. Mass agitations
must be developed into armed resistance struggles. We must expose the
deceptive LIC war of enemy aiming to decimate the revolutionary movement
by destroying its mass base. We must strengthen vast mass base around
the revolutionary movement by awakening the people. Appropriate attention
must be given to United Front apart from party and people’s army and
foundations must be laid for the building of strategic UF by mobilizing the
masses of four classes in various agitations, building tactical united forums
and strengthening them. Revolutionary People’s Committees (RPCs) which
are  the  form  of  strategic  UF  must  be  built  from  the  village  level  and
strengthened. We must advance towards building strategic UF by taking
RPCs all over the country as the base.
Comrades,

Our beloved comrades have sacrificed everything to fulfill the central
task decided by our Unity Congress and have transferred that responsibility
to us now. No revolution in this world can be victorious without great
sacrifices. The sacrifices of our martyrs would not go in vain. This is an
era of revolutions. Today our revolution is demanding that we prepare
ourselves for more sacrifices to achieve greater successes. Our martyrs
are inspiring us for that. History is teaching us that people are invincible if
they dare to fight. Let us advance with firm determination in the path of
people’s war by efficiently utilizing the excellent revolutionary conditions
holding high the international banner of proletariat which turned crimson
with the blood of the martyrs.
Comrades,

Celebrate Martyrs’ Memorial week on a huge scale in every village
and town all over the country with revolutionary spirit. Fight back the enemy
at every step with the aim of defeating OGH while holding high the sacrifices,
communist values, creativity, courage and bravery and dedication of our
martyrs. Publish the life histories of our ideal martyrs. Build martyrs’
memorial columns in every village. Propagate widely about the sacrifices

56

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

of martyrs in creative forms such as distributing pamphlets, pasting wall
posters, wall writings, tying banners etc. Conduct meetings and rallies
upholding their ideals. Make success the Martyrs’ Memorial Week in a
manner  which  would  fill  the  party,  PLGA,  mass  organizations  and
revolutionary masses with revolutionary spirit.

On the occasion of this year’s Martyrs’ Memorial Week, our CC is
giving a call to the entire party, PLGA, mass organizations and people to
fulfill the following tasks in the present concrete conditions as part of
fulfilling the aims of our martyrs.

 Expose the deceptive LIC war of the enemy which aims to decimate
the  revolutionary  movement  by  destroying  its  mass  base  and
strengthen the mass base by rallying the vast masses !

 Consolidate party and PLGA theoretically, politically and militarily
to take the place of the fallen heroes and to create new cadres on
a huge scale with the aim of developing PLGA into PLA. Develop
Maoist dynamism in order to get rid of non-proletariat trends. Avoid
unnecessary losses by implementing secret style of functioning with
proletariat discipline ! Do not hesitate to sacrifice !

 Conduct  tactical  counter-offensives  like  Mukram-Tadimetla,
Kongera,  Mamayil,  Silda,  Baiphariguda  (Mantriyamba),  Kajra-
Lakhisarai, Saranda counter operation, Lohardagga-Dhardharia,
Amamora, Gatam and Borguda on a huge scale with the participation
of people!

 Expand the Maosit People’s War to vast areas according to the

aspirations   of the people with invaluable sacrifices !

 Create mass upsurges like Lalgarh, Narayanapatna, Kalinganagar,
Niyamgiri, Sompeta, Govindpur-Dhinkia of anti-Posco agitation etc
to end the exploitation and oppression of imperialists and the Indian
ruling classes. Advance such struggles with the aim of seizure of
political power !

Date  :  28-06-2011

With revolutionary greetings,
Central Committee,

CPI (Maoist)

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

57

Advance with resolute determination
in the path of People’s War to fulfill the

aims of our great martyrs !

Let us comprehend and pound the deceitful

LIC policy of the enemy and preserve the

leadership and our subjective forces !

Let us strengthen the Party and

advance the People’s War !

Call of the CC, CPI (Maoist) to party ranks,

PLGA commanders-fighters and revolutionary masses to
observe Martyrs’ Memorial Week with revolutionary spirit

from July 28 to August 3, 2012

Dear comrades,

In the course of striving with utmost dedication for the success of the
New Democratic Revolution in India in the path of Protracted People’s
War as shown by the founders of our party, great leaders and martyrs
Comrade  Charu  Mazumdar  and  Comrade  Kanhai  Chatterji,  for  the
establishment of socialism and ultimately communism nearly more than
150 worthy daughters and sons of the proletariat and ordinary people have
laid down their most invaluable lives. Many among them have lost their
lives in fake encounters carried on by the government armed forces. Our
party Central Committee pays humble red homage to all our beloved martyrs
and dedicates itself one more time to the fulfillment of their aims. It calls
upon the party, PLGA, Revolutionary People’s Committees (RPCs), mass
organizations and revolutionary masses to observe with revolutionary spirit
the Martyrs’ Memorial Week in memory of our beloved martyrs from 2012
July 28 to August 3 holding aloft their sacrifices and pledging ourselves one
more time to fulfill their aims. We observe these revolutionary memorial
days to pay homage to the martyrs while bearing in mind their memories, to
rededicate ourselves to fulfill their dreams and advance forward for fulfilling
our aims by filling our hearts with their inspiration. These days simultaneously
fill us with infinite grief, boundless inspiration and paramount responsibility.
Let us surmount all kinds of difficulties and hurdles created by the enemy
classes  to  stop  us  from  observing  the  Martyrs’  Memorial Week  as  a
revolutionary occasion in order to learn from their inspirational lives and
practice  and  to  pledge  to  carry  forward  their  lofty  aims  even  while
overcoming our grief. Let us hold high the red flag left to us by those valiant
fighters who laid down their lives in battle and aim our guns at the enemies
in People’s War and advance forward with great determination !

 The most reactionary Indian ruling classes with the complete support,
guidance and all kinds of help from the imperialists, particularly the US
imperialists are carrying on the countrywide, multi-pronged Operation Green
Hunt and it is increasingly becoming more dreadful, horrible and most
oppressive to the masses in its second phase. Our beloved martyrs have
laid down their lives while valiantly fighting this back. Majority of them
have lost their lives while defending the successes of the People’s War, the
people, the party, and the people’s army, while defending and expanding the

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

59

newly emerging and sustaining new democratic power organs in the guerilla
zones and the guerilla bases. They fought back the enemy valiantly and laid
down their lives thus adding new chapters in sacrifice to the history of
People’s War. Some comrades have died in accidents and due to illness
and they were primarily martyred due to lack of medical facilities in enemy
repression. Some died due to the tortures of the enemy and in jails. Whatever
may have been the manner in which they died the aspiration, selfless practice
and sacrifices of all these martyrs are aimed at liberating the people of our
country and the oppressed masses of this world from all kinds of exploitation
and oppression. That is why their martyrdom is loftier than the Himalayas
and worth remembering.

The  Martyrs’  Memorial Week  of  this  year  particularly  brings  us
unbearable grief and supreme inspiration of a great martyr. The leader of
the Indian Revolution, general of People’s War, our Politburo member and
the beloved leader of the oppressed masses Comrade Mallojula Koteswara
Rao alias Kishenji was martyred in a fake encounter on November 24,
2011 caught in a dragnet of the central and Bengal state governments and
the Bengal state and central intelligence agencies. This cruel murder by
Sonia-Manmohan-Chidambaram-Pranab Mukherji-Jairam Ramesh fascist
ruling class clique in connivance with the Chief Minister of West Bengal
Mamta Banerji caused immense loss to the Indian revolutionary movement.
Comrade Koteswarlu was born into a middle class family in 1954 in
Peddapally town of Karimnagar district, Andhra Pradesh. In his 38 year
long revolutionary life he developed from an organizer to a Politburo member
and won a permanent place in the hearts of the masses as a hugely popular
leader.  He  carried  on  his  revolutionary  activities  in Andhra  Pradesh,
Dandakaranya, Bengal and other North Indian states. As a crucial member
of the higher committees (state and central) that take decisions which could
turn the movement and advance it, he took up important responsibilities and
played a great role. It was creative and full of revolutionary commitment.
He  played  a  laudatory  role  in  standing  firmly  with  the  party  line  and
conducting two-line struggle in the party against opportunism that raised its
head in the party and in strengthening the party by imparting ideological and
political education through Marxism-Leninism-Maoism. He played an
exceptional  and  inspirational  role  in  developing  North Telangana  and

60

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

Dandakaranya into guerilla zones with the aim of building base areas, in
building the people’s army of PLGA, in expanding and developing the
revolutionary movement in North and East India, in building New Democratic
power that emerged in an embryonic form and is developing, in strengthening
the party by uniting the revolutionary forces, in maintaining solidarity relations
with foreign revolutionary organizations and in creating the deluge of Lalgarh
people’s rebellion. As a party leader he worked day and night to develop
the People’s War in all the areas he worked. He paid special attention to
revolutionary propaganda and publication of revolutionary literature and
magazines and inspired the Indian people to enter revolutionary practice by
imparting them revolutionary politics. He dedicated his pen to the liberation
of the oppressed masses and wrote articles, poems and did translations.
The unprecedented level of responses from revolutionary masses, parties,
intellectuals, various sections of people, from several areas in our country
and internationally have severely condemned the conspiracy of the Indian
ruling classes in murdering him and paid homage to him befitting a great
leader. The hatred of our party, PLGA and the revolutionary masses towards
the ruling classes that have murdered our beloved leader by torturing him in
the most inhuman and cruel manner has doubled. Though his loss for the
Indian revolutionary movement is irreparable, the movement, party and
PLGA that developed due to the sacrifices of our thousands of martyrs
including that of Comrade Kishenji, the invaluable experiences they imparted
and the revolutionary ideals they established are an assurance for the fact
that many more leaders like Comrade Kishenji would come forward. Let
us hold aloft the high ideals and values established by Comrade Kishenji in
his life, long revolutionary practice and even in death. Let us make them a
part of our practice at every step and advance forward.

In the past one year we have lost two state level leaders one each in
DK and NT and a Regional Committee level leading comrade in Asom.
Dandakaranya  Special  Zonal  Committee  (DKSZC)  member  Comrade
Harak (Srikanth) died at the age of 48 on February 26, 2012 due to severe
illness relating to heart disease. North Telangana SZC member Comrade
Gundeti Sankar (Seshanna) died an untimely death at the age of 47 due to
snake bite on March 18, 2012. Comrade Srikanth worked in the Red Flag
party and later joined our party in 1993. He worked in the urban and plain

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

61

areas of Chhattisgarh among workers, youth, and students and in the cultural
field. He worked in the Gadchiroli division of DK since 1998 and was
elected into the DKSZC in 2005. He led the Gadchiroli division movement
till the end and became the beloved leader of the people there. Though he
had severe heart related illness he was always smiling and spread cheer
and won the love of the cadres. He was an editorial board member of the
Prabhat magazine (DK zone political organ) and contributed to the magazine
and propaganda work. The untimely death of Comrade Seshanna due to
snake bite while he was tirelessly working to revive the North Telangana
movement is an irremediable loss to the party and particularly to the NT
movement. Seshanna had 30 years of long experience in the movement
and developed from a squad member to a state level leader. He was a
brave fighter who never left the people even amidst several repressive
campaigns of the enemy. He wrote many literary pieces especially about
martyrs. He worked in the political, military and propaganda spheres and
led the cadre and the people. Though this is a severe loss to the NT movement
it has been proven in history that this land of struggles would give birth to
many more leaders like Seshanna.

Nearly  30  comrades  were  martyred  in  the  Bihar-Jharkhand-North
Chhattisgarh Special Area during battles with the enemy forces. Some
comrades were martyred in the hands of counter-revolutionary armed gangs
like PLFI and Jharkhand Jan Mukti Parishad. Like in other revolutionary
movement areas, in this Special Area too the Indian ruling classes are
intensifying the military offensive in an unprecedented manner and are also
implementing  reforms  and  conducting  psychological  warfare,  thus
intensifying their effort to pave the way for the loot of immense mineral,
forest, water and land resources. The most reactionary ‘Saranda Action
Plan’ is also part of this. The Adivasi and other oppressed masses are
advancing forward in the revolutionary path under the leadership of the
party and the PLGA by valiantly fighting back such repressive policies of
the  government. All  the  comrades  who  were  martyred  in  B-J  such  as
comrades Yogendra Oraon, Pancham Paswan, Gulach Munda, Bhagabat
Marandi, Sri Krishna Mahato, Tapeswar Ganju, Anil Ram etc laid down
their lives in battles with the enemy while preserving the natural riches that
rightfully belonged only to the local people and while defending the emerging

62

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

people’s political power there.

Repression intensified in Bengal, Odisha and North-East states all of
which fall under East Regional Bureau of our party. Apart from murdering
Comrade Kishenji in Bengal, three more comrades were killed in the name
of encounters in Lalgarh. In Asom where the revolutionary movement spread
and is strengthening, the army, paramilitary and the police conducted a fake
encounter in May 2012 and killed four of our comrades in cold-blood. P.
Chidambaram who was shouting at the top of his voice about the expansion
of Maoist movement in Asom and its borders finally quenched his thirst for
blood with this fake encounter. One of the martyred comrades is the Asom
leading committee comrade Siddharth Burgohain. The other three comrades
were Comrades Rajiv Gogoi, Arup Chetia and Kamla Gogoi. Earlier Comrade
Pavel, a commander was martyred in Asom during a military action. These
losses are severe for us due to the strategic significance of the movements
of oppressed nationalities and the revolutionary movement of the North-
East not only for the Indian revolutionary movement but also for South
Asia. However, there is no doubt that more people’s leaders would emerge
from among the people of North-East who are increasingly mobilizing vastly
on their day to day issues, against big dams and displacement as part of
their national liberation aspirations. Under the Odisha State Organizing
Committee area, Comrade Mitu (ACM) was martyred in an encounter
with the police in January 2012. Central Regional Company Comrade Ungal
was martyred in an accidental mine blast on January 4, 2012 and Comrade
Ravi was martyred due to illness in December 2011 when this company
went to Odisha to conduct military actions there.

In Dandakaranya, Kangerghati LGS commander comrade Mahesh died
a hero’s death during an ambush conducted on the enemy forces on October
11, 2011 near Netanar. On August 16 2011, comrades Badru, Gopi, Akash and
Ramsai valiantly resisted the police forces that surrounded them and were
martyred after killing a STF jawan. The brutal police hurled grenades on a
huge scale and finally torched the house they were in. Comrades Paklu and
Mangli were martyred while fighting the enemy forces valiantly in an ambush
conducted by the PLGA near Bhejji on March 26, 2012. West Bastar Action
Team commander Comrade Pramod was martyred in the hands of a body
guard while trying to annihilate people’s enemy Rajkumar Tamo.

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

63

Comrade  Mangu  Paddam  (Sukku),  a  DVC  member  working  for
expansion  of  the  revolutionary  movement  in  central  India  as  part  of
Chhattisgarh-Odisha Border State area was martyred while fighting the
enemy forces in Raigarh district of Chhattisgarh on January 27, 2012. He
worked in North Bastar area of DK and PLGA for a long time and worked
in the extension area since mid-2010. This is a big loss for the extension
area movement.

In North Telangana, comrades Sukkal (ACM) and Somal (Militia) were
killed in a fake encounter in Charla of Khammam district. Comrade Sutari
Papa Rao (LGS commander) was martyred in Sayannapalli encounter in
Khammam district.

We have lost some very valuable women comrades in the past one
year. Comrade Swaroopa (Sunita) who served in the technical field under
the AP state committee and the CC since 28 years and as a tailor in DK in
her last years died due to breast cancer in March 2012. A secret, selfless
activist who served the people, she protected the higher level leadership of
the party like the pupil of her eyes during her long tenure in the technical
field. In her entire revolutionary life she faced several problems like illness,
losing her life partners, patriarchy, loneliness etc but she overcame them
with the inspiration of the martyrs and with Bolshevik spirit and set an
ideal.  On August  20  2011,  Comrade  Ramko  Hichami  (Ranita)  was
surrounded by the enemy forces in Makadchuvva village in Gadchiroli of
DK. But she did not waver even for one second and with great valiance
and bravery wiped out three CoBRA/C-60 commandos and injured four
more jawans with her .303 rifle and died a hero’s death. A battalion level of
armed forces, thousands of bullets, dozens of hand bombs and mortar shells
were deployed against her but with great determination she faced all these
and stopped the enemy forces in their tracks for hours together and inflicted
losses on them. Comrade Ranita is the President of the Chadgaon Area
Janatana Sarkar, a brave fighter and the beloved daughter of the oppressed
masses who registered a valiant chapter in her name with red letters in the
history of People’s War and emergence of New Democratic Society. On
31-5-2012 Comrades Sameera, Ameela and Aruna were martyred in an
encounter with the enemy forces in Mainpur division belonging to the
Chhattisgarh-Odisha Border movement. Comrade Sameera was born in

64

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

Nalgonda district of AP. She worked in the protection platoon of the AP
State Committee and was a brave fighter who defended the state leadership
by putting her life at stake in those years. She became part of DK movement
since 2009 and worked among the women in East Bastar. Later she worked
in the Gobra LOS area in Mainpur division and developed into AC secretary
and won a place in the hearts of the oppressed masses there as their most
beloved leader. Comrade Aruna was born in DK and learnt her lessons in
revolution there. She is a senior ACM who won the confidence of the party
and people in Mainpur. Comrade Ameela was a great cultural artiste even
while she was in DK and held many a promise as an active ACM. Mainpur
division that is playing a crucial role in expanding the revolutionary movement
in central India faced irreparable loss with this. These most reliable and
beloved young women martyrs to the party and the people would live on
forever in our memories. Their martyrdom would be written in red letters.
Comrade Sombari of Darbha division died in a heartrending manner due to
burns during a military action. This young women fighter was paid great
homage by the people and her fellow PLGA fighters.

Comrade  BSA  Satyanarayana  was  a  leader  of  the  working  class
movement, editor of the workers’ magazine ‘Sramajeevi’, a people’s lawyer
and a leader working tirelessly for the release of political prisoners. He
breathed  his  last  on  June  22,  2012.  In  his  nearly  four  decade  long
revolutionary practice the services he rendered for the rights of workers,
civil rights and political prisoners are invaluable and an ideal to be emulated
by all those who stand on the side of the oppressed people. Our CC is
paying humble and red homage to his great memory.

In the past one year several incidents of ordinary people, activists of
mass organizations and revolutionary people’s governments dying in police
firings, due to tortures in police custody and dying in fake encounters after
being abducted from their homes and killed in cold-blood have occurred.
Particularly, in an indiscriminate police firing that reminded one of the
Jallianwalah massacre in the Basaguda area of Bijapur district in DK on
28-6-2012, the notorious CoBRA and police forces surrounded the people
from all sides and killed 17 unarmed people including women, children and
school children belonging to Sarkinguda, Raju Penta and Kothaguda villages.
Tens  of  them  were  injured. Two  more  villagers  were  killed  in  nearby

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

65

Imlipenta taking the toll to 19. This would remain another example for the
increasing fascist nature and cruelty of the enemy. Comrades Sodi Nani
(Militia platoon deputy commander), Venjam Kelu (Militia member), village
patel Madkami Maasa of Chikpal in South Bastar, Podiyami Maasa, senior
mass organization activist Comrade Negi Yadav of Innar village in East
Bastar division and some more persons were either killed in fake encounters
or in police lock ups in various areas in DK. As part of Operation Haka
carried on by the enemy paramilitary and police forces numbering about
3000 in Maad area, Dunga Dhurva of Toke village was beaten to death.
Akali Devi and her son were killed in a contractor’s firing in Tirra village of
Gumla district in Jharkhand.

Comrades,

The increasingly intensifying imperialist economic crisis is seriously
impacting the Indian economy too. The imperialists, particularly the US
imperialists and the comprador rulers of semi-colonial, semi-feudal countries
are trying to cruelly crush any kinds of forces that prove a hurdle to their
investments, loot of resources and markets in order to come out of their
crisis. The occupation of Iraq and Afghanistan, direct intervention in Libya
and still continuing intervention in Pakistan and Syria, threats to Iran and
North Korea, launching of country-wide, multi-pronged, most reactionary
operations like Oplan Bayanihan and Operation Green Hunt respectively in
Philippines and India to cruelly suppress the revolutionary movements are
all aimed at fulfilling their economic and political interests. Central, East
and North-East states which are home to immense mineral, forest and
water resources have been specially targeted by them. Even while brutally
suppressing all kinds of revolutionary, democratic and patriotic forces that
are opposing the indiscriminate country-wide loot of resources, exploitation
and oppression, the ruling classes are carrying on a massive military offensive
targeting our party that is arming the people, the PLGA and the revolutionary
people’s power organs.

Though  we  have  faced  severe  losses  in  terms  of  leadership  and
subjective forces in this offensive, in our strong areas the revolutionary
movement sustained itself and is posing a challenge to the enemy. It is
causing losses to the enemy forces during various tactical counter-offensive
campaigns. Revolutionary movement is expanding to new areas and in

66

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

some places it is expanding internally inside guerilla zones. We are striving
hard to Bolshevize the party. Apart from this, particularly our party is
ideologically and politically exposing the fake development model of the
ruling  classes.  It  has  built  an  alternative  develop  model  though  in  an
embryonic form in DK, B-J, Bengal and AOB. Division level Janatana
Sarkars have been formed and are working in DK. Our party is striving to
fight unitedly with the nationality liberation movements in our country and
other movements of the oppressed masses and communities and standing
in support of them. Since the days of Naxalbari and Srikakulam movements
to this day, any acts, laws pertaining to the rights of poor peasants and
Adivasis or reforms had all been promulgated by the ruling classes in the
name of reducing the influence of the Maoist movements. To this day any
debate about development cannot take place without discussing about the
Maoist alternative development model and the political and economic
alternative posed by the Maoists. The reason behind is the significance of
the political line of our party and its People’s War practice. As our party
with its unparalleled sacrifices and correct political alternative is considered
a ray of hope by the oppressed masses of our country, the state is trying to
crush our party and its leadership as soon as possible. That is why it is
resorting to a massive military offensive on us.

The political successes achieved, the advances in People’s War, the
expansion of guerilla warfare and revolutionary movement, establishment
and development of people’s political power, the support and solidarity that
our New Democratic Revolution (NDR) is getting in our country and abroad
cannot be imagined without the sacrifices of martyrs and the ideals and
values that they imparted to the society and established inside the party. It
is with the inspiration of the great practice of comrades Charu Mazumdar,
Kanhai Chatterji and our thousands of martyrs and with the spirit of their
sacrifices that our party is able to overcome all kinds of unfavorable conditions
and advance forward for the success of NDR.

Comrades,

The material conditions in our country and the world are increasingly
turning favorable to the revolution. All kinds of social contradictions are
sharpening and are making the people to join movements and increasingly
making them choose the revolutionary path. If we have to advance the

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

67

revolution  in  our  country  towards  victory  by  utilizing  this  excellent
revolutionary condition, then we must fulfill the following immediate tasks
with the aim of fulfilling the central task given by our 9th Congress-Unity
Congress  i.e.,  developing  guerilla  warfare  into  mobile  warfare  and
developing PLGA into PLGA to turn Dandakaranya and Bihar-Jharkhand
into liberated areas.

If we are to advance the revolution towards victory by utilizing the
excellent material conditions, then we will have to improve our subjective
conditions  too  as  rapidly.  Preventing  losses  to  our  subjective  forces,
particularly preventing losses to top leadership is one of the most important
tasks faced by our party. It is true that people give birth to revolutionary
leaders in the course of revolution. But it is equally true that once we lose
such leaders, leaders who had gained decades of vast experience and have
been guiding the party with unwavering confidence on the people and the
revolution, it is not so easy to give birth to such leaders again. It is a general
principle that our aim in war is to preserve our forces as far as possible and
inflict losses on the enemy forces as far as possible. We must take the
preservation of our leadership, reduction of losses to our subjective forces
and prevention of unnecessary losses seriously and strive to achieve the
same subordinate to the above general principle.

Our failures and shortcomings in studying the deceptive LIC strategy
of the enemy and taking up counter-tactics by understanding the tactics
taken by the enemy to wipe our leadership and subjective forces as part of
that strategy are the reason behind the serious losses we are facing. For
this, a change must occur in our work methods in accordance with the
material conditions, level of the movement and our tasks. Our work methods
must be improved such that the three magic weapons for the victory of
revolution – party, people’s army and united front get consolidated and
strengthened. This would create a basis for us to reduce our losses. Likewise,
we  must  bolshevize  the  party  ideologically,  politically,  militarily  and
organizationally in order to preserve our subjective forces and strengthen
them.

Increasing our mass base is crucial in solving all the problems we are
facing at present. A strong mass base would also be a fundamental pre-
condition for fulfilling the losses that occurred. So we must strive to sustain

68

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

a strong mass base and to build it. For this sake, we must politically mobilize
the people and consolidate them. We must mobilize the masses in various
movements and struggles and particularly we must mobilize the peasantry
vastly and militantly in agrarian revolutionary movement. On the whole we
must mobilize the revolutionary masses actively in People’s War. We must
display lot of skill so that we can defeat the civic action programmes, fake
reforms, attacks of killer gangs and deceptive war that are being carried on
as part of LIC policy and mobilize the middle class people and the intellectuals
basing ourselves on workers and peasants.

We must further intensify the guerilla warfare in those zones in our
country where it is raging intensely. We must expand it to a vaster area.
The enemy would employ every kind of counter-revolutionary method to
limit our guerilla zones and movement areas to smaller areas and to end the
war in as little time as possible (by wiping us out or by qualitatively weakening
our fighting power). We must defeat their efforts by vastly mobilizing the
masses, intensifying and expanding the guerilla warfare, consolidating and
expanding the people’s power organs and guerilla bases, expanding the
guerilla areas, developing the movement step by step by sustaining the
successes of People’s War and by extending the war so that it continues in
a protracted manner.

Arming the people further to strengthen people’s political power and
guerilla bases where we have built them and expanding them to more areas
is one of the most important tasks facing us. We must develop all kinds of
mass agitations and class struggles, particularly land struggles and anti-
displacement struggles, arm the people who get consolidated in those
struggles and inspire the people to build people’s political power by rejecting
the state rule of the ruling classes and to establish liberated areas by building
a strong people’s army. Mobilizing people actively in People’s War would
be crucial for this.

Deployment of army in Bastar, opening army training schools, giving
special training to a Brigade of forces, building new battalions every year,
huge increases in military budget, building of the necessary infrastructure
for deployment of Air Force, buying-hiring and usage of helicopters and
UAVs are all part of the multi-pronged massive military offensive Operation
Green Hunt (OGH). The deployment of army in Bastar is not just for wiping

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

69

out the movement there but also to damage the movements in Andhra
Pradesh, Odisha and Maharashtra that border Bastar and also the movements
in Jharkhand, Bihar, other North and East Indian states and the movements
in South and Western India, thus aiming to wipe us out in the whole country.
That is why we must put special efforts to build a vast and militant mass
movement in our movement areas, in our country and abroad opposing the
deployment of army in movement areas and concretely in Bastar.

In the massive special operations carried on by the enemy forces at a
Brigade level recently in DK, Jharkhand, Bihar, Odisha, COB and AOB,
UAVs were used. They are completing all preparations for deploying them
on a vast scale (for gathering information, bombing and firing). We must
mobilize on a big scale people of all sections against the usage of UAVs-
drones. We must link this with the movements that are arising against the
usage of drones internationally, particularly in countries such as Afghanistan,
Pakistan, Yemen, Iraq, Palestine etc. We must strive to mobilize international
support opposing the deployment of army and usage of drones in our
movement areas. In fact, the lakhs of armed forces, paramilitary, police
forces and the number of helicopters deployed in our movement areas is
more than the number of armed forces or Air Force planes or helicopters
of the majority of countries in the world. We must place this fact in front of
the people of our country and the world and mobilize them.

The colonial rulers before the transfer of power in 1947 and later their
stooges brought forth brutal laws such as AFSPA, UAPA, MCOCA, CSPSA
apart from other draconian laws such as PD Act, NSA, Prevention of
Arms Act etc and are crushing the right to live and other fundamental
rights of the people. Preparations have been intensified to establish the
NCTC (National Counter-Terrorism Centre) that would become the most
notorious of all such oppressive institutions. This is modeled on the NCTC
of  US  and  would  be  formed  and  run  under  the  guidance  of  the  US
imperialists. This is aimed at completely suppressing the fighting people
with no control whatsoever. The ruling classes are going to use this as an
instrument to establish military, dictatorial and emergency type of rule. If
this institution is formed, then civil rights would lose all meaning. This is
going to turn dangerous not only to the Indian people but to the entire people
of South Asia. The aim of the ruling classes is not only to wipe out the

70

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

revolutionary movement but also to brutally crush the people who are fighting
for their just demands, the nationality liberation movements of Kashmir and
North-East people, all kinds of democratic movements and anti-displacement
movements. That is why they are bringing in draconian laws and are turning
the judiciary more authoritarian and intensifying the ‘War on People’. At
present one of the important aspects of the enemy repression is to arrest
our comrades (right from CC to party members and ordinary people), foist
false cases on them and incarcerate them in jails for years together. They
are being meted out death sentences or life sentences, their bails are rejected
or even if they get bails they are arrested at the jail gates again and new
cases are being foisted on them. The political prisoners are not given even
basic facilities, especially medical facilities and are being tortured in various
manners. On the other hand the rights of the people are being crushed on a
daily basis in innumerable instances and massacres are perpetrated on them
reminding one of Hitler’s rule. That is why building a mighty and united civil
rights movement that could fight back all this powerfully and strengthening
it is one of the most important tasks in front of us.

Comrades,

Observe Martyrs’ Memorial Week with revolutionary spirit in every
nook and corner of our country. In order to defeat the country-wide offensive
OGH that is being carried on as part of the LIC deceptive war of the
enemy, hold aloft both in our daily lives and also during this occasion the
values, ideals, sacrifices, bravery, valiance, dedication towards the people
and commitment that we learnt from the lives and practice of our beloved
martyrs. Propagate them among the people on a vast scale and creatively
in various forms. Publish the selfless life histories of the martyrs, build
martyrs columns and pay great homage to them. Paint red the previously
built martyr columns and beautify their surroundings so that people can pay
homage to the martyrs in front of these columns not only on this occasion
but also during all revolutionary occasions year long. Publish and release
various kinds of propaganda material in the form of pamphlets, posters,
banners, folders, calendars, booklets etc on martyrs and propagate them
hugely among the masses.

In the movement areas all over the country people are continuing the
revolutionary tradition of building martyrs’ memorial columns in hundreds
Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

71

of villages. However, in several places the police and paramilitary forces
are destroying these columns either completely or partially and forcing the
people to destroy them. People are resisting this in several places. They
are rebuilding the destroyed columns with renewed determination. We must
further increase the consciousness of the people to condemn the destruction
of martyrs’ memorials, to intensify resistance in various forms to preserve
them, to build and rebuild them, to inaugurate martyrs’ columns in each
village and to fight bravely and valiantly for fulfilling the aims of martyrs.
Meet the families, relatives and friends of martyrs on this occasion and
make them a part of the meetings and programmes conducted in this week.
Let them inaugurate the martyrs’ columns and give speeches on the inspiring
lives of the martyrs in the meetings. Inspire them to carry on the aims of
the martyrs. Enquire about the problems faced by the martyrs’ families, try
to solve them and give them the assurance that the revolutionary movement
would always stand in their support. On the whole, observe these solemn
and inspiring days as occasions to rededicate ourselves to the fulfillment of
the aims of the martyrs.

July 5, 2012

With Revolutionary Greetings,

Central Committee,

CPI (Maoist)

72

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

Imbibe and Propagate Widely

The Values, Ideals, Supreme Sacrifices,
Bravery, Dedication & Commitment Of

Our Beloved Martyrs !

Defending and Advancing the

Revolutionary War Is The True Homage

To The Great Martyrs !

Call of the CC, CPI (Maoist) to Party ranks, PLGA

commanders-fighters, Revolutionary People’s Committees and

Revolutionary Masses to observe Martyrs’ Memorial Week
with revolutionary spirit from July 28 to August 3, 2013

Central Committee

Communist Party of India (Maoist)

Imbibe and Propagate Widely

The Values, Ideals, Supreme Sacrifices,
Bravery, Dedication & Commitment Of

Our Beloved Martyrs !

Defending and Advancing the

Revolutionary War Is The True Homage

To The Great Martyrs !

Call of the CC, CPI (Maoist) to Party ranks, PLGA

commanders-fighters, Revolutionary People’s Committees and
Revolutionary Masses to observe Martyrs’ Memorial Week with

revolutionary spirit from July 28 to August 3, 2013

Dear  comrades,

Sacrifices are not only inevitable but also revolution demands sacrifices
in the transformation of the society. Every such transformation is essentially
accompanied by and accomplished through innumerable sacrifices made
by  the  masses  who  are  the  real  makers  of  history. All  the  successes
achieved  and  victories  won  in  the  entire  history  of  class  struggles  of
humankind is full of glorious sagas of amazing, moving, heart-rending and
extraordinary sacrifices including the supreme sacrifice of laying down
one’s life for a cause which they valued than their own lives i.e., liberation
of humankind. Liberation from every kind of exploitation, oppression,
suppression and discrimination.

Innumerable and glorious were the sacrifices made in the course of
the New Democratic Revolution in India (NDR) too for the past 46 years
since Naxalbari armed peasant uprising in the path of Protracted People’s
War blazed by the founders of our party, great leaders and martyrs Comrade
Charu Mazumdar and Comrade Kanhai Chatterji, for the establishment of
new democratic society, then socialism and ultimately communism. In the

74

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

past one year since we celebrated the previous Martyrs’ Memorial Week
more than a hundred worthy daughters and sons of our country have laid
down their most invaluable lives in our country fighting back the fascist
country-wide multi-pronged onslaught of the Indian ruling classes with the
full support and guidance of the imperialists, particularly the US imperialists.
In this same period, while advancing the People’s War in the course of
New Democratic Revolution several comrades of CPP, NPA, NDF and
revolutionary masses were martyred fighting back Oplan Bayanihan, the
fascist war on the people by the state in Philippines. In the course of New
Democratic Revolution in Turkey, Bangladesh and Peru; working class
struggles in imperialist countries; in national liberation struggles and in
struggle against imperialist aggression and occupation and in struggles against
all kinds of reactionaries hundreds of Maoists, workers, peasants, students,
youth, intellectuals, democrats, employees, women and people laid down
their lives all over the world.

Let us bow our heads and pay humble homage to all these martyrs of
Indian Revolution and World Socialist Revolution on the occasion of our
Martyrs Memorial Week. Let us pledge with clenched fists that we would
wage our struggle with their inspiration till their aspirations and their dreams
are fulfilled. Communists may sacrifice their lives in one country as part of
the revolution in their country. But their sacrifice is not confined to one
country. Similarly the innumerable sacrifices made by our beloved martyrs
are an integral part of the enormous sacrifices by communists all over the
world  made  as  part  of  the World  Socialist  Revolution. They  not  only
contribute to the liberation of the people in their respective countries but
also to the liberation of the toiling masses all over the world.

The  CC,  CPI  (Maoist)  calls  upon  the  entire  Party  ranks,  PLGA
commanders-fighters,  Revolutionary  People’s  Committees  (RPC),
Revolutionary Mass organizations and Revolutionary Masses to observe
Martyrs’ Memorial Week from July 28 to August 3, 2013 with revolutionary
zeal commemorating and holding high the glorious and supreme sacrifices
made by our beloved martyrs and the great cause of revolution in India
that they had laid down their invaluable lives for.

 Our Party Central Committee pays humble red homage to all our
beloved martyrs and gives the call to rededicate ourselves to the fulfillment

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

75

of their lofty and selfless aims on this solemn but ever-inspirational occasion.
The  sacrifices  of  our  beloved  martyrs  are  the  ultimate  examples  of
selflessness  in  an  era  of  revolutions  where  the  masses  realize  the
importance of their inevitability and come forward in countless numbers to
make sacrifices in the course of the revolutionary war. Let us turn the
memories of such great martyrs, their ideals and values as a weapon in our
war against the enemies of the people and utilize this occasion to use it
most  effectively.  No  bastions  of  the  class  enemies  can  withstand  the
offensive launched with such a weapon. A living revolutionary is a great
threat to the class enemies but a martyred revolutionary is their invincible
adversary. None of their modern weapons can match the weapon of selfless
sacrifice of a martyr.

Several of our brave party and PLGA comrades fell while fighting
with the enemy forces ferociously. Some were killed in enemy attacks
with huge posse of armed forces. Some of our veteran comrades were
martyred due to ill health and some died very tragically in accidents like
snake bites. Revolutionary activists in villages died in indiscriminate firings
by the enemy forces and in police custody. Let us salute all these great
martyrs as the common aim of all of them is to liberate the oppressed
masses from all kinds of exploitation, oppression and suppression by making
the NDR a success in India.

In  the  midnight  of  March  27-28  2013,  goons  of Triteeya  Prastuti
Committee (TPC), police and CRPF-CoBRA commandos carried out a
brutal massacre in Lakarmandha village in Kunda police station area of
Chatra district, Jharkhand. TPC, Jharkhand police and CoBRA forces in
their hundreds encircled the place where PLGA soldiers were staying
through a planned covert operation and launched a brutal attack on them.
Three comrades laid down their lives while retaliating and seven others
were caught alive. In the morning the killing machines of TPC, police and
CRPF selectively killed seven other comrades in cold blood. They were
subjected to inhuman torture before being shot. Comrade Lalesh Yadav @
Prashant (RCM-Spokesperson of the RC), Comrade Dharmendra Yadav
(Sub-Zonal Committee member), Comrade Praful (Sub-Zonal Committee
member), Comrade Jaykumar Yadav (Platoon commander), Comrade Bhola
@ Ajay Yadav, Comrade Albert @ Bijay, Comrade Pramod and others

76

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

were among the killed. It’s the oppressive governments that created and
nurtured various armed vigilante gangs like TPC, JPC, JLT, PLFI, Gram
Raksha Dal and Nagarik Suraksha Samiti and they are in fact created,
armed and run by the State. This was a major blow to our movement in
Chatra district and to Jharkhand movement as a whole. But their unfulfilled
tasks and dreams remain and it is our duty to fulfill them to the end. The
people of Magadh have played a historic role in anti-feudal struggles, in
building guerilla forces and building guerilla warfare as part of the rebuilding
of the revolutionary movement in India after Naxalbari and they would
definitely overcome this loss too by advancing forward with determination.
In fierce encounters with the police, paramilitary and Special Forces in
Bihar-Jharkhand-North Chhattisgarh Special Area – Comrades Subhash
in Koel-Sankh Zone, five comrades in Katia forests of Latehar district,
one comrade in Saraikela-Kharswan district, one comrade in Hurwa forests
of Khunti district and some more comrades were martyred while fighting
back the enemy forces ferociously. Comrade Chandan of Koyal-Sankh
Zone was murdered by JMM faction while Comrade Saddev (ACM) was
murdered by JPC in Madhya Zone both in Bihar

On April 16, 2013 the AP Greyhounds, Chhattisgarh police and CRP-
CoBRA forces jointly attacked the Puvvar village (Konta block, Sukma
district,  Chhattisgarh)  on  the  borders  of Andhra  Pradesh  based  on
information given by informers and callously murdered nine comrades
including five women comrades belonging to North Telangana. North
Telangana Special Zonal Committee (NTSZC) member Comrade Marri
Ravi @ Sudhakar (38), Gugloth Lakshmi @ Pushpa (32) (KKW DVCM),
Vetti Narsakka @ Sabita (33) (Eturunagaram ACS), Durgam Raju (26)
(ACM), Reena (ACM), Vetti Ramakka @ Bade Urmila (ACM) (24), Maddi
Seeta @ Navata (PM), Madkam Bhima @ Ajay (20) (PM) and Arli Venkati
@ Gautam (35) (PM) laid down their lives in this bitter battle fighting
ferociously with the enemy forces till their last breath.

Comrade Sudhakar joined the movement at a young age of 18 and
worked in the CPI (ML) Pratighatana (CP Reddy) Group for a short period.
Opposing their revisionist politics he left that party and joined our party. He
began his revolutionary life as a PLGA squad member and developed to
the level of SZC. He played a significant role in fighting against various

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

77

right opportunist Marxist-Leninist groups in Godavari Valley and exposed
and isolated them from the people. Comrade Pushpa was associated with
the revolutionary movement since she was just a child of 10. She came
from the Lambadi tribe, joined as a squad member and developed into a
DVCM. She gave birth to a baby in 2007 but left the child with relatives
and continued her work in the revolutionary movement. Comrades Sudhakar
and Pushpa was a couple. The senior comrades among them gained rich
experiences when the movement was in flow and valiantly fought back
several enemy attacks in that period and stood firm in face of severe odds.
Using these experiences they were engaged seriously in reviving the NT
movement. All  these  nine  comrades  displayed  highest  revolutionary
consciousness in working in very adverse conditions in NT at present. This
encounter  is  certainly  a  major  blow  to  our  efforts  to  revive  the  NT
movement. All  these  comrades  come  from  the  oppressed  classes  and
oppressed social sections and were below 38 years of age. Though our
beloved comrades and valiant warriors were martyred in Puvvar their rich
experiences remain with us and would help us in reviving the movement in
NT. Their inspiration would always serve as a beacon light for our movement
in the entire Central Region of our Party. Comrade Jagan, PM and guard
to an SZCM was martyred in an encounter with the police on 11 November
2012 and he laid down his life defending the leadership.

In Dandakaranya (DK), in Gadchiroli district - six comrades including
two women, of South Gadchiroli division were murdered in cold blood in an
ambush by the enemy armed forces in January 2013 at Govindgaon village
at midnight. Comrades Sankar Lakda (DVCM), Vinod Kodape (ACM),
Geeta Kumoti (Platoon deputy commander), Mohan Kovasi (LGS deputy
commander) and PLGA members Labbe Gawde and Juru Mattami were
martyred here. Comrades Vinod and Geeta was a couple. On 4th April
enemy forces attacked a unit of People’s Militia Squad (PMS) in which
Comrade  Lakshman,  one  PMS  commander  and  three  villagers  were
martyred. On 12th April in a fierce encounter between the guerillas and
the police and C-60 commando forces at Sindesur village of Dhanora Tehsil
in  Gadchiroli  Comrades  Kailas  (ACM),  Nandu  (deputy  commander),
Champa (Company-4 woman member) and four villagers including two
women were killed. In indiscriminate firings conducted in Bhatpar and

78

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

Sindesur, the armed forces deliberately fired on the villagers when they
were with the Maoists and killed them on purpose in order to terrorize
them to wean them away from the Maoists. Comrade Manda was martyred
in Ambapur encounter while fiercely fighting back an enemy attack after
injuring three commandos in November 2012 while Comrade Sharada of
Gatta LOS was martyred in Morkhandi encounter December 2012. These
‘encounters’ are nothing but massacres in the name of encounters.

In Gondia-Balaghat Division of Maharashtra from the beginning our
comrades have advanced the movement by spilling their blood. In Korchi
area tens of thousands of people stood up against displacement. The alarmed
central and Maharashtra governments are trying to suppress the movement
through cruel police repression, wiping out the leadership and spreading
terror among the people. On 3 October 2012, as part of the resistance that
is ongoing with the aim of defeating the enemy onslaught, Comrade Mohan,
deputy commander of the Platoon-56 was martyred in an encounter at
Gangin village with the C-60 commandos. Comrade Mohan fought with
the enemy forces 18 times in his party life. He was a comrade with courage,
determination, discipline and initiative in military matters. This was a big
loss to the Division movement. On 19th May 2013 Comrade Pramod, guard
of Company commander was martyred at Hettekasa. All These killings
should be seen as part of the intensified War on People by the Maharashtra
and central governments.

In DK in Chhattisgarh - Comrade Kismat was martyred when an enemy
mortar shell burst in an encounter with the enemy forces at Korsel village
of Gangalur area in West Bastar Division. He was a PPCM in Company-
2. He also gave medical care as a guerilla doctor and won the confidence
of  his  fellow  comrades  and  the  people. Women  Comrades  Sanoti  and
Sumitra were martyred while fighting back an enemy attack in Tekmetta
village  of  North  Bastar  Division.  On  May  17  2013  our  PLGA  forces
conducted an ambush near Purungil village of Dantewada district on CRPF,
STF and DF forces from Aranpur PS conducting search operations jointly
where two jawans were injured and one jawan is believed to have been
killed. Deputy Commander of People’s Militia Squad Comrade Masu was
martyred in this valiant battle. The martyrdom of Comrades Udham Singh
(ACS) and Tara (woman member of PLGA) of Manpur Division in a

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

79

fierce battle with the police on 8 June 2013 is a big loss to our work in the
plain areas in DK. A woman comrade was martyred in Nelnar area on
June 13 2013.

Several other comrades laid down their lives in battles with the enemy
while preserving Jal-Jungle-Zameen that rightfully belonged only to the
people, while defending the emerging people’s political power in DK and
BJ and while advancing the NDR.

Very tragically we lost three senior comrades who have been steeled
in the furnace of class struggle with decades of revolutionary life and
experience in this period. Comrade Gaddam Lakshmi @ Mahita, Central
Regional Political School (RePos) teacher, a state level veteran woman
comrade who had served the people and revolution for about three decades
had been martyred due to malaria on 29 April 2013. She was an ideal
communist who never lost her heart even for a second in spite of getting
caught in the enemy’s dragnet two times and being threatened with death.
She  had  contributed  to  the  development  of  urban  and  rural  women’s
movement in AP and AOB, to the development of women comrades and
to our party’s development of understanding about women question as a
member of Women’s Sub-Committees in AP state and AOB Special Zone.
She worked in urban, rural and forest areas for a few years organizing the
women, the urban poor, Adivasis and the peasantry. She had contributed
greatly to the political education of the cadres as a political teacher in the
Central Region and contributed in preparing syllabi for the education of
cadres in DK. She was a good writer and orator. In spite of her frail frame
and serious ill-health, she strove hard to educate the cadres and equip
them with MLM. She was loved for her affectionate demeanor and admired
for her in-depth study of the women’s question.

Comrade Kanaka Swamy @ Aman, a senior veteran comrade of DVC
level belonging to the technical department (TD) of DK was martyred due
to malaria on 24 September 2012. In his long revolutionary life of about
three decades he served the people and the revolution selflessly as a courier
of Warangal DC and Hyderabad City Committee and in TD of the party
both in the units of transporting and manufacturing weapons. He was
arrested along with other comrades in Rourkela but displayed exemplary
courage both in face of tortures and in jail. He joined the TD in DK after

80

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

his release from jail, striving very hard to manufacture weapons to supply
to the guerillas and the militia to intensify guerilla warfare. He was an ideal
communist and a skilled red technician.

Comrade Nohari Bai @ Samita (ACM), a veteran women comrade
who has served the revolution selflessly for about more than two decades
was martyred due to cancer on 7 February 2013. She hails from an Adivasi
family of Gadchiroli district and worked in Gadchiroli and present day Gondia
in the squads organizing people. She was injured two times in encounters
with the police forces but never stepped back. She worked in the DK
press unit for four years and later was transferred to work in the agricultural
department of a RPC in Maad where she worked till the end. She set high
ideals in mingling with the people, becoming like a family member to each
and every household in the villages she worked in. She never had any
other interest other than that of the revolution and strove hard for it. In
spite of losing her eyesight in her last days and severe illness she never
complained or lost heart and went about her work. The ideals of comrade
Samita should be followed by all of us. Losing all these three veteran
comrades to ill health is a serious loss to our party in the spheres they
worked in.

Comrade Juvvaji Venkata Subbaiah (75) a veteran leader of our party
in Andhra Pradesh who has been associated with the movement since
glorious Srikakulam armed peasant movement days died of illness at an old
age. He was arrested while going to work in Srikakulam in 1969. He stood
firm with the Naxalbari politics and line in the jail too fighting back the right
and left opportunist trends that arose after the martyrdom of Comrade
Charu Mazumdar. He contributed in laying foundations to the movement in
Guntur district and the Nallamala forest and worked at various levels inside
the party from a squad member to the District Committee member. Due to
old age and ill health he was transferred by the party to work in peasant
front and united front activities openly in which he continued till the end.
He stood firm in all the twists and turns and ups and downs the Party went
through in his more than four decade long revolutionary life. He served a
source  of  inspiration  to  the  people  of AP  and  the  comrades  in  mass
organizations when the movement is suffering a setback in the recent period.
It is our duty to propagate the ideals of such veteran undaunted communist

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

81

leaders of our Party for the younger generations to imbibe their ideals in
their practice.

Comrade Karam Somli (Indira), DVCM of North Gadchiroli Division
died of snake bite in May 2013. It is a severe loss to the Division movement
when it is facing tough times in terms of severe repression to lose her as
she was an experienced and established leader among the people. She
was recruited from West Bastar but had come to Gadchiroli as per the
Party decision and won the confidence of the people and the cadres. Her
life partner Comrade Kailas was martyred a few days back in Sindesur.
Comrade Budhram of Koyal-Sankh Zone in Bihar also died of snake bite.
Comrade Mainu of Barsur squad (East Bastar, DK) died due to drowning
while  crossing  the  Indravati  River. These  comrades  lost  their  lives  in
accidents but their commitment and dedication remain an inspiration to us
forever.

The  State  and  central  governments  had  intensified  their  barbaric
offensive on Malnad area (Western Gahats) of Karnataka to crush the
revolutionary movement. Several encounters are taking place between
our PLGA forces and enemy forces and in one such encounter with the
Anti-Naxal  Force  (ANF),  Comrade Yellappa  @  Dinakar  (ACM)  was
martyred on 2 September 2012 within Kadaba PS limits in South Canara
district.

Combing operations, arrests and encounters continue unabated as part
of OGH in West Bengal as the Mamata government and the Centre want
to completely crush the Maoist movement there using the opportunity where
the  Lalgarh  movement  suffered  a  setback  and  Comrade  Kishenji  was
martyred. Two senior squad members of Ajodhya area of Purulia district
were martyred in an encounter with the armed forces in November 2012.
Some comrades were martyred in jails too. Comrade Kunjami Kosa
(Naxalite prisoner) of Bade Vedma village (Kondagaon) was martyred on
6-5-2013 due to negligence by the jail authorities in providing him medical
care.

Leadership  wise  we  lost  a  veteran  leader  of  the  party  (Venkata
Subbaiah), two SZC level comrades (Comrades Mahita, Sudhakar), one
RCM  (Comrade  Prashat),  seven  DVC/ZC  level  comrades,  three  Sub-

82

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

Zonal  Committee  level  comrades,  two AC  Secretaries  and  eleven AC
members. Other martyrs are PMs/members in PLGA and villages, members
of various local organizations and common people. A total of 23 women
comrades were martyred since last July 28.

It was not even one year since the Sarkinguda massacre and the central
and state government forces resorted to another equally gruesome massacre
in Edesmeta in Bijapur district of DK where eight Adivasis including four
minors were murdered on May 17. This kind of targeting of villages for
massacres is being done as part of a very conscious plan of the higher
paramilitary, police and intelligence officials to terrorize the people, isolate
them  from  the  Party  and  damage  the  strong  areas  of  the  movement.
Massacres have become an integral part of their new offensives that are
being intensified with the aim of elimination of revolutionary movement
which has become one of the main hurdles in implementing the MoUs
made with the corporate houses and are gathering dust due to the resistance
of the people.

More  than  a  dozen  villagers  and  activists  were  killed  in  police
indiscriminate firings and fake encounters after abducting them in various
areas of DK in this period. Several people were injured in indiscriminate
firings by the enemy forces and some were maimed for life. In September
2012 Chainu a village youth was murdered after being caught in Nirmetta
village in Kanker district. In February 2013 Comrade Salim, who had
worked in various spheres, gained experience and also worked in Company-
2 was caught and shot dead in front of the people in Avunar (West Bastar).
Budhram Nendi, an activist of Jan Militia of Madohnar village and Jai
Singh, Phul Singh (brothers) of Ongnar village in East Bastar were caught
and brutally murdered by the police on May 1 2013. Young peasant Pandiram
was killed in front of the villagers by the police.

Village woman Vanjem Devi was killed when the AP Greyhounds
surrounded Kanchal village surrounded the village on 8-3-2013 and fired
indiscriminately. Another villager was seriously injured.

In BJ-NCG – Comrades Jitender of Madhya Zone, ex-activist Paras
were murdered in fake encounters while Comrade Madan was killed in
police lock-up.

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

83

In Bhaliaguda village of Gajapati district in Odisha five villagers Aiba
Padra (35), Shyamson Majhi (50), Ghasiram Bagsingh (33), Saramuli
panchayat, Laxmi Kanta Nayak and Sanathan Mallick (27) were murdered
in cold blood by the police.

The macabre destruction of villages, rapes/gang rapes, arrests, putting
in jails with false cases, beatings etc continue undiminished on daily basis
as part of counter-insurgency operations along with psychological warfare
and also sham reforms as part of it. Trying to murder the Party and PLGA
comrades, activists of RPCs, revolutionary mass organizations and people
with poisoning, covert operations and using class enemies and their agents,
police/paramilitary informers, corporate agents, degenerated elements that
left the movement, vigilante gangs and coverts continues.

Comrades,

The War on People is intensifying and becoming crueler by the day.
More than 4,000 Maoist political prisoners are languishing in jails facing
tortures, harsh sentences including death sentences and life imprisonments,
denial of bails, inhumane living conditions. But all of them are fighting
against all this with revolutionary spirit and are strengthening this battlefront.
The covert role of the Army increased further and the ruling classes want
to  increase  it  further  particularly  after  the  May  25  incident.  Several
repressive measures were announced after May 25 which are nothing but
a continuation of the plans already underway. 2,199 communication towers
were planned to be built, more IAF helicopters and a new helicopter unit to
be stationed in Nagpur were allotted in the name of logistical support but
are actually aimed to utilize them in attacks on the guerillas. They are
already being used extensively during attacks on villages apart from logistical
support  during  armed  confrontations.  Drones  are  planned  to  be  more
extensively used than at present for intelligence gathering and also for
bombing in future. Deployment of paramilitary battalions for forceful mining
and infra-structure development on a huge scale has increased manifold.
Immediately after May 25 two battalions of paramilitary were rushed to
Bastar. It was announced that soon 27 battalions of paramilitary would be
deployed in Maoist areas.

All preparations that were already on the anvil for higher level attacks
were intensified on war-footing after May 25. Unprecedented levels of

84

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

psychological warfare using the corporate media and otherwise are being
carried on spitting venom on Maoists and the revolutionary movement.
This is done in coordination with the sham reforms with not a single day
passes  without  some  civic  action  program  by  the  armed  forces  in  the
movement areas. ‘Saranda Model’ was extended to some more guerilla
areas in DK, BJ and Odisha. A thousand more crores were allotted and
the time period also extended for the Integrated Action Plan already under
way in Maoist areas and the Roshni scheme that is supposed to give training
for 50,000 youth for jobs with false promises of employment has been
extended from two districts (Sukma, West Singhbhum) to 24 more districts.
The enemy’s main concentration is on our guerilla bases and guerilla areas
starting from Andhra Pradesh borders to Lalgarh and the area South of
Ganga River in Bihar and UP. They are surrounding them with carpet
security with the strategic aim of isolating the areas from each other and
crushing them. This strategic plan was formulated and is being implemented
under the direct supervision of the Indian Army.

The conditions of the Indian economy is the exact opposite to what the
Indian ruling classes claim and it is getting increasingly bogged down further
in crisis. The pressure on them to implement the MoUs signed by corporate
houses both foreign and Indian is so high that they are resorting to more
and more brutality on the people resisting the ‘development’ model leading
to  severe  discontent  and  disillusionment  among  the  people  towards
parliamentary democracy. Internationally too the imperialists desperate to
come out of the unprecedented financial crises since the 30s are increasing
attacks on countries like Syria and threatening North Korea apart from
continuing their murder and mayhem in Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan etc.
Country-wide,  multi-pronged,  most  reactionary  operations  like  Oplan
Bayanihan and Operation Green Hunt respectively in Philippines and India
to cruelly suppress the revolutionary movements are continuing in full gear
by the ruling classes in complete connivance with the imperialists, particularly
the US imperialists. The overall onslaught on workers, employees, students,
youth, and intelligentsia along with democratic and revolutionary forces in
oppressed countries with draconian laws is on.

In the past one year though we have suffered some serious losses in
terms of leadership and subjective forces in this offensive, on the whole

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

85

we  succeeded  in  resisting  it  in  our  strong  areas  of  the  revolutionary
movement.  Sustaining  the  movement  when  the  enemy  is  hell  bent  on
destroying it is a success in its own. Various tactical counter-offensives
are  continuing  while  inflicting  casualties  to  the  enemy  and  arms  and
ammunition is being seized though not at previous levels. In a huge ambush
conducted by our brave PLGA guerillas in Latehar district near Amvadiha
village on January 7 2013, 17 CRPF jawans were wiped out and all their
weapons were seized. The May 25 ambush in which Salwa Judum mentor
and slaughterer Mahendra Karma and some other people’s enemies were
wiped  out  enthused  the  revolutionary  people  all  over  the  country  and
particularly in DK. The ever increasing corruption, scandals and the entire
bankruptcy of the parliamentary system is making the people increasingly
get attracted towards the revolutionary alternative placed by our Party
before them. People are mobilizing under our Party’s leadership on several
issues, particularly against displacement. Our efforts to expand to new
areas and internally within the existing zones are on.

The international campaign against OGH and solidarity for the People’s
War in India is being consolidated further giving the necessary moral support
to the fighting people in our country. The lofty sacrifices of our martyrs
and the fact that we are resisting enemy forces and mobilizing masses in
the PW and achieving various successes in spite of facing several odds
are a crucial factor in achieving this kind of support for our NDR, in India
and all over the world. Our party is striving hard to come out of the difficult
situations we are facing amid unprecedented enemy offensive. The Values,
Ideals, Supreme Sacrifices, Bravery, Dedication and Commitment of our
beloved martyrs are behind all the positive results we obtained in the course.

Comrades,

With principal contradiction in the world between imperialism and the
oppressed nations and peoples and the other two fundamental contradictions
sharpening with each passing day, the objective condition in our country
and the world are increasingly turning favorable to the revolution. All kinds
of social contradictions are sharpening and people are increasingly accepting,
propagating and joining the revolutionary path world over to solve them. It
is the need of the hour that we grasp the excellent objective situation and
mobilize people actively and extensively in PW and advance the revolution

86

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

by intensifying and expanding guerilla warfare. We must put efforts to
completely  utilize  the  favorable  objective  and  subjective  conditions
conducive to the development of People’s War in the vast stretch of area
covering lakhs of square kilometers, with crores of population, where our
organization has been continuing from a long time and where people gained
vast self-experience in class struggle and where at least in some areas
they had tasted their own political power  - i.e., starting from Andhra Pradesh
borders to Lalgarh and South of the Ganga River – in order to defend our
movement and develop it. Thus we can overcome the unfavorable conditions
that we faced subjectively in the recent period and advance in the direction
of fulfilling the tasks given by our Unity Congress-9th Congress. Let us
take up the following immediate tasks for the same.

1. Let us strengthen and bolshevize the party. Let us strengthen PLGA
and the mass base and expand it. Instead of firmly adhering to our
general political line and firmly implementing it creatively in the
conditions where the enemy onslaught is seriously increasing and
where we are suffering losses, some individuals brought forth right
opportunist arguments and left the party. Let us be cautious towards
such right opportunistic trends that may also arise in future and
fight them back. Let us get rid of sectarian and bureaucratic trends
in internal Party relations that are harming party unity and in Party
to people relations that are isolating us from the masses and helping
the enemy.

2. Let us grasp the revolutionary crises in the world and in our country
and mobilize people in militant mass struggles extensively and
intensify and expand guerilla warfare according to the concrete
conditions in various regions and areas.

3. Let us study changes in enemy strategy and tactics and their LIC
policy and enrich our political and military tactics based on that
study and creatively apply operational principles of guerilla warfare
by relying on the masses. This would help in developing our initiative.
4. Let us build a vast movement against deployment of Army, Air
Force, and drones that would be the hallmark of this phase of the
enemy offensive and also a strong and broad civil rights movement
to fight back the massacres and all other kinds of excesses of the

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

87

State against the people and revolutionaries. After May 25 ambush,
more cruel and fascist offensives, indiscriminate attacks, massacres,
deployment of helicopters and drones, stifling the people’s voices
using draconian laws such as UAPA etc are on the increase. So
this task assumes great significance.

5. Let us fight back and defeat the fascist OGH of ruling classes
aimed to dent the successes of the revolution, to isolate the Party
and PLGA from the masses, to undermine the mass base of our
party,  to  prevent  guerilla  offensives  and  our  expansion  and  to
suppress  the  mass  struggles  by  fulfilling  these  tasks  with
determination.

Comrades,

Observe Martyrs’ Memorial Week with revolutionary zeal all over the
country and propagate as widely as possible through all means at our disposal
the values, ideals, supreme sacrifices, bravery, dedication and commitment
of our beloved martyrs. Let us imbibe these and inspire the people to follow
in their footsteps to build a New Democratic India as aspired by them. It is
the people and people alone who are makers of history. That a people
inspired by the sacrifices of the martyrs can achieve wonders in the course
of Protracted People’s War is a well established fact in all the hitherto
successful revolutions.

June  15,  2013

With  Revolutionary  Greetings,

Central Committee,

CPI (Maoist)

88

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

Hold high the red flag

dipped in the blood of martyrs!

Declare that the People’s War path

treaded by them is the way

for the liberation of our country!

Call of the Central Committee, CPI (Maoist) to its entire party

ranks, PLGA commanders-fighters, Revolutionary People’s

Committees-Revolutionary Mass Organizations and the

revolutionary masses to observe Martyrs’ Memorial Week from

July 28 to August 3 with revolutionary fervor

Dear Comrades,

Laying down one’s life for the people is loftier than the Himalayas.
Dying for the exploiting classes is lighter than a feather. Life is the most
precious possession humans have. Communist revolutionaries completely
dedicate themselves for social revolution and the interests of the people.
They strive hard for achieving their goal with resolute commitment and
sacrifice everything including their lives. Every great transformation seeks
sacrifice. Since the emergence of classes, the entire history of the society
is the history of class struggle. Equally true is the fact that the entire history
of class struggle is a history of sacrifice.

During the course of the New Democratic Revolution (NDR) going on
in our country for the past 47 years since the glorious Naxalbari armed
peasant rebellion, thousands of comrades and people made great sacrifices
while advancing along the path of Protracted People’s War (PPW) blazed
by the founders of our party, great leaders and martyrs comrade Charu
Mazumdar and comrade Kanhai Chatterjee. In the past one year, during
the countrywide, multi-pronged fascist offensive, the War on People –
Operation Green Hunt (OGH) waged and intensified by the Indian ruling
classes with the full support and guidance of the imperialists, particularly
the US imperialists, above 120 [All India – 2 , Dandakaranya (DK) – 59,
Bihar-Jharkhand (BJ) – 22, Andhra-Odisha Border (AOB) – 24, Odisha –
4, Telangana – 3, Andhra Pradesh (AP) – 3, West Bengal – 3, Gujarat - 1]
beloved daughters and sons of the toiling masses of our country have laid
down their invaluable lives.

In this same period, during the course of NDRs in the Philippines, Turkey,
Bangladesh  and  Peru;  in  the  proletarian  revolutionary  movements  in
imperialist  countries;  in  the  nationality  struggles  in  countries  that  are
subjected to imperialist wars of aggression and other countries; in struggles
against all kinds of reactionaries world over, several Maoists, workers,
peasants, students, youth, intellectuals, democrats, employees, women and
other people have laid down their lives all over the world.

On the occasion of our Martyrs’ Memorial Week, let us humbly pay our
homage with bowed heads to all these martyrs who breathed their last as
part of the Indian revolution and the revolutions in the world. Let us vow

90

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

with clenched fists that we would fight with steely determination and with
their inspiration to fulfill their aspirations and dreams.

The Central Committee, CPI (Maoist) calls upon its entire party ranks,
PLGA commanders-fighters, Revolutionary People’s Committees (RPCs),
revolutionary mass organizations and the revolutionary masses to observe
Martyrs’ Memorial Week from July 28 to August 3 with revolutionary
fervor. It calls upon them to commemorate the sacrifices of our beloved
martyrs who laid down their invaluable lives for the cause of the great
revolution in our country and hold them aloft.

Our CC humbly pays its red homage to all our beloved martyrs. On this
ever  inspiring  occasion  it  gives  a  call  to  rededicate  ourselves  for  the
fulfillment of the great and selfless aims of our martyrs.

The Indian ruling classes following the LIC policy dictated by the US
imperialists have intensified their offensive in the past one year and more
numbers of comrades at lower levels were martyred in these deceptive
offensives. Utilizing modern weaponry, technological know how, training,
supremacy in numbers and a vast modern  propaganda machinery the
mercenary  police-paramilitary  of  the  government  are  depending  on
deceptive offensives to wipe out our people’s guerilla forces, revolutionary
mass organization leadership and local party leadership. In fact, LIC itself
means a deceptive war. The Indian ruling classes are carrying on this
deceptive war with a two-pronged policy of offensives and reforms with
the aim of completely decimating the Maoist movement in our country.

In the past one year, 33 of our brave fighters laid down their lives in
encounters with the enemy forces while valiantly fighting back the enemy
attacks. 66 comrades were martyred in fake encounters, massacres and in
the attacks of black gangs and goons. 13 common, unarmed people died in
enemy massacres. Led by our party the PLGA forces and People’s Militia
conducted tactical counter-offensive attacks and campaigns in which 118
mercenary police, commando and paramilitary forces were wiped out and
276 suffered injuries. During these brave guerilla actions of our forces two
guerillas lost their lives. 12 comrades were martyred due to grave illnesses,
accidents and other such causes.

Among  the  comrades  who  were  martyred  in  the  past  one  year  are

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

91

leaders of the Indian revolution comrades Sushil Roy and Rawoof; veteran
comrades Suniti Kumar Ghosh, Akula Bhoomaiah and Kardam Bhatt; senior
women comrades Gajjela Sarojana and Shantakka (South Bastar, DK);
two  DVCMs  Naresh  and  Lalsu  and  a  sub-ZCM  comrade  Kameshwar
Singh @ Brijeshji (Garhwa, Jharkhand). A total of 13 AC/PPCMs were
martyred – (DK-comrades Bojjal, Danni, Rita, Naveen, Veeru, Naveen,
Sunil,  Punni,  Syamco,  Darbar; AOB  –  comrades  Manganna,  Dumbri,
Sireesha  and  Golla  Ramulu). Among  our  martyrs  are  67  Party/PLGA
members [DK – comrades Apka Santi, Jyoti, Vijay, Pamula Chandu, Somal,
Tati Hitesh, Sudhir, Sarita, Rajesh, Madhuri; BJ – comrade Ramesh Munda;
AOB  –  comrade  Ural;  Odisha  –  comrades  Santosh,  Dhanaji,  Sukkai;
Telangana – comrade Ramu; AP - comrades Jana Baburao, Nagamani,
Kavita;  staff  comrade  Rakesh  (DK),  cultural  activist  comrade  Kosa
(Malkangiri, AOB) and five mass organization/RPC leaders comrades Boti,
Phagu and Sukhram of DK and comrade Hemant Mahato and another
comrade from West Bengal]. Two children comrade Pardesi –Latehar,
Jharkhand and comrade Gangi of Malkangiri, AOB were also martyred.
17 various people’s militia unit commanders and members (DK – comrades
Phagu, Jogal, Unga; AOB – comrades Ganga, Oora, Irma, Podiya) were
martyred. A total of 21 women comrades were martyred in this period.
Three comrades were martyred in prison with serious illnesses due to the
neglect of jail authorities (DK – Ramlal, Budhram; AOB – Rama Kovasi).
Comrade Sushil Roy (Ashok, Shome, Barunda), our veteran Politburo
member and illustrious leader of the Indian Revolution passed away on
June 18th, 2014 at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi
after prolonged illnesses. The proletariat and toiling masses of our country
have lost one of their greatest sons who selflessly served them for nearly
half a century till his last breath, with nothing but their interests and the
interests of the revolution in his heart. Comrade Sushil Roy is immortal!
Comrade Sushil Roy was born 76 years ago in present day Bangladesh.
He became active in the communist movement in the early 1960s in his
early 20s. He worked in the working class movement and joined the CPI in
1963. He was active in the anti-US demonstrations decrying its unjust war
on Vietnam and the 1966 food movement. He became part of the internal
struggle against the revisionists in CPI. Like many of his contemporaries

92

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

he hoped that the formation of CPI(M) that was formed by splitting with
the revisionist CPI would evolve into a revolutionary party and joined it in
1964.

He came into contact with comrades KC and Amulya Sen who were
rigorously engaged in ideological, political and organizational preparations
for a revolutionary party and a new democratic revolution on the lines of
Chinese revolution. The clarion call of the Spring Thunder of Naxalbari
that  broke  the  back  of  revisionism  and  he  supported  and  hailed  it  as
‘Naxalbari Ek Hi Raasta’ (the only way). He was part of the Chinta and
Dakshin Desh Group from the very beginning and was one of the founding
members  of  the  Maoist  Communist  Centre  (MCC).  He  became  a
professional revolutionary and went to far away villages in West Bengal to
work with a strategic perspective.

As part of creatively putting the line of Protracted People’s War (PPW)
into practice, the MCC gained first experiences in building the movement
in Sonarpur and Kanksa areas in West Bengal. The party deeply reviewed
the shortcomings that led to the temporary setback of these struggles. In
true  communist  spirit,  serious  attempts  were  taken  up  to  advance  the
movement  in  Gaya-Hazaribagh  (of  erstwhile  Bihar),  where  work  was
started under the direct leadership of comrade KC with a strategic plan of
building a people’s army and base areas by learning from past mistakes.
Soon  the  flames  of  armed  agrarian  revolution  spread  and  the  enemy
repression  also  became  serious.  In  spite  of  some  serious  losses  the
movement withstood the enemy onslaught under the able leadership of the
party that included comrade Sushil Roy. They laid down the basis for building
a strong proletarian party, a people’s army and a revolutionary united front
and  achieved  significant  advances  in  the  course  of  armed  agrarian
revolution.

After the untimely demise of comrade KC due to severe ill health on
18th July 1982, Comrade Sushil Roy who assumed the responsibility of the
Secretary of MCC in 1982 took up this challenge and strove to mobilize the
party in a united manner and develop it and build the movement firmly
adhering to the party line. He was elected as the Secretary of the party in
the first Central Conference of MCC in 1989. He ably led the party till
1996 as the Secretary of the party. His contributions and services in the
Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week
93

ideological, political, organizational, military and cultural spheres proved
invaluable in building a strong party and movement, particularly in Bihar-
Jharkhand and Bengal, starting as a small group in a small area. He won
the confidence of his committee, lower level committees and the entire
rank and file of the party through his commitment, proletarian strategic
leadership capabilities, hard work, guidance, perseverance and selfless
services. Due to serious loss of vision and ill-health he voluntarily put the
proposal to step down as the Secretary of the party. The party accepted his
proposal in the second Central Conference held in 1996 and he continued as
the CCM of the party since then. He continued playing a crucial role in the CC
and the party, particularly in ideological and political sphere, successfully
conducting two line struggles inside the party, summing up the movement,
developing international relations and achieving unity with CPI(ML)[PW] and
other genuine Maoist organizations etc

Comrade Sushil Roy’s role in achieving unity with genuine revolutionaries
in the country needs very special mention in the annals of the communist
movement of India. Unity efforts with PW started in 1981 itself under the
direct leadership of comrade KC and laid strong foundation for the unity. Apart
from other factors, ultimately the efforts for unity between MCC and PW
began to bear fruit after the unilateral ceasefire declared by the MCC in 2000
which was a turning point and he played the crucial role in this decision. He
played a crucial role all through the process of achieving this great unity. He
participated as a leading member of the high-level delegation from MCCI
in the entire merger process.

After the merger, as a veteran comrade of our party and a Politburo
member, he was engaged in completing the merger process at the lower
levels and in the effort to mould the entire party in the new conditions of
functioning as a united party. He was part of the preparations for conducting
the Unity Congress and was also looking after some international work.
The development of the party, PLGA and mass base took a qualitative
turn after the merger under a single guiding centre for the Indian revolution
and the people’s war advanced. So, the reactionary ruling classes of India,
with the guidance of their imperialist masters, drew up meticulous plans to
arrest or eliminate the leadership of  the  newly-formed CPI(Maoist).
Accordingly, soon comrade Sushil Roy was arrested on May 21st, 2005.
Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week
94

He was interrogated, subjected to mental torture and put in jail after foisting
several  false  cases.  He  was  subjected  to  the  most  inhuman,  callous
treatment in the prisons of West Bengal and Jharkhand. In fact, he was
given bails two or three times during this entire period of incarceration but
he was booked under false cases in front of the jail gates and once again
put in prisons to keep the leadership permanently in prisons to keep them
from leading and serving the revolution. With utter disregard towards his
old age and physical ailments he was kept in solitary confinement without
any assistance. That led to the rapid deterioration of his health and also to
a fracture of his hip bone. It was only belatedly in September 2012 that he
was admitted to the AIIMS in Delhi that too due to the strong protests and
efforts made by several democratic organizations.

He suffered from cancer in the urinary bladder. The doctors had already
removed a tumor from the bladder and another operation was performed
for cancer. He had heart problem (eschemia), prostrate cancer and one
kidney was completely damaged while another was infected.  But he fought
with  his various  illnesses like a warrior till his last breath. It was his
revolutionary spirit that made him lives for some more time than his physical
health.

Not for a single moment did comrade Sushil Roy lose his heart or spirit
in such an extremely excruciating period of physical pain and disability. He
led a very simple life. He remained unmarried till the end. He stood steadfast
in all the ups and downs the movement faced after the severe repression
unleashed by the state after Naxalbari, Sonarpur and Kanksa movements
and later. The entire life of comrade Sushil Roy has been inseparably
intertwined with the ups and downs, twists and turns, glories and successes
of the Indian communist movement. He never wavered and stood like a
pillar in fulfilling whichever responsibility the party entrusted him with. He
always started with a positive approach towards other movements and
parties to learn from them and studied them with a critical outlook. His
study was deep. He was very patient in dealing with comrades. He faced
almost every kind of difficulty one could face in a revolutionary life but he
overcame all of them with the dignity befitting a true communist. The great
leader of the Indian revolution and the CPI (Maoist) Comrade Sushil Roy
would forever illuminate our path like a red sun!

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

95

On  February  9,  the  senior-most  leader  of  the  Indian  revolutionary
movement comrade S.A. Rawoof was martyred due to serious illness and
old age. Comrade Rawoof  (89) fought with the revisionist leadership
entrenched in the India communist movement since the 1950s, supported
the Naxalbari upsurge, fought with revisionism and neo-revisionism and
gave leadership by striving to build the revolutionary movement in Andhra
Pradesh by declaring that Naxalbari is the only path. Com. Rawoof hailed
the Srikakulam armed agrarian struggle and became an active member of
CPI (M-L) by becoming a professional revolutionary following the call of
the party. He was elected as a member of the AP state committee of the
CPI (M-L) in 1970 and led the revolutionary movement in AP till his arrest
three years later. He was one of the prominent communist revolutionaries
who carried on ideological and political struggle against the right opportunist
theories of Devulapalli, Nagi Reddy and Pulla Reddy. Com. Rawoof never
shied away from expressing his opinion sharply against what he perceived
as wrong ideological-political positions in whichever party he was associated
with. He broke away from the AP state committee in the 1970s to form AP
Reorganization Committee, CPI (M-L). He gave leadership for about a
decade as the founder Secretary of CPI (M-L) Naxalbari. The Naxalbari
party led by him played a prominent role in RIM. Unflinching in the face of
several ebbs and flows of the movement and state repression, comrade
Rawoof  stood  as  a  great  leader  till  his  last  breath  with  unwavering
commitment to the revolution, steely determination and will power. With
the recent merger of the CPI (Maoist) and the CPI (M-L) Naxalbari parties
into a single party, his dream to unite the genuine revolutionaries in India
around the Maoist revolutionary line came true. Com. Rawoof’s lifelong
commitment to the ideological-political line of Naxalbari and Com. CM’s
teachings, his consistent fight against revisionism and right opportunism,
his keenness to integrate with the masses, propensity for hard work, simple
living, keenness to learn from the experiences of other revolutionaries even
when in disagreement with them – such communist values inspire us to
follow the path he has shown towards the liberation of the oppressed masses.
Let us clench our fists to vow one more time to realize his dreams in the
path of PPW by holding high his aims.

In this same period our beloved senior comrade Suniti Kumar Ghosh

96

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

breathed his last on May 11 at the age of 96. He participated in the historic
Tebhaga  movement  and  in  the  internal  struggles  against  old  and  new
revisionisms that were turning points in the Indian communist movement.
With the upsurge of Naxalbari armed peasant rebellion he participated
directly in the Indian NDR. He was elected as one of the founder CC
members of CPI (M-L). He played an efficient role as a contributor of
Deshabrati  and  editor  of  Liberation  magazines. After  the  temporary
setback of Naxalbari, though he withdrew from the party and the movement,
he continued as a friend and well-wisher of CPI (M-L) (PW), CPI (M-L)
PU, MCCI and later of CPI (Maoist) and other revolutionary organizations.
He upheld Marxism-Leninism-Maoism (MLM). He studied tirelessly. As
a revolutionary intellectual he tried to substantiate ideologically and politically
the basic line brought forth by the glorious Naxalbari struggle through vast
and deep study. His historical and analytical writings would remain a great
treasure for several decades to come. Comrade Suniti Kumar’s life was
entwined with the twists and turns of the Indian communist movement
from  the  1940s  onwards  which  took  a  decisive  turn  with  the  historic
Naxalbari upsurge. The life-long fight he carried on against revisionism is
unforgettable. Though several of his initial fellow travelers turned into
renegades, betrayers and opportunists, he basically held high the Naxalbari
line till his last breath. The CPI (Maoist) would always cherish in its heart
his contributions and would utilize them in advancing the PW in India.

The leader of the Democratic Telangana movement and revolutionary
intellectual comrade Akula Bhoomaiah was murdered by the exploiting
ruling  classes  conspiratorially  under  the  cover  of  a  road  accident  in
December  last  year. As  a  student  he  participated  in  the  first  phase  of
separate Telangana  movement  in  1969-70  and  organized  the  students
militantly  in  his  home  district  of  Karimnagar.  He  was  soon  drawn  to
Marxism-Leninism and the ongoing class struggle. After spending two years
in jail during Emergency, he gave efficient leadership to the building of a
democratic and militant teachers’ movement and for achieving a Democratic
Separate Telangana. Com. Bhoomaiah was a leading figure of several
democratic organisations and stood courageously at the frontline of struggles
even when the state’s fascist repression on revolutionaries and democrats
was at its peak in AP. He was also closely associated with many countrywide

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

97

anti-imperialist campaigns and a forcefully voiced the demands of the people
from such forums. He had a deep understanding of MLM which is reflected
in the large number of articles he wrote throughout his long revolutionary
life. He remained a fearless champion of the society’s downtrodden classes,
communities and sections. He strove tirelessly for the victory of the NDR
in our country with the aim of building an egalitarian society in the world
where none is exploited by another. Only by building vast and strong people’s
movements and united front in our country we can pay real homage to the
people’s leader of Telangana comrade Bhoomaiah.

Com. Kardam Bhatt (62), a veteran comrade of the Indian communist
movement passed away on February 2 due to heart attack. He led the
Gujarat State Committee of CRC, CPI (M-L) as its secretary for many
years. He worked among Bhopal gas victims, Dalit workers in Kerala and
against  the  Hindu-fascist  forces  in  Gujarat.  Later,  opposing  CRC’s
liquidationism he joined Maoist Unity Centre, CPI (M-L) which merged
with CPI (M-L) Naxalbari in 1999. He remained a close sympathizer of
the  party  even  after  withdrawing  from  active  politics.  He  was  also  a
revolutionary cultural activist. He advocated the unity of all Maoist forces.
Com. Kardam’s lifelong commitment to MLM will be an inspiration for us.
Comrade Gajjela Sarojana served the people selflessly for more than
three decades in the revolutionary movement. She worked in the Adilabad
district  students’  and  peasant  movements,  in  the  press  unit  of  North
Telangana Special Zone and as a Krantikari Janatana Sarkar teacher in
schools in Maad, DK. She was born in a workers’ family in Singareni. Her
mother was also a supporter of the revolutionary movement and encouraged
her children to work in the movement. Sarojana’s elder brother comrade
Gajjela Gangaram who played a prominent role in the Adilabad district
movement was martyred in a bomb blast in a military training camp. Her
life partner, our CCM and beloved leader comrade Syam (Nalla Adireddy)
was martyred in a fake encounter. She herself became a victim of cancer.
In spite of these difficulties she continued her work till her last breath with
unflinching commitment and dauntless courage. She was arrested once
and spent three years in jail but she never bent before the enemy and
joined the movement as soon as she was released. She contributed to
revolutionary literature with her several literary writings. With her martyrdom

98

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

the party lost a great communist cadre who worked with dedication.

Comrade  Naresh,  Khammam  DVCM  (Telangana)  was  martyred  in
the Bade Chelma encounter. He was born in a poor family in Warangal
district  and  developed  hatred  towards  the  exploitation  and  excesses
perpetrated by the landlords and got attracted to revolutionary politics. He
studied till Intermediate and gradually developed by working in student and
peasant movements as an ordinary member to being a district leader. He
strove hard for 17 years to advance the PW by bravely fighting back the
enemy attacks amid severe repression in Telangana. He led several people’s
struggles. He put special efforts to overcome the setback of the revolutionary
movement in Telangana. He participated valiantly in the attacks on enemies.
In the backdrop of temporary setback of Telangana movement, several
people lost heart and surrendered before the enemy. But he opposed the
path of surrender and worked till his last breath for people’s liberation.
Comrade Naresh’s humility, unflinching commitment towards the people
and simple life style are worth emulating.

Gondia DVCM comrade Lalsu (DK) died in a counter-revolutionary
deceptive battle due to poisoning by the enemy near Bethkathi.  He was
the beloved son of the soil of South Bastar. He won the confidence of the
people of Gondia Division as their leader. He started working a squad
member and went to Gondia district of Maharashtra leaving his area in
Chhattisgarh. He integrated with the revolutionary movement in Gondia
district and the people there for about 16 years. He played a prominent
role in the movement and developed into a district level leader and a good
military commander. Even amid tough conditions in the division movement
he was in the forefront in carrying out any task with great consciousness.
His name used to figure definitely among the selected comrades when any
crucial task was to be taken up. He was in the forefront in fighting back
enemy attacks. He was a symbol of valiance. In the past he went to the
Western Ghats to give military training to the guerilla forces there and
worked there for some years. With the martyrdom of comrade Lalsu the
movement lost a developing good communist fighter.

Comrades Manganna and Dumbri were caught and tortured by the
enemy near Manguluvalasa village in Koraput district (AOB) but they did
not  surrender  and  laid  down  their  lives.  Comrade  Manganna  was  a
Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week
99

revolutionary communist who came from a poor Koya Adivasi family in
Khammam district. His revolutionary practice started during the Emergency
period. He worked in the CPI (M-L) led by Chandra Pulla Reddy till 1988.
He hated their opportunist politics and joined the erstwhile CPI (M-L)
People’s War. In his more than 35 years of revolutionary life he worked
among the Adivasis and oppressed masses speaking several languages
and having different cultures in Telangana and AOB and never did his
confidence on the revolutionary aim waver. He was known for his boundless
love for the people and class hatred towards the enemy. Led by him the
peasants occupied thousands of acres of land as part of land struggles
right  from  Khammam  to  Karimnagar  and  Eastern  Ghats.  His  role  in
Karkagudem raid is an example of his bravery during attacks on enemy.
He used to self-criticize about his mistakes with frankness. That is why he
could win the love and affection of the cadres and the people wherever he
worked. He believed that revolution is the only path of liberation for the
oppressed masses and held aloft the flag of PW till his last breath. We lost
a great communist fighter with his martyrdom. Let us pay revolutionary
homage to this brave soldier.

Kasansur Area Krantikari Janatana Sarkar President comrade Danni
laid down her life while bravely fighting back the enemy forces stopping
them in their tracks to defend the leadership comrades in Pendodvaya
encounter in Gadchiroli district. The combing enemy forces surrounded
their camp and attacked and comrade Sudhir was martyred in that attack.
Comrade Danni who was doing sentry duty at that time did not waver a bit
and fought with the determination to defend the leadership comrades. Her
sacrifice is an ideal to be emulated by revolutionaries.

In Malkangiri district of AOB the enemy indiscriminately killed 13 militia
comrades with the aim of damaging the People’s Militia that is serving as
a  support  to  people’s  armed  resistance,  building  of  RPCs  and  mass
movements. Hundreds of policemen led by the district SP surrounded the
militia comrades who were sleeping and fired indiscriminately on their tent
early in the morning massacring all of them. A ten year old girl child Mangi
escaped and went to the village. But the inhuman policemen did not spare
the child and killed her in cold blood with bayonets. The police did not give
the dead bodies of these comrades to their families fearing their conspiracy

100 Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

would get exposed and buried those bodies themselves. The Party, PLGA
and the people of the area vowed that the blood spilled by these brave
People’s Militia members would not go in vain.

Comrade Sireesha who was martyred in an accidental incident was the
beloved daughter of comrade Kamala who was martyred in the Koperdeng
(Rayagarh, Odisha) encirclement attack of the enemy in 1998. Her mother’s
martyrdom had a deep impact on comrade Sireesha who was just then
acquiring knowledge about the society. She decided to follow the footsteps
of her mother. Soon she joined as a fulltime activist in the movement. His
father was working as a State Committee comrade in the party at that
time. However, later the non-proletarian trends inside him reached a peak
and he surrendered before the enemy and even turned into a renegade.
Later her life partner too degenerated and joined hands with the enemy.
Though  young  Sireesha  was  deeply  worried  with  these  changes  she
followed the correct guidance of the party and decided with determination
to  adhere  to  the  path  of  PW  shown  by  her  mother.  She  fulfilled  the
responsibilities given to her and developed into a AC level comrade. She
was developing into a good computer operator in the Party’s press unit.
Let us fight for the new democratic society that she dreamt of.

The Chandrababu government that newly came to power in AP killed
three revolutionaries in a fake encounter in the Nallamala forests on the
very first day of the Assembly sessons and inaugurated its fasist rule once
again.

Though sacrifices are inevitable in the revolutionary movement some
of the losses that occurred in this past one year were avoidable. Such
losses are occurring due to mistakes in implementing secret methods of
functioning and guerilla war’s operational principles. It is necessary for the
party and PLGA from top to bottom to strive to overcome such losses.

The communist revolutionary values of our beloved martyrs such as
selflessness, simplicity, sincerity, determination, patience, valiance, skill,
boundless love for the people, severe hatred towards the enemy, dedication
to the cause of the revolution, discipline, the resoluteness to face all kinds
of difficulties, the courage to swim against the tide are blazing the NDR
revolutionary line of India more brightly. We must hold aloft the sacrifices

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

101

of our martyrs and learn from them. We must apply them in our revolutionary
practice.
Comrades,

The ruling classes who could not tolerate the fact that the revolutionary
movement is advancing and emerging as an alternative political force are
carrying on OGH since five years with the egging on of the imperialists to
completely decimate it and to implement their neo-liberal economic policies
without any hurdle. This has intensified further in the past one year. The
central and state governments are on the one hand issuing statements that
Maoist violence had considerably come down in the past 2, 3 years and
that Naxalism was completely done away with in some areas; on the other
hand they are still describing Left-Wing Extremism as the ‘biggest internal
security threat’ and are increasing the deployment of paramilitary, commando
and special police forces in our movement areas on a huge scale. The
carpet  security  is  being  reinforced  further. They  are  concentrating  on
construction of roads, bridges and communications. Cordon and search
operations are carried on without respite in the remote areas of the eastern,
central,  and  south-central  states  while  joint  operations  and  combing
operations were further intensified in the borders of states. A country-
wide special repressive campaign was conducted for the first time for one
week from 2013 December 26 to 2014 January 1 in nine states with 40,000
additional paramilitary forces and state police forces. A similar second
repressive campaign was conducted from 2014 March 19 to 27 with about
one lakh paramilitary forces, six thousand commando forces, four Israel
Aeron surveillance planes and several mine-proof vehicles fitted with radars
under the leadership of 70 IGPs (Inspector-General of Police) in six states
where  the  Maoist  movement  is  active.  The  aim  of  these  counter-
revolutionary campaigns is to suppress the movement and to spread white
terror among the people. The activists of mass organizations and militias
and common people are arrested on a huge scale and put in jails after
foisting false cases. Particularly, even while concentrating on annihilating
the party central and state leadership they are resorting to fake encounters
and indiscriminate firings to damage the village level leadership. Ground is
being  prepared  for  aerial  bombings  (through  helicopters  and  drones).
Helipads and aerodromes are getting built on a war footing.

102 Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

The  Sukma,  Bijapur  and  Saranda  models  are  being  spread  in  the
movement  areas  all  over  the  country  with  the  aim  of  suppressing  the
revolutionary movement and reforms are being intensified. These are being
implemented under the Special Development Authorities. Infiltration of
NGOs into our movement areas in a planned manner is increasing. The
RSS is spreading till the village level and is at the forefront in deveoping
counter-revolution. Jan Jagran Melas, Civic Action Programmes, police
informer network and covert mechanism are being expanded. They are
conducting Rozgar Melas to recruit people into police, paramilitary, military
forces and into government jobs. They are trying to attract the youth in the
name  of  unemployment  allowances.  They  are  restructuring  the  entire
government mechanism as part of the LIC strategy so that it can play a
counter-revolutionary role.

In order to nullify the successes gained by the people in the path of PW,
the exploitative ruling classes brought to the fore ‘surrender policy’ as a
prominent tactic. They are resorting to the most heinous methods to divert
the activists in the party and PLGA right from top level to the common
people from the revolutionary path and corrupt them. The slavery resulting
from  surrenders  is  being  portrayed  as  ‘Khushhal  Zindagi’  and  a
Goebbelsian propaganda surge is being created by the putting into action
the entire exploitative government mechanism. Its aim is to spread counter-
revolution against revolution and to completely decimate it. In this backdrop,
one of the foremost tasks before us is the preservation of the great tradition
of sacrifice of the martyrs, holding it aloft and advancing the PW along the
path shown by the martyrs by rejecting the surrender policy of the counter-
revolutionaries.

The Modi-led BJP-NDA new government that came to power after
the recently held Loksabha elections immediately took steps to complete
the  preparations  for  the  third  phase  of  OGH  to  contain  ‘terrorism’,
‘separatism’ and particularly ‘Left-Wing Extremism’ in the country.  It
announced that it would give out of turn promotions and other facilities to
increase the morale of the police forces deployed in movement areas. It
emphasized the need for establishing a ‘peaceful atmosphere’ to attract
foreign private investments to achieve ‘Vikas’. For this sake it decided to
deploy tens of thousands of additional paramilitary forces newly in the

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

103

revolutionary movement areas. This means that instead of fulfilling the
dire needs of the people, the NDA government is sending thousands of
armed  forces  against  them.  It  is  preparing  itself  to  intensify  fascist
offensives at a higher and wider level on the fighting people and their
leaders in the name of ‘Vikas’.

In the course of advancing the movement by fighting back the fascist
OGH  carried  on  by  the  ruling  classes  to  suppress  the  countrywide
revolutionary  movement  in  the  past  one  year,  our  beloved  comrades
sacrificed their invaluable lives. Due to this and due to the PW carried on
by the entire Party, PLGA, revolutionary mass organizations and RPCs
and lakhs of toiling masses, we could attain the following achievements.
The important achievement of this year is the merger into one party of
CPI (Maoist) and CPI (M-L) Naxalbari as another turning point as part of
the efforts to achieve unity of revolutionaries in our country.

When compared with last year, we could preserve our movement by
relatively reducing our losses amid intensified enemy offensive. In DK,
BJ, AOB and Odisha the PLGA forces led by the party rallied the people
and successfully conducted tactical counter-offensive campaigns and several
armed actions. Mass agitations and people’s armed resistance continued
against fake encounters, illegal detentions, tortures and atrocities on women,
attacks on villages, loot and destruction of people’s properties. The PLGA
forces valiantly resisted the enemy in all our movement areas with the aim
of defeating OGH. They strove to advance the PPW by identifying the
weaknesses of the enemy as far as possible and dealing substantial blows
to the enemy forces in several big, medium and small actions and by
obstructing the fulfillment of the goals of the enemy. During the Loksabha
election boycott campaign the PLGA forces gave lethal blows to the enemy
forces in Kutepal, Thahkavada, Chintaguppa, Aasa, Kamanur, Murmuri
incidents of DK and Barna Mod, Ganti, Bhimbandh and Farsagaon incidents
in BJ. In other instances, Tedum, Kosalnar (East Bastar), Bade Jhaliya
(Gadchiroli), Nukanpalli (West Bastar) and Bodiraju incidents in DK;
Amarud (Gaya), Pathra, Chindgarh (Aurangabad), attack on railway police
(Munger),  Pirtand  (Giridih)  incidents  in  Bihar-Jharkhand;  Rallagadda
(Koraput) incident in AOB, the attack on forest check post in Karnataka
and the Dekunpani attack in Odisha were conducted and the enemy forces
104 Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

suffered casualties to some extent.

Responding to the call of the party the DK people successfully boycotted
the Chhattisgarh assembly elections. In DK, BJ, AOB and Odisha where
our movement is strong and in areas such as Niyamgiri, Mali-Deomali, and
Visakha (anti-bauxite struggle - Andhra Pradesh) where movements against
mining and displacement are going on, majority of the people boycotted the
Loksabha polls and expressed their protest. They geared themselves for
the building and expansion of an alternative new democratic system. The
PLGA forces successfully conducted tactical counter-offensive actions
on the enemy forces in the form of campaigns as part of election boycott.
Our party’s efforts to rally the vast masses in both secret and open
forms against the pro-imperialist policies that served the interests of the
ruling classes implemented by the central and state governments continued.
Various  economic  and  political  mass  struggles  were  taken  up  against
displacement and pollution due to huge dams, mines and industries and also
on daily and seasonal issues of the people (such as tendu leaf, bamboo,
fair prices for forest and agricultural products etc.) and against the landlords
and  bad  gentry.  The  building  and  expansion  of  RPCs  continued.
Revolutionary  land  reforms  and  people’s  welfare  programmes  were
conducted.

Last year our party gave a call for a Bolshevization campaign in the
party in view of the 10th anniversary celebrations of the party. As part of
this,  efforts  to  consolidate  the  party  and  to  correct  our  mistakes  are
continuing. Efforts to recruit new forces into the party and the PLGA and
political-military training are continuing.

We conducted revolutionary propaganda in all areas fighting back the

psychological warfare of the enemy on the revolutionary movement.

Party put efforts to expand the PW to some newer areas in our country.
Several struggles were conducted demanding the release of thousands
of political prisoners incarcerated in prisons all over the country. Funds
were collected from the people and distributed to them and their families.
Several central and district jails in Jharkhand reverberated with the indefinite
hunger strike demands of hundreds of political prisoners in Jharkhand.
Another area of struggle is gradually expanding in the prisons.
Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

105

Comrades,

The domestic and international objective conditions are turning more
favorable to the revolution as never before. After the imperialist economy
got bogged down in a worldwide crisis in 2008, changes are occurring at a
fast pace in world politics. Especially the fundamental contradictions in the
world are sharpening. The contradiction between the imperialists and the
oppressed nations & oppressed peoples of the world is intensifying with
each passing day. In neo-colonies and semi-colonial – semi-feudal countries
movements are developing against the imperialists and their comprador/
lackey ruling classes. The proletariat in the capitalist countries is taking up
agitations on a huge scale against the capitalists in their countries. While
the national liberation struggles against NATO forces led by US and their
lackey  government  forces  in Afghanistan  and  Pakistan  reached  an
intensifying stage, in Iraq the national liberation forces are gaining strength
against the puppet government servile to the US and are increasing their
grip in the northern part of the country. Rebel forces are reinvigorating in
Libya. Civil war conditions are prevailing in Egypt. The national liberation
movement of Palestine continues to oppose the fascist offensives of Israel.
Syria and Ukraine have become the centres for the intensifying inter-
imperialist contradictions. Contradictions between China, Japan and US
imperialists are further intensifying in the Asia-Pacific Region.

The worldwide financial and economic crises shook our economy. Since
the past few years budget deficit increased, growth rate fell, current account
deficit  increased,  inflation  increased  and  issues  such  as  price  rise,
unemployment  and  corruption  are  rocking  the  economic  and  political
systems in our country. The living conditions of the people of our country
are  deteriorating  even  further. The  fundamental  contradictions  in  our
country are intensifying. Dog fights among the ruling classes are intensifying.
All oppressed classes’ and sections’ of people such as the proletariat,
peasantry, urban middle class, Dalits, Adivasis, women, students and youth
are continuously getting rallied into struggles on various issues. National
liberation aspirations of the Kashmir and North East people are continuing
to get expressed in various struggle forms. The formation of the Telangana
state positively impacted the various movements for separate states. Though
the BJP newly came to power with the slogan of ‘Vikas’, it exposed its
real agenda within a few days. This indicates the Brahminical Hindu fascist

106 Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

offensive that is bound to increase. All oppressed classes, sections, religious
minorities and nationalities would definitely become its victims. The need
for all of them to fight in a united manner against this increased more than
ever before. All of them must get ready for that. Our party must strive to
fulfill this task.

On the other hand the revolutionary, national liberation and democratic
forces  are  gradually  strengthening  and  expanding  all  over  the  world.
Particularly, the international movement in support of the Indian PW is
expanding  further. A  strong  aspiration  is  getting  expressed  that  the
development of the PW here would serve as a support to the World Socialist
Revolution.
Comrades,

The need to raise the ideological, political, organizational, military and
cultural levels of our party, PLGA, mass organizations and RPCs and
consolidate them has increased further in the backdrop of these excellent
revolutionary, objective conditions with the aim of overcoming the critical
situation the movement is facing, for the fulfillment of the aims of the
martyrs according to the level of the movement and aspirations of the
people. Let us take up the following tasks on the occasion of the Martyrs’
Memorial Week and work with determination to fulfill them:

Let us Bolshevize the party. With the launch of the 10th anniversary
celebrations  of  our  party,  the  campaign  to  Bolshevize  the  party  has
completed one year. We should expand it further in the coming year. In the
backdrop of the continuation of weaker elements leaving the party we
must adhere firmly to the general political line of our glorious party for
fulfilling the aims of the revolution and for the interest of the people and
apply it creatively. We must propagate on a huge scale among the party,
PLGA, mass organizations, RPCs and the people the historical truth that
revolution would be victorious and that the oppressed masses would achieve
liberation and that surrender would lead to slavery. Let us consolidate the
party by concentrating on the implementation of the ideological, political,
organizational, military and cultural programme formulated as part of the
party Bolshevization.

Let us increase our mass base. Let us deeply grasp the Maoist principle
that a People’s War waged by relying on a strong mass base is invincible

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

107

and strive to increase our mass base. Let us develop struggles on the basic
problems of the people including their daily and seasonal issues who are
getting crushed under the burden of economic crisis and political oppression.
Let us vastly rally the peasantry into the agrarian revolutionary programme.
Let us develop the ongoing long standing struggles so that they continue
regularly and militantly. Let us coordinate them with guerilla warfare. Let
us rally the vast masses against the increasing threat of Brahminical Hindu
fascist attacks due to BJP coming to power at the centre and form a broad
based united front.

Let us intensify and expand the PW with the aim of defeating OGH.
The BJP government immediately after coming to power is completing
preparations for the third phase of OGH to launch another big offensive
with the aim of completely destroying the revolutionary movement. Let us
intensify and expand the guerilla warfare and people’s resistance struggles
to defeat the OGH by taking into consideration the uneven development in
the revolutionary movement. Let us build the alternative revolutionary
political power organs – RPCs. Let us develop the living standards of the
people and intensify the PW by strengthening and expanding the already
built RPCs and by utilizing them.

Let us fight back through our self-defence and offensive tactics the
enemy’s cordon and search operations, encirclement-annihilation operations
it is carrying out by concentrating its forces. To fail such operations in our
guerilla bases and our strong areas, let us fight them back with guerilla
warfare and mine warfare with the support of the people by deploying
decentralized armed units and militia units of the PLGA with initiative to
immediately chase and harass and stop in tracks the enemy forces from all
directions. Let us concentrate the PLGA forces on the weaknesses of the
individual units inside the enemy forces and give them a lethal blow. Let us
intensify and expand the guerilla war by implementing self-defence and
offensive tactics creatively according to the conditions and times through
centralization and decentralization of PLGA forces and change of places
with initiative.

Let us efficiently fight back the enemy’s psychological warfare. As the
fascist offensive of the enemy intensifies, as part of it the psychological
warfare would also expand. If we do not fight against this in time, it would
not be possible to steadily sustain the revolutionary consciousness among
108 Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

the vast masses and to develop it. If we fail in this, the people would not
know the facts in time and their participation in the PW would decrease.
So, let us fight back the enemy’s psychological warfare by carrying on
timely revolutionary political propaganda creatively in various forms. Let
us develop the collective participation of the people in this.

It was possible to achieve the successes in guerilla warfare, people’s
resistances and mass movements only with the sacrifices of the martyrs.
The ideals they established by integrating with the people and by fighting
against the enemy till their last breath for the interests of the people are
serving as a support to the PW. The oppressed masses of India are viewing
their future in the path of sacrifices paved by the martyrs. Let us vow that
we would hold high their aims, ideals and traditions of sacrifice and work
with determination to fulfill our ideological, political, organizational, military
and cultural tasks with unity of will and action.
Comrades,

Let us observe the Martyrs’ Memorial Week in our movement areas all
over the country with revolutionary fervor. Let us rally the people on a
wide scale on this occasion. Let us utilize all the means available as widely
as possible and propagate the great sacrifices of our beloved martyrs on a
huge scale among the party cadres, PLGA forces and the villages. Let us
propagate their ideals among the people through posters, banners, pamphlets,
wall writing and publishing martyrs’ life histories in the form of booklets
and by displaying their photos on a wide scale. Let us conduct meetings,
public meetings and rallies at village, area, district/division/zone levels and
increase the confidence of the people by vastly rallying them into these
programmes. Let us inspire the people to follow the path of martyrs for the
building of a new democratic India by commemorating ideals such as
sacrifice, valiance, determination and by imbibing them. Let us issue a call
to follow the footsteps of the martyrs. Let us tread in their path. This
would be the real homage that we could pay to our beloved martyrs.

June 19, 2014

Revolutionary Greetings,

Central Committee

CPI (Maoist)

Messages of the CC on the Occasion of Martyrs’ Week

109

“Thousands upon thousands of martyrs have
heroically laid down their lives for the people;
let us hold their banner high and march ahead
along the path crimson with their blood!”

- Mao, ‘On Coalition Government’

“Wherever there is struggle there is sacrifice,
and death is a common occurrence. But we have
the interests of the people and the sufferings of
the great majority at heart, and when we die for
the people it is a worthy death.”

– Mao, ‘Serve the People’

“Countless  revolutionary  martyrs  have  laid
down their lives in the interests of the people, and
our hearts are filled with pain as we the living
think of them”

– Mao, ‘On Coalition Government’

