TENTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE FORMATION OF CPI(MAOIST)

COMMEMORATIVE VOLUME

CC Messages on the Anniversary
of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

(2005-2014)

Central Committee

Communist Party of India (Maoist)

Foreword

On the occasion of the ten years celebrations of the formation of CPI
(Maoist), as part of our endeavor to republish a number of valuable party
documents, we are bringing out here a compilation of the messages issued
in the past decade by the Central Committee, CPI (Maoist) on the occasion
of celebrating Party Formation Day. Every year this is celebrated for one
week starting from September 21 since the formation of the new party on
September  21,  2004. This  year’s  celebrations  are  not  only  significant
because it is a decade since the formation of the new party, but also because
of the merger of CPI(Maoist) and CPI (ML)NAXALBARI in May this year,
completing the unity of genuine revolutionary parties in India.

Celebrating the Party Formation Day is a revolutionary occasion and
tradition that is observed in every nook and corner of our country wherever
party units are present. It is celebrated with great revolutionary fervor and
enthusiasm with the huge participation of the people along with the party
ranks and the PLGA in the guerilla zones and other movement areas in the
rural tracts of our country and also in dungeons where our political prisoners
keep the red flag aloft. It is also celebrated in a more secret manner in
areas (some plains and urban areas and in spheres where fractional work
of the party is present) where white terror is dominant, but the spirit behind
the celebration remains the same. The spirit is to rededicate ourselves to
build and develop the party as the true vanguard of the proletariat that
would lead the toiling masses in the revolution for a new democratic society,
the immediate goal, and for establishing communism, the ultimate goal.
The message that the oppressed masses cannot achieve their liberation
without the vanguard party is taken to the people in the widest manner
possible during this occasion. The CC messages on this occasion also reflect
this spirit and serve this purpose.

These messages not only had an immediate significance on that occasion
in those years but also have a great political and historical significance for
us at present. Though these were written keeping in view the party ranks,
they have always been messages to the PLGA and the revolutionary masses
too and these have always been taken to them. These messages – pay
revolutionary homage to the martyrs of Indian revolution and the World

Socialist Revolution who had laid down their lives for the liberation of the
oppressed masses, particularly those who were martyred in the preceding
year; analyse the domestic and international situation of that year and also
the general trends emerging; analyse the condition of the movement led by
the party mainly centering around the guerilla warfare we are waging, the
ups and downs, twists and turns in the movement, the people’s struggles,
developments in establishment of new political power, expansion of the
movement and the resistance to enemy repression; point out the main
successes and failures of the movement in that year and lastly formulate
some immediate tasks that should be fulfilled based on all these analyses to
advance in the direction of the central task and other important tasks.

Though we had suffered some severe losses, till 2011 our guerilla
warfare developed and expanded, several people’s movements were built
and expanded, several enemy’s murderous counter-revolutionary campaigns
and attacks like Salwa Judum and Sendra were defeated and new political
power (at village level and up to district level in some areas also) had been
formed and established in the guerilla bases. The multi-pronged country
wide offensive of the enemy – Operation Green Hunt – the ‘war on people’
was fiercely resisted. Support for our People’s War, resistance of the people
and opposition to OGH developed and consolidated at the domestic and
international levels. After 2011 though our movement started facing a
difficult  situation,  the  party,  PLGA  and  the  UF  comrades  and  the
revolutionary masses are striving hard to defend the revolution, turn back
the enemy attack and gain the upper hand by striving hard to retake the
initiative in the PPW. These messages are a historical and political chronicle
of all these phenomena and help the party ranks, the revolutionary camp
and  the  people  in  general,  in  looking  and  understanding  things  in  a
perspective, as a dialectical process. They also guide in understanding
‘what is to be done.’

We urge the readers to study these messages to understand the course
of the PPW waged and developed in the concrete conditions of our country.
If these messages help the readers in understanding the significance of the
vanguard role of the party in leading it, how a revolution and our liberation
is impossible without such a party and inspires them to join it or at least
associate with it, the purpose is more than served.

A party that is armed with Marxism-Leninism-Maoism, represents
nothing but the interests of the people and is uncompromising in this and
extremely self-critical towards its mistakes and shortcomings is not easily
defeated. These messages are a poignant testimony to this fact.

The formation of a revolutionary party was possible in the history of
the communist movement of our country only after decades of domination
of reformism and revisionism in it, i.e., only after the dawn of Naxalbari.
Even after that, the formation of a single centre for guiding the NDR in our
country was mainly completed only in 2004. Now the ruling classes are
hell  bent  on  destroying  this  vanguard  that  has  evolved  out  of  several
sacrifices of thousands of martyrs, ideological and political struggles, the
blood and sweat of millions of masses. We hope these messages would
also play their role in realising the need to preserve this most scientific,
most organised, most consolidated weapon in the hands of the proletariat
and oppressed people to lose their chains.

With Revolutionary Greetings

Central  Committee

CPI(Maoist)

September 1, 2014

CONTENTS

.......

.......

.......

.......

.......

.......

.......

.......

.......

.......

Page No.

9

18

28

39

42

51

65

86

121

151

Year
2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

HOLD HIGH THE RED BANNER OF

OUR GLORIOUS PARTY!

COMMEMORATE THE FIRST ANNIVERSARY OF OUR

UNIFIED PARTY FROM SEPTEMBER 21 TO 27!!

Politbureau

Communist Party of India (Maoist)

Dear  Comrades!

The coming September 21 will be the first Anniversary Day of our
newly-unified Party, the CPI(Maoist), marking the completion of one year
of the historic merger of the two Maoist Revolutionary Parties, the MCCI
and CPI(ML)[PW]. Our CC(P)  has taken the decision to commemorate
September 21 as the Party’s Formation Day every year. Keeping in view
the great significance of the first Anniversary this year, our entire Party,
PLGA, revolutionary Mass Organizations, newly emerging Revolutionary
People’s Committees and the revolutionary masses throughout the country
should organize weeklong celebrations from September 21 to 27 with
revolutionary spirit and vigour. This should be organized as a big ideological-
political campaign countrywide.

On the revolutionary occasion of the first anniversary celebrations of
our Party, we must first of all hail the sacrifices of over ten thousand great
martyrs  of  our  glorious  Party,  brave  and  courageous  PLGA,  and
revolutionary Mass Organizations, Revolutionary People’s Committees, and
revolutionary masses of our country who had fallen since the beginning of
the historic Naxalbari armed agrarian revolutionary uprising.

All these brave martyrs stand as models of exceptional communist
qualities such as: total dedication to the cause of revolution, selflessness
and  adherence  to  communist  values  and  ethics,  indomitable  will  and
steadfastness, exemplary courage, proletarian discipline, simplicity in habits
and lifestyle, deep affection, love, respect and an attitude of serving the
people, determination to bear hardship and ‘swim against the tide’, hard
work, and so on. We must remember, hail and pledge to continue the
exemplary revolutionary ideals of every martyr, like valour, steadfastness,
determination and the firm ideological-political commitment and loyalty to
the oppressed masses, the Party and revolution.

 On this glorious occasion let us remind and propagate widely throughout
country, regarding the history of our unified Party, which is traversing through
a tortuous Path of Protracted People’s War to achieve New Democracy,
Socialism and Communism. We must trace the history of the two great
streams of the unified party, CPI (ML) and MCCI, right from their inception
during  the  turbulent  period  of  1960s  and  their  rupture  with  age-old
revisionism, under the leadership of our great and beloved leaders, comrades
CM and KC. We must explain how, in the 35 years prior to the merger, the



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

two Maoist streams of the Indian revolution not only upheld the revolutionary
line of the Naxalbari, but also enriched it further with the concrete application
of theory and the rich experience gained in advancing the revolutionary
movement. We must explain how the struggle for the seizure of land and
political power is being waged by the two erstwhile Parties from the very
beginning and the great significance of the formation of the PLGA, the
Guerrilla zones in the process of transformation into Base Areas.

The unity between MCCI and CPI(ML)[People’s War] was achieved
after a long period by going through a  process of close interaction, deep
discussion, debate and deep study with tremendous patience and maturity.
In this process it had overcome the ‘dark period’ of strained relations
between the two Parties that existed for a brief period. But the frank and
sincere self-criticism based on MLM, before the masses and inside the
party, paved the way to fulfill the long cherished desire of unity of genuine
revolutionaries. The unity was achieved on the basis of correct political
and ideological line under the guidance of MLM, the synthesis of rich
revolutionary experience in the crucible of class struggle achieved through
the selfless sacrifices of over ten thousand martyrs and the blood and
sweat of thousands of guerrilla fighters, rank and file of the party, activists
and thousands of leaders and members of mass organizations, and lakhs of
revolutionary masses.  It is not only the merger of two revolutionary parties,
two  revolutionary  armies,  mass  organizations  and  two  revolutionary
movements, but a synthesis of the rich and varied experiences of the two
revolutionary movements.

The unity has brought a qualitative leap in the unity of genuine communist
revolutionaries of India. It also brought a clear-cut polarization between
the genuine revolutionaries and the fake ones. The revolutionary masses
and cadres, not only in our party but also in various ML organizations, were
enthusiastically hailed the unification. In the last ten months some genuine
Maoist forces, either as a group or as individuals, have joined the unified
Party, the CPI (Maoist).

Unification of the two Maoist Parties has had a tremendous influence
on the oppressed masses of the country and the various revolutionary forces.
The Party organization now spans across the length and breadth of the
country, from Assam in the east to Gujarat in the west, and from Punjab in
the north to Kerala in the south. We now have presence in almost every

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



state though it is weak in some states. The merger of the two Parties has
strengthened the organization especially in Jharkhand, Bihar, West Bengal,
UP, Uttaranchal, Orissa, Chhattisgarh, Punjab and Kerala.

The year following the merger was marked by great developments
in our people’s war. The heroic armed resistance of our PLGA and the
revolutionary masses had spread to all over the country. The armed guerilla
attacks  on  the  enemy  forces  during  the Assembly  Election  Boycott
campaign in Bihar, Jharkhand during the month of February this year, the
tactical counteroffensive campaign during April-June ’05 in DK that wiped
out 38 CRPF and state special forces personnel and injured over 110, the
Chandauli ambush in UP in November last wiping out 19 policemen, the
annihilation of the SP of Mungyr district in Bihar, several ambushes or
raids in Dandakaranya, Jharkhand, Bihar, AP, West Bengal, Maharastra
and Chhattisgarh, had demonstrated the increased striking power of the
PLGA after the merger of the two Parties and the two guerilla armies.

         Under the leadership of our unified Party, the oppressed masses
are joining the revolutionary movement in large numbers in some of the
struggle areas and also in newer areas. The Party, people’s army and the
mass organizations are consolidated further and the revolutionary guerrilla
war against the decadent social system and the reactionary ruling classes
and their mercenary armed police and para-military forces has intensified
further.  Organs  of  People’s  government,  the  Revolutionary  People’s
Committees, in its embryonic form are being emerging at village to area
level by directly electing their representative by the revolutionary masses.
The Guerrilla Bases, which are the focal points in the GZs, have been
coming into existence. Thousands of oppressed masses are organizing,
consolidating and arming in the form of People’s Militia. Their participation
in the ongoing revolutionary guerilla war, including combat operations, is
increasing. Higher forms of detachments of PLGA are formed and the
guerrilla war has intensified and expanded further.

  Our Party has also taken up a political offensive against the enemy
and is striving to build a strong anti-imperialist, anti-repression movement.
We are now in a position to build mass organizations having a really All
India character and proceed in the direction of building united front at the
all India level.

 The impact of the merger is felt even more by the exploiting ruling



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

classes who have been yelling loudly that the new Party poses a grave
danger to the internal security and the unity and integrity of the country
and that all efforts should be made to stamp out the Red Corridor stretching
all the way from Nepal to Kerala in the south. Meetings of the Central
Home Minister and Home Secretary, Chief Ministers, Central and State
Intelligence heads, Para-military heads, DGPs, Home and Chief Secretaries
of 13 states are having meeting after meeting devising plans to suppress
the people’s war led by the CPI(Maoist).

Comrades!
Today, the political situation in the country and the world is favourable
for advancing the PPW. Imperialism is unable to come out of the serious
crisis afflicting every sphere. The US imperialists had earned the wrath of
the oppressed masses all over the world due to their brutal invasion and
attacks against Afghanistan, Iraq and other countries. The relentless heroic
resistance of the people, particularly in the occupied countries, has shaken
the US imperialists. In the name of global campaign against terrorism, the
US imperialists have unleashed attacks against the Maoist revolutionary
movements, national liberation movements and all anti-imperialist forces.
As  a  part  of  the  worldwide  imperialist  offensive,  recently  the  Bush
administration had included our newly-formed Party and the ULFA in its
list of terrorist organizations.

 In India too, the enemy offensive is increasing and is growing more
and more brutal. The UPA government, led by the Congress party, has
declared an all-out war and has intensified its countrywide coordinated
offensive after the formation of the CPI(Maoist). We have to carry out all
our activities while confronting the enemy forces. We must politically
mobilize and consolidate the masses extensively and creatively and follow
the principles and methods of secret Party and guerilla war. Preservation
of our forces is very important in building the movement, taking up the task
of destruction of the enemy forces and carrying out other activity.

The  enemy  has  a  highly  sophisticated  network  of  anti-Naxalite
intelligence wings operating in all the major cities and there is continuous
upgradation of the enemy’s intelligence network, network of informers,
and the coordination between the special anti-Naxalite police forces and
the intelligence agencies of the various states has improved. There is a
concerted effort on the part of the ruling classes to destroy the revolutionary

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



leadership and special plans are made for this. We should not underestimate
the enemy’s tactics, his resources and abilities, and should take all his
moves quite seriously.

The enemy has redoubled its offensive and repression, as a result and
also due to our casual attitude and technical mistakes, we have suffered
some serious losses in the recent paste. We should not forget for a moment
the brutal nature of the enemy and they would use any and every means
and opportunity in their offensive against us. Hence we should develop our
tactics, method of functioning and mechanism to combat the enemy offensive
while rectifying our mistakes, weaknesses and looseness.
Immediate Tasks:

1. Destroy the enemy forces: The first and foremost task is to defeat
the enemy’s countrywide coordinated offensive against the ongoing people’s
war, mobilize the broad masses vastly in various ways against the enemy,
destroy the enemy forces bit by bit, expand the areas of armed struggle
and extend revolutionary guerilla war to newer areas in the country by
utilizing the favorable revolutionary situation. We must carry out this task
while preserving and developing our strength, strive to transform the PLGA
into PLA and establish Base Areas in the strategic regions.

 2.  Build  mass  political  movements  against  anti-People  State
policies and against imperialism.  Build  widespread  mass  movement
against every anti-people state policies, exploitation and oppression of the
ruling classes and imperialism; build struggles against Hindutva-fascist
forces etc. Towards this end, we must strengthen and expand our mass
base by expanding and consolidating Mass Organizations and build a wide
and powerful All India mass movement, while building doing this, unite the
political  and  social  forces  that  can  be  united;  thereby  laying  strong
foundation for the building up of strong united front.

3. Achieve Unity of Thought, Unity of Will and Unity of Action
throughout the Party:  Inspite of completing basic documents and the
merger  of  the  erstwhile  parties,  due  to  the  three  decades  of  separate
existence and independent practice it has given rise to shades of differences
on certain concepts, usage of terminology and some organizational methods,
etc., in the rank and file of the two Parties.  Hence it is very much necessary
to take up thorough education of the various committees and PMs of the



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

entire Party and achieve unity of thought, will and action. It is also necessary
to identify and purge the Party of the non-proletarian trends and other
weaknesses basing on Maoist method and standpoint. We must strengthen
the Party committees and build Party units extensively at the primary level.
4.  Strengthen  our  secret  mechanism  and  functioning  by

overcoming  the  weaknesses  and  shortcomings:

Keeping  the  massive  countrywide  offensive  of  the  enemy  and  his
attempts to destroy our Party, particularly the Party leadership, we must
immediately  make  all  effort  to  get  rid  of  the  weaknesses  in  our  tech
mechanism and our methods of functioning. We must strengthen the secret
Party mechanism and adopt new methods to meet the requirements of the
new situation.
Concrete Programme Of The Week Long Celebrations:

1. Take up extensive propaganda campaign highlighting the ideology
of MLM, political and ideological line and policies of the Party, historical
turning  points  of  our  Party  and  the  revolutionary  movement  and  the
achievements of the New Democratic Revolution of India; the cherished
aims and goals of the martyrs, their invaluable sacrifices, and their exemplary
lives and high communist values which they upheld. We must use all means
at  our  disposal.  Press  statements  about  the  Party  first  anniversary
celebrations should be given up to the District/Zonal level. Interviews can
be given by the State level Committees but only after taking necessary
precautions. Leaflets, posters and walling should be taken up extensively.
Banners should be placed in our stronghold areas. In other areas too, these
should be placed but must follow strictly secret methods. Balloons can be
put up wherever we have the opportunity.

2.

In all our statements, leaflets, posters, banners, interviews, meetings
etc., special focus should be on the two founding leaders of our Party. A
brief introduction of their lives and contributions should be given. The photos
of the two leaders should be included in all the propaganda material. We
should call upon the people to march along the path blazed by these leaders.
3. The meetings can be conducted both secretly and openly. Generally,
in all our areas of armed struggle, these will be secretly organized. But in
the urban areas and other areas where our armed struggle is still in the

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



initial phase, we can organize open meetings to the extent possible.  Whether
it is open or secret, we must prepare and engage our armed militia and
PLGA forces to confront the state if the police and Para-military Forces
try to obstruct and disturb the meetings. The Police, the Special Forces
and the Para-military forces generally take up combing operations during
the Party first anniversary celebrations, in order to disrupt and prevent our
celebrations. We have to engage a part of our PLGA forces to stop the
enemy forces and to inflict damage if they come to disturb. And as far as
disturbance to the open meetings is concerned, we must mobilize the masses
in a big way to resist the enemy onslaught. We must place women and
children and old age people in the forefront of these demonstrations against
the state.

4.  Processions and torch-light processions—both secret and open,
and other creative types of mass gatherings and propaganda methods should
be taken up.

5. Take out booklets at the State/Special Area/Special Zonal levels.
There is a vast literature on the history of revolutionary movement since
the time of Naxalbari and is available in the Magazines and booklets of the
erstwhile CPI(ML)(PW) and MCCI. It can be brought out in the form of
booklets and articles in the magazines in various languages. Some of these
can also be reprinted in the name of the new Party, along with the newly
written booklets.

6.

 Encourage our Party Members in Cells, PLGA and Revolutionary
People’s  Committees  and  Mass  Organizations  to  take  pledge  in  their
respective units that they will fight for the greatest cause of communism
till their last breath and uphold the cause for which our beloved martyrs
had laid down their lives. Pledge taking will instill a new spirit and strengthen
our resolve to defeat the enemy offensive with great courage and advance
to complete the new democratic revolution and then to march on to build
socialism and communism.

 Comrades,

Hence, we must keep in mind the long-term perspective of our work,
the intensity of the enemy offensive, and the concrete local conditions
while  taking  up  weeklong  celebration  programmes  of  the  Party  first
anniversary.



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

Let us commemorate the Party first anniversary with great revolutionary

fervour and élan!

Let us vow to further intensifying and expanding the People’s War,
destroying the enemy forces bit by bit through guerilla war, transforming
the PLGA into PLA, and establishing Base Areas!

Let us take the revolutionary pledge in the name of our beloved martyr
comrades that we shall fight unto the last for fulfilling their cherished dreams
of ushering in genuine people’s democracy, socialism and communism by
completely rooting out imperialism, feudalism and comprador bureaucrat
capitalism from our country and all reactionaries worldwide!

Let us successfully organize the Party first anniversary as an ideological
and political education campaign to mould our entire Party, brave fighters
and commanders of PLGA and the vast masses, to valiantly confront the
enemy offensive and to overcome all the hardships in this all-out, bloody
class war against the enemy!

Let us hail, defend and march forward boldly to achieve the aims of
our Party by intensifying and expanding the People’s War throughout the
Country and by transforming PLGA in to PLA and establishing Base Areas!

 Long Live - Marxism – Leninism – Maoism!
Long Live - CPI (Maoist)!
Red Salutes - Beloved Martyr Comrades CM and KC!
Long Live - Great World Proletarian Revolution!
Long Live - New Democratic Revolution!
Long Live -RPCs!
Develop PLGA in to PLA!
Transform - Guerrilla Zones into Base Areas!
Workers of all Countries - Unite!
Down with Imperialism!
Down with American Imperialism!
Down with Revisionism of all Hues!

20 July 2005

Politbureau,
CPI(Maoist)

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



Hold High the Prestigious Red Flag of

the Party !

Accelerate and advance the ongoing agrarian

revolutionary guerrilla war along with revolutionary

mass movement !!

Celebrate the Second Anniversary of the Party’s Formation

from 21st to 27th September !!!

Politbureau

Communist Party of India (Maoist)

Dear Comrades!

At  a  time  when  the  moribund  global  imperialist  economic  system  is
caught in deep crisis and is facing severe political turmoil, the birth of the
CPI (Maoist) and the formation of PLGA through the merger of two erstwhile
Maoist Parties and Peoples’ Guerrilla Armies on 21 September 2004 was
indeed a historic event. The third formation day of our Party is approaching.
Just in these two years, our Party had gained an important place of its own in
a fast-changing international and national situation. Our Party must play a
significant role in the principal contradiction that exists between the world’s
exploited and oppressed nations and people with imperialism.

Today, the gang leader of imperialism – the American imperialism, other
imperialist forces, their various comprador political parties and the bureaucracy,
the feudal forces perceive us as the greatest threat to their interests in the
country.  Is  it  anything  surprising?  No!  Not  at  all. The  fascist American
imperialism that attacks any country arrogantly just on the pretext of threat
to its country, included our Party in its “terrorist” list. In India, the United
Progressive Alliance (UPA) – led Central Government declared that we are
the greatest problem to the security of the country overtaking the insurgency
in Jammu & Kashmir. American imperialism has been extending all kinds of
political and military support to the Indian government to crush us. Various
kinds of joint military excercises, imparting specialized counter-insurgency
training to Indian police and military forces to combat revolutionary guerrilla
war, opening of FBI (American intelligence machinery) office in Delhi, signing
of Indo-Us nuclear deal and various other pacts – all these have become
established facts today.

The Central and various state governments had established joint task
force under the Joint Operational Command (JOC) to suppress our people’s
war and have fully engaged their repressive machinery against us. Feeling
helpless in spite of these measures, the central and various state governments
have drawn up plans to increase the battalions of the police forces and the
CRPF  in  a  big  way. These  forces  are  being  equipped  with  sophisticated
weaponry,  explosives,  launchers,  mine-proof  vehicles,  unmanned  aerial
vehicles etc. The enemy intelligence network is being expanded from the
countryside  to  the  cities,  from  the  state  capitals  to  Delhi,  as  well  as  in
Washington  to  deal  with  the  Maoist  “threat”.  Informer  network  is  being
expanded in a planned manner and covert agents are encouraged within the

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



Party and the movement in order to eliminate the leadership and to sabotage
the movement.

In the past two years two PB members of our Party—comrades Barunda
and Vijayda—were arrested, a CC member and secretary of Wes Bengal state
committee, comrade Tapas, was arrested along with some state committee
members, members of various Party committees, organizers, Party members
and sympathizers. A few months back, a fast track court had given verdict
sentencing comrade Barun to five years imprisonment and comrades Tapas
and Pratul to life imprisonment. Thus the exploiting class character of the
police and the judiciary has been exposed clearly. In less than two years,
over 500 comrades of our Party, (over 300 in the past ten months) became
martyrs. Among  the  heroic  martyrs  are  veteran  Party  leaders  such  as  PB
member comrade Shansher Singh Sheri, comrade Saketh Rajan, secretary of
Karnataka state committee, comrade Naemuddin (Ravi), secretary of Uttar
Bihar-Uttar Pradesh-Uttarakhand Special Area Committee, comrade Madhav,
secretary of AP state committee, comrade Ravi Kumar alias Sridhar, AP state
secretariat  member,  comrade Yadanna,  a  member  of  NTSZC,  comrade
Mangthu, a member of the DKSZC and SMC, several members of regional,
Zonal/divisional/district, sub-zone and area  Party committees, members of
Party cells, brave commanders and fighters of the companies and platoons,
LGS and LOS, people’s militia units of the PLGA, leaders and activists of
revolutionary mass organizations, and members of the revolutionary masses
had laid down their lives fighting heroically with the state’s forces and the
reactionary  forces.

Since the past one year the UPA-led central government and the BJP’s
Chattisgarh government had unleashed a massive armed counter-revolutionary
campaign against our Party in Dandakaranya in the name of Salwa Judum or
peace campaign. Directly led by the comprador-feudal Mahendra Karma of
the  Congress,  the  campaign  is  carried  out  by  the  Naga  Force,  CRPF,  the
Chattisgarh special police force, Greyhounds of AP by mobilizing and arming
the lumpen and reactionary elements among the adivasis. At least 125 villages
have been burnt and totally destroyed by these Salwa Judum goondas. 150
people belonging to the revolutionary mass organizations, organs of political
power,  and  people  sympathetic  to  the  revolutionary  movement  had  been
murdered.  Over  500  villagers  were  forcibly  vacated  and  50,000  adivasis
were uprooted from their homes and placed in special camps under police
control. Censorship has been imposed on the media.



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

The exploiting ruling classes, while unleashing this campaign of murder,
loot  and  terror,  have  tried  to  cover  this  up  under  a  democratic  mask  by
portraying salwa judum as an independent uprising of adivasis against the
Maoists and that the state has no role in it. But they had failed to achieve their
objective and to fool the people. We succeeded in exposing it politically and
countering  it  militarily. At  least  60  policemen  and  CRPF  personnel  were
annihilated in DK in the past one year. Almost 200 goondas and leaders of
salwa Judum including many Special Police Officers (SPOs) were consumed
by the people’s fury.

The successful politico-military campaign by our forces had not only
pushed back the offensive by the state in the name of salwa Judum but also
created schisms within and between the various ruling class political parties.
Our retaliatory military actions and tactical counteroffensive operations had
inspired the Party cadre, PLGA fighters and the entire masses of not only
Dandakaranya but also throughout the country. We also succeeded in recruiting
people into the three wings of PLGA and in further advancing the people’s
war. By stepping up our armed resistance and tactical counteroffensives we
can certainly defeat the enemy’s brutal armed offensive in DK.

The  tactical  counteroffensive  campaign  and  retaliatory  military
operations by the PLGA and the armed masses under the leadership of
the  Party  in  other  parts  of  the  country  too  had  advanced  considerably
during this period creating good political impact. The daring Madhuban
multiple raid in north Bihar; the historic ‘Operation Jail Break’ of Jehanabad;
the massive raid and seizure of 200 arms from the Homeguard training
camp in Giridih in Jharkhand; the multiple raid and jail break in R Udayagiri
in Orissa; the attack on the special police camp in Murkinaar, killing 11
policemen and seizing nearly 50 arms, killing of 24 CRPF troops by blasting
the mine-proof vehicle in Padeda, annihilation of 10 Naga Battalion jawans,
raids  and  ambushes  on  the  police  and  CRPF  at  several  places  in  DK
(Chattisgarh);  attack  on  the  CRPF  camp  in  Jhumra  in  Jharkhand—all
these show the onward march of the people’s war and the superiority of
the guerilla tactics of counteroffensive undertaken by our forces in spite
of the massive suppression campaign by the state. Overall, we have been
successful in annihilating over 200 personnel of the state police and the
central para-military forces and seizing arms, ammunition and explosives
from the enemy on a considerable scale.

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



During  this  period,  the  ruling  classes  stepped  up  their  suppression
campaign in AP, particularly in the Nallamala forest region by deploying huge
specially-trained police forces like the Greyhounds and central forces. They
specially targeted the Party leadership and succeeded in causing heavy losses
to our Party mainly through their extensive informer network. By using their
vigilante gangs like Cobras and Tigers, they also attacked the activists and
leaders of revolutionary mass organisations and democratic intellectuals.

The Indian revolution has great significance in the world revolution.
The success of the revolution in India will have an earth-shaking impact not
only on the new democratic revolutions in semi-colonial, semi-feudal countries
but also on the proletarian socialist revolutions in the imperialist and capitalist
countries. That is why the imperialists and the reactionaries all the world
over led by the US imperialists have seriously taken up the task of suppressing
our  Party  which  is  leading  the  Indian  revolution. As  the  vanguard  of  the
Indian proletariat, which is an important detachment of the world proletariat,
our Party too has to relentlessly fight ideologically, politically and practically
against all forms of bourgeois and revisionist ideas, political lines, conspiracies
and offensives, be vigilant against the emergence of non-proletarian trends
and ideology and rectify them continuously until final victory.

CPI(Maoist) is a heir to those Maoist Parties that had taken up armed
agrarian revolution and protracted people’s war from the very beginning and
adhered  to  it  consistently  as  the  only  means  to  smash  the  semi-colonial,
semi-feudal  system  in  our  country  in  order  to  establish  socialism  and
communism after passing through the stage of new democracy. They had
engaged in anti-feudal, anti-imperialist armed agrarian guerilla war and building
the  revolutionary  mass  movement  from  the  very  beginning  and  won  the
confidence of the masses. Our Party has been striving to fight against the
oppression, injustice, and all forms of atrocities let loose on the exploited
toiling  classes,  nationalities,  dalits  and  other  backward  castes,  adivasis,
oppressed women and religious minorities, middle classes, and other sections
of people and to secure the social and political rights snatched away from
them. This task has to be given greater emphasis by stepping up our efforts
to organize all the above-mentioned sections of the people. We must step up
our efforts to organize the unemployed youth and people deprived of the
basic needs of livelihood.

Today, due to the imperialist offensive in the form of globalization-



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

privatisation-liberalisation, the toiling people of the entire world, particularly
the people of semi-colonial countries, are adversely effected. And, due to
its semi-colonial semi-feudal character, all spheres of economy, society,
polity and culture of our country are effected. Vast sections of our people
are groaning under the oppressive burden of these pro-imperialist policies.
Lakhs of workers in the industrial and service sectors are being retrenched.
Wages of the working class are being frozen. No new jobs are created
resulting in massive unemployment of the youth. Thousands of peasants
are  becoming  pauperized  and  committing  suicides.  Onslaught  of  the
imperialist culture has  made women  into  commodities for sex and has
made  life  highly  insecure  for  the  vast  majority  of  women.  Due  to  the
massive cuts in expenditure for healthcare, hitherto unknown or rarely-
occurring  diseases  have  now  become  common  and  are  spreading  like
epidemic.  Education  has  become  the  prerogative  of  the  rich  and  the
privileged  as  funds  for  education  have  been  reduced  drastically.  The
offensive of the MNCs has ruined domestic and household industry, and
the handloom sector, pushing the workers to suicides and into the reserve
army of unemployed. Informal sector has burgeoned as the imperialist
and  comprador  capital  finds  it  more  profitable  to  subcontract  much  of
their  work.  Lakhs  of  adivasis  and  other  sections  of  the  peasantry  are
being displaced to make way for so-called big development projects. In
the urban areas, slum demolition is in full swing to cater to the needs of
technology and amusement parks, special economic zones, five star hotels,
multiplex complexes, shopping malls and big corporations. All this has
created more favourable conditions for organizing the masses militantly
on their life and death issues and to bring them to the side of revolution.
In such a situation, the exploiting ruling classes have no other alternative
but to step up their armed offensive on the people and our Party which is the
only Party having the potential to organize the oppressed masses into militant
revolutionary struggles. And people too have no other alternative than to take
to the path of militant revolutionary struggle. Hence our Party has to rise to
the occasion to give leadership to these vast sections of the poor and oppressed
classes who constitute the vast majority of the Indian population. That is
why the formation of the CPI(Maoist) and the unification of the two guerilla
armies had enthused the toiling masses who look towards the newly-unified
Party to provide them leadership.

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



Our  Party  shoulders  the  responsibility  of  leading  the  vast  masses  on
their day-to-day demands, intensifying and expanding the anti-feudal, anti-
imperialist struggles throughout the country, and advancing the people’s war
to the next higher stage by defeating the all-round offensive of the enemy.
Our Party shoulders the responsibility of recruiting thousands upon thousands
of working class and peasant youth into the guerilla army to transform it into
PLA, of transforming the guerilla zones into Base Areas, Red resistance zones
into guerilla zones, create many more new zones of armed struggle, transform
the urban areas into strong bastions of revolutionary activity with strictly
underground Party structure and thus expand the people’s war throughout
the  country.

Are we in a position to undertake this historic responsibility? None
will have any doubt seeing the long history of our Party right from the
time  of  glorious  Naxalbari  uprising.  Our  great  leaders  and  teachers,
comrades  CM  and  KC,  had  fought  uncompromisingly  against  the
revisionism of all hues, established the path of protracted people’s war
and  area-wise  seizure  of  power,  and  conducted  struggles,  internal  and
external, in the most difficult period of history. Our Party has seen many
ups and downs in the long history of 37 years, built the armed agrarian
revolutionary struggle from the scratch in a few small pockets and has
now expanded the struggle to several states. Thousands of our comrades
had sacrificed their lives in the course of advancing the people’s war. By
firmly  relying  on  the  ideology  of  MLM  and  applying  the  dialectical
materialist method to solve the problems confronting the revolutionary
movement, adhering to the revolutionary mass line and the path of PPW,
and deriving inspiration from comrades CM and KC, and thousands of
our heroic selfless martyrs and avoiding the mistakes committed in the
past, we can certainly fulfill the diverse tasks of the Indian revolution.
On the occasion of the completion of two years of the formation of
our Party let us take the Party’s line and message of the revolution to the
nook  and  corner  of  our  country  and  take  up  the  following  immediate
tasks:
Immediate Tasks:

1. Step up our efforts to transform the PLGA into PLA and guerilla

zones into Base Areas:



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

Our foremost task is to complete the work of transforming the guerilla
zones into base areas and the PLGA into PLA. Towards this end, concentrate
on expanding our subjective forces and recruiting vast sections into the PLGA
in the strategic areas identified by the CC and the CMC for developing into
base areas, impart politico-military training to all the forces of PLGA, initiate
anti-feudal anti-imperialist, anti-state struggles in a big way, smash the enemy
forces and the informer network, establish and consolidate the revolutionary
mass organizations, organs of new political power with all its departments,
and carry out revolutionary reforms in the areas where we hold sway.

2. Expand the armed agrarian revolutionary guerilla war to new

states according to a systematic plan:

To achieve this goal, the concerned state committees should select a
good  section  of  capable  organizers  who  are  experienced  in  political,
organizational and military fields and send them to the chosen areas. We
must train them up in the art of rousing the masses, organizing the masses,
and  involving  the  masses  in  armed  struggle  through  creative  methods  in
appropriate time.  They must also be involved in a planned manner in new
fronts.

3. Intensify and expand the anti-feudal struggles:
We  must  select  areas  where  feudal  forces  are  quite  strong  and  their
contradiction with the vast masses of the peasantry is sharp and organise
anti-feudal struggles for the seizure of land of the landlords, against bonded
labour and other forms of extra-economic coercion, for better wages, self-
respect of the oppressed castes,  women and  so on. Land seized from the
landlords should be distributed among the masses in a systematic manner.
Struggles should be waged against the State for the development of these
lands.

4. Build political mass movements:
We must mobilize the masses into mass political movements against
political repression, imperialist loot and oppression, particularly directed against
the policies of imperialist globalization-privatization-liberalisation, against Indo-
US nuclear military pact, against Hindutva-fascist forces and all exploitative
and  oppressive  policies  of  the  State. All  the  democratic  forces  should  be
rallied  into  a  common  front  for  building  a  broad-based  mass  political
movement  at  the  state  and All  India  level. We  must  also  build  up  strong

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



revolutionary working class movement.

5. Strive to unite the revolutionary forces:
We must strive to unify the remaining scattered Maoist revolutionary

forces in the country by holding unity talks with them on equal basis.

6.  Strengthen  our  tech  mechanism:
Keeping the massive countrywide offensive of the enemy and his attempts
to destroy our Party, particularly the Party leadership, we must immediately
make all effort to get rid of the weaknesses in our tech mechanism and our
methods  of  functioning. We  must  strengthen  the  secret  Party  mechanism
and adopt new methods to meet the requirements of the new situation.
Programme for the week-long celebrations of the Party Formation
Day:

1. Take  up  extensive  propaganda  campaign  regarding  political  and
ideological line and policies of the Party, historical turning points of our
Party  and  the  revolutionary  movement  and  the  achievements  of  the
New Democratic Revolution of India; the cherished aims and goals of
the martyrs, their invaluable sacrifices, and their exemplary lives and
high communist values which they upheld.

2. Propagate the ideology of MLM and its historical development with

special emphasis on the struggle against revisionism.

3. Leaflets, posters and walling should be taken up extensively. Banners
should be placed wherever possible. Group meetings, public meetings,
various  forms  of  cultural  programmes,  processions  and  torch-light
processions—both secret and open, and other creative types of mass
gatherings and propaganda methods should be taken up to educate the
masses about the Party line.

4. Take up campaign to make the people conscious of the need to join the

Party and the PLGA.

5. Various Party committees should bring out booklets, leaflets, posters
etc., explaining the significance of the formation of CPI(Maoist) and
the Party line.

6.  Encourage  our  Party  Members  in  Cells,  PLGA  and  Revolutionary
People’s Committees and Mass Organizations to take pledge in their



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

respective units that they will fight for the greatest cause of communism
till their last breath and uphold the cause for which our beloved martyrs
had laid down their lives. Pledge taking will instill a new spirit and
strengthen our resolve to defeat the enemy offensive with great courage
and advance to complete the new democratic revolution and then to
march on to build socialism and communism.

Long Live Marxism-Leninism-Maoism!
Long Live CPI(Maoist)!
Long Live our beloved founder-leaders of our Party—Comrades
CM and KC—and all the heroic martyrs of the Indian revolution!
Long Live the great martyrs of the world revolution!
Transform PLGA into PLA!
Transform guerilla zones into Base Areas!
Long Live New Democratic Revolution!
Down with imperialism!
Down with American imperialism!
Smash all forms of revisionism!
Workers of the World—Unite!
Long Live World Proletarian Revolution!

5th August,  2006

Politbureau,
CPI(Maoist)

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



Celebrate the Third Anniversary of the

Party Formation!

Bolshevise the Party! Intensify the Guerilla War

to Establish Base Areas!

Expand the Mass Base and Guerilla War to the Entire
Country by Utilising the Excellent Objective Situation!!

The Call of the Central Committee to the Party Members,
PLGA Forces and People of the Country on the Occasion of

the 3rd Anniversary of the CPI(Maoist)!

Central Committee

Communist Party of India (Maoist)

Celebrate the Third Anniversary of the

Party Formation!

Bolshevise the Party! Intensify the Guerilla

War to Establish Base Areas!

Expand the Mass Base and Guerilla War to
the Entire Country by Utilising the Excellent

Objective Situation!!

Dear  Comrades,

Within a few weeks we are going to celebrate the 3rd Anniversary of
our Party. After the 2nd Anniversary in 2006 September, we had successfully
completed our party conferences at different levels culminating finally in
the historic Unity Congress—9th Congress of our Party in January 2007.
The Party Congress issued the call to intensify the class struggle throughout
the  country,  to  speed up the process of establishing base areas in the
advanced theatres of war by transforming the guerrilla war into mobile
war and PLGA into PLA, and to actively mobilise the masses in their
millions into the people’s war. It also called upon the entire Party to cleanse
itself of the non-proletarian trends and to transform the Party into a strong,
disciplined, united Bolshevik Party capable of leading the ever-intensifying
class war. The Congress enriched the party’s political and military line
which should be creatively implemented with determination at all levels by
every Party member.

In the past one year many brave leaders and members from the Party,
army and masses, numbering over two hundred, sacrificed their invaluable
lives for the great cause of the Indian revolution with unflinching conviction.
Our beloved comrades of the central leadership who led the Party and the
army like comrades Chandramouli (alias BK and Naveen), Rajamouli (alias
Murali  and  Prasad),  and Ajayda;  state  leadership  comrades  such  as
comrades Vikas, Raghavalu, Sudarshan, Somanna, Gautam; and several
Party leaders at district, area and local levels, heroic commanders and

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



fighters of PLGA, members of RPCs, revolutionary mass organisations
and sympathisers of revolution became martyrs transforming the soil into
red and contributing to the advance of the people’s war in the country.
Among these were popular leaders such as comrade Nathunji, secretary
of  Badh-Shekhpura-Nawada  zonal  committee  under  BJSAC,  comrade
Manas, zonal committee member of North Chattisgarh, Naresh, a DC
member of Adilabad in NT, comrades Dinakar, Gautam, Parameshwara,
Rame Gowda and Subramanya from Malnadu area of Karnataka, comrade
Rammehar  of  Haryana  who  died  due  to  malaraial  attack,  well-known
intellectual  comrade  Hari  Singh Tark  of  Punjab.  Regional  committee
member and central military instructor comrade Binoy, section commander
comrade Nilesh, another commander com Hari beame martyrs in AOB.
Six comrades, including a DCM and command incharge of West Bastar,
comrade Mohan, became martyrs in the successful attack on the police-
SPO camp at Ranibodili while comrade Dulal became a martyr in the
daring ambush at Urpalmetta in DK. One SAC-level military instructor,
comrade Pradeep, and a PLGA fighter, comrade Nirmal, became martyrs
in the successful raid on the CISF barrack in Khasmahal in Bokaro district
of Jharkhand. Several women comrades like Karuna, Prashanti, Padma,
Bhavani, Swarna, Aruna and Lalitha in AP, NT and AOB, Kaveri from
Karnataka, laid down their lives. Their names shall forever be etched in
people’s memory and the glorious revolutionary history of India.

Besides the martyrs thousands of comrades were arrested in the various
states, tortured several and thrown into jails. Among these are CC members
comrade Shobhadi, Chintanji, Mohitji and Vijay, BJSAC member comrade
Madanji, DKSZC member com Markam Gopanna, Maharashtra SCMs
comrades Mahesh and Arun Fariera, Sundaramurthy from Tamil Nadu,
and  several  comrades  belonging  to  various  Party  committees,  PLGA
Commanders and members, who had courageously fought and smashed
the para-military, state police and other special forces in the various guerilla
zones of our country, have set up a model of resistance in the people’s war.
Ranibodili raid, Jara and Urpalmetta ambushes, raids on the CRPF camp
in Bokaro and Rajpur PS and Baghaila outpost in Rohtas districts, the
daring simultaneous attacks in Riga in Sitamarhi distict of Bihar, and many
other daring guerrilla attacks on the mercenary armed forces of the state



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

have shaken their morale greatly. These daring successful attacks on the
mercenaries of the seemingly mighty Indian state stand as shining examples
of the invincibility of Maoist people’s war. These instill great confidence
among the people that however weak the revolutionary forces might be
numerically they can wipe out the strong and powerful enemy bit by bit by
applying the principles of protracted people’s war and in this process become
further  strengthened.  The  leadership  of  the  people’s  government  in
Dandakaranya (DK) and other revolutionary mass organizations in Bihar-
Jharkhand  (BJ),  DK  and  elsewhere  in  the  country,  who  bravely  and
uncompromisingly resisted the onslaught of the enemy at every step, is
sure to carry on the agrarian revolutionary armed struggle for people’s
democracy even more resolutely in the coming days.

Apart from this in the ongoing civil war dozens of women comrades
were brutally gang-raped and murdered and hundreds of women were
arrested, brutally tortured and thrown into jails by the various types of
security personnel in DK, BJ, AOB and elsewhere in the country.

Let us remember all the fallen people’s great heroes and heroines who
have sacrificed their invaluable lives for the cause of the revolution. Let us
firmly uphold their ever inspiring ideals and pledge to rededicate ourselves
to the task of making the great Indian revolution successful.
Let us educate and train up the entire Party ideologically
and politically:

In the past year we had taken up an education campaign throughout
the Party as part of the preparations for the conferences and the Party
Congress. Immediately after the Congress classes were held in most places
on the basic documents of the Party adopted in the Congress. In some
states this could not be completed due to various reasons. Hence we have
to take as a priority task to complete education on basic documents for all
Party cadres at the earliest.

We have to keep in mind that in the course of holding conferences in
states we formed several new committees at different levels according to
the needs of the movement and that many comrades were promoted to the
next higher committees and military commands. Apart from them several

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



new members have been enrolled as new party members, as part timers or
professionals in almost all states. In some states and areas PLGA and
membership of the mass organizations has also improved. Hence it has
become the need of the hour to train up these new comrades along with
the entire rank and file of the Party on the theory of MLM, basic line of the
Party and strategy and tactics of PPW and its creative application.

In our central POR one of the immediate tasks was taken as: “Impart
ideological,  political  education  throughout  the  party.  Intensify  the
struggle  to  rectify  the  non-proletarian  trends  in  the  party  at  all  the
levels.”

It is not so easy to counter the multi-pronged war tactics and strategy
of  the  enemy  without  having  a  sound  ideological  political  base  and
organizational and military level of the party members and cadre at different
levels. Only with such a base we can successfully lead the war according
to the changing tactics of the enemy and the political situation.

Congress has decided “to study Maoist principle of PPW along with
the  experiences  of  other  revolutionary  and  nationality  struggles  and
apply  it  creatively  in  the  concrete  conditions”

By concretely studying the theory and principles of strategy and tactics
of the PPW and the experience of its concrete application in our practice,
the party committees and commands will emerge as capable bodies to
provide good leadership at their respective levels which will give confidence
to the Party, PLGA and masses.

Routine day to day work will lead the concerned members or units to
wrong practice and to empiricism. Already we have reviewed what trends
we are facing in the party at different levels. To check all this, consistency
in our approach is needed to fight against non-proletarian trends which ruin
the party from inside. By adopting the correct class approach, raising the
political consciousness of the entire rank and file of the Party and the
masses  through  education  and  training,  and  waging  consistent  and
uncompromising struggle against the wrong trends whenever and wherever
they rear their heads we can rectify the non-proletarian trends in the party.
On the occasion of the Third Anniversary of our Party formation, let us
take pledge to intensify the efforts to Bolshevise the Party by getting rid of



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

all wrong trends and transforming it into an invincible weapon in the hands
of the Indian proletariat. All our Party committees must fix time-bound
plans for conducting education and rectification at their respective levels
and review the results.
Let us intensify and expand the guerilla war

Unity Congress took an immediate central and principal task of the
party as, “While strengthening the three weapons of our revolution the principal
and central task must be to advance the guerrilla war to a qualitatively higher
stage of mobile war and transform the PLGA into PLA in order to establish base
areas in the strategic areas of DK and BJ. Also intensify the guerrilla war in
other guerrilla zones, and develop red resistance areas in the perspective areas
and complete the preparations for building guerrilla zones in these and other
areas also” ( CCPOR) Apart from this, six specific military tasks were
taken in the congress to transform the war into mobile war and to establish
base  areas.

After the Congress in many guerrilla zones we have had successes in
intensifying the war. In DK, the two forms, raid and ambush, were creatively
applied in Ranibodili, Jarghati, Jara and Urpalmetta to wipe out the enemy.
The scale and intensity of our attacks had shaken the ruling classes so
much that a secret assembly session had to be called in Chhattisgarh recently
to discuss the counter measures to be taken to suppress the ongoing people’s
war in DK. The so-called specialist of the Indian ruling class—‘super cop’
KPS Gill—had to beat a hasty retreat after his utter failure in suppressing
the revolutionary movement in DK. The much-publicised goal of the ruling
classes to wipe out our movement in DK by June 2006 through their counter-
revolutionary state-sponsored Salwa Judum failed miserably due to the
heroic resistance of the masses led by our Party and PLGA. The Naga
9IR Battalion faced heavy resistance and severe losses in the battle field
as well as severe opposition from the democratic people of Nagaland and
other parts of the country and had to be finally withdrawn thereby dampening
the morale of the enemy forces. So the old debate to deploy the Indian
Army is on the cards of the state and central governments. The mobilisation
of the masses actively into the war against the state in DK on a wide scale
along with the significant development in the past year in the scale and

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



quality of PLGA counteroffensives has created the ground for transforming
the guerrilla war into mobile war in entire DK.

In Bihar and Jharkhand we led some successful tactical counter attacks
on the enemy forces in order to intensify the war. The Khashmahal and
Rohtas raids, the simultaneous raids in Riga, annihilation of the Nagarik
Surakha Samiti leader and MP Sunil Mahato and several attacks on the
enemy forces in the past one year had unnerved the ruling classes. In
AOB,  despite  heavy  concentration  of  enemy  forces  and  their  massive
operations, we put up stiff resistance and inflicted some damage to the
enemy in some counter offensives. In Karnataka, some STF personnel
were injured in a land-mine blast.

The  economic  blackades  organised  by  our  Party  and  the  series  of
attacks on vital installations and state infrastructure such as the daring
attack on NMDC, blasting of electricty towers in Bastar, attack on Essar
Steel in Dantewara, and production stoppages in the coal mines in Jharkhand,
created grave losses to the MNCs and comprador bourgeois class as well
as to the state’s exchequer. It has emerged as an important form in our
ongoing people’s war. These actions combined with mass resistance against
the onslaught of the MNCs and CBB have hampered the plans of the
ruling classes to drain the wealth of Jharkhand, Chattisgarh and Orissa and
through their mining and other so-called development projects, and the
SEZs.

However, the blows given to the enemy should be increased further to
counter and resist the LIC strategy and deployment of the forces in vital
points of the guerrilla zones.

In many guerrilla zones enemy is adopting various forms, such as setting
up military type base camps and carpet camping system, informer network,
coverts, spotters, counseling, rehabilitation packages, vicious propaganda
to eliminate the main leadership of the party and PLGA at state and central
levels, reforms to ‘win over’ the masses, coordination in the border areas
of different states and zones, and so on.

Intensification of the guerilla war cannot be achieved without the active
large-scale mass participation in all the political and military activities. In
many areas we have not achieved this due to various reasons which we



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

have already reviewed in the process of Party Conferences and Unity
Congress. Even in some pockets where we had once organized militia
units and mass resistance the activity is now reduced to that of the squads.
We have to overcome this weakness and build a strong people’s militia and
ensure the widest participation of the masses in the war.

At this juncture, concentration of the Party leadership, motivation of
the rank and file of the Party and PLGA and checking from above are
very much essential. We have to strike the enemy effectively and creatively
by applying principles of guerrilla warfare both in all areas of war zones
and outside those zones.

Where  we  have  faced  temporary  set-back  there  we  have  to  strive
hard politically, militarily and organisatinally to regain the initiative. Where
we have poor mass base there we have to make all-out effort to initiate
mass struggles, build strong mass organisations and Party units and strive
to link the mass struggle to the armed struggle to develop red resistance
areas.

Let us intensify our preparations for transforming the PLGA into PLA
and the guerrilla war into mobile war by building a strong mass base and
people’s militia, expanding the PLGA and enhancing its combat skills, fire-
power, coordination and mobility in operations.
Let us further deepen and expand our mass base:

As a part of immediate tasks Congress gave a task to “Strengthen the
Strategic and Tactical UFS”. Let all the party committees give importance
to such tasks by taking the measures to build four-class alliance in guerrilla
zones  and  guerrilla  bases.  These  serve  as  the  basis  for  the  future
countrywide revolutionary united front.

The Congress had called upon the Party to “unite with all forces who
oppose the imperialist-dictated policies of globalization, liberalization
and privatization pursued by the traitorous ruling class parties in the
Center and the state governments.” In the recent past throughout country
the grip of the MNCs and CBB had increased in the background of the sell
out of our natural resources, mines and public sector industries. In the
name  of  SEZs  and  mining,  ruling  classes  in  Centre  and  states  are

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



shamelessly adopting and sanctioning lakhs of hectares of land. Against
this backdrop peasant struggles are breaking out. Particularly Kalinganagar,
Singur, Nandigram, Hiranar and other places, peasantry is rising up in militant
struggles against the state. Nandigram in Bengal developed as a beacon
light  of  the  struggle  against  displacement  and  the  so-called silpayan
(Industrialisation) of the Social Fascist CPM.

All party members and committees should make all-out effort to lead
these mass movements and extend them throughout the country. We must
also strive to link them with the struggles in our strategic areas by bringing
all these into a common front. No doubt these are spontaneous movements
and in majority places ruling opposition parties, petty bourgeois parties and
intellectuals are utilising them. In some places due to our sectarian approach
not to participate in movements led by these forces, our role is passive.
Our approach and understanding should be to participate in all types of
movements on just demands of the people, strive hard to lead them and
establish our leadership on them. All the leading committees from ZC/
DVC  and  above  should  allot  cadre  to  effectively  build  and  lead  such
movements. Where repression becomes an obstacle for building mass
movement in any particular area there the concerned higher leadership
should closely concentrate upon studying various ways and means to come
out of the situation.

So, we have to take a pledge on the occasion of the party formation
day that we will build a strong united front by building and strengthening
the revolutionary mass organizations in all our GZs, GBs, and all other
areas, mobilise millions upon millions of oppressed masses into militant
struggles against the state, and initiate and lead broad-based struggles
against the imperialist and state onslaught.
Rectify weaknesses in clandestine functioning of the Party
and strengthen secret Party apparatus at all levels

As part of wiping out the revolutionary movement, several intelligence
agencies and Special Forces of the enemy have been engaged to arrest or
kill our Party leaders. After the completion of the Unity Congress some
important  leaders  were  martyred  and  several  leaders  and  cadres  were



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

arrested, which is badly affecting the concerned states and in general the
entire Party. STF, SOG, SIB and other intelligence forces and agencies are
set up by the enemy for the purpose of eliminating the leadership. Yet, our
old weaknesses in clandestine functioning and non-professional methods
are continuing leading to serious losses.

We have to overcome further losses and preserve the leadership by
rectifying  the  weaknesses  and  mistakes.  In  NT, AP, AOB,  North
Chattisgarh, TN, and MR serious losses have occurred and have continued
after the Party Congress. In Bihar-Jharkhand several leadership comrades
from SAC to AC were arrested in different places.

To stop these losses party leadership should review the weaknesses
and mistakes concretely and change the work style immediately. This should
be  concretely  discussed  in  committee  meetings  and  the  mistakes  and
weaknesses of the committees and individual comrades should be criticized
without any hesitation and all help should be given to overcome them.
Without  a  discussion  of  the  mistakes  and  weaknesses  concretely  and
initiating measures to check them it is impossible to stop the continuing
losses. So let us once again take pledge to mercilessly fight against all
wrong  trends  and  weaknesses  in  our  secret  functioning  and  strive  to
strengthen the secret Party apparatus.

Comrades,

Imperialists and Indian ruling classes are facing serious all-round crisis.
Now the Indian government’s foreign policies are totally drawn up by the
imperialists, principally US imperialists. In the name of financial assistance
WB and IMF are playing havoc and putting unbearable conditions and
terms to collect the loans. The nuclear policy adopted by the Manmohan
government is a total surrender to the US. SEZ policies are total sell out of
our country’s wealth and natural resources to a handful of imperialist and
comprador corporations. Suicides of the peasants have become common
place. In many industrial units labour force is being cut drastically. The
question of displacement in the entire country is reaching a dangerous
stage.

Whether it is the UPA or the NDA, policies are same because they
are dictated or drawn to safeguard the interests of the WB, IMF and such

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



financial institutions, MNCs, CBB and feudal forces.

So once again we have to pledge on the occasion of the 3rd anniversary
of the Party formation that we have to utilize the situation to rouse the
masses politically and consolidate them in MOs, militia and Party cells and
in other necessary forms of organisation.

This is the time to propagate the revolutionary politics among the people

widely.

We have to pledge to advance the line adopted by the Congress which
is  a  result  of  the  enormous  struggle  we  waged  to  advance  the  new
democratic revolution in our country.

Along with the changes necessary on the occasion of the party’s birth
anniversary we have to take party membership campaign. Renewal of old
membership should be completed at the earliest and new membership should
be taken up according to plan in the coming year. Direction and guidelines
should be drawn by concerned state committees to make the membership
campaign a success.

Let us prepare the entire party members to lead the masses in political
battles, war and in partial struggles and in revolutionary propaganda.
Let us transform the PLGA into PLA and advance the guerrilla war into
mobile war.
Let us recruit thousands of Party members from grassroots who will
implement  the  party  line  uncompromisingly.  Let  us  train  them
accordingly in order to absorb this upcoming force into revolutionary
struggle.  Let  us  wage  resolute  struggle  against  the  degenerate,
reactionary and corrupting influences of imperialist and feudal culture.
Let us march forward firmly in the path shown by our founder leaders
of the party comrade CM and comrade KC.

25 August 2007

Central Committee

CPI (Maoist)



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

Hold High the Crimson Red Banner

 Of International Revolutionary Proletariat!

Let us Make a Success the Rectification Campaign
 For the Transformation of the Party by Purging

 The Alien-class Trends In-Order to Bolshevize it, Defend

Ourselves, Defeat the Enemy’s New Counter-

Revolutionary Offensive  and Advance the People’s War!

The Call of the Central Committee to the Party Members,
PLGA Forces and People of the Country on the Occasion of

the 5th Formation Day of the CPI(Maoist)!

Central Committee

Communist Party of India (Maoist)

Hold High the Crimson Red Banner Of
International Revolutionary Proletariat!

Let us Make a Success the Rectification Campaign
For the Transformation of the Party by Purging the

Alien-class Trends In-Order to Bolshevize it,
Defend Ourselves, Defeat the Enemy’s New

Counter-Revolutionary Offensive  and

Advance the People’s War!

——The  Call  of  the  Central  Committee  to  the  Party  Members,
PLGA Forces and People of the Country on the Occasion of the 5th
Formation Day of the CPI(Maoist)!

Main Slogans

1. Let’s make conscious and serious effort to preserve our subjective
forces,  particularly  the  leadership,  and  to  defeat  the  enemy’s
heinous plan and tactics of LIC to liquidate our Party leadership
and ranks! Strengthen underground mechanism at all levels!

2. Let’s build a countrywide all-round mighty movement by mobilizing
our entire Party, PLGA and masses to fight back the new counter-
revolutionary offensive of the ruling classes!

3. Let’s rouse, lead and organize the vast masses; strengthen further
and expand our revolutionary mass base, and orient all activity and
remold the Party to serve the needs of ongoing PPW!

4. Let’s strive hard to transforming the guerrilla war into mobile war,
PLGA into PLA with the aim of transforming guerrilla zones into
base areas and expanding the people’s war throughout the country!
5. Let’s strive hard to intensify the guerilla war, strengthen the mass

base to defend, consolidate, expand and establish base areas!

6. Let’s train the entire Party on the basic line and ideology to steel



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

the Party politically, ideologically, militarily and organizationally!

7.  Let’s  strengthen  the  Party  by  massive  recruitment  of  the  best

elements from the oppressed classes into the Party!

8.  Let’s  intensify  our  effort  to  establish  revolutionary  people’s
committees at various levels and to transform guerrilla zones into
base  areas!

9. Let’s hail the cherished ideals of our great teachers, beloved leaders
and immortal heroes—comrades CM and KC—and thousands of
comrades who had laid down their lives for advancing the Indian
revolution!

With  Communist  Greetings,

Central Committee,

CPI(Maoist)

15  September  2008

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



Celebrate

Sept 21st as 5th Anniversary of

Party Formation Day !

Pledge To: Build Bolshevised Party

With Deep Roots in the Masses!

Utilising the Excellent Revolutionary Situation,
Mobilise Vast Masses For The People’s War!

The Call of the Politburo to the Party Members, PLGA
Forces and People of the Country on the Occasion of the

5th Anniversary of the CPI(Maoist)!

Politbureau

Communist Party of India (Maoist)

Celebrate Sept 21st as

5th Anniversary of Party Formation Day !

Pledge To: Build Bolshevised Party

           With Deep Roots in the Masses!
Utilising the Excellent Revolutionary Situation,
Mobilise Vast Masses For The People’s War!
This year we commemorate the Fifth Anniversary of Party Formation
Day since the birth of the Party in 2004.  In these five years the Party and
the PLGA has taken great strides forward, yet it faces serious challenges
in its advance forward to smash the exiting order and build a new democratic
society. Ever since the merger, and particularly in the past one year the
victories in the battlefield in the face of intense police action, has, on the
one hand, awakened a great hope in the oppressed masses, and, on the
other, created panic and fear in the minds of the ruling classes and their
lackeys. Specifically the further consolidation of the people’s democratic
power, with the evolving of the rudimentary forms of people’s government
in Dandakaranya, has put forward before the people of the entire country
a concrete alternative to the present unjust system. In addition the historic
uprisings in Nandigram, and particularly Lalgarh in West Bengal,  coupled
with the thorough exposure of the social-fascist, CPM, has brought forth
new and militant forms of mass struggle and helped more clearly drawn
clear lines of demarcation between ourselves and all forms of reformists
and revisionists. More specifically the armed mass upsurge and the seven
month blockade of the State from the area has brought forward a new
form of struggle, with the call for building Lalgarhs throughout the country
coming up.

Yet, given the enormity of the tasks of achieving the new democratic
revolution in a vast country like India, the Party faces enormous challenges,
which have become more acute with the serious loss of leadership comrades
at all levels of the Party and its weak mass base in many parts of the

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



country. Yet, in this period of an unprecedented crisis in the capitalist/
imperialist  system,  on  a  scale  not  seen  since  the  years  of  the  Great
Depression of the 1930s, great opportunities have opened up for historic
advances if we effectively grasp the situation, deeply integrate with the
masses and arouse them for the people’s war.
Intensifying Crisis & Great Opportunities

Never since World War II has the crisis of the capitalist/imperialist
system been so serious. Though crises are endemic to this system, never
before, except during the Great Depression of the 1930s, has it taken a
scale as seen today. What is more, the epicenter of the present crisis in the
United States of America, i.e. at the very heart of the capitalist/imperialist
system. The crisis unfolding in the world is having worldwide impact,
particularly affecting the lives of the vast masses in both the capitalist, and
more particularly the underdeveloped countries like India.

The effect of the crisis is resulting in (a) intensified exploitation and
unbelievable destitution of the vast masses of the country and around the
world, (b) it is leading to a further intensification of all the contradictions
throughout the world, particularly that between the imperialists and the
oppressed nations and people and also amongst the imperialists. Both these
factors open up big opportunities for the revolutionary forces if they are
able to effectively turn rising discontent of the masses towards revolution
and communism (Maoism) by drawing the masses into the protracted
people’s war. Already the deep crisis has exposed the revisionist and NGO
alternatives and created a renewed enthusiasm for Marxism; this trend
will inevitably grow as the crisis deepens and the people clearly see that
there is no alternative to socialism

In addition the intensifying contradictions between the imperialists will
result in war-like situations in many parts of the world and particularly in
the South Asian sub-continent with the US imperialists shifting the focus of
their war from West Asia to the Afghan/Pak region, utilizing the Indian
ruling classes as their front paw in this arena. But as these contradictions
and conflicts intensify, which is already apparent to a certain extent, the
revolutionary forces can effectively utilize this to maneuver its forces to
create leaps in the movement.



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

But, together with the crisis and the war-like situation will also come
the  worst  forms  of  fascist  attacks  and  genocidal  massacres  which  are
already to be seen in the crushing of the LTTE and the actions in the Swat
valley of Pakistan. Fascist terror by State (and also non-state) forces will
reach levels not seen in the post-WW II scenario. In India this is to be seen
not only in the way the newly elected UPA government is targeting the
Maoists but the way it is building up the military, paramilitary, police and
intelligence forces in the country. They have intensified the all-round attack
on our Party and areas of struggle. They have banned the Party and have
been trying to isolate the Party from the masses and crush it ruthlessly. If
the revolutionary and democratic forces are to successfully utilize the great
opportunities  unfolding  they  must  be  able  to  first-an-foremost  defend
themselves from these attacks and adopt those forms of organization that
is able to effectively face the onslaught without falling in the enemy trap.
It is within this situation that we need to take stock of our own strength

and the great challenges and task before the Party.
Advances in the Last One Year

Particularly in response to the Central Task of the Party to Build the
Base Area advancing the guerrilla war into mobile war and the PLGA into
PLA there have been significant advances on the war front beating back
the enemy force’s attempts to crush revolutionary struggles. After the
historic raid of Nayagarh and the wiping out of 38 Greyhounds in Chitrakonda
(Balimela) Dam near the AP border, the current year has seen a quantum
leap in the attacks on the enemy forces. Around 170 security forces have
been  wiped  out  in  the  past  six  months  and  there  has  been  further
consolidation of the new people’s power, particularly in Dandakaranya.
The emerging new democratic power, in the form of the Janathana Sarkars
in spite of the vicious attacks of the Salwa Judum forces has been a great
source of inspiration countrywide.

If we look at the past one year we can pinpoint five main achievements

in the last one year:

(i) First, and most important, has been the more successful TCOC
(Tactial Counter Offensive) in the current year, in which there have been
at least 15major actions and scores of smaller actions.  In most of our

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



areas there has been a significant rise in the number of actions and losses
inflicted on the enemy. In the past one year our heroic PLGA, people’s
militia and revolutionary masses have wiped out more than 300 police,
commando and central forces.  Even greater number of the enemy forces
was injured in our attacks. This is a significant development in the overall
development of the people’s war.  Our resistance has become particularly
significant from the time of the 15th Lok Sabha elections. Over 150 enemy
personnel were wiped out during these four months alone.  During these
ambushes, raids and attacks on the enemy forces great courage was shown
by our forces. There were massive protests during the bandh calls against
the arrest of Com Ashutosh, the encounter of Com. Vikas and in support
of the Lalgarh movement. For example, in just the three months from April
to June in the B-J area over 50 enemy forces were killed and another
equal  number  injured.  In  DK  the  actions  continue  on  a  regular  basis
harassing the enemy forces and creating panic in their ranks. In the last six
months hardly a week passes without losses to the enemy. This has had
huge impact on the moral of the enemy forces that are panic-stricken to
operate in Maoist areas.

(ii) Second, we have witnessed the armed mass struggles of the people
of Nandigram forcing the CPM to retreat from its plans of seizing peasant’s
lands for foreign-based industrial projects.  This was followed by the historic
uprising against the state and CPM in Lalgarh and the surrounding areas.
The armed mass upsurge was a purely political action targeting the state
and police forces. The masses came out in thousands armed with their
traditional weapon and prevented the state administration from entering
their area for over 7 months. The forms of struggle adopted were: a social
boycott of the police not giving them even food and water, gherao of police
stations and camps in the area, physically resisting police attacks and chasing
them out of the area, creating roadblocks. The historic significance of
these struggle lies not only in bringing forth a new form of mass resistance
in which thousands participate with arms, but also it played a significant
role in exposing the CPM social-fascists who lorded over the people of
WB for over three decades. Not only that the people of the area took up
development works based on shramdan, building roads, irrigation schemes,
health centres and education for the tribal children — schemes neglected



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

by the corrupt CPM bosses over the past 30 years. Singur, Nandigram and
most particularly Lalgarh have changed the face of the polity of WB which
had been in the vice-like grip of the social-fascists for over three decades.
(iii) Third, our PLGA forces with the active help of the revolutionary
masses freed our beloved leader, PBM, Com. Sunirmal from the clutches
of the enemy, through a daring and well planned raid in broad day-light in
district town of Lakhisarai, Bihar. In the light of the continuing losses of
our leadership comrades this heroic action has had a great impact and has
come as a slap in the face of the Chidambaram clique. This has created a
hope in the hundreds of prisoners who have been leading heroic struggles
in the jails, created panic in the enemy camp and raised the confidence in
the entire ranks of the Party and in the masses.

(iv) Another important impact on the polity of the country was the
wide-scale boycott by the Party during the recent Lok Sabha elections.
Notwithstanding the presence of huge contingents of central and state
police forces for over three weeks in the areas under Maoist influence, our
Party,  PLGA,  revolutionary  organs  of  people’s  power  and  mass
organizations carried out a mass political propaganda campaign, besides
undertaking several tactical counter offensives  against the gun-totting
enemy  who  were  desperately  trying  to  coerce  people  to  vote.  Our
propaganda  campaign  was  so  affective  that  there  was  hardly  any
electioneering by the political parties in Dandakaranya, many parts of Bihar
and Jharkhand, West Midnapore, Bankura and Purulia districts and near-
total boycott in Lalgarh area of West Bengal; in parts of Malkangiri, Koraput,
Gajapati, Ganjam, Rayagada and other districts of Orissa; and other places.
Besides, significant educative campaigns were taken in many parts of the
country exposing the fakeness of the democratic process which is merely
an expensive exercise to give legitimacy to the ruling classes to loot of the
country and the people.

(v) Another significant impact which particularly has given much hope
to the minorities and dalits of the country was the annihilation of the RSS
fascist Swami Laxmananand in Kandhamal of Orissa. The fascist gangs
of the RSS. Bajrang Dal, etc have been instrumental in perpetuating genocide
against the Muslims and also attacking the Christians in a big way, and

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



actively promoting discrimination and attacks on dalits, with State complicity,
either directly or indirectly. The great political impact of the action on
Laxmananand and some other top RSS elements has aroused a hope that
the Maoists always in the forefront standing with the minorities and dalits
to resist the discrimination and attacks on them.

(vi) Finally, there have been mass extensive mass movements under
the leadership of the Party together with other progressive forces, against
the massive displacements taking place due to projects which is expected
to  hand  over  about  one  crore  acres  to  big  business.  Beside  the  mass
upsurges at Nandigraam and Singur in West Bengal, extensive struggles
have taken place against bauxite mining in Vishaka of AP, and the mining
projects at Posco and other places of Orissa; in Chhattisgarh the aroused
masses have stopped activity of not only the Tata plant at Lohandiguda but
also the huge projects planned in North Bastar; so also in Jharkhand the
huge mining projects are being resisted. Along with this there have been
many movements throughout the country against displacement and the
handing over of our land, wealth and resources to the imperialists and
CBB, like Ganga Express Highway in UP, SEZs, etc.

In spite of these important advances we have faced serious losses in
the past one year. The losses we have been facing of leadership comrades
in the past few years has continued in the present year seriously impacting
the Party and the movement. We have lost our beloved comrade and CCM,
Com Vikas, as also the arrest of an important CCM, Com Ashutosh.

Though these important developments in the advance of the Maoist
movement of the country over the past year have aroused a great hope in
the masses, yet, given the vastness of the country and our insignificant
impact in vast urban and plain areas, the Party faces serious challenges in
spreading  the  movement  to  newer  and  newer  areas,  with  a  focus  of
spreading the armed struggle throughout the country with the orientation
of fulfilling the Party’s Central Task.
Challenges & Tasks

The above mentioned situation places the following challenges and

tasks before the Party:



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

1) Take serious steps to thoroughly Bolshevise the Party by

(a) ridding it of all non-proletarian tendencies
(b) adopt a Maoist style of work and leadership, ensure committee
functioning at every level with deep integration of the Party
with the masses and the leadership with the cadres and

(c) adopting a correct class line and mass line in all our activities.
2) Utilise the growing crisis situation to build our subjective forces by
recruiting large numbers to the Party and develop all our party
forces  ideologically  and  politically.  Conduct  the  rectification
campaign in an effective way by concretely pin-pointing concrete
manifestation of non-proletarian trends.

3) Utilize the unfolding excellent crisis-ridden situation to intensify the
people’s war in the areas of armed struggle and in other areas
build the Party deep in the masses with the aim to spread the war
and revolutionary mass movement to newer and newer areas of
the country.

4) Prepare the Party, PLGA and masses to counter the growing multi-
pronged  fascist  offensive  of  the  ruling  classes. Take  specific
attempts at knowing the enemy’s methods thoroughly, through a
deep study of our LIC document, and, in the particular, by studying
the concrete steps being taken by the enemy in our respective
areas of operation.

5) To  take  serious  steps  to  stop  the  continuous  loss  of  leadership
comrades at all levels by going into the roots of the specific problems,
also develop time-bound plans for the generation of new leadership
at all levels in the course of advancing the revolutionary movements.
6) Counter the enemy’s attempts to isolate us and build vast united
fronts against the reactionary forces with all progressive forces
and particularly the Nationality forces.

7) Pay specific attention to building and strengthening secret structures
of  the  Party  and  build  up  a  strong,  consolidated,  political  and
organized mass base through revolutionary mass practice.

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



8) Take initiative to utilize the growing crisis situation in the world and
its effect on our country by a concrete study of its manifestation in
our  areas  of  operation  to  evolve  effective  tactics.  Seeing  the
possibility of big people’s uprisings in the light of the unprecedented
crisis in the capitalist system, make timely and effective interventions
to arouse the masses not only on their demands but also into political
struggles and also to draw them into the war against the existing
unjust system.

9) Establish the Party as a significant political entity in the polity of the
country by effective political intervention on all issues of the day.
The political intervention should entail mass propaganda, agitation
and selective military actions, drawing in the vast masses on the
issue
Comrades,

Great opportunities are opening up for us, let us utilize this unfolding
crisis situation to build our relatively weak subjective forces by advancing
the movement in all areas through leaps. The enemy’s puffed up arrogance
is a sign not of its strength but its hollow and shallow weakness, yet we
must take it seriously not to fall prey to its attacks. Mao had said “know
your enemy and know your self, and we can win a hundred battles”.

Let us spread the great advances made in the areas of armed struggle,
particularly the important advances made in Chhattisgarh, B-J and Lalgarh,
draw lessons from these, and spread the revolutionary movement to all
corners of the country by building new areas of armed struggle and hundreds
of Lalgarhs throughout the country.

Let us carry forward the glorious traditions of our Party to stand in the
forefront and provide leadership in the class struggles, and set new examples
of  sacrifice  and  prepare  each  one  of  ourselves  to  shoulder  the  new
challenges and responsibilities. No doubt there will be many difficulties in our
path forward but victory is assured.

Politbureau

Communist Party of India (Maoist)



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

Revolutionary Greetings for the
6th Anniversary Celebrations of

Our Glorious Party!












Politburo calls upon the party ranks to celebrate the sixth
anniversary of the party from September 21 to 27, 2010 with

revolutionary fervor and enthusiasm

Politbureau

Communist Party of India (Maoist)

Dear  comrades,

September 21, the formation day of our new party, the Communist
party of India (Maoist) is approaching. It would be six years since the
formation of the new party. On this occasion Politburo is sending heartfelt
revolutionary greetings to all the comrades in the party, PLGA, Revolutionary
People’s Committees and other mass organizations who are advancing the
People’s War by bravely and courageously fighting back the unprecedented
massive offensive launched by the enemy to decimate our party, to all the
comrades who were arrested while fighting the enemy and are now turning
jails into revolutionary camps and to all the revolutionary masses.

September 21 is the party formation day. When we think of the 6th
anniversary of party formation day the first thing we remember is our
party founders and great leaders of Indian revolution, beloved comrades
and martyrs Charu Mazumdar and Kanhai Chatterji. Along with them we
also remember all those ten thousand known and unknown brave comrades
including Saroj Dutta, Amulya Sen, Chandrasekhar Das, Krishna Murthy,
Satyam, Kailasam, Appu, Nirmala, I.V. Master, Syam, Mahesh, Murali,
Anjanna, Padma, Jyoti, Chittekka and Sukdev. The comrades whom we
remember immediately after them are our beloved Sushil Roy, Narayan
Sanyal, Janardhan, Shobha, Kobad Gandhi, Ashutosh and others who have
now been incarcerated in jails and the ever inspiring martyr comrades
Karam Singh and Rajkumar – all of whom had formed the new party with
their  own  hands  and  gave  us  leadership. We  also  remember  all  those
comrades who are marching forward carrying the flags of party and PLGA
in the procession of party formation day with great fervor and enthusiasm,
their slogans renting the air. In the past six years 1500 beloved comrades
who have marched forward in the path of People’s War, making sacrifices
at every step and have given many successes and great experiences for
the party – Chandramouli, Rajamouli, Anuradha Gandhi, Ajayda, Patel
Sudhakar, Apparao, Maimuddin (Ravi), Madhav, Sridhar, Mangtu, Ranadev,
Suryam, Karuna, Rinki, David, Lal Mohan Tudu, Umakanth Mahato, Sidhu
Soren, Krishna Yadav, Abhay, Kondal Reddy, Mastan Rao, Ramchander,
Sukanto, Vinay, Vikas, Daya, Mangesh, Singanna, Andru, Bandu, Sankar,
Ramesh, Sampath, Sarada, Girija (Swarna), Kamala, Rambatti, Rukmati,
Suchitra Murmu and many others. The moments of their memories make



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

our hearts heavy. Revolutionary greetings to all our efficient commanders
and  brave  fighters  who  won  us  successes,  attacking  the  enemy  like  a
speeding storm without caring for their lives. Our Politburo pays red homage
with bowed heads to all the martyr comrades who have laid down their
lives in this war. Let us take their ideal lives as an inspiration.

In the past 45 years long history of New Democratic Revolution of
India - the Spring Thunder of Naxalbari; the great historic occasions of the
formation of CPI (ML) on April 22, 1969 under the leadership of Com.
CM and the formation of MCC on October 20 under the leadership of
Com. KC in the same year; armed peasant revolutionary struggles modeled
on Naxalbari erupting in all four corners of our country; the country-wide
fascist  repression  against  the  People’s  War  and  the  setback  of  the
revolutionary movement; the Gaya-Aurangabad-Jehanabad, Karimnagar-
Adilabad peasant revolutionary struggles, the erupting of Andhra-Bihar
revolutionary movements as a new revolutionary tide by overcoming the
setback; the revolution in our country gaining strength and advancing
incessantly; the internal struggles against the right and left opportunists;
tragedies like the Black Chapter; the amazing successes of the People’s
War, the astounding acts of courage and invaluable sacrifices; and the
formation of our great new party on September 21, 2004 going through the
many twists and turns of the protracted People’s War in our country – all
these are remembered on this occasion. On the other hand in the international
political arena – the Great Debate, the Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution
(GPCR) in China, the dissolution of the last base of the world socialist
revolution after Mao’s death, the negative impact it had on the revolutions
of various countries, particularly its impact on the revolution of our country
and other earth shaking phenomena come to our memory very clearly. On
the occasion of the formation of our new party let us remember our beloved
comrades CM, KC and all the other thousands of brave martyrs and pay
red homage to them with bowed heads. Let us pledge to carry forward the
dreams of our martyrs with clenched fists!

Comrades,

It is already one year since we celebrated the 5th anniversary of party
formation day with revolutionary fervor. In this period, the struggle between
revolution and counter-revolution went on very bitterly. From a strategic

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



point of view, in this period in our country and in our People’s War, very
significant phenomena have taken place. These would impact the Indian
revolution for a long time to come.

Firstly – starting from four months before the 5th anniversary of the
party formation day to this July eight topmost comrades including PBM
and beloved leader Azad and ten state level comrades had either been
caught and killed by the enemy or had been put behind bars. Many leadership
comrades from district level to lower ranks were either arrested or killed.
The enemy is carrying on this offence in a well-hatched plan with the aim
of decimating the revolutionary movement and defeating the revolution.
Though this plan is nothing new, the losses inflicted by the enemy to our
leadership in this period is very severe.

The recent loss which occurred in continuance of the top leadership
losses which started one year after the formation of the new party have
negatively impacted very severely the party and the movement. Particularly,
losing Comrade Azad is a severe loss to the party. The loss of Comrade
Azad who had been fulfilling key responsibilities in the highest committee
and had been rendering multi-faceted services most efficiently in many
fields cannot be fulfilled in the near future.

The new party placed before the people of our country enriched political,
organizational, military lines, a strong party, a strong leadership and vast
movement areas. The confidence of the people on the party increased
further.  This  created  very  favourable  subjective  conditions  for  the
advancement of the revolution. The most crucial thing under a favorable
subjective condition is a strong party and a strong leadership. The Indian
ruling classes and the imperialists who were frightened by such great
revolutionary subjective condition have formulated a plan to suppress the
revolution by weakening the party through annihilating and incarcerating
our party leadership for a long time inside jails. The losses to our party
leadership in 2005 and 2006 occurred due to this evil plan. However, the
Unity Congress-Ninth Congress of our party strengthened our party unity,
formulated  a  comprehensive  plan  for  the  advance  of  revolution  and
strengthened our leadership. Though Andhra Pradesh movement and North
Chhattisgarh movement suffered setbacks and though we suffered heavy
losses  in  North  Odisha,  the  successes  achieved  in  our  practice  have



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

increased the self-confidence of the revolutionary camp further.

The successful completion of the Unity Congress and the later successes
worried the enemy camp to no end and so the enemy intensified his efforts
to annihilate the party leadership. The leadership losses which occurred
since a few months before our 5th anniversary of party formation day are
more severe. Though they are very serious, in the past 45 years since
Naxalbari revolutionary rebellion, Indian revolutionary movement had been
giving birth to new leadership constantly.

Secondly  –  immediately  after  the  UPA  government  under  Sonia-
Manmohan came to power the second time, the multi-pronged offensive
strategy  on  the  revolutionary  movement  has  been  intensified  in  an
unprecedented  level  and  is  being  led  by  the  central  home  minister
Chidambaram. Fascist “Operation Green Hunt” (OGH) campaign is carried
out as a concrete form of the multi-pronged offensive strategy. Of all the
offensive strategies formulated by the Indian ruling classes to crush the
revolutionary movement in India in the past 45 years, the one which is
continuing  since  mid-2009  is  the  higher,  wider,  country-wide,  severe,
deceptive, centralized and protracted one till date. The ruling classes are
keeping  in  view  every  challenge  posed  to  them  by  the  revolutionary
movement and are making the necessary changes in it. As part of this,
they are carrying on this offensive campaign concentrating on our strong
rural areas, guerilla zones, particularly on Dandakaranya, Jharkhand, Lalgadh
and  Narayanapatna.  This  campaign  is  completely  based  on  counter-
insurgency and counter-guerilla warfare theory and is being carried out in
the most cruel and most deceptive manner by strategic forces [special
police, paramilitary, SAF (cobra) and special forces in the military] under a
unified command. Gradually the situation is changing in such a manner that
the various special forces would in future be led by the Indian Army. The
repression and violence perpetrated in the name of OGH became exposed
a lot as ‘State’s War on the People’.  This fascist offensive has intensified
social contradictions. No other suppression campaign had earned the wrath
and resistance of people as much as the OGH in the past 45 years.

Thirdly – the Indian state machinery, judiciary, administrative mechanism,
legislature and government policies are being restructured with counter-
insurgency theories. Political parties, various social institutions, culture and

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



media are very severely impacted by this theory directly and indirectly. In
accordance with this theory various organizations are coming up in overt
and covert methods. Though the ruling classes brought this new trend
after the formation of our new party, a considerable change occurred in
this after the coming to power of the Manmohan Singh government for the
second time. Today, this is a country-wide trend. The inspiration and remote
control for this is the ‘War on Terror’ formulated and implemented by the
imperialists led by the US imperialists. The counter-revolutionary ‘Low
Intensity Conflict’ (LIC) formulated by the imperialists to face the communist
revolutions and national liberation movements after the Second World War
is the basis for the ‘War on Terror’ of the Indian rulers and the imperialists.
Due to this reactionary LIC policy the social contradictions in our country
have intensified further. The more the imperialists and Indian rulers try to
restructure the state, judiciary, administrative mechanism, legislature, politics,
economy, culture and media in accordance with LIC and counter-insurgency
policies, the more they would be facing the severe wrath and protest of the
vast masses. Already they are facing such resistance all over the country.

Comrades,

Revolution is fighting counter-revolution at an unprecedented level,
extent and in all spheres. In our just resistance war we did many sacrifices.
Without these sacrifices not a single success we won in the past year in
various fields would have been possible. The entire party, PLGA, Janathana
Sarkars (RPCs), mass organizations and all those getting mobilized into the
revolutionary camp, all those who are pro-people have indeed fought a life
and death battle against OGH. It was due to this brave and heroic struggle
that we could achieve some great successes and valuable experiences in
the past one year,

The successes we achieved in the past one year are as follows:
  One  –  Successes  in  Guerilla  War.  The  successful  attacks  in
Singanamadugu, Mukram (Tadimetla) and Kongera of Chhattisgarh; Laheri
in Maharashtra; Sankrel and Silda in Bengal; Gumla, Vishnupur and Latehar
in Jharkhand; Sono, government toll plaza (Gaya) and Tandwa bazaar in
Bihar; Potakal and Baipharguda in Odisha, particularly the historic Mukram
(Tadimetla) attack damaged the initiative of the enemy and increased that



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

of the guerilla forces. They increased the confidence of the people. They
armed the PLGA further and gave us new experiences in guerilla warfare.
Tadimetla experience is of the highest level among them. These attacks
helped us a lot in defending people, mass organizations, people’s agriculture,
production-development and welfare activities and their smooth functioning.
It was the active support of the people which served as the foundation
for all these successes in People’s War. If not for this active resistance of
our forces and people, it would have led to a more favorable condition for
the enemy to obliterate our movement. If our war of self-defence had
been carried on a weaker level we would have lost our successes. These
great experiences would definitely help us in fighting back the enemy forces
which are going to be deployed for a bigger attack after making massive
preparations.

Secondly – carrying forward the tradition of militant mass struggles of
Kalinganagar, Singur and Nandigram, the Lalgadh and Narayanapatna
struggles  had  burst  forth  on  an  extensive  and  higher  scale  than  these
struggles. These were led by our party. Both of them were fought against
revisionism or right opportunism. Both of them were fought against the
state. Though the Lalgadh people launched their struggle against state
violence and the Narayanapatna people on land issue, within a short period
they inaugurated an alternative state system. We had not seen a deluge of
such vast, militant, long drawn mass uprisings in the past 25 years in our
country. The significance of these struggles is so much that they played a
great role as an inspiration and new sources for the expansion of party,
PLGA and people’s power organs. The lessons of these revolutionary mass
uprisings for the development of people’s war in our country are invaluable.
They have written a new chapter in the revolutionary history of the country.
Thirdly, the Lalgarh armed peasant movement earned a special place
in the annals of Indian armed agrarian revolutionary struggle history. Lalgarh
armed peasant movement which had erupted, spread and consolidated in a
period when the enemy had deployed forces on a large scale and was
attempting to crush the peasant uprisings all over the country has great
significance.

Fourthly, vast masses under the leadership of our party are militantly

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



resisting and defeating all the serious attempts of the MNCs, comprador
bureaucratic capitalist companies to loot the natural resources in central
and eastern India. Though lakhs of armed forces are deployed in the name
of OGH, people are bravely resisting in various forms. They are rising in
revolt with the slogan “Jal-Jungle-Jameen Hamaara Hi, Jal-Jungle-Jameen
Chodabo  Nahin”.  In  the  coming  days  the  spread,  severity  and  the
consequences of these struggles would very favorably impact the politics
of our country and People’s War as part of it. Our PB is congratulating the
people, the various progressive organizations and people who stood firmly
in these struggles. It stands in support of all of them. It is reminding them
once again the necessity of leading these movements in a more united,
militant manner and vastly. PB is openly declaring that we will not allow
the tricks of the imperialists and their stooges who are betraying the country
and that our party would stand in the forefront of these struggles.

Fifthly, our party had conducted an effective ideological and political
propaganda war against the enemy’s psychological war under the leadership
of Comrade Azad. Comrade Azad had efficiently exposed before the people
of our country and the world the psychological warfare aimed by the enemy
to deceive the people into opposing the People’s War. If our entire party
had not fought along with Com. Azad against the enemy in ideological and
political spheres at various levels, the people’s war going on under our
party’s leadership would not have won this much credit. People’s War
would not have earned so much of significance. Martyr comrade Azad’s
services in this field are very significant and permanent. It is necessary to
continue  the  struggle  in  this  field  with  renewed  determination  taking
inspiration from Com. Azad.

Apart from these five successes our party expanded in some areas.
We had consolidated party and PLGA in a better manner. We imparted
political, military training to the party and army. We put efforts to consolidate
political power organs and to form them in new areas. It is these successes
that we had won in the past one year that inspired many revolutionary
forces, democrats, intellectuals, progressive and patriotic forces to firmly
oppose OGH. The militant struggles we conducted and the good results
we achieved in the past one year in terms of politics, mass struggles and
guerilla warfare are the main reason for the mobilization of support of all



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

these  forces.
Comrades,

When we synthesize the experiences of the past one year, we suffered
heavy losses of subjective forces not only in terms of considerable numbers
but  also  in  terms  of  leadership. We  can  clearly  state  that  these  losses
would very negatively impact the party and the movement. With the aim of
fulfilling the losses of the martyred comrades, particularly that of our beloved
leader comrade Azad, all party committees from the Central Committee to
the lower committees and the entire party should strive hard to train up
new forces as their inheritors on a vast scale. With this aim  we must put
efforts  for  theoretical  study,  study  of  concrete  conditions,  creative
application, summarizing experiences, sincere criticism and self-criticism
and to improve work styles-work methods. It is necessary to continue
active  war  of  self-defence  with  firm  determination.  It  is  necessary  to
enhance our capacity and efficiency through all these. It is necessary to
continue the already launched rectification campaign with the aim of getting
good results.

To  fulfill  the  gaps  due  to  losses  and  to  enhance  the  capacity  and
efficiency of the party and its level all these methods have to be implemented
with firm determination. But more importantly, to avoid the losses which
may occur, it is necessary to deeply examine and discuss about the reasons
for  the  losses  and  the  conditions  which  had  helped  them.  If  we  can
understand the reasons for the losses properly, we will find a way of avoiding
them. The central committee and the state committees should take up this
task. If they can successfully fulfill this task then we will be able to avoid
losses in the future. If we can do so, our party would become impregnable
to the enemy in near future. The future of the Indian revolution is also
dependent to a large extent on the kind of result we obtain in this matter.
We must take as a warning the fact that our losses have been making our
success ineffective. How much ever favorable the revolutionary material
conditions may be, unless we have capable and efficient party leadership
in ample, and unless we strive to consolidate an impregnable party and
leadership it would be utopian to think of the victory of the revolution.

In our party’s past experience, we all know clearly that one of the

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



main reasons for the setback of the Indian revolution after the martyrdom
of Comrade Charu Mazumdar was the lack of leadership which had won
the affection of the ranks and which was efficient. The main reason for
the defeat of the Peru revolution and its disintegration is the arrest of
almost the whole core of the leadership. In our country too, at present
many  areas  have  become  stagnant  or  have  gone  into  setback  due  to
leadership losses. However, in the past, after we properly understood the
reasons for the losses we could again build the party and the movement in
various areas. For solving this problem we must learn from our experience
and from the experiences of our fraternal parties. If we have to fight back
a very strong and cruel enemy and win victory it is necessary to turn our
party into an impregnable party to the enemy.

OGH, counter-insurgency theory and the LIC policy are all theories
and strategies of the outdated classes. Implementation of these to hinder
and suppress the Indian revolution by the ruling classes and the imperialists
indicates the bankruptcy of these classes. We must intensify and expand
the war of self-defence already being carried out by the PLGA under our
party’s leadership, people and democrats against OGH. This bankrupt
strategy-plan followed by the enemy is already greatly exposed among the
people.  If  we  can  base  ourselves  on  the  people  and  fight  by  properly
deploying the PLGA, we can surely defeat OGH. The more severely and
widely the enemy carries on the OGH, the more surely would it bring
about his destruction.

The more the restructuring of the entire Indian politics, military, economy
and culture in accordance with the LIC policy by the ruling classes with
the support of the imperialists, the more would be the sharpening of the
social contradictions. The more this would push the Indian society into the
control of the imperialists. The civil war between revolution and counter-
revolution, that is, between some reactionaries and countless masses would
intensify. Ultimately counter- revolution will be destroyed by the flames of
People’s War. The ultimate outcome would be decided depending on how
efficiently, how firmly the party mobilizes the people and fights unflinchingly
with a long term perspective against OGH and the fascization which is
leading  to  very  negative  phenomena  in  Indian  society.  However,  the
historical experiences world over show us that such anti-people policies



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

have been defeated anywhere in the world.

Comrades,

We all know that due to serious leadership losses and due to not applying
the party line and policies creatively to the concrete conditions, movements
in many states which have not even grown to the level of guerilla zones
since a long time have either become stagnant or are facing setback. The
movements in urban areas have also weakened a lot. In other words, guerilla
zones are becoming isolated. The enemy is carrying on an unprecedented
offensive to destroy the stronger areas in the guerilla zones too. After
inflicting severe losses to the party leadership outside guerilla zones the
enemy is trying seriously to damage it inside guerilla zones.

In such circumstances we must strive to fulfill the tasks set by the
Unity Congress by almost completely depending on our strong areas. We
must give particular importance for preserving the leadership here. We
must strive hard to strengthen the people’s army and to consolidate the
various mass organizations. We must carry on active war of self-defence.
We must work by keeping at the core intensification of guerilla warfare
and establishment of Revolutionary People’s Committees. To defeat the
encirclement offensive of the enemy we must depend on these areas and
extend the movement areas for fulfilling the strategic tasks of People’s
War.

We must give guidance to the people to fight back the severe offensive
of the MNCs-big comprador bureaucratic bourgeoisie companies to loot
the natural resources all over the country from Lalgadh and Surjagardh. If
we can actively mobilize the people on this issue which is a main issue in
People’s War, we can mobilize geographical, human, material, technical,
moral and legal sources necessary for the development of People’s War.
If we can efficiently fulfill this task then there are many opportunities for
the People’s War to develop another step in our country.

In the present situation, our guerilla zones are the central spots/points
which would dig the grave for OGH. In order to mobilize the democratic
forces all over the country against OGH, if we can improve our united
front efforts and work in creative methods in towns and plains, even in the
conditions where a large part of our leadership is damaged we can achieve

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



good results. If we can summarize the Kalinganagar, Singur, Nandigram,
Lalgadh,  Kandhamal  and  Narayanapatna  experiences  more
comprehensively and basing on these experiences if we can apply them
creatively to rally the people, then we can achieve a qualitative leap in
conducting mass struggles in the country.

If we can properly mobilize the leadership, propaganda machinery and
the entire party in creative methods to fight back the enemy’s psychological
warfare, then we can fill up the loss of Azad. We must effectively utilize
psychological war to defeat the multi-pronged war of the enemy.

It is necessary to have deep study and observation to learn about the
reasons behind the stagnation or setback of the movements. In such states,
we must get rid of the lack of activeness and creativeness developing in
the forces remaining. To know about the reasons behind stagnation we
must  not  let  subjectivism  dominate  at  any  cost.  Dialectical  historical
materialism and particularly the principle of contradiction should be applied
creatively and researched. Only when we face such difficult and severe
issues and complexity do we also find situations where the darkness gives
way to rays of light. We can very clearly see the situation where we would
encircle the enemy who is encircling our guerilla zones and where we
would achieve a new leap in Indian revolution by fulfilling the tasks set by
the Unity Congress. Let us prepare ourselves to conduct People’s War
with utmost courage, with renewed enthusiasm and firm determination.

Comrades,

The fact that the ruling classes and the imperialists are intensifying the
offensive on our revolutionary movement is making it clear that they are
implementing anti-people policies each day and are getting isolated from
the people. Since they launched OGH, since they had been restructuring
the state system with LIC policies, since they had launched mopping up
campaigns  on  people  apart  from  catching  and  cruelly  murdering  our
leadership, since the Indian rulers have become junior partners to US
imperialists in South Asia, how many ever tricks they may be playing, they
are getting more exposed as enemies of the people or oppressors to the
people of our country and the people of South Asia. All contradictions in
the Indian society are intensifying. In India, in South Asia and in the world



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

material  conditions  for  revolution  are  developing  excellently. Various
democratic,  progressive  and  patriotic  forces,  oppressed  nations  and
oppressed  social  communities  are  facing  severe  discrimination  and
oppression. All the economic development indices indicate the development
of  a  handful  of Tata, Ambani,  Birla,  Mahindra  and  other  comprador
bureaucratic capitalists or that of the MNCs which absolutely loot the
country. The lives of workers, poor and middle classes who constitute the
majority of the population are touching lower depths. The gap between the
rich and the poor has increased manifold than in the past. The comprador
economists cannot change the class contradictions by juggling figures. That
is why the rulers are deploying fascist mercenary forces against people
fighting in various areas and are intensifying these contradictions further.
Conditions are ripening to consolidate the fighting people and to establish
our leadership on them by bringing unity among them and to develop People’s
War to a newer level. On the occasion of the glorious 6th anniversary of
the party formation day, let us pledge to consolidate the party in order to
catch up with these excellent conditions. Let us vow to develop People’s
War and for the fulfillment of the dreams of our martyrs.

Comrades,

Celebrate the 6th anniversary of the party with revolutionary fervor.
Place before the villagers the successes we achieved in spite of the severe
repression in the past one year. Hail the ideals of the martyrs. Conduct
propaganda campaigns in various forms. Conduct discussion in the entire
party about the excellent revolutionary conditions and the efforts to be put
by  the  party  to  catch  up  with  them!  Let  us  hold  the  red  flag  of  the
international revolutionary proletariat aloft and vow that we would go ahead
in spite of any number of difficulties and repressions in the course of
revolution with the steadfast belief that we would be able to achieve victory
through People’s War.

 Let us strengthen our party as an impregnable fortress to avoid

huge losses to leadership and ranks!

 Let  us  consolidate  the  party  to  give  efficient  leadership  in
accordance with the excellent revolutionary situation and the
advance of the People’s War!

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



 Let us rally the vast masses widely and actively with the aim
of developing our movement into an invincible People’s War!
 Hail and follow the exemple of Tadimetla (Mukram) to defeat

‘Operation Green Hunt’ in every guerilla zone!

 Hail  and  follow  the  exemplary  struggles  of  Nandigram,
Lalgadh and Narayanapatna in every state to drown the Indian
ruling  classes  and  the  imperialists  in  a  deluge  of  mass
struggles!

 Let us unite the mass movements erupting all over the country
in  the  model  of  the  protest  movements  conducted  against
“State’s War on People” and lay the foundation for a strong
united front!

 Let us form, consolidate and expand “Revolutionary People’s
Committees”  in  areas  where  we  are  intensifying  guerilla
warfare with the aim of establishing Base Areas.

 Let us hail and follow the exemplary model of Comrade Azad
in effectively fighting back the enemy’s psychological warfare!
 Let us extend to vast areas to fulfill the multi-faceted tasks of

People’s War!

Date  :  20-8-2010

Politbureau,

Central  Committee,

CPI (Maoist)



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

Revolutionary Greetings for the
7th Anniversary Celebrations of

Our Glorious Party!

Hail the 7th Anniversary Celebrations of Our Glorious New Party !
Let us strengthen and expand the party in accordance with the

excellent material condition, level and expanse of the
movement and fulfillment of the tasks of the movement !

Let us strengthen and expand the mass base

to develop subjective forces and to develop People’s War !

Let us intensify and expand guerilla warfare

to fulfill the central task and to defeat Operation Green Hunt !

Central Committee Call to the entire Party to

Grandly Celebrate the 7th Anniversary of our Party

with Revolutionary fervor from September 21 to 27, 2011

Central Committee

Communist Party of India (Maoist)

Dear  Comrades,

We are about to celebrate the 7th anniversary of our glorious new
party  on  September  21  this  year.  September  21  is  a  day  of  utmost
significance for our party. This is a historic day. On the occasion of the 7th
anniversary of the party, let us remember the builders of our party, the
great leaders of the Indian Revolution, martyrs and our beloved comrades
Charu Mazumdar and Kanhai Chatterji and all those thousands of brave
warriors who have been martyred during the course of New Democratic
Revolution (NDR) since Naxalbari to this day. After the 6th anniversary of
our party, in the past one year 229 of our beloved comrades have laid down
their lives in DK, BJ, Bengal, Odisha, AOB, NT, AP, Maharashtra, UP and
in CG-OS border while advancing People’s War by bravely and valiantly
fighting back the ‘Operation Green Hunt’ implemented in the most brutal
manner by the reactionary Indian ruling classes with the aim of wiping out
the revolutionary movement. Let us remember each one of these valiant
fighters and pay our red homage to them. Let us take vow with clenched
fists to carry forward the great aims of our thousands of martyrs who have
laid down their lives in the NDR. Let us take the brave and inspiring lives
and sacrifices of these martyrs as an ideal to follow and march forward
with steely determination along the path of People’s War. On the occasion
of the 7th anniversary of our party, our CC is sending hearty revolutionary
greetings to all the comrades in our party, PLGA, Revolutionary People’s
Committees (RPCs), mass organizations and to the hundreds of comrades
who are fighting back the enemy in the prisons all over the country.

On this occasion, let us take a look at the political situation in the past
one year after the 6th anniversary of the party to formulate immediate
tasks  and  review  the  practice  of  our  party  carried  on  with  the  aim  of
advancing the People’s War in our country.
International situation

The economic crisis which continued in whirls since the end of 2008
took the breath out of US imperialism and recently it burst forth in the form
of a debt crisis. EU too got bogged down in this crisis. At present capitalism
is sinking down with an unheard of debt burden in its entire history. This
debt crisis is shaking the economies of the entire semi-colonial economies
which are dependent on the exports-imports and capital of imperialist



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

countries. The jolt of this crisis is so severe that is gave a big jerk to the
world stock markets. To decrease the debt burden, the governments of
many countries including the Obama administration have taken steps to
increase income and to reduce expenditure to a large extent. Due to this
the governments of these countries are taking measures to introduce cuts
in the already meager welfare measures of the people and pensions on a
large scale. This crisis is making the lives of the workers and middle class
people in the capitalist countries unbearable. As a result, thousands and
lakhs of workers, employees, students and pensioners have resorted to
large scale strikes and agitations in the recent past in several EU countries
and US. The dissatisfaction of blacks and Asians in several cities in Britain,
including London burst forth and left the British imperialists gasping for
breath. This debt crisis would not only further intensify the contradiction
between the workers and the capitalist class in the imperialist countries but
would also help in intensifying the fundamental contradictions of the world.
The rebellions and agitations that arose at various levels against the
despotic rulers in countries like Tunisia, Egypt, Yemen, Libya and Syria in
the Arab World have not only shaken their foundations but have also terrified
the imperialists. The attempts of the imperialists to protect their lackey
despots  in Tunisia  and  Egypt  failed.  However  they  were  temporarily
successful in seeing that other leaders of the same governments and the
rightist forces in the movement came to power in the place of their lackey
despots. They helped in all manners their lackey despots in Qatar and
Saudi Arabia and could cruelly suppress in the initial stages itself  the
people’s movements which arose there.

Imperialists, particularly France, Britain, US and Italy who moved their
coins  on  the  chess  board  in  Libya  even  before  Colonel  Gaddafi  was
overthrown, gave all kinds of military and non-military support to the
movement which arose against his regime in the name of ‘protecting human
rights’. They made their lackeys in Arab League stand up in opposition to
Gaddafi. In the name of their ‘rubber stamp’ UN they imposed several
sanctions along with declaring a ‘No fly zone’. Immediately they rained
bombs incessantly and crippled the soldiers of Gaddafi. Gaddafi and his
followers had to leave Tripoli. Oddly the people’s rebellion and the aggressive
war of the imperialists have got mixed up in Libya. Finally the situation is

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



turning such that the imperialists are able to tighten their grip over the oil
deposits of Libya just as the imperialists wished for. Though ordinary people
have participated on a huge scale in the rebellion in Libya, as it was the
anti-Gaddafi ruling cliques and the lackeys of various imperialist countries
who have led it, it would not take much time for the people to realize that
the change which they expected would be impossible in practice. The
imperialists are trying in a thousand ways to carry on the Libyan experiment
in Syria too using the fig leaf of UN in the name of ‘protection of human
rights’ like in the past.

The leaders who came to power in Tunisia and Egypt replacing the
despots have declared that establishing parliamentary democracies is their
aim. But they agreed only very partially the demands brought to the fore
by the people during the agitations. They declared that they would carry on
the policies of the past governments regarding imperialists and several
other important matters. There are some differences in various countries.
That is why the people and various agitators are fighting strongly against
the new governments. The contradictions between the rulers and the people
in these countries, between the various cliques in the ruling classes and
between the people and the imperialists are continuing very severely in
new forms. These phenomena which occurred in the Arab World have
further intensified the contradictions between US and Russia  and between
US and China. Though these movements have helped in fulfilling the
democratic aspirations of the people only partially, they would serve as a
step in the path of achieving genuine democracy and freedom. Let us hope
that they would continue to fight till their aspirations are fulfilled against
the new governments which implement the old policies. No despots and no
imperialists who guide them can permanently suppress the democratic
aspirations of the people. None of them can dictate their future.

In the name of ‘War on Terror’, the US imperialists are conducting
drone attacks on the villagers in Afghanistan and Pakistan almost on a
daily basis and are brutally murdering ordinary people including babies,
women and elderly persons. They are facing the severe wrath and protests
of  the people of Afghanistan and Pakistan. Even to this day the resistance
wars of Afghanistan and Iraq are making the imperialists sleepless. The
hundreds of billions of dollars spent by them to occupy these countries and



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

to maintain their hegemony over them have helped in pushing them into
severe economic crisis. The imperialists earned the severe wrath of the
people of their countries due to the wars of aggression and the ceaseless
massacres they are carrying on. Though the US imperialists killed Bin
Laden, they are still being haunted by the specter of Al Qaeda.

The earth quake in Japan caused very serious economical, political
and ecological loss to the Japanese. It shook the Japan imperialists to the
core. The radiation which emanated and is still emanating in dangerous
levels from this plant has proved to be a long term danger not only to the
people of that country but also to the people of the neighboring countries
and to the marine creatures.  After this incident an agitation arose on a
massive scale in Japan with the demand that nuclear plants must be closed
down. People rose in agitations in several countries all over the world
including Germany with the same demand. As people agitated on a huge
scale the German government announced that it would close six out of
seven plants within one year. The unscientific, myopic, narrow, selfish,
mindless and bankrupt ecological policies of the ruling classes of the entire
world including that of Japan imperialists have been thoroughly exposed by
the accident at Fukushima nuclear power plant.

After Aquino, the lackey of US came to power in the general elections
in Philippines, the government announced that it would completely suppress
the People’s War within three years. It launched the suppressive campaign
‘Oplan Bayanihan’ for this sake. The US imperialists are blatantly giving
all kinds of help to the Aquino government to suppress the Philippines
revolution. However this bankrupt suppressive campaign is receiving blow
after blow in the resistance war carried on by the New People’s Army and
the oppressed people under the leadership of the communist party.
Domestic situation

The phenomena which occurred in the economic and political spheres
internationally in the past one year have severely impacted the economic
and political spheres of our country. We can see this impact very clearly in
forms such as huge price rises of fuel, daily needs and food items; scams
and corruption increasing on a massive scale; the jolt to the stock markets;
cuts in welfare programmes; increase in the number of unemployed persons

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



etc. The decreasing living standards of the people of our country and the
increasing inflation are thoroughly exposing the propaganda done by the
Sonia, Manmohan Singh, Pranab Mukherji, Ahluwalia and Rangarajan clique
about the economy of our country, GDP and per capita development indices.
While the finance minister Pranab Mukherji has shamelessly announced
that he would lift the remaining restrictions in spheres such as banks,
insurance and defence to attract foreign capital, Chidambaram brazenly
announced that they would crush the Maoists with an iron heel to establish
a peaceful atmosphere for this sake.

Lakhs of peasantry, adivasis, poor and middle class people are being
displaced from their lands and abodes due to various mines; heavy projects-
industries, SEZs, air ports, Express highways etc; real estates; parks, tiger
projects; eviction of poor people from slums in cities etc. According to a
report published in a magazine, lakhs of people losing their lands are agitating
in  forty  districts  of  17  states  on  displacement  issues.  If  they  become
completely displaced, they would lose nearly four lakh acres of fertile lands
and  lakhs  of  acres  of  forest  lands. At  present  nearly  10  crores  of  the
population  are  being  affected  by  the  displacement  issue  directly  and
indirectly. The ruling classes have unleashed cruel repression on all the
militant struggles on displacement issue in states like Odisha, Maharashtra,
UP,  Chhattisgarh  etc  in  the  past  one  year. The  democratic  forces  are
standing in support of these movements and extending their help in various
forms. Due to the militant movements of the people against land grabbing
by the government, MNCs, big industries of our country, political leaders,
builders, land mafia and contractors, the ruling classes are about to bring a
new ‘Land Acquisition Act’ soon. Though this act would extend namesake
help to the people in some aspects, this would actually be full of illusionary
rhetoric that this would preserve the land rights of the people. However,
this act would mainly serve to throw into the dust bin all the laws made for
the Adivasis and would destroy the land rights of the peasantry and the
poor people. This would very seriously impact the condition of land rights
in  the  country  in  favor  of  the  needs  of  the  imperialists,  comprador
bureaucratic bourgeoisies (CBB) and government capital. This would be a
strategic offensive against the agrarian revolution. This is a poison fruit
given by the world wide economic crisis to the people of our country.
However this issue would help the intensification of all social contradictions.



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

In  the  assembly  elections  to  five  states  conducted  in  May,  the
governments of parties in power in Bengal, Tamilnadu and Kerala fell and
the main opposition parties came to power. In Assam, Congress party
came to power again, while the chief minister of Pondichery changed his
party and came to power again. Due to anti-incumbency the DMK and
Left front parties were defeated and AIDMK and Congress parties came
to power in their place.

As far as our movement is concerned, the election results of Assam
and Bengal have a special significance. Even before the elections in Assam
the ULFA leadership took a path of surrender and gave masked support to
the government in the assembly elections. A section of the Bodo movement
also supported Gogoi. This helped Gogoi to win. Surrender of ULFA would
negatively impact the North-East nationality movements. In Bengal CPM
ruled for a long time in the bourgeois parliamentary path and finally lost its
power in these elections. The main reason for this is the outdated economic
and political policies it followed being in power for a long time. These
policies gave rise to severe dissatisfaction among the middle class and
peasantry. From the beginning it considered the Maoist parties its arch
enemy and unleashed never-ending repression by colluding with the centre.
Democrats too severely protested and fought against its despotic social
fascist rule. This party was fully entrenched in severe internal factional
struggles at the state and central levels and Left Front too faced the same
situation. It was under such circumstances that Mamta Banerji could come
to power. Being an alliance partner at the centre was a favorable factor
for Mamta. Along with this, the promises she made as part of the election
campaign too helped her to win. Media played its part in it too. To be more
precise, as the social contradictions continued at a very serious level in
Bengal, one ruling clique replaced another ruling clique in power.

After the elections, considerable number of people there may see the
Trinamool party and its leader Mamta Banerji as champions who pulled
down the social fascist rule. Only when one looks at the following factors
like – class composition of Trinamool party’s leadership, its economic and
political policies, its role in the NDA (BJP) and UPA (Congress) governments
at the centre, chorusing with Chidambaram about Maoist party as soon as
it came to power in the state and announcing a rehabilitation policy for the

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



Maoists by inviting them to come into the mainstream by renouncing
violence, declaring that it would withdraw the Joint Forces only after a
peaceful atmosphere was established in Lalgarh and its daily practice –
can one properly assess its class nature, its class representation, its role in
the parliamentary political system and its role in present day Bengal.

There were some changes in the political situation in Bengal after
elections. Keeping these in view we must formulate proper tactics and
rally the people. To the extent we can do this, we would be able to develop
the party, mass base and fighting power and create the conditions for further
developing the People’s War.

The massive scams worth thousands and lakhs of crores of rupees
resorted to by the various ruling class parties, their leaders and government
officials were exposed one after another in the past one year. The ruling
class parties blamed each other at an unprecedented level. It has been
thoroughly exposed among the people more than ever that parliamentary
parties  and  the  government  machinery  have  become  putrefied  with
corruption. The discussion which opened one more time about corruption
gained momentum in the country. As corruption is also one of the main
reasons for the unbearable living conditions of the people, the vast masses
of the people are deeply dissatisfied with their governments. The conditions
were created for this dissatisfaction to burst forth. Utilizing such a situation
the likes of Anna Hazare and Ramdev Baba entered the arena. The ruling
classes and their media focused them as champions who fight against
corruption.  The ruling classes considered Anna Hazare as a safety valve
and their savior who descended to save them before the dissatisfaction of
the people takes a consolidated form, turns into a militant country-wide
movement and shakes their foundation. Anna Hazare who sat in Satyagraha
and his close followers know very well how deceitful it is to make the
corrupt fellows pass a bill to terminate corruption and to make the people
believe that corruption would end due to this bill. The ruling classes too
know this truth. We must say that Anna Hazare and the ruling classes
were temporarily successful to some extent in making the people not clearly
understand the root cause of corruption, the method to destroy it and the
solution for it. In fact, the ruling classes know that the new law could do
nothing to them just like the past laws. Even then they are not ready to



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

formulate the Lokpal bill even to the extent they agreed to in public.

Under circumstances where the people of our country are being crushed
under imperialists, CBB and land lords, are being cruelly suppressed by the
despotic state and where a social revolutionary storm is brewing, the ongoing
People’s War under the leadership of the Maoist party is increasingly seen
by the people of our country as an alternative. In these conditions, it is not
by any accident that Anna Hazare brought to the fore the peaceful path of
ending corruption through Satyagraha and legal reforms. That is why Anna
Hazare brought to the fore the Gandhian method of struggle as an alternative
path which would depreciate the Protracted People’s War (social revolution)
ongoing under the leadership of the Maoist party at present in our country
and the fighting spirit of the people. The real motives of Annas and Babas
is to give legitimacy to the present system and the Satyagraha-peaceful
path by giving rise to illusions that the present wholly decadent and putrefied
sham  parliamentary  democratic  system  can  be  cured  through  some
treatments (through legal reforms). However, their sham Satyagrahas and
legal reforms which do not speak even one word about the relation between
corruption and the system, corruption and globalization and corruption and
the monopoly profits of MNCs and CBB will not be able to keep the people
in illusions for a long time. It is only the People’s War which can show a
permanent solution and proper path of struggle to the militant people’s
struggles coming to the fore on various issues apart from those against
corruption. Not just at the central level but also in states such as Andhra
Pradesh,  Karnataka, Tamilnadu,  Uttar  Pradesh,  Odisha,  Chhattisgarh,
Punjab, Madhya Pradesh etc the contradictions between the ruling classes
have intensified a lot in relation to corruption.

Recently the intervention of Indian expansionists in Nepal politics
increased  further;  crucial  agreements  were  signed  with  the  Hasina
government in Bangladesh. Surrendering the ULFA leadership and making
them come for talks is part of this. They increased pressure on Pakistan
and are working as junior partners to US in Afghanistan. They have seriously
damaged the movement of the oppressed nationalities of North-East and
Kashmir people’s movement.

Recently Indian government signed agreements with US regarding
internal security. There are various matters related to security in these. As

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



part of them are also present matters relating to modernization of police,
paramilitary forces and their utilization. As part of them are also present
matters relating to training, technology, weapons, exchange of information,
advices etc which are necessary for them. Thanks to these agreements
now FBI can legally sit in office in our country and hold Chidambaram
(home ministry) at the end of their leash. It would try to increasingly put to
use its technology, experience etc it has in suppressing the movements in
the  world.  Due  to  all  these  factors,  the  contradictions  between  the
imperialists and the Indian people would further intensify.

The movement for separate Telangana has intensified the contradictions
between the various ruling class parties but also internal contradictions in
the Congress and Telugu Desam parties more than ever.

Movements are raging in all four corners of the country on issues of
displacement,  ecology  and  indigenous  people  due  to  the  policies  of
government of grabbing lands of peasantry, Adivasis, poor and middle class
people in the name of development of the country. In the coming days
people’s movements would intensify further on these issues. Struggles are
developing over issues such as price rises, corruption, Operation Green
Hunt etc. The movements in Kashmir and North-East have temporarily
stepped back. However the iron heels of the Indian ruling classes, their
schemes and conspiracies cannot keep the aspirations of these nationalities
suppressed for a long time. The long struggle history of these nationalities
has proven this truth again and again. As these movements have stepped
back, the ruling classes find a favorable situation to deploy more paramilitary
forces on our People’s War. The developing people’s movements are a
result of the intensification of major and fundamental contradictions in our
country.

The ruling classes have intensified in an unprecedented manner the
offensive on the People’s War going on under the leadership of our party.
They are spending thousands of crores of rupees for this suppression. All
governments are cruelly attacking each and every movement and carrying
on a despotic rule.

OGH offensive intensifies and expands

As soon as UPA-2 came to power at the centre, the central and state



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

governments carried on more intensely and on a wide scale in the past one
year the OGH launched by them with the intention of wiping out the People’s
War. In the past one year the intelligence agencies have taken as their
main priority destroying the leadership elements of our party at all levels,
particularly the central and state leadership and carried on the offensive
with special concentration. Our CC members comrades Jagdish Master
(Bhupesh,  PBM),  Pulendu  Sekhar  Mukherji  (Sahebda),  Varanasi
Subrahmanyam  (Srikant),  Vijay  Kumar Arya  (Jaspal);  Bengal  state
committee  secretary  com.  Sudeep  Chongdar,  Punjab  state  committee
secretary com. Parmajit, BJSAC secretariat member com. Umesh Yadav
(Abhimanyu), Maharashtra state committee member com. Angela, some
state committee members belonging to Bengal, Odisha and Maharashtra
and some other comrades in various states have been arrested.

Ruling classes have now brought their army into the arena to suppress
the People’s War going on in the vast areas of our country at various
levels. They have sent troops at Brigade level to Bastar to impart special
training to them in counter-insurgency. The central government has given
them permission during training period to attack at any time using the excuse
of self-defence. UAVs are being used in Bastar and Gadchiroli. For the
sake of medical facilities of the 70,000 paramilitary forces deployed for
anti-naxal  operations,  they  are  going  to  launch  a  ‘Special  helicopter
ambulance service’. These ambulances would give medical care to the
police forces involved in counter insurgency operations too when necessary.
Apart from Air Force helicopters, many helicopters taken on lease are
used extensively for moving of troops, carrying the wounded, supply of
weapons and ammunition, transport of medicine and supplies; for building
base camps as part of carpet security and for visits of police and paramilitary
higher officials. Central government allowed the Air Force to resort to
strikes at any point of time on the pretext of self-defence. The ruling classes
are rapidly finishing the preparations such as training and rehearsals required
for directly using army and Air Force in the war being waged on the people.
Already the ruling classes have deployed lakhs of police and paramilitary
forces to suppress our movement all over the country and are carrying on
severe repression. Thousands of retired soldiers are employed claiming
that police and paramilitary forces are not sufficient to strengthen and

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



expand carpet security and to intensify search and destroy operations.
Chidambaram  announced  that  they  would  use  more  of  these  forces.
According to the estimates of a magazine, they would need one lakh security
troops to control the Naxalites in Bastar alone. At present there are 40,000
state police forces, more than 5,000 SPOs, more than 10,000 Gopaniya
Sainiks, home guards and Nagar Suraksha Sainiks along with 25,000 central
paramilitary forces in Chhattisgarh. From this we can understand at what
level the reactionary ruling classes are thinking of deploying forces for
suppressing the movement. They are recruiting on a huge scale into police
and paramilitary and are establishing special training centres in various
states to give training to them in counter-insurgency. They are spending
thousands of crores of rupees for modernizing the forces. Movement areas
are being turned into cantonments of police and paramilitary forces.  The
Intelligence agencies are being modernized on the lines of those in the
imperialist countries. They are carrying on inhuman massacres and atrocities
in the most cruel manner to suppress our movement. They are improving
coordination between central and state intelligence agencies. In addition,
in every state they are recruiting thousands of persons in overt and covert
methods to conduct cover operations under various names up to the village
level and to expand the intelligence mechanism. In the past one year, more
persons were recruited into SPOs in Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Bengal,
Odisha and Maharashtra. They decided to increase the number of SPOs
in the country from the present 13,500 to 25,000. Though the Supreme
Court rejected the appointment of SPOs in Chhattisgarh, practically this
organization is still continuing. The Chhattisgarh state cabinet has taken
the decision to change all SPOs into auxiliary police force.

The carpet security in DK, BJ, Odisha and Bengal is being strengthened
and expanded rapidly. As part of this, they decided to build 400 special
police stations newly in nine states. The central government would bear 80
percent of the expenditure for building these special police stations. They
are turning all our movement areas in nine states into a police corridor
(police-paramilitary-military). This was announced publicly by the ex-DGP
of Chhattisgarh Viswaranjan. As part of this 70 special police stations are
being built newly in Odisha with an expenditure of 140 crores of rupees.
Each special PS would be attack proof in the lines of military. This PS
would be located in a three-storey building and there would be a compound



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

wall like that of a fort on all the four sides. This would house a modern
gymkhana too. They would serve as Nazi like torture chambers.

Already  they  have  established  military  sub-area  commands  in  our
movement areas. The brigadiers who are leading them are playing a strategic
role in suppressing our movement. Recently under the leadership of the
central government ‘unified command centre’ was formed for Chhattisgarh,
Jharkhand, Odisha and Bengal states. A higher official of the army would
lead  this  command.  This  command  would  formulate  plans  for  joint
operations/campaigns and would lead them. Various border states would
conduct operations under the leadership of the joint command. They have
intensified civic action programme apart from psychological operations as
part of psy-war with the evil design of isolating the Maoists from people
who integrate like fish in water with the people, to cover up the endless
violence, atrocities and destruction perpetrated on the people and to confuse
the people and make them stand on their side by hook or crook. All putrefied
and most reactionary concepts and values like lies, twisting of facts, cock
and bull stories, blindness, decadent culture, evil customs, fear, surrender,
selfishness, deception, unfairness, betrayal, dictatorship etc are illusorily
portrayed as being proper, democratic and aiding the development of society
and psychological operations are being conducted which would put even
Goebbels to shame. Similarly they are formulating various schemes under
beautifully etched names and are making the paramilitary, police and military
forces to implement the civic action programme. Along with these, the
killer gangs are made to conduct disruptive activities. The families of
comrades working in various spheres in the movement areas are being
incessantly attacked in various forms.

Thousands of comrades right from Central Committee members to
ordinary people are languishing in inhuman conditions in jails in 15 states of
our country. False cases have been foisted on each one of them. In the
past one year, life imprisonment was pronounced for PUCL leader and
people’s doctor Vinayak Sen, CC comrades Narayan Sanyal and Amit
Bagchi and some other comrades. In Jharkhand the revolutionary cultural
organization Jharkhand Abhen’s leader Jeetan Marandi and three other
mass organization activists were given death sentence in a false case.
Even the open activities of MOs in the movement areas are being suppressed

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



most brutally. They have been banned as illegal activities.

Our War of Self-Defence

In the past one year the internal war between revolution and counter-
revolution intensified further. This war is being waged in all spheres. Our
entire party, PLGA, RPCs, mass organizations and all those who are part
of the revolutionary camp fought back the OGH valiantly. We made many
sacrifices in this course. It is our war of self-defence which played the
decisive role in preserving the movement, in advancing it, in keeping high
the morale of the revolutionary camp and in influencing the people of the
country. We can briefly explain the war of self-defence waged by us in the
past one year as follows.

On the whole, we strove hard to preserve and advance the People’s
War. The enemy carried on suppression most cruelly and widely in all the
spheres with the aim of completely wiping out the People’s War. The
strengthening and expansion of carpet security and considerable increase
in the number of forces deployed in search and destroy operations as part
of this has affected our war of self-defence in various forms. Due to our
mistakes  and  repression  of  the  enemy  we  have  lost  subjective  forces
considerably and have suffered some serious losses in other spheres. The
various conditions of our movement areas is as follows – strong guerilla
areas, areas where the movement has weakened considerably or has faced
setback, newly extended areas, areas of influence.

In the strong guerilla areas even to this day party, PLGA, various mass
organizations and RPCs in some of these guerilla bases are functioning
under the leadership of our party committees. Lakhs of vast masses are
present in these areas.

Even while fighting back the continuous offensives of the enemy on
our strong areas which are serving as crucial positions for People’s War,
we did political and organizational work to consolidate our subjective forces
and  organization. We  strove  to  improve  the  functioning  of  the  party
committees and to formulate tactics keeping in view the changes in the
conditions. We strove to strengthen and expand the political power. We
strove to rally the PLGA and the people for fulfilling the central task. We
strove to improve our practice by summarizing the new experiences.



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

Mainly in DK and BJ, and to some extent in AOB, Odisha, Bengal and
Maharashtra  and  NT  our  PLGA  forces  have  courageously  conducted
tactical counter-offensives on the enemy forces. They have wiped out 225
enemy forces and seized about 200 weapons. Similarly some selected
targets among the class enemies and enemy agents who vowed to damage
the revolutionary movement were punished. We rallied the people’s militia
and the people in our strong areas. The success of the guerilla war operations
is considerable where our mass base is strong. In guerilla zones we mobilized
the people against OGH in various forms. We strove to fight back the
enemy psy-war at various levels. The higher level experiences we gained
in such areas helped the development of People’s War in the country.

In areas where our subjective forces and the movement have weakened
or suffered a setback, we are working by formulating tactics with the aim
of overcoming the present condition. Though we have not gained any
considerable successes in the past one year in these areas, we can say
that  we  could  develop  revolutionary  aspirations  among  the  people  by
sacrificing at every step.

In the past one year in every area where our party and the PLGA
extended their activities, the people invited us with utmost enthusiasm.
They were greatly influenced by the People’s War politics. The response
of the people worried the central and state governments. Immediately they
sent paramilitary and police forces in huge numbers to these new areas by
strategically making preparations on a war footing for an offensive. These
forces are carrying on search and destroy operations. The ruling classes
calculated that it would be very difficult to stop the advance of People’s
War in the country if the people in these areas rise and get consolidated
and launched such a severe offensive on them. Within a period of one year
seven comrades have laid down their lives while bravely fighting back the
attacks of the enemy forces in East Chhattisgarh and West Odisha border
area. The enemy caught four peasants and shot them dead. In these areas
we  are  striving  to  raise  the  political  consciousness  of  the  people,  to
consolidate them and to fight back the enemy attacks with the immediate
aim of giving a consolidated form to the movement with a strategic viewpoint.
The inhuman, unjust OGH war waged on the people by the ruling classes
with the full support of the imperialists, particularly US imperialists to destroy

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



the People’s War in our country was severely opposed by the Maoist forces,
progressive, democratic forces and anti-imperialist forces in the country
and  the  world. They  supported  the  People’s War  and  built  solidarity
movements.

Various kinds of friendly forces are present in our areas of influence
and outside them. We are working with the friendly forces in these areas
against OGH and on issues such as displacement, corruption, price rises,
release of political prisoners, civil rights etc. we are working with the aim
of developing these areas into movement areas and of expanding the areas
of influence with the help of these.

We are fighting back the severe repression of the enemy to suppress
the Lalgarh and Narayanapatna movements and are striving for fulfilling
higher  level  tasks.  We  conducted  struggles  by  rallying  people  on
displacement issue which came to the fore in several places in movement
areas. We extended support to the people fighting on displacement issue in
the country. We rallied people in support of these. People fought on their
daily issues under the leadership of mass organizations and united front
forums. We  are  mobilizing  people  vastly  during  occasions  such  as
anniversaries of Party Formation Day and PLGA Formation Day, Martyrs’
memorial week, International Working Women’s Day etc. and are carrying
on propaganda activities in various forms.

In the past one year our comrades have waged struggles in various
forms  in  jails  too.  Our  comrades  in  various  jails  strove  to  rise  the
consciousness of thousands of ordinary prisoners. Agitations were conducted
for the release of political prisoners and for the rights of the prisoners
inside  the  jails  and  outside.  In  this  one  year  beating  the  continuous
surveillance of the enemy, some comrades in Bihar and Jharkhand escaped
from the prison walls very bravely and directly joined the People’s War.
Our CC sends hearty revolutionary greetings to them.

Our CC has reviewed the shortcomings in implementing secret party
principles and work methods, in properly assessing the changes occurring
in the conditions of the enemy and our conditions, in implementing principles
of guerilla warfare, in building mass movements, in consolidating the party,
in carrying on political propaganda and has formulated tasks. These must
be strictly implemented by the entire party.



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

Comrades,

The crisis engulfing the imperialist countries burst forth in the form of
debt crisis. This crisis is shaking the entire world at different levels. In our
country and the world, various social contradictions are intensifying along
with the fundamental contradictions. People are coming out on streets in
various countries. People are fighting everywhere and the reactionary rulers
are carrying on repression on them. They are trying to cool them down.
On the whole the revolutionary situation in the world is favorable. This is
the essence of the international and domestic situation in the past one year.
In the past one year we faced more leadership losses. In this period
we valiantly fought back the counter-revolutionary OGH. We won new
successes  in  the  war  of  self-defence.  These  successes  were  mainly
achieved  by  the  strong  guerilla  zones.  In  the  very  serious  repressive
conditions carried on incessantly by the enemy in all spheres, every success
however  small  it  may  be  has  a  lot  of  significance.  Under  these
circumstances, the experiences gained by our party, PLGA, RPCs, mass
organizations and people in the war of self-defence have a lot of significance.
If we can get rid of the weaknesses which have been continuing in our
party, correct the mistakes and shortcomings committed and strive with
steely determination to overcome the limitations, if we can work by basing
on the positive aspects, on our self-strength and on the people and work
with steely determination, if we can rally the people and the PLGA efficiently
by formulating appropriate tactics-work methods in accordance with the
concrete conditions, if we can work unitedly and with determination by
creatively applying our party’s political line to the concrete condition of our
present  People’s War  under  the  favorable  revolutionary  and  material
conditions – then it is quite possible to preserve our subjective forces, to
increase our mass base, increase our self-strength and to fulfill the central
task formulated by the Unity Congress by intensifying and expanding the
People’s War, thus achieving another new leap in the Indian revolutionary
movement.

At present, on the one hand there are complex issues, challenges and
great dangers in front of our party. On the other hand are the successes
and great experiences gained by us through self-efforts. The revolutionary
material condition necessary to win successes is present too. Of the two,

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



even to this day the aspect needed for the advance of the revolution is the
primary one. However the path for achieving victory is not straight. We
have to advance forward with unparalleled courage, valiance and supreme
sacrifices till the day of final victory in spite of any number of hurdles in
this path which is thorny, full of highs and lows and twists and turns. On the
occasion of the 7th anniversary of our party, let us vow that we would
advance forward with endless courage and great fortitude in the path of
Protracted  People’s  War  (PPW)  for  the  victory  of  New  Democratic
Revolution in the light of Marxism-Leninism-Maoism. Final victory belongs
to our party and the people advancing forward in the path of PPW. Final
defeat is that of all kinds of reactionaries.

Comrades,

Celebrate grandly with revolutionary fervor the 7th anniversary of our
party  in  villages,  towns  and  in  each  and  every  place  where  our  party
comrades are present. Conduct propaganda campaigns, meetings and rallies
about these anniversary celebrations in creative methods. Hold aloft the
red flag of our party in these. Hail the revolutionary ideals of the thousands
of  martyrs  who  laid  down  their  lives  in  the  Indian  New  Democratic
Revolution and in the war of self-defence of the past one year. Clearly
place before the people the successes won and the valuable experiences
gained by us. Declare that we would correct the mistakes committed in
the  course  of  practice.  Present  in  a  lucid  manner  about  the  excellent
revolutionary situation, about the need to defeat the OGH carried on by the
enemy to wipe out the People’s War and about the movement tasks which
are to be fulfilled. Hold aloft the democratic and communist culture and
values.  Take  the  vow  that  we  would  advance  forward  with  steely
determination in the path of People’s War in spite of any number of hurdles,
tears and difficulties that we may have to endure for the victory of the
New Democratic Revolution.
Immediate tasks

In the present conditions, we must take up the following tasks. We
must creatively implement them in the movement areas which are at various
levels with the orientation of increasing the mass base, consolidating the
party, developing the guerilla warfare and extending the movement areas.



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

1. Let us strengthen and expand the party in accordance with
the excellent material condition, level and expanse of the movement
and the fulfillment of the tasks of the movement. We  must  correct
the shortcomings in abiding by the secret organizational-work methods and
principles of guerilla warfare in order to preserve the subjective forces, in
formulating proper tactics and in firmly implementing discipline; we must
correct the shortcomings in formulating appropriate tactics (struggle and
organizational forms) with a strategic viewpoint according to the concrete
conditions in the country and the concrete conditions in the various areas
and the ebb and flow of the movement, in formulating other tasks around
the central task and in the organizational work of implementing tactics; we
must strive to develop the present revolutionary war into a complete war
by understanding the path of PPW deeply; we must improve study of
concrete conditions, theoretical study, study of history and training in order
to increase the abilities and strengths of all the leadership committees and
to develop new leadership; apart from successfully conducting rectification
campaign in order to preserve the proletarian nature of the party and to
adhere firmly to the party’s ideological, political, organizational and military
line, we must implement the three styles of work taught by Mao; we must
formulate  concrete  programme  to  consolidate  and  expand  the  party
depending on the concrete condition in various areas and fulfill the task.
2.  Mass  base  must  be  strengthened  and  expanded  to  increase
subjective  forces  and  to  develop  People’s  War.  We  must  deeply
understand the general political line of the party to rally the people actively
and on a vast scale into People’s War; along with political movements, we
must mobilize the people actively on a vast scale on issues of daily life; we
must politically educate the people whom we mobilize in various movements
and  in  revolutionary  activities  and  consolidate  them  in  various  mass
organizations; apart from uniting the vast masses of people against the
main enemy and forming and functioning appropriate united front structures,
we must correct the shortcomings in consolidating them and in establishing
party’s  leadership  in  them;  we  must  correct  the  shortcomings  in
implementing mass line and in integrating the party strongly with the masses;
along with strongly fighting back the psychological operations carried on
incessantly by the enemy to isolate the revolutionary movement from the
people, we must thoroughly expose the fake reforms of the enemy; we

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



must expose among the people the wrong ideologies such as Gandhism,
reformism, economism, parliamentarism, post-modernism etc; in the present
concrete conditions, we must vastly rally the people on issues such as
displacement, SEZs, corruption, price rises, state repression, civil rights
etc; we must deeply understand the interrelation between militantly and
vastly  mobilizing  people  into  class  struggles  and  consolidating  them,
increasing their active role in People’s War and increasing our subjective
forces and thus improve our practice.

3. We must intensify and expand the guerilla warfare for fulfilling
our central task and to defeat OGH. To fulfill this task we must deeply
understand the reactionary LIC policy, its most deceptive nature and its
tactics that was formulated by the imperialists as a counter to the PPW
and its basic tactics; we must clearly understand the Special Forces formed
by  the enemy  with  a strategic view to suppress the People’s War, the
intelligence machinery, their method of attacking by concentrating on all
spheres, the sham civic action programmes, psychological operations and
the evil designs to create divide among the people and inside the party; we
must clearly understand that deployment of Special Forces with a strategic
view, establishing carpet security, deploying army and Air Force are intended
to  stop  the  PLGA  from  developing  into  PLA,  guerilla  warfare  from
developing into mobile warfare, guerilla areas from developing into liberated
areas and the People’s War from spreading like wild fire throughout the
country and for suppressing it; we must actively mobilize the people to
destroy the intelligence network built by the enemy in the rural areas, to
stop the covert operations, massacres, atrocities of the enemy and to prevent
rumors from spreading; we must train well the PLGA in tactics to fight
back the Special Forces of the enemy and the army; we must actively
mobilize our forces and the people in the tactical counter-offensives and
the campaigns carried out to inflict damages on carpet security, Special
Forces of the enemy and the army deployed in our areas and thus keep the
initiative in our hands; by adhering to the policy of active self-defence, of
preserving our own forces and wiping out the enemy forces, by preparing
for supreme sacrifices which are inevitable in the course of war and by
keeping the concrete conditions in the movement areas in view we must
formulate proper military tactics and implement them firmly; PLGA must
compulsorily implement the operational principles of guerilla warfare in its



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

daily life and battle operations; we must work by keeping in view the
interrelation between the various guerilla areas. The decadent culture which
is penetrating into the rural areas through all kinds of forces deployed by
the government is hugely harming the people’s culture. We must build
democratic and communist literary and cultural movements against this
decadent culture.

4.  The  movement  areas  must  be  expanded  and  consolidated
with  a  strategic  view. The  extension  areas  must  formulate  concrete
political, organizational and struggle tasks which would help in developing
them into guerilla areas which would consolidate themselves with the aim
of establishing liberated areas and function independently; we must work
by concentrating on politically mobilizing the people to increase the mass
base, in forming and consolidating mass organizations, people’s militia and
various united front forums; the stronger areas must help the new areas in
sustaining themselves independently and they must be functioned with
coordination. The enemy would try to wipe us out from the initial stages
itself where our mass base hasn’t developed much. To defeat such efforts
of the enemy we must always implement the secret organizational methods
and work methods of the party and guerilla principles along with courageously
fighting back his attacks; we must creatively fight back the psychological
operations carried on incessantly by the enemy in various methods; we
must build party units at the local level by ideologically and politically
educating the forces which stand at the forefront in the mass movement;
basing on them we must strengthen and expand the party and the PLGA;
we must extend to adequate area with a strategic view, increase guerilla
forces and develop guerilla warfare and also strive to build RPCs.

5. We must put efforts for the release of political prisoners. We
must  build  strong  movements  by  mobilizing  various  forces  to  get  the
comrades in various jails in our country released and for the preservation
of their rights. The agitations going on inside the jails must be coordinated
with these movements; we must put efforts to extend all kinds of support
and help to the families of comrades who are in jails.

25-08-2011

Central Committee,

CPI (Maoist)

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



Revolutionary Greetings for the
8th Anniversary Celebrations of

Our Glorious Party!

Let us transform our party into an impregnable, utmost secret,
strong and militant leadership organization of the Proletariat !

Let us courageously defeat the military offensive of the
fascist ruling classes on the revolutionary movement

with determination !!

Let us utilize the excellent objective conditions and rally the vast

masses into the revolutionary movement on a huge scale !!!

Call of the Central Committee to the entire party to celebrate

with revolutionary enthusiasm the 8th Anniversary of

our Party from September 21 to 27, 2012

Central Committee

Communist Party of India (Maoist)

Dear  comrades,

We are about to celebrate the 8th Anniversary of our glorious new Party
on September 21st this year. September 21, 2004 is a glorious day in the
history of our party. This day has a lot of significance for us. On the occasion
of the 8th Anniversary of our Party, let U.S. remember with great respect the
builders of our glorious Party, the great leaders of the Indian Revolution,
martyrs and our beloved Comrades CM and KC and the thousands of brave
fighters  who  were  martyred  in  the  course  of  the  New  Democratic
Revolution (NDR) since Naxalbari to this day. Let us pay humble homage to
all of them. After the 7th Anniversary of our Party, all through the past year
the counter-revolutionary Indian ruling classes had carried on ‘Operation
Green Hunt-2’ (War on People) in the most cruel manner. In the course of
fighting this back with great courage and bravery by putting their lives at
stake and advancing the People’s War, along with Comrade Mallojula
Koteswarlu (Kishanji) - the leader of the Indian revolutionary movement,
General of People’s War, Politburo member and beloved leader of the
oppressed masses, Comrade Gundeti Sankar (Seshanna) - leader of North
Telangana  revolutionary  movement,  SZC  member,  Comrade  Harak
(Srikanth) - the leader of Dandakaranya movement, SZC member and
Comrade  Goru  Madhava  Rao  -  the  veteran  of  Srikakulam  peasant
revolutionary movement and 43 comrades in DK, 32 in BJ, 6 in NT, 5 in
Asom, 4 in Bengal, 4 in Odisha, 4 in AOB, 2 in Maharashtra, 2 in AP and 3
comrades from  central departments – i.e. a total of 110 of our beloved
comrades have laid down their lives. About half among them belong to
various levels in our party and PLGA and the other half belong to the people’s
militia and mass organizations. Let us remember each one of these brave
fighters and pay red homage to them. Let us pledge with clenched fists to
fulfill the aims of the thousands of martyrs who laid down their lives in the
New Democratic Revolution. Let us take their inspiring lives as an ideal to
follow and advance with determination in the path of People’s War.

In the past one year, during the course of New Democratic Revolutions
in countries such as Philippines, Turkey and Bangladesh etc several brave
fighters were martyred while valiantly fighting the enemy forces. In the
struggles being waged against counter-revolution for liberation from class
exploitation and oppression, for national liberation and for democracy in

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



several countries all over the world, hundreds of agitators and people apart
from the working class in the imperialist countries have laid down their
invaluable lives. Our CC is humbly paying homage to all of them on the
occasion  of  the  8th Anniversary  of  our  Party.  It  vows  to  fulfill  their
aspirations.

Our CC is sending hearty revolutionary greetings on the occasion of the
8th Anniversary of our Party to the comrades in our entire Party, PLGA,
Revolutionary People’s Committees (RPCs) and mass organizations who
are  engaged  in  People’s War  all  over  the  country  with  determination,
unparalleled commitment and utmost bravery and valiance for the success of
the Indian NDR; to the hundreds of comrades who are fighting the enemy in
prisons in all four corners of the country; to revolutionary well-wishers,
revolutionary masses and to the Marxist-Leninist/Maoist parties in various
countries that held aloft the international proletariat’s red flag and stood in
support of the Indian revolutionary movement.

On this occasion, let U.S. examine the political situation of the past one
year in order to formulate immediate tasks by reviewing the practice since
the 7th Anniversary of our Party, carried on with the aim of advancing the
PW.
International Situation

The financial and economic crisis that started in U.S. in 2008, spread
all over the world passing through Europe and Japan and is at present
shaking Europe. The financial and economic systems in the imperialist
countries are bogged down in very deep stagnation and this is spreading
further deeply. The big banks and the very big corporations are making lots
of money with the huge ‘bailout’ packages given by the governments of
the imperialist countries including U.S. in order to overcome this crisis.
Apart  from  bailout  packages,  government  loans  and  fiscal  deficit  are
increasing in leaps and bounds due to heavy concessions in taxes given to
the rich, the huge expenditure in military-administrative spheres for market
contention/world  hegemony  and  for  neo-fascist  type  dictatorial  rules
internally. They are imposing a huge economic burden on the working
class and the middle class people by imposing huge cuts or withdrawing
social service schemes to the people in the name of decreasing government



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

expenditure. Along with imposing cuts in wages of the workers and pensions,
they are firing workers from public sector institutions. The private monopoly
institutions fired millions of workers from work. They increased labor
exploitation of workers and middle class people and pocketed monopoly
profits. As a result, unemployment increased to unprecedented levels since
1950s and purchasing power of the people touched lower depths leading to
further intensification of this crisis. In order to check the discontent of the
people and the struggles, further draconian laws are being promulgated.
Due to this, world capitalism is getting bogged down in an unsolvable
economic, political and social crisis. Thus, the contradiction between capital
and labor in U.S. and the European countries is intensifying day by day.
During the past one year the workers, unemployed, youth, students,
intellectuals, women and the middle classes in Greece, Spain, Italy, Portugal,
Britain, France, Ireland and other countries in Europe waged incessant
militant agitations on a wide scale against these neo-liberal economic policies
followed by the governments. In several capitalist countries the proletarian
parties and progressive mass organizations are once again gaining strength.
In some of these countries, ML/Maoist parties are coming into vogue/
being formed newly.

Under such circumstances, apart from increasing exploitation on the
workers and the middle classes in their countries on the one hand, the
imperialists are contending to grab the markets to loot the resources in the
backward countries in order to overcome the crisis. At present the imperialist
offensive is mainly concentrated on countries with immense oil reserves.
That is why, West Asia is still burning. Due to the anti-people policies
implemented by the rulers of oppressed countries and nations in collusion
with the imperialist countries, people are seething with severe discontent.
The struggles of the people of these countries against the imperialists and the
comprador rulers are intensifying.

The handing over of the responsibility of containing the Iraq guerillas to
the local security forces and declaring that they would withdraw from
Afghanistan by 2014 indicate the weakness of U.S. and other imperialists.
The dictatorial governments of Egypt, Yemen and Tunisia were washed
away  in  the  people’s  deluges  that  surged  against  the  dictatorial  rulers

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



supported by U.S. in Middle-Asia and North Africa. However, reactionary
forces supported by imperialist countries such as U.S., UK and France came
to power contrary to the aspirations of the people. People are fighting against
these too.

U.S. and other imperialist countries do not have any alternative other
than occupying backward countries or intervening in their internal matters if
they have to maintain their world hegemony or to loot the resources in order
to overcome the economic crisis they are facing. U.S., France, Britain and
other imperialist countries showered bombs using NATO planes in Libya and
wreaked  havoc  apart  from  murdering  Gaddafi  and  forming  a  puppet
government. They are immediately trying to repeat the Libya experiment in
Syria to overthrow the pro-Russian Assad government. In Syria, the NATO
forces are resorting to everything that they did in Libya, except for the
bombing. They are extending all kinds of help to the anti Assad forces and
their puppets. U.S., UK and Israel are making preparations to attack Iran.
On the other hand, U.S. further intensified its pressure on North Korea. The
U.S. and the NATO are not only proving a danger to the sovereignty and
independence of these countries but also to world peace. As a result, the
fundamental contradiction between imperialism and the oppressed nations
and peoples intensified further.

People are continuing their resistance in all those Arab countries that
have become victims of U.S.-NATO occupation and intervention against
these aggressors and their new puppet dictators. This trend is increasing by
the day. Russia and China are severely opposing the intervention of NATO in
Syria and the sanctions imposed on Iran by U.S. Russia has repeatedly
warned that the consequences would be very dangerous if they resort to
military intervention in Syria as in Libya and if they take military measures
against Iran.

The fundamental contradictions in China are intensifying with each
passing day due to the anti-people economic, political and social policies
implemented by the bureaucratic monopoly bourgeoisie in the name of
‘market socialism’ in collusion with the monopoly bourgeoisie inside the
country and the imperialist-MNCs. The disparity between the rich who are
leading luxurious lives with boundless assets and power and the crores of



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

poor people living in utter poverty has increased to unprecedented levels in
the Chinese society. Ills such as unemployment, corruption, displacement
issue, homelessness, lack of social services, price rise, steep fall in living
standards, formulating and implementing draconian laws to prevent struggles
and discontent among people have become common place in the present
Chinese society.

Protest  demonstrations-movements  of  workers,  peasants,  students,
youth, unemployed and intellectuals against the government, government-
private companies and MNCs that are the root cause for these ills are
increasing  by  the  day. Tibet  and  Xinjiang  people  are  fighting  for  self
determination against the chauvinism of China Han nationality government’s
authoritarian rule.

The U.S. imperialists are severely trying to intervene in the internal
matters of China in the name of ‘violation of human rights’. They are giving
direct and indirect support to the Tibet and Xinjiang movements going on
since a long period and to the democratic movements going on against the
communist government and are trying to utilize them for their own interests.
They are inciting their puppet Taiwan government against China. Genuine
Maoist forces are arising against fake socialism in China. China transformed
into one of the biggest economies in the world and its government-private
monopoly capital is going on increasing in U.S., African countries and in
many more countries. It is playing a prominent role in alliances like ‘Shanghai
Cooperation’ (SCO) and ‘BRICS’ (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South
Africa). These alliances are primarily challenging the clout of U.S. in
economy. With the strategy of surrounding China that is developing into a
strong force day by day in the Asia-Pacific region that has great significance
for its economic interests, the U.S. is concentrating its military forces in this
region at an unprecedented level. Though the contradiction between U.S.
and China is intensifying by the day, there is both contention and collusion
between the two.

Under  Putin,  Russia  to  a  large  extent  overcame  the  situation  that
developed  after  the  dismantling  of  the  Soviet  Union  and  is  playing  a
prominent role in the world market and world politics as a strong imperialist
country. It is contending with other imperialist countries in the world market

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



in export of crude oil, minerals, defence products, space technology etc.
Along with China, it is in serious political conflict for its domestic and
international interests against the intervention of U.S.-NATO in Asia and
North Africa, particularly in Libya, Syria and Iran at present. It is a strong
force in SCO and BRICS. Internally inside the country the fundamental
contradictions between bureaucratic monopoly capitalists-private monopoly
capitalists and the workers, between the ruling classes, between the big
Russian national chauvinism and several nationalities like Chechnya are
intensifying day by day.

There is serious contention for market between imperialist monopoly
companies and imperialist countries all over the world. Recently, the SCO is
strengthening led by China and Russia. The BRICS that was formed under
their leadership is opposing the domination of dollar, U.S. clout and the
sanctions it imposed on Iran and Syria. In the recently held BRICS meeting
they decided to establish a BRICS level bank as an alternate to the World
Bank.  The  intervention  in  Syria  to  overthrow  the  pro-China-Russia
government there, the preparations being made to invade Iran, the inciting of
Taiwan against China, placing South Korea in opposition to North Korea,
placing Japan and Australia against China, sustaining India as a regional bully
in South Asia and supplying weapons, planes and military technology on a
huge scale to it – are all aimed not only at surrounding China and damaging it
but are also part of the U.S. strategy to damage Russian interests. The
doctrine formulated by the Pentagon named ‘New strategy to be followed to
sustain world hegemony’ mentioned China as its principal opponent.

 U.S. had already either established its military bases in 150 countries or
is using them for its military services and is taking up measures to further
concentrate its forces in the Asia-Pacific region. It increased its intervention
in the economic, political, military and diplomatic matters of several countries
in this region. U.S. is concentrating on this area with a strategic view to
overcome the severe economic crisis it is facing and to gain control over the
rapidly developing biggest market in the world consisting consumers in huge
numbers. All these phenomena are posing a danger to world peace, have the
potential to lead to imperialist wars of aggression and are helping to increase
the danger of world war. However, one important thing to be noted here is
that U.S. is still the No.1 enemy of the world. Though its military prowess is



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

at present unchallengeable, due to its weakened economic condition and
severe crisis it is not in a position to conduct attacks on its own anywhere
without uniting with the NATO countries. This is its principal weakness. As a
result of all these factors, the fundamental contradictions in the international
arena are intensifying day by day and the revolutionary situation is developing
further excellently. As the economic-political-social crisis in the imperialist
countries is developing fascist, racist, Christian religious chauvinist and
national chauvinistic forces are also developing along with the developing
revolutionary conditions-revolutionary forces. The proletarian revolutionary
forces and the progressive democratic forces in these countries and the anti-
imperialist forces all over the world must unitedly fight against these fascist
forces.

Due to the revisionist line taken up by the UCPN (M) leadership the
Nepal revolution is suffering a great reversal. Along with the revolutionary
section in that party’s leadership, ranks at various levels in considerable
numbers and Maoist parties in various countries opposed the betrayal of that
party leadership and the wrong line it followed. The genuine leadership
forces-cadres in that party waged an internal ideological-political battle
against the wrong line followed by Prachanda-Bhattarai and other leaders
and finally formed a revolutionary Maoist party recently under the leadership
of comrade Kiran and other comrades. Long before this, some leadership
comrades rejected the Prachanda-Bhattarai opportunist line and are working
as  CPN  (Maoist).  The  Maoist  groups  and  forces  that  held  aloft  the
revolutionary flag to advance forward following the revolutionary line by
rejecting the leadership and opportunist line that caused enormous damage to
the Nepal revolution, should realize that at present it is their historic task to
unite.  The  revisionist  party  led  by  Prachanda-Bhattarai  is  still  having
sufficient power and is still in a position to keep the Nepal people in illusions
considerably. There is also a need to carry on a further sharper ideological
and political struggle by the new party against the revisionist line of that party,
its opportunist tactics and practice. At the same time, there is a need for the
new party to politically mobilize the people apart from revolutionizing the
party, mass structures and their work methods following the new line to
achieve the goal of revolution. The new party should not overlook the
possibilities of a conspiratorial attack by the Nepal comprador ruling classes

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



in collusion with the U.S. imperialists and Indian expansionists and should
take utmost precautions with foresight. The scale of success of the new
party in this matter would lead to a proportionate isolation of the opportunists
from  the  people  and  the  ranks  and  would  help  as  a  preparation  for
revolutionary upheaval. Genuine revolutionary organizations-oppressed
masses all over the world are heartily aspiring that Nepal revolutionary
forces should further unite and strengthen on the basis of correct ideological
and political line, that Nepal revolution should be carried on in the new
conditions, and strengthen and that Nepal people should be liberated. Our CC
clearly states that the CPI (Maoist) and the Indian people would, as in the
past, fight shoulder to shoulder with the Nepal revolutionary party-Nepal
masses  against  imperialism,  particularly  U.S.  imperialism,  Indian
expansionism and the ruling classes in both the countries.

The Maoist People’s War in Philippines, India and Turkey are advancing
overcoming several hurdles and unfavorable conditions. Maoist forces are
active in Peru, Bangladesh, Bhutan and other countries. The proletarian
revolutionary parties in several backward countries are making preparations
for People’s Wars. The development of Maoist organizations and anti-
imperialist organizations in several countries in Europe and their taking up
several programs in solidarity with the People’s War in India is another
favorable phenomenon.

The world-wide crisis situation is helping the development of national
liberation armed movements going on since a long period in countries such as
Turkey, Philippines, India and Peru etc. National liberation movements in
Columbia, Peru, Pakistan, Indonesia, Burma, Sri Lanka, China and other
countries are continuing in various forms.

The people of Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Yemen and Lebanon have
been fighting the U.S., NATO forces and their puppet government forces
since many years. The Palestinians are fighting against the illegal occupation
of Zionist Israel. The present world situation is becoming more unstable and
uncertain and the people’s movements all over the world are continuing even
while facing several ups and downs. As part of this, the people’s struggles of
Arab countries, the Occupy Wall Street movement in the U.S., people’s
movements in European countries, national liberation movements in many



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

countries, the Protracted People’s Wars in several countries, the intense and
incessant resistance carried on by the working class, oppressed nations and
peoples against imperialism and all kinds of counter-revolution indicate the
revolutionary situation that has turned further favorable. These favorable
conditions are the initial indicators of the world-wide revolutionary upsurge
that would arrive. To be precise, the crisis spread to all continents with slight
differences and the world situation turned very unstable and is full of turmoil.
The imperialists and their lackeys are trembling with fear at this situation; this
is leading to the incessant raging of people’s movements all over the world. It
is from these objective conditions and people’ movements that revolutionary
forces would be born, would develop and strengthen and destroy imperialism
and all kinds of counter-revolutionary forces by leading this upsurge.  All the
revolutionary parties in the world including our party must develop Marxian
foresight, Bolshevik spirit, unflinching revolutionary perseverance even in the
face of long periods of difficult conditions, unparalleled courage and valiance,
enormous spirit of sacrifice and revolutionary initiative – to utilize the
revolutionary opportunities in such a situation and consolidate themselves
well.
Domestic Situation

In the past one year, the severe crisis in the financial and economic
systems in various countries all over the world, particularly in the imperialist
countries, the severe contradictions in the political sphere and upsurges of
mass movements severely impacted the economic, political, military and the
cultural spheres in our country. The intervention of imperialists, particularly
the U.S. imperialists in all these spheres in our country increased more than
ever. The intervention of U.S. imperialists in the defence and internal
security  of  our  country  increased  further. As  the  Manmohan  Singh
government is implementing treacherous, anti-people neo-liberal economic
policies, our country is getting bogged down in a long period of crisis at an
unprecedented scale since 1947.

The  country’s  national  economic  development  suffered  setback.
Government loan burden, fiscal deficit, increase in inflation, depreciation of
exchange value of rupee vis-à-vis the dollar to a horrible level, crashing of
stock markets, tax concessions worth lakhs of crores of rupees to the big

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



corporate companies, burdening the backs of poor and middle class people
with additional direct and indirect taxes, reduction in the interest rates of
provident fund of workers and employees, huge increases in allotments for
military and administrative spheres in the budget, selling of shares in public
sector to Indian and foreign corporate companies, ignoring the agriculture
sector in the budget, giving importance to basic infrastructure in accordance
with the interests of the Indian and foreign big corporations, continuously
issuing loan procurement bonds and other such bankrupt measures are
depressing  the  economy  of  our  country.  Price  rises,  unemployment,
stagnating wages or wage cuts, cuts in or annulling social service funds, fall
in real wages, starvation deaths, poverty and the gap between the rich and
the poor reached unprecedented levels in the entire history of our country.

As the Indian ruling classes are bowing to the preconditions of the
imperialists and the comprador bureaucratic bourgeoisie (CBB) and allowing
their investments without any restrictions, their clasp over natural resources,
market and crucial sectors in our country reached unprecedented levels.
They are forcefully grabbing land and are displacing lakhs of peasantry and
the urban poor on a huge scale. They are pushing the agrarian sector into
severe crisis; they dragged the manufacturing sector into stagnation; they are
destroying the ecology. Due to all these factors the productive forces in our
country are getting damaged considerably. The magic of GDP development
indices is fading. The circus feats by the Reserve Bank governor in the
matter of interest rates and repo rates turned into a farce. The economic
advisory board of the PM that is the most reliable clique of agents of the
IMF-World Bank is proposing that even the remaining meager restrictions in
the economy must be lifted completely to attract foreign investments on a
massive scale. The country is further falling into the hands of imperialists and
words like sovereignty, independence and self-determination of nations are
losing any meaning and the country is facing grave dangers.

Due to the pro-imperialist, anti-people, treacherous, reactionary policies
followed by the ruling classes for super profits, workers, peasantry, urban
middle class and the national bourgeoisie are becoming victims of utmost
exploitation, oppression, slavery, insult and atrocities. They are very seriously
opposing these policies and agitating. The ruling classes are carrying on cruel
suppression by goading police, paramilitary and military forces on them. To



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

gain  justification  for  this  suppression  they  are  not  only  promulgating
draconian laws but are also bringing in the National Counter-Terrorism
Center (NCTC) that is the mother of all such existing laws and repressive
mechanisms.  They  are  propagating  that  for  solving  the  problem  of
unemployment, poverty alleviation and for integrated development in all
spheres of society foreign investments and private investments would be
necessary and that no restrictions must be imposed on these investments.
They are incessantly propagating that to attract foreign investments and to
achieve development of our country, one must not consider matters such as
minimum wages for workers-employees, proper working conditions, job
security, social services and workers’ laws etc. There is not a single day
where the ruling classes are not talking that they are carrying on ‘Operation
Green Hunt’ (OGH) and deploying Army to suppress the Maoists and the
people with an iron heel as they are proving to be a hurdle to the investments
of domestic-foreign big corporations and government investments.

Due to the semi-colonial – semi-feudal social conditions and the bankrupt
policies followed by the ruling classes the economic and political crisis inside
the country is increasing wildly. As a result, along with the principal,
fundamental  and  major  contradictions  all  other  contradictions  are
intensifying. Peasantry is agitating all over the country against feudalism and
on  displacement  issue  against  the  state  and  the  domestic-foreign  big
corporations.  Due  to  unprecedented  increase  in  imperialist  economic,
political  exploitation,  oppression  and  control  over  our  country,  the
contradiction between the imperialists and the Indian people intensified.
Movements are arising in various forms against the imperialists, the ruling
classes that colluded with them and their state. The contradictions between
the ruling classes, among the ruling parties and between the central and state
governments came to the fore as never before since the ‘Emergency’. As a
result, dog fights are on between them everywhere. This contradiction is
getting reflected strongly inside the Parliament and the state assemblies too.
The main trend at present in our country is political instability and turmoil.

The outrageous increase in corruption and massive scams are shaking
the ruling class cliques. The accusations these cliques hurl at each other
expose how contemptibly they beat each other in deceiving the people.
The illegal lease of coal blocks scam that beats the previous 2-G scam got

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



exposed recently and there were severe exchanges of accusations inside
the  Parliament  and  outside;  the  Karnataka, Andhra  Pradesh  (AP)  and
Gujarat governments are continuously bogged down in internal conflicts
and there is a severe instable situation in those states. On the whole, the
shallowness of parliamentary democracy and the real face of the political
parties are getting exposed among the people of our country as never
before.

Due to intensification of social contradictions and displacement of lakhs
of peasantry, urban poor and middle class people from their lands and
forests for building industries, mines, hydro projects, power projects, nuclear
plants, express highways, SEZs, national parks, cantonments for government
forces, training camps for military-paramilitary forces, air ports and helipads
etc,  very  militant  movements  burst  forth  against  domestic-foreign  big
corporations  and  the  government.  These  movements  were  waged
everywhere from Arunachal Pradesh to Andhra Pradesh, from Kerala to
Rajasthan, from Uttar Pradesh to East, West, South and Central India.
The government feared these movements that were waged all over the
country  even  while  facing  severe  repression  in  several  places  and  by
extending help, support and solidarity to each other and stopped these
projects in several places. In many states where the revolutionary movement
is present, the Maoist party and the various revolutionary and democratic
organizations played an active role in these movements. The movement
for Separate Telangana is carrying on by opposing the opportunist leadership.
This movement is flaring up contradictions between the ruling classes in
AP that they are unable to douse it. The central and state governments in
Assam are wiping out the remaining few ULFA fighters. Simultaneously
the Congress and the BJP are inciting the contradictions between the Bodo
people and the Muslims and other people who came from outside and
established permanent abodes there. These parties incited them to attack
each other. The ruling and opposition parties in Maharashtra, Gujarat,
Karnataka, AP and other states are trying for political gain using this issue.
Peasantry resorted to agitations in various forms all over the country
against  lifting  of  subsidies  for  agriculture,  increase  in  rates  of  diesel,
electricity, fertilizers, pesticides and seeds, adulteration in seeds, fertilizers
and pesticides, electricity cuts and for fair prices for their products. Lakhs



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

of workers belonging to mining, Airways, banks, ports, transport, insurance,
education, medical services and other sectors resorted to strikes. They
waged  struggles  against  privatization,  for  increase  in  wages  and
improvement in working conditions, against retrenchments, corruption and
anti-worker laws and such issues. A change occurred in the movements
that arose against infiltration of private capital right from primary schools
to universities and for education and medical facilities. Artisans, fishermen,
Dalits, Adivasis, women, minorities i.e., various oppressed social sections
of  people  –  agitated  against  losing  their  livelihoods  and  against  the
exploitation  and  oppression  of  land  lords,  comprador  bureaucratic
bourgeoisie and the imperialists.

The ruling classes intensified an unprecedented country-wide fascist
multi-pronged  offensive  (OGH)  on  the  armed  agrarian  revolutionary
movement led by our party. Finally, they are making preparations on war
footing to deploy the Army too to carry on this offensive more brutally.
They are modernizing the entire government forces – Army, paramilitary,
police, their intelligence and other departments. They are turning the laws
more draconian. An U.S. government official has himself revealed that
their Army is present in our country. The ‘India-U.S. Counter Terrorism
Cooperation Initiative’ that the Indian government signed with U.S. in 2010
July  is  most  cruel  and  treacherous.  This  treaty  gave  the  right  to  U.S.
imperialists to officially intervene in the internal matters of our country.
They conducted military exercises with the armies of imperialist and other
countries and also exercises in counter-insurgency operations as a part of
it. Even while carrying on brutal repression incessantly on the various
democratic movements all over the country to control them, the ruling
classes are preparing for a further bigger offensive keeping in view their
extent and intensity. The recent preparations by the central government to
establish the most dangerous fascist NCTC are a part of this.

Before the formal transfer of power in our country in 1947, the colonial
rulers and later their lackey rulers formulated several exceedingly draconian
laws and institutions to carry on their exploitation and oppression and to
suppress the people who agitate against their autocratic rule. Recently the
central government intensified preparations to establish NCTC as a mother
of all these. The formation of NCTC is modeled on the NCTC of U.S. It is

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



formed under its auspices and as part of the international anti-terrorism
community led by it. This would endanger even the so-called sovereignty
and independence of our country. If this gets formed, the government would
utilize it without any control to suppress the mass organizations and the
people that fight against this wicked system. There is a possibility of the
central government utilizing it even as an instrument to implement military
dictatorship and Emergency type rule in the country. The already meager
civil rights would lose their meaning. The chief intention of the ruling classes
is not only to wipe out the revolutionary movement led by the CPI (Maoist)
but also to suppress brutally the people who fight for their genuine demands,
the Kashmir, North-East people’s movements waged with national liberation
aspirations, anti-displacement struggles and all democratic movements
including movements of oppressed social sections by utilizing the NCTC.
NCTC is legally not only a big blow to the federal structure of our country
but would also curb the rights of the states. The NCTC formulated by the
Indian  expansionists  would  turn  dangerous  to  the  entire  South-Asian
countries  and Afghanistan.  The  Indian  ruling  classes  would  get  an
opportunity to intervene in those countries in various forms by utilizing the
NCTC for the interests of the domestic comprador big corporations that
are carrying on trade and investing in various countries in collusion with
the imperialist capital. By becoming part of the international anti-terrorism
community, the NCTC would further the interests of the U.S. imperialists.

OGH  intensifies  and  expands

The  severe  stagnation  in  the  financial  and  economic  spheres  in
imperialist  countries  and  the  increasingly  intensifying  fundamental
contradictions in the world are having a severe impact on all the spheres in
Indian society. The imperialists, particularly the U.S. imperialists are cruelly
attacking all places to wipe out any forces that are proving to be a hurdle to
their investments, loot of resources, market and domination. Similarly, the
rulers in semi-colonial – semi-feudal countries who are serving as lackeys of
the imperialists are carrying on most brutal attacks on any kind of forces that
are fighting against their exploitation, oppression and autocratic rule. The
occupation  of  Iraq, Afghanistan,  the  direct  intervention  in  Libya,  the
intervention going on in Pakistan and Syria, the threats to Iran and North
Korea, country-wide, multi-pronged most reactionary operations like Oplan



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

Bayanihan and OGH to cruelly suppress the New Democratic Revolutions in
Philippines and India are all for fulfilling the economic and political interests
of the imperialists and their lackeys. The vast central, east and north-east
regions of our country that are home to immense mineral, forest, water and
other riches and the south and west regions that have immense human
resources and coast lines apart from huge natural resources have been
particularly  targeted  by  them. Apart  from  carrying  on  OGH  they  are
deploying Army to brutally suppress our party, revolutionary and patriotic
forces that are fighting back their exploitation, oppression and repression.

In the past one year after the 7th anniversary celebrations of our party,
the  counter-revolutionary offensive (OGH -2) of the Indian ruling classes
with the full support of the U.S. imperialists further intensified and expanded.
The chief offensive tactics implemented by the enemy in the past one year
for the suppression of people’s war are as follows.

The central and state forces carried on counter-insurgency operations on
a huge scale on guerilla bases, strategic areas and strong remote areas that
are serving as crucial areas in various states for the Indian revolutionary
movement  all  over  the  country  [DK,  Jharkhand,  Bihar, West  Bengal,
Andhra-Odisha  Border  (AOB),  North  Telangana  (NT),  Odisha,
Chhattisgarh-Odisha Border (COB) etc]. These offensives were conducted
with the aim of damaging our leadership, key technical units, the fighting
ability  of  the  main  forces  and  destroying  the  Revolutionary  People’s
Committees (RPC) in these areas that are serving as guerilla bases in various
forms to fulfill the strategic needs of people’s war. These operations are
being conducted with a strategy to damage our fighting capacity and defeat
us by making it impossible for us to utilize these areas as our guerilla bases
and to generate several hurdles and unfavorable conditions in conducting
people’s war by creating such a situation. This means that the government
conducted  these  operations  to  turn  these  guerilla  bases  into  counter-
revolutionary bases. With the aim of impeding the revolutionary forces in the
new strategic areas where people’s war is expanding, it is extending the
carpet  security  camping  system  and  is  concentrating  on  gathering
reactionary  forces  in  them  apart  from  conducting  counter-insurgency
operations. These operations which were conducted indiscriminately all over
the country till now led to gang rapes, destruction and massacres in the

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



villages. The central and the state governments and their fascist forces won
the severe hatred and angst of the people of the villages that were targets of
these attacks and the opposition of democrats in our country and abroad. In
several places, the government forces had to run away due to the resistance
in various forms of the people and the people’s guerilla forces.

In operations like ‘Anakonda’, ‘Octopus.’, ‘Vijay’ and ‘Haka’ enemy
forces participated at a brigade level. All these were conducted in the form of
joint  operations  consisting  of  central  CoBRA  commandos-various
paramilitary forces, state police-commando forces and state auxiliary forces.
In several of these operations helicopters (Air Force, BSF and state police)
were used extensively for transporting troops and for logistics. During these
operations, UAVs were used to identify our forces. Apart from using various
kinds of weapons that they had been using from the past, they also used
rocket launchers this time. Communication gadgets that had navigation
systems like GPS and android, satellite phones, mobile phones etc were used.
Central and state DGP, IG level high-ranking police officials and central and
state high-ranking intelligence officials participated not only in planning of all
of these operations but also in guiding them from the field.

Due to the tactical counter-offensive attacks conducted by our PLGA
with the support of the people from 2007 to 2010 on paramilitary and state
police forces, they suffered serious losses and their morale was damaged
considerably. So the ruling classes came to a final decision at end-2010 itself
to deploy Indian Army and Air Force for suppressing the revolutionary
movement.  Following  this  decision,  a  brigade  of  the Army  reached
Kondagaon in DK in March 2011. These forces completed the first phase of
Jungle Warfare training in areas around Kondagaon and returned. Later two
more batches completed their training and returned. Now the fourth batch is
about to arrive. The Indian Army intensified its efforts with the aim of
occupying and permanently settling in Maad in the name of establishing
training camp. Army is turning Chhattisgarh into a military hub by establishing
several camps from Narayanpur to Saraipalli in the name of training camps,
military academy and military command headquarters. The construction of
Air Bases and helipads is being done on war-footing in Chhattisgarh,
Vidarbha, Jharkhand, AP, Odisha, Bihar, Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and
several  other  states  to  conduct  aerial  attacks  in  support  of  the Army



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

offensives. As a result of all these measures, revolutionary movement areas
including Maad in DK would become targets of Army attacks.

They are preparing topographical maps based on entire terrain survey of
the strong strategic areas of the movement all over the country along with
DK and Jharkhand and are making software that would identify villages, hills,
forests, rivers, water points, pathways, roads, plains, mines, industries and the
vicinity of towns. They are developing drone surveillance system/program
that identifies the movements of our forces and the activities of our crucial
villages. Basing on this program/software they would identify our camps, our
forces  and  local  leadership  and  conduct  attacks.  The  enemy  who  had
inflicted losses to our leadership in urban and plain areas would now identify
us in forest areas through informers and coverts (human intelligence) and
technical intelligence/communication intelligence and conduct drone attacks
and commando attacks. The preparations for this are being done on war-
footing. They are trying to tap our all kinds of radio signals (phones-land-
mobile, walkie-talkies) through UAVs and other modern technological
systems and conduct attacks.

In the past one year, many more new police stations and camps were
established to expand carpet security camps in the movement areas in nine
states all over the country, particularly in strong areas, tri-junctions and on
the borders of states. They are constructing 400 attack-proof police stations
in these areas.

Joint operations were intensified in the four tri-junctions (the borders of
three states) identified by the central government – Andhra-Chhattisgarh-
Maharashtra, Andhra-Chhattisgarh-Odisha, Chhattisgarh-Jharkhand-Odisha
and Odisha-West Bengal-Jharkhand. Such operations were intensified in all
the borders of two states and in the tri-junctions of Jharkhand-Bihar-Bengal
and  Chhattisgarh-Maharashtra-Madhya  Pradesh.  Lakhs  of  persons  are
being recruited into central and state forces to carry on such operations
simultaneously in future in all these areas. In all the movement states apart
from establishing several special centers for police and paramilitary Special
Forces training, the Army is giving training to these forces in its training
centers; all the state governments are constructing special training centers of
police forces on a big scale. All this is being done to divide our guerilla bases
and strategic areas into parts, decrease the resisting capacity of our forces,

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



damage our coordination and suppress our party and movement.

The  central  government  decided  to  establish  further  2,200
communication towers to strengthen and expand communication system so
as to cover every village in our movement areas in addition to the huge
numbers of towers already present. The enemy made this plan to bring a sea
change in human intelligence and gather information not only about the
movements of our leaders but also the movements and activities of people’s
guerilla forces and local party activists. The enemy particularly concentrated
on tracing the movements of leadership and inflicting losses by infiltrating
coverts into our ranks, expanding the informer network in our areas and by
turning those who help us in various forms into informers.

The central government allotted 25 crore rupees in 2010-11 and 30 crore
rupees in 2011-12 per district under the Integrated Action Plan (IAP) for the
movement-affected 78 districts all over the country. Of these 78 districts, 60
are present in the tri-junctions. The political, administrative (police, revenue),
judicial, legislative and media systems are together implementing ‘political,
development and security’ programs together. These geographically vast
areas are rich in natural resources (forest, mineral, water). The international
and domestic monopoly corporations – POSCO, Vedanta, Tata, Mittal,
Jindal, Essar, NMDC and others concentrated their activities in these areas.
All these are facing severe resistance from the people. That is why the
central and state governments are intensifying the implementation of various
kinds of ‘development’ and ‘welfare’ schemes including IAP in these
districts. The central government is allotting huge amounts of funds for these
schemes. In this year alone the central government allotted 13,742 crores of
rupees for these schemes. Various state governments are implementing
schemes  such  as  ‘Bastar  Development  Group’  (formulated  by  the
Chhattisgarh government, worth 2,200 crores of rupees and to be completed
within two years). In this week alone the central government allotted 7,300
crores of rupees under IAP for construction of roads in 34 districts that are
on the borders of various states where the Maoist movement is strong.

The important ones among central government schemes are – Pradhan
Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana, National Rural Health Mission, establishment of
Ashram Schools, Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

Scheme, Sarva Siksha Abhiyan, National Rural Drinking Water Program,
Rajiv  Gandhi  Grameen  Vidyudeekaran  Yojana,  Integrated  Child
Development Services, Indira Awas Yojana, Forest Rights Act (2006) and
PESA.

The government gave legality to the participation of NGOs in these
reforms. As a result, various NGO organizations like Ramakrishna Ashram
and Search are playing an active role in implementing the government
schemes with government funds. In the name of giving rights over minor
forest produce to Adivasis they are shouting from roof tops that they would
implement the Lekha-Menda model (Gadchiroli, Maharashtra) all over the
country in Adivasi areas.

The central government identified 30 districts among the 78 districts as
the strongest for Maoist movement and posing greatest danger to itself.
Among  these  it  first  concentrated  on  Saranda  and  launched  the  most
counter-revolutionary ‘Saranda Action Plan’. The trusted lieutenant of the
imperialists and the Indian ruling classes – the central rural development
minister Jairam Ramesh described this scheme as ‘Saranda Model’. As part
of this special program they deployed thousands of paramilitary and police
forces simultaneously all over Saranda, established camps and carried on
destruction, atrocities, murders and loot; immediately after this, these forces
jointly with the central and state administration launched ‘Civil Action
Program’ and other special ‘development-welfare’ schemes; along with
these they blared propaganda using the multi-media of the ruling classes and
brought in political parties and NGOs. The chief components of this program
are deployment of Special Forces on a huge scale to ‘use necessary amount
of force’ and dividing a section among the people and ‘winning their hearts’.
This is nothing but the most counter-revolutionary LIC policy-sponsored
model formulated by the British-U.S. imperialists to fight the revolutionary
movements. This ridiculous deceptive policy is known as "Clear, Hold and
Build" in the parlance of Chidambaram and Jairam Ramesh. They decided to
implement this in Sukma, Maad and Lalgarh. It was decided to extend this
program to another 20 districts.

They are providing economic, political and social benefits to a section
among the political leaders, officials, contractors, land lords, bad gentry, tribal

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



elders, rich and middle peasants and are utilizing them as social base for
them. They are establishing education hubs nearby enemy camps far away
from the remote villages through schemes like Ashram Schools and Rajiv
Gandhi  Sarva  Siksha Abhiyan.  In  the  name  of  providing  employment
opportunities to unemployed youth they are recruiting them on a huge scale
into police, paramilitary and military forces trying to turn them into guinea pigs
in the War on People, apart from ensuring that they do not become a
recruiting source for the revolutionary movement. In the name of providing
rights on land they are giving land pattas only to a few lands that were being
ploughed by the Adivasis since generations. Some of the Adivasi-peasant
youth are being turned into contractors. They are connecting villages with a
population of 250 (50 houses) with towns through roads and are linking them
with  centers  of  enemy  forces  and  market  of  foreign  and  domestic
corporations. On the other hand, they are constructing roads, culverts,
electricity and communications on a war-footing by allotting thousands of
crores of rupees in the name of infrastructure to facilitate the loot of water,
forest and mineral riches in the forest areas through these roads. In the name
of spreading education in forest areas, they are manufacturing an army of
unemployed needed by the foreign and domestic corporations. They are
developing a market-dependent economy by destroying the self-sufficient
economy of the Adivasis-peasants. They are trying to weaken the social
base of the revolution by isolating the revolutionary forces from the people.

Since the launch of the OGH, the enemy is openly and incessantly
propagating  shamelessly  that  they  would  completely  wipe  out  the
revolutionary  movement  within  seven  years,  that  Maoist  party  cannot
achieve victory by fighting the government that possesses an Army with
lakhs of soldiers, that Maoist movement is bound to be defeated and that
people must leave the party, PLGA and mass organizations and join the
government forces or turn into informers. They are propagating that there
are differences in the party by making a mountain out of a molehill. They are
propagating exaggerated lies to create a local – non-local divide by inciting
localism inside the party. Psychological operations were linked with counter-
insurgency operations and are carrying on propaganda through multi-media
as never before.

The CPI (Maoist) tried one more time this year to place its correct



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

proletarian revolutionary path against the Indian expansionists and the
imperialists for the liberation of Asom oppressed nation and the oppressed
people’s liberation and mobilize them. As soon as the oppressed Asom
nationality began waking up with Maoism the Delhi rulers, the opposition
parties  that  are  hand  in  glove  with  them,  their  mercenary  military,
paramilitary and police forces were terrified. They kicked up a propaganda
ruckus that Maoists are penetrating into all North-East nationalities and
launched military offensives. Four beloved sons of the Asom oppressed
people – comrades Siddharth Burgohain, Rajiv Gogoi, Arup Chetia and
Kamla Gogoi were caught, tortured cruelly, shot dead and an encounter story
was cooked up. Comrade Pavel who was seriously injured while the Maoist
guerillas conducted an attack on the government forces died a hero’s death.
The Indian expansionists are daydreaming that they can permanently stop
the Maoist party from taking root among the oppressed nationality of Asom.
In the past one year, the government Special Forces intensified their
attacks for the suppression of revolutionary movement in Malnad (Western
Ghats) of Karnataka. Terrified that the Maoists are penetrating into the
forest  villages  of  vast Western  Ghats  in  Kerala  and Tamilnadu,  the
government forces are conducting combing operations and launched fake
reform programs and foul propaganda along with them. The governments in
Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Delhi are carrying on
repression in various forms on the revolutionary movement.

The central and state governments resorted to fake encounters this year
too just as they did all over the country in the past; they arrested members of
mass organizations, RPCs and people on a vast scale, tortured them and
forcefully turned some of them into SPOs and informers and foisted cases on
many of them under fascist laws such as UAPA and state special acts and
hundreds of them were put in jails by booking them under false cases. Gang
rapes on women, razing down, destruction and loot of villages and massacres
were conducted on a wider scale. All the state governments increased the
prize on the heads of revolutionaries as an incentive to the police officers; the
compensation given to the families of people’s enemies and betrayers who
were  punished  by  the  revolutionary  movement  and  to  the  police  and
paramilitary  forces  were  increased  to  lakhs  of  rupees;  the  destructive
activities of killer gangs were made extensive.

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



Many of the central and state leaders incarcerated since many years in
various prisons without bails were sentenced to life and harsh imprisonments
under various fascist laws. The sessions court sentenced four comrades
including  comrade  Jeetan  Marandi,  leader  of  the  people’s  cultural
organization (Jharkhand Abhen) to death. (Later this was annulled by the
High Court). Thousands of Maoist leaders and activists, mass organization
activists and people of revolutionary movement areas are incarcerated in
prisons  all  over  the  country  even  to  this  day.   The  ruling  classes  are
implementing repressive measures countrywide in various forms even on
mass organizations working legally and are obstructing their activities at
every step.

Our War of Resistance

In the past one year we achieved some positive results in political sphere,
guerilla warfare, party consolidation, consolidation and expansion of RPCs
and expansion of the movement. We could achieve these only through our
heroic and determined resistance by our party, PLGA, mass organizations,
RPCs and people to OGH carried on by the ruling classes.

We placed before the people ideologically and politically the reasons
behind waging of OGH and brutal repression on various people’s movements
by the Indian ruling classes in collusion with the imperialists, particularly the
U.S. imperialists and rallied them against this offensive considerably. Though
there are variations in people’s mobilization against OGH according to the
condition of the movement in various areas, we could clearly state that
defeating it is the present political task of the people of this country. We could
clearly state that this offensive on the Maoist party and the people is going on
as we are politically mobilizing people and building movements against the
imperialists and their lackeys who want to carry on their exploitation and
oppression and loot of vast natural riches without any hurdles and to wipe out
the new political power that is emerging from the womb of the present
exploiting society as an alternative to it and showing the correct alternative
path to the people of this country. We could clearly place before the people
that PPW is the only way to radically change this appalling condition.
Revolutionary parties-forces and anti-imperialist mass organizations of
Philippines, Turkey, Italy, Greece, Britain, Belgium, Germany, U.S., Canada,



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

Brazil and other countries conducted solidarity campaigns against OGH and
in  support  of  the  Indian  revolutionary  movement. As  far  as  Indian
revolutionary movement is concerned this has lot of significance.

The PLGA forces, mass organizations, RPCs and people led by the party
very  bravely  resisted  the  counter-insurgency  operations  carried  on  by
concentrating on guerilla bases-strategic areas with the aim of wiping out the
Maoist party, its leadership, guerilla bases, mass organizations and activists
by deploying thousands of central and state commando forces such as
CoBRA, Grey Hounds, SOG, STF, Crack Forces, Striking Force, C-60 and
Hawk Force along with lakhs of paramilitary and police forces. The armed
resistance actions of the PLGA forces, TCOCs, the resistance in various
forms by the people and the protest movements conducted by the democratic
forces could stop the aggressiveness of the enemy forces to some extent.
The brutal destruction, atrocities and massacres carried on by the enemy
forces in the name of counter-revolutionary operations have not only shamed
the  enemy  in  these  areas  but  all  over  the  country. This  gave  further
legitimacy to the war of resistance and the people’s movement that were
waged in these areas. In areas where we are weak and where we could not
take the initiative for armed resistance, not only have we suffered losses to
our subjective forces but our mass base weakened too. We could relatively
actively resist the enemy forces in DK, Jharkhand, Bihar and AOB. Armed
resistance in Lalgarh weakened. In some areas such as Odisha, North
Telangana, Maharashtra and COB we could carry on resistance only very
limitedly. We could arm the PLGA with the arms seized from the enemy.
Some brave fighters like comrade Ranita (DK- Area RPC President) were
martyred fighting back with supreme valiance the enemy forces in armed
engagements in various areas in our country. On the whole, while fulfilling
the  multi-pronged  tasks  of  the  movement  we  could  achieve  positive
experience to some extent in guerilla warfare as part of it.

The blood-thirsty Indian paramilitary and police intelligence officials
caught one of the top leaders of our party comrade Kishenji, tortured him
most cruelly and shot him dead in a fake encounter. Though the number of
losses we suffered in the past one year when compared with those after the
6th Party Formation Day celebrations were lesser, losing comrade Kishenji
was an enormous loss to our party. As part of fulfilling the multi-pronged

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



tasks amidst the enemy counter-revolutionary offensive we could impart
training to some extent to consolidate the Party, PLGA forces and the mass
organizations ideologically, politically, militarily and organizationally. In some
states  we  conducted  plenums  and  extended  meetings  to  review  the
movement from top to bottom and to elect suitable leadership.

While conducting offensive by concentrating on the strong movement
areas to isolate and damage them, the enemy is forming carpet security in the
new areas of our extension to prevent them from expanding and is seeing to it
that we do not become stronger. We could consolidate in some areas while
fighting the enemy in new areas and putting efforts to increase mass base in
the new areas.

As a result of our failure in rallying people actively and widely in war of
self-defence and in preserving our leadership by understanding the deceptive
tactics implemented by the Trinamool Congress in cahoots with the central
government to suppress the revolutionary movement after it came to power
in West Bengal, the historic Lalgarh people’s upsurge suffered a setback.
Though the Lalgarh movement suffered a setback, though its architect
Comrade  Kishenji  and  some  more  leaders  were  martyred,  the  great
experiences imparted by this glorious movement would be very useful to the
Indian  revolutionary  movement. At  present,  the  objective  conditions
necessary to give birth to many more such movements by creatively applying
those experiences are all very much present in our country. There is no death
to the immemorial Lalgarh and martyrs such as Kishenji.

The Narayanapatna movement is enduring while facing the severe
repression unleashed by the central and state governments. We conducted
struggles by actively rallying people on the displacement issue in the vast
Adivasi areas in our country. As part of implementing agrarian revolutionary
reforms, we conducted ‘land leveling’ campaign in Dandakaranya to make
the lands of poor peasants arable and to increase productivity. We conducted
propaganda and struggles on various people’s issues in various areas in our
country. We put efforts to increase mass base through all these. The protest
movement that was conducted against OGH is an integral part of this.

We put efforts to build movement in various states in support of the
struggles conducted by the thousands of political prisoners in various prisons



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

in our country. Though there are limitations to this movement, it is essential to
advance this by consolidating it. We conducted several political campaigns to
strengthen mass base. We could rally people in our strong areas to protest the
continuous offensives conducted by the enemy to damage our mass base.
We tried to expose the psychological operations and fake reforms conducted
without respite against the revolutionary movement by the enemy. On the
whole, though there are limitations to the successes achieved by us while
trying to fulfill the multi-pronged revolutionary tasks in the past one year,
these have a lot of significance. We will have to overcome our shortcomings
and weaknesses. Our Central Committee is placing before the entire party
the tasks of reducing our losses, consolidating our subjective forces, of
increasing our mass base and armed resistance and successfully advancing
the People’s War by overcoming our shortcomings and weaknesses. For this
it is very much essential for the entire party to rally in a united manner.

Comrades,

Conduct the 8th anniversary celebrations of our Party in every village
and nook and corner wherever our Party units-members are present with
brimming revolutionary enthusiasm. Conduct propaganda campaigns and
meetings regarding these anniversary celebrations in creative methods.
Hoist aloft the red flag of our Party during the meetings. Pay revolutionary
homage to the thousands of martyrs who laid down their lives in the Indian
New Democratic Revolution (NDR) until now and to the 110 martyrs who
laid  down  their  invaluable  lives  in  the  past  one  year.  Hold  aloft  the
revolutionary ideals of these our martyrs and those of all the comrades
who laid down their lives in the revolutionary movements of various countries.
Learn from the valuable experiences we gained from the successes we
achieved. Declare that the Party would learn from the mistakes committed
in its practice and would see to it that they are not repeated. Place clearly
before  the  people  about  the  excellent  revolutionary  situation  and  the
movement tasks that are to be fulfilled. Take the successes and the new
experiences achieved by the Indian revolutionary movement in the past
and in the past one year into the entire Party, PLGA, mass organizations,
RPCs and the people. Invite young women and men to join the party on a
huge scale and play an active role to take the future of the country into
their hands. Practice democratic and communist culture and values. Pledge

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



that we would advance forward with determination in the path of Protracted
People’s War (PPW) prepared to face any number of difficulties, hurdles,
tears, sacrifices, turns and twists for the victory of the NDR. Celebrate
the formation day of the Party as a day of inspiration to rededicate ourselves
for fulfilling the dreams of our martyrs and for the victory of our revolution.
Present Tasks

We  had  briefly  touched  upon  the  present  economic  and  political
conditions inside our country and the world, the intensity and enormity of the
OGH  being  carried  on  our  movement  and  the  various  democratic
movements by the enemy, the condition where the enemy is giving special
training to military forces in large numbers in Maoist counter-insurgency to
bring a leap in this offensive, the successes achieved by us in PW in the past
one year, the shortcomings that occurred in the course of our practice and the
weaknesses of our movement. Under these circumstances, it is essential to
preserve our subjective forces, to increase them and to gradually bring a
change in the extent of our movement areas, in the intensity of the guerilla
war and its extent. In such conditions, we must take up immediate tasks that
would strengthen our party, that would fight back the OGH-Indian Army
offensive and defeat it and that would increase the mass base and implement
them  creatively.  It  is  essential  that  our  entire  Party,  PLGA,  mass
organizations and RPCs stand united and work with revolutionary dedication
and courage to fulfill the tasks decided in our Unity Congress-9th Congress
and for fulfilling the dreams of our martyrs.
1. Transform the Party into an impregnable, most secret, strong and
militant leadership body of the proletariat : At present in the Indian
revolutionary movement, our Party is facing complex problems. In order to
properly solve these problems and advance the revolutionary movement
successfully, the most crucial task would be the ideological, political and
organizational consolidation of the Party. The Party must strengthen itself
and the PLGA along with it; people must be well consolidated into various
structures. It is very much essential for the party to be immersed in
continuous ideological-political study-training and organizational work with
unflinching dedication in order to develop into an efficient leading body. As
there is not enough training inside the party, many shortcomings are



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

occurring in matters such as implementing party policies, conducting
revolutionary tasks, implementing discipline, understanding the nature of
the enemy offensive and formulating tactics by analyzing the changes
occurring in the conditions. Due to this, the level of the party is not
developing much. In the conditions where there have been losses to the
higher level leadership of the party along with losses at various levels, we
must carry on our study and training with lot of determination in a further
planned manner to develop new leadership and to bring new forces into the
party.
We cannot implement better work methods without better organization.
We cannot develop mass movement nor implement Party policies. If our
Party structure is not well-built, we would not be able to rally the vast
masses into practice to catch up with the revolutionary conditions and
achieve development. We would even lose the favorable opportunities for
the movement. This is one of the important organizational problems that
we are facing. If a small party is to develop into a big party, we must
politically involve the people in the movement. Only when we have a well
built structure with young women and men can the party be strong. It
would be difficult to successfully complete any work when we lack
discipline, lack firmness in organizational work and respond lately. We must
increase the number of responsible comrades and active members in our
party. In the present conditions, we must give first priority to increasing
party quality instead of numbers. It is from such comrades that we must
select comrades to be developed into leaders and for specialization.
Collective spirit should compulsorily get reflected in the practice of entire
comrades in implementing party policies. Unity should develop between
old and new cadres. We must strengthen the unity inside the party by filling
the gap that has come about between leaders and cadres and the party and
the people and develop lively relations. We must develop democracy inside
the party and implement democratic centralism firmly. Along with these
we should implement the three-point work style taught by Mao and the
mass line of ‘from the people to the people’. Leadership must check the
work of cadres at various levels, correct the shortcomings in their practice
and help them to develop. Party must increase its influence inside mass
organizations, develop party structures among them and help them to rally

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



vast masses under party leadership.
We must fortify party security to preserve our subjective forces from the
enemy offensive. In the conditions where the police, paramilitary and
military intelligence agencies are very heavily concentrating their offensive
to wipe out the party and particularly the leadership with the complete help
and  support  of  the  intelligence  agencies  of  the  U.S.  imperialists,
preservation of our subjective forces, particularly the leadership would be a
precondition for the victory of the revolution. So we must firmly implement
the secret regulations and methods of our party. A party that does not
implement secrecy would face easy defeat in its struggle against the
enemy. If we cannot prevent losses considerably and cannot preserve our
leadership and subjective forces, revolution would not be victorious. To
prevent losses and to efficiently wage PW with appropriate tactics, we
must definitely study the LIC strategy and tactics implemented by the
enemy. We should implement PPW strategy and tactics according to the
changing conditions in order to fight them back. We should constantly
develop our understanding regarding implementation of secrecy in carrying
on our work in all the spheres. Party must improve underground method,
work and methods. All levels of party cadres and members working in all
spheres must strictly implement underground rules and methods. We
should definitely prevent the infiltration of the enemy into the party. We
should increase alertness inside the party towards spies, informers and
coverts. Casual attitudes and sectarian methods in this matter would
greatly  harm  the  party.  Negligence,  indifference,  casual  and  non-
interference attitudes towards them would cause extreme damage. The
Party, PLGA, mass organizations and RPCs must improve education
among the people to prevent their infiltration and to chase them away from
among our forces.
Party and PLGA must lead the revolutionary movement with unflinching
confidence towards revolutionary goal so as to face difficult situations. It
would be the most essential task of the leadership to fight back and control
the  enemy  by  working  as  an  efficient  command  to  advance  the
revolutionary movement. It would be a touchstone for the leadership to be



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

able to work efficiently by steeling itself under difficult conditions.   "You
must not only be dedicated towards your duties, possess iron discipline and
be staunch and stubborn even if the sky falls on you, but also possess the
verve and ability to respond with the speed of lightning." – Mao
In the backdrop where the ruling classes have cruelly murdered Comrade
Kishenji and caused enormous damage to the party, it is essential that we
put great efforts to turn innumerable comrades into his successors to fulfill
this loss. CC is calling upon all Regional Bureaus and State Committees to
take up a special campaign on the occasion of our Party Formation Day
this  year  in  memory  of  that  great  martyr  and  to  run  this  campaign
effectively by formulating appropriate program to consolidate the party
ideologically, politically and organizationally and to recruit new members
into the party.
As the objective conditions in our country are turning favorable day by day
and the PW that is led by our party is influencing the people vastly, several
workers, peasants, students, intellectuals, youth and activists of various
oppressed sections would come forward to join the party. In a vast country
like  ours,  our  party  must  put  efforts  to  increase  innumerable  party
members by penetrating further into millions of people, by mobilizing them
politically, getting closer to them and consolidating them. We must recruit
more members with appropriate qualities from time to time to expand the
Party. Party must keep on penetrating into the people, get closer to them,
lead them efficiently, consolidate and expand by recruiting new members
from time to time. If not, we will not be able to fight back the offensives of
the counter-revolutionary forces and advance the movement.

We must strengthen the party by carrying on criticism – self-criticism inside
the party committees in a principled manner that would help to preserve
the political line of the party, to implement party policies creatively, to
improve work style and fighting style and to get rid of the bad trends that
raise their head inside the Party and the movement. The rectification
campaigns that we conducted to correct our mistakes and shortcomings
and to get rid of our weaknesses were only partially successful. So we
even suffered losses by making mistakes in practice. It is essential to put

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



special efforts to get appropriate results by conducting criticism – self-
criticism and rectification campaign effectively.

2. We must courageously and with determination fight back the OGH
and military offensive carried on by the fascist ruling classes on
revolutionary movement: We must deeply study the reactionary LIC
policy and its strategy-tactics (formulated by the imperialists against the
political line of NDRs, PPW, its policies and strategy-tactics), its deceptive
nature and the manner it is being implemented by the Indian ruling classes
against us. We must concretely study the OGH carried on by the enemy to
suppress  the  PW  by  following  this  reactionary  policy  and  the
transformation in the nature of war due to deployment of Army. We must
understand about the Special Forces formed with a strategic viewpoint to
suppress the PW, the intelligence mechanism, carpet security, the method
of carrying on offensive by concentrating on all spheres, the fake civic
action programs (CAP) being implemented to divert the people, the
psychological operations and the evil designs to bring about a divide among
the people and inside the Party.
In our War of Resistance we must give first priority to politically mobilize
our entire Party, PLGA, mass organizations, RPCs and people against
OGH and deployment of Army and to increase resistance. The Party and
the PLGA must understand the dynamics of war and carry on the War of
Resistance with utmost courage and valiance. We must give big blows on
the weaknesses of the enemy and keep the initiative in our hands. We must
actively mobilize the people to destroy the intelligence network being built
by the enemy in the rural areas, to prevent covert operations, massacres,
atrocities and destruction and to expose the rumors.
We must consolidate the military commands and commissions at various
levels and develop them into efficient bodies. We must well train the PLGA
in tactics to fight back the enemy Special Forces and the Army. We must
increase discipline in PLGA to make it strong. An army without strong
discipline cannot win the war against the enemy. Along with giving training
to get rid of lack of initiative and inactiveness inside PLGA, the leadership
must formulate program to constantly rally it actively and lead it directly.
We must rally actively and widely the people’s militia and expand people’s



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

army by recruiting the qualified members from this and build higher
formations. We must put efforts to strengthen the auxiliary departments
built for the PLGA to fight efficiently. We must conduct rectification
campaigns effectively apart from conducting criticism – self-criticism
regularly in meetings to help increase the fighting capacity of PLGA and
correct the non-proletarian trends arising inside it.
We  must  conduct  tactical  counter-offensives  and  tactical  counter-
offensive campaigns (TCOC) to inflict blows on the Army and achieve
new successes while preserving our forces and the movement. Along with
formulating a correct plan we should make the appropriate preparations
before every tactical counter-offensive and TCOC and then conduct
operations.  Only  thus  can  we  achieve  successes  in  guerilla  warfare.
PLGA must implement Guerilla Principles of Operation in its daily life and
battle operations. We must keep in view the interrelation between the
various guerilla areas and put efforts to achieve relative control in C4I.
PLGA must maintain closest relations with the people.  It must politically
mobilize the people and consolidate them, develop their active role in PW,
help them in building RPCs and in conducting economic affairs, contribute
to development, education, medical care and welfare activities and develop
democratic, socialist culture. Victory in our War of Resistance against
OGH and the Indian Army would be dependent on how widely and actively
the party and the PLGA would politically mobilize people against OGH, on
how efficiently they would conduct the War of Armed Resistance and on
how we would develop newer forces while preserving our forces and gain
newer experiences in the course of this war.

3. Vast masses must be mobilized into the revolutionary movement
utilizing  the  excellent  objective  situation  : An  excellent  objective
situation is present inside our country and the world at present. This is
developing  further  favorably  to  the  people  day  by  day.  Though
revolutionary subjective forces are gradually developing in the world, they
are still weak. The CC-3 meeting conducted in November 2010 assessed
that the Party and the mass base that were relatively strong in our country
by the time of the Unity Congress of our Party weakened gradually in
some areas and had weakened considerably in several areas by end 2010.

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



So, the CC decided in that meeting that strengthening mass base and
expanding it would be the fundamental task whether to fight back OGH-
Army and advance the PW successfully, to build RPCs, run the political
power of the people and establish liberated areas or to strengthen the party.
In order to increase the active role of the people in PW, we must develop
the political work of the party so that people understand our general
political line deeply. We must rally the people widely and militantly in
political movements apart from rallying them on their day to day issues. In
the present concrete conditions, we must widely rally the people against
displacement, state violence, on issues of peasant-laborers, workers,
students, youth and various oppressed social sections, civil rights, price
rises, corruption etc. We must ideologically and politically educate the
people who are mobilized into these struggles and consolidate them in
various mass organizations and united front forums.
With the aim of establishing liberated areas in all strategic areas, we must
develop mass base, build RPCs, consolidate them, expand them and
develop them into guerilla bases. Mass mobilization without the political
aim of developing guerilla warfare, building RPCs and expanding them and
helping this effort would be nothing but reformism. We should correct the
shortcomings occurring in uniting the vast masses against the main enemy
and in forming appropriate united front structures and in consolidating them
by  establishing  party  leadership  over  them.  We  must  correct  the
shortcomings of our party occurring in various forms in uniting strongly
with the people and in implementing mass line. We should get rid of our
sectarian and bureaucratic attitudes that are helping in isolating the people
from the revolutionary movement and we should also not resort to any
wrong acts that may harm the interests of the people. We should conduct
criticism – self- criticism and rectification campaigns not just inside the
party but also in the mass organizations led by us to correct such mistakes.
We must expose the sham of fake reforms constantly brought to the fore
by the enemy to isolate the people from the revolutionary movement. We
should strongly fight back the psychological operations carried on by the
enemy. We should expose in creative methods the various wrong theories
spread by the enemy among the people to confuse the people and isolate
them from the revolutionary movement.



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

We must deeply understand the interrelation – between well utilizing the
revolutionary objective condition that is very favorable and increasing and
strengthening the mass base, rallying the people widely and militantly into
class struggles and consolidating them, increasing their active role in PW,
developing subjective forces and fighting back and defeating OGH-Army
– and thus improve our practice among the people. We must deeply study
the documents – "Strategy and Tactics of Indian Revolution" and "Central
Political and Organizational Review" on increasing mass base.

4. We should formulate appropriate tactics according to the objective
and  subjective  conditions  of  various  areas  :  There  are  many
differences in the social conditions and subjective conditions (party, guerilla
forces, mass base, extent of movement area) in various states. The tasks
in various states should be in accordance with these. Our tactics-work
methods  must  also  be  in  accordance.  These  must  be  implemented
creatively. We must make the necessary and timely changes in them
keeping in view the changes occurring in the course of the movement and
the conditions. For the Party, working with Bolshevik spirit and with
political initiative in spite of any kind of subjective conditions would be a
pre-condition to well utilize the favorable objective conditions. Bolshevik
spirit and revolutionary initiative are compulsory for preserving and
developing subjective forces, for forming close relations with the people,
building movements and increasing mass base, for fighting back the enemy
forces and for formation of guerilla bases with the aim of establishment of
liberated areas. Lack of both would lead to the fizzling out of the movement
and petty bourgeois impetuosity would lead to losses to the movement.
That is why in all states and areas, our party committees must properly
assess the actual objective and subjective conditions and formulate the
tasks. They must formulate appropriate work methods to actively mobilize
the party, mass organizations, guerilla forces and people and implement
them creatively to fulfill these tasks. In order to fulfill each and every task
from the beginning to the end successfully they must carry on their entire
practice with determination and initiative. Only thus can we advance the
present movement another step in all states/areas successfully. Only thus
can we create the conditions needed for achieving higher level successes
all over the country.

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



5. We must hold aloft the flag of Proletarian Internationalism : Our
revolution, Party, PLGA, RPCs and mass organizations are all an integral
part and detachments of the Great World Socialist Revolution (WSR) and
the  grand  community  of  vast  revolutionary-democratic  international
structures. Our party should maintain sisterly relations with all the Marxist-
Leninist/Maoist parties in the world and exchange all kinds of help and
support from each other; it should fight with determination in a united
manner in the light of MLM against left and right opportunisms, particularly
against revisionism, that are proving a hurdle to the WSR; it should work
with the aim of uniting all revolutionary, democratic, progressive forces
against imperialist exploitation, oppression and aggression and should be in
the forefront as part of it; our party must put efforts to fulfill these
international tasks as much as possible even amid the country-wide fascist
offensive of the enemy. It must put efforts to gradually overcome any
number of unfavorable conditions for this sake. Our party would put full
efforts for the victory of NDR in our country and to help the World
Revolution. The Maoist parties and democratic forces in various countries
standing in support of Indian revolutionary movement would prove very
useful in failing the OGH and the offensive of the Indian Army and in
finally defeating them.

5-9-2012

Central Committee

CPI (Maoist)



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

Revolutionary Greetings for the
9th Anniversary Celebrations of

Our Glorious Party!

Let us Bolshevize our party to efficiently wield the

two basic weapons of People’s Army and United Front

to lead the revolution to victory

Let us strengthen and expand our mass base by

adhering firmly to class line and mass line

Let us grasp in depth the two Marxist principles
‘No revolution without a revolutionary party’ &

‘People are the makers of history’

Call of the CC, CPI (Maoist) to the entire rank and file to
celebrate with revolutionary enthusiasm the 9th Anniversary

of our party from September 21 to 27, 2013

Central Committee

Communist Party of India (Maoist)

Dear  comrades,

We are about to celebrate the 9th Anniversary of our glorious new
Party on September 21st this year. This is all the more significant this year
as our preparations to celebrate ten glorious years of our new party also
start  with  this.  September  21,  2004  is  a  significant  day  for  the  New
Democratic Revolution (NDR) in India and also for the World Socialist
Revolution (WSR) as this day launched a single center of guidance for the
revolutionary movement in India after overcoming more than three decades
of ups and downs in this process.

On this occasion let us pay humble homage with great respect to the
builders of our glorious Party, great leaders of the Indian Revolution, martyrs
and our beloved comrades CM and KC and the thousands of brave fighters
who laid down their lives in the course of the NDR, carrying forward the
glorious legacy of Naxalbari. After the 8th Anniversary of our Party, all
through the past year the counter-revolutionary ‘Operation Green Hunt-
phase 2’ (War on People) raged relentlessly wreaking havoc throughout
our movement areas. In the course of fighting back this offensive by the
Indian ruling classes and defending the people, nearly 150 of our beloved
comrades have laid down their lives. They selflessly fought with great
courage and bravery by putting their lives at stake to defend and advance
the People’s War. A majority of them had laid down their invaluable lives
while fiercely resisting attacks by armed forces and the state-sponsored
vigilante gangs. Among the martyrs, comrades Ganti Prasadam, Mahita,
Juvvaji Venkata Subbaiah, Aluri Bhujanga Rao were veteran comrades of
our party. Ganti Prasadam’s was a state-sponsored murder and the other
three comrades died due to old age and other problems. North Telangana
Special Zone Committee member comrade Sudhakar was killed in a fierce
battle with the enemy’s special forces. RCM comrade Prashant of BJ-
North Chhattisgarh Special Area was murdered in a joint CoBRA-TPC
attack. In Dandakaranya (DK) senior Divisional Committee level technical
department comrade Aman died due to ill-health while another DVCM
Indira died due to snake bite. DVC/ZC (Zonal Committee) level comrades
Dharmendra Yadav, Prafulla Yadav and Mithilesh Yadav of Bihar, Sankar
of DK and Pushpa of NT were martyred while resisting enemy attacks.



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

Tens of revolutionary masses, members of revolutionary mass organizations,
RPCs  and  people’s  militia  were  massacred  by  the  armed  forces  in
indiscriminate firings (like in Edesmetta in DK) and fake encounters in all
our movement areas. Let us vow to carry forward the aims and fulfill the
dreams of these selfless martyrs by defending, expanding and intensifying
the people’s war. Let us imbibe and spread the ideals of our great martyrs
and inspire the masses to follow their path for the liberation of humankind.
In the past one year, several brave fighters were martyred while valiantly
fighting the enemy forces during the course of New Democratic Revolutions
in countries such as Philippines, Turkey and Bangladesh etc. Hundreds of
agitators and people apart from the working class in the imperialist countries
have laid down their invaluable lives in the struggles for liberation from
class exploitation and oppression, for national liberation and for democracy
in several countries all over the world. Our CC is humbly paying homage
to all of them on the occasion of the 9th Anniversary of our Party. It
pledges to fulfill the aspirations of the martyrs of WSR by fighting with
determination till our goals are achieved.

On this occasion our CC is sending warmest revolutionary greetings to
entire  party  ranks;  PLGA  commanders  and  fighters;  comrades  of
Revolutionary People’s Committees (RPCs) and mass organizations; to
the thousands of comrades and revolutionary masses who have opened
another battle-front in the prisons in the country; to revolutionary masses
in our struggle areas and all over our country; to revolutionary well-wishers
and the Marxist-Leninist/Maoist parties in various countries that stood in
great support of the Indian revolutionary movement particularly in the past
one year holding high the red banner of proletarian internationalism.

Let us now briefly look at some of the important changes in the objective
conditions that have occurred in the world and our country and also in our
subjective condition so that we can concretely formulate our immediate
tasks till the next party anniversary in their backdrop.
International situation

The world financial crisis is still devastating the capitalist world with no
signs of recovery. It is concentrated in Europe and no number of austerity

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



measures or bailouts are able to save the EU countries from getting bogged
down further in it. All kinds of exercises done by G-8, G-20, IMF, WB,
WTO and several regional economic formations have failed to bail the
imperialists out of their crisis this year too. Worker’s struggles against job
cuts and retrenchments are rocking several EU countries. Unemployment,
ruthless cuts in subsidies and social spending are pushing millions upon
millions of people further into miserable conditions which are leading to
their agitations.

To overcome this crisis the imperialist world is taking up austerity
measures, state spending to provide employment, increasing taxes, reducing
significantly the expenditure of the government, increasing funding to the
capitalists  and  increasing  the  loot  of  people  and  natural  resources  in
backward countries.

The people in imperialist countries are increasingly facing unemployment
and underemployment, lack of job guarantee, lack of safe drinking water,
inflation, housing problem, reduction in government spending on education
and health care, migration and lack of democratic rights. These conditions
have worsened further since the financial crisis of 2008.

In backward countries too similar conditions are prevailing if not at an
even worse rate. They are facing extreme poverty levels and hunger. The
huge  gap  between  the  rich  and  the  poor  is  rapidly  increasing  to  an
unprecedented level.  They are facing migration both internal and external.
All remaining restrictions since 1991 are being lifted by the compradors
of backward countries for finance capital and MNCs leading to extreme
neo-colonial exploitation and control. The comprador ruling classes have
shamelessly taken up the slogan that no development is possible without
FDI. With no restrictions to stop the juggernaut of financial capital due to
the collusion of the compradors, the third world people are getting crushed
ruthlessly under its iron heels.

The recent devaluation of currency in India, Turkey, Brazil, Bangladesh
and several other backward countries is putting their economies in turmoil.
The  much  hyped  high  growth  rates  in  India  went  into  recession.  The
‘decoupling’ theory puffed up by the ruling elite tried to hoodwink the people



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

of our country about the immunity of the Indian economy to the world
financial crisis. Now all that stands busted with everybody in the government
talking about the ‘bad shape of the economy’.

The position of Brazil and South Africa in BRICS is no better. In India
and these countries exports fell, inflation rose, currencies depreciated, growth
rates fell and manufacturing sector is facing a lot of problems, not to mention
the much talked about monster of crisis in current account deficit, particularly
in  India.  Especially  the  rupee  is  having  a  free  fall  and  inflation  is
skyrocketing. The imperialists are misleadingly portraying the devaluation
of currencies vis-à-vis the dollar as its recovery. They are saying that US
economy has recovered in the past two quarters and are showing this as
an indicator.

The other solution opted by the imperialists to overcome their crisis is
to resort to curbing of democratic rights in their countries, encouragement
of right-wing reactionary forces and waging wars of aggression. Wars of
occupation in Iraq and Afghanistan, attack on Libya, French invasion of
Mali, drone attacks in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Yemen etc, unending Israeli
pounding of Palestine, threat to attack Iran and North Korea and the recent
‘impatience’ of Obama and Francois Hollande to attack Syria are some
glaring  examples.  Imperialist  interventions  that  led  to  civil  wars  and
internecine  wars  in  backward  countries  are  numerous.  Neo-colonial
exploitation, control, oppression, intervention and aggression by imperialist
countries of the backward countries have devastated their economies and
the lives of the people in more ways than one. No sector is left untouched
or unaffected in social, economic, political and cultural spheres.

Fundamental contradictions in the world have intensified in the past
one year. The principal contradiction between imperialism and the oppressed
nations and peoples of the world intensified with various kinds of anti-
imperialist struggles waged by the people all over the world including those
against the countless ill-effects of neo-liberal economic policies. These
struggles cover various aspects in the economic, social, political, cultural
and ecological spheres. With the working class and the middle classes
increasingly taking to the streets the contradiction between the capitalists

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



and the working class has intensified further. Economically, politically and
strategically the inter-imperialist contradiction has come to the fore as never
before since they started adopting the neo-liberal policies. This was clearly
seen in the contention for domination of West Asia during the recent ‘Syria
crisis’ with Russia supported by China firmly putting its foot down to oppose
the US backed western imperialist aggression on Syria.

Brazil saw an unprecedented scale of people’s upsurge in June 2013
against its hosting the 2014 football World Cup and 2016 Rio Olympic
Games. The people reeling under the horrible effects of the pro-imperialist
pro-rich neo-liberal economic policies of the government since decades
poured into the streets.

In February, tens of thousands of Greeks took part in a general
strike, as more than half the four-million workforce renewed their
protest  over  austerity  measures  concerning  pensions,  emergency
taxes, the high cost of life and to get rid of the bailout deal as international
lenders were due in the capital to discuss the next installment of a bailout.
There have been general strikes all over Europe and militant protests
have  become  commonplace.  Despite  repressive  measures  such  as
invoking  emergency  law,  strikes  are  picking  up.

In Egypt Morsi, though a compromising force was unceremoniously
ousted and was put in jail by the military backed by the US and Hosni
Mubarak supporters. Massacres of people protesting this ouster and the
military regime are taking place on a daily basis. In almost all the other
Arab countries too where dictatorial rulers were toppled in democratic
upsurges in the recent past, imperialist puppets or compromising forces
took over and the democratic aspirations of the people remained unfulfilled.
So the people are once again forced to take to the streets to fight for
genuine democracy. These phenomena are serving as an eye-opener to
the Arab people and more and more people are realizing that taking the
support  of  imperialist  countries  in  any  manner  would  be  ultimately
detrimental to their interests.

Reformism has become the most dangerous ideological and political
trend in the world and in our country. As financial crisis intensified, people’s



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

unrest amplified, struggles broke out and pseudo-democracy got increasingly
exposed by the day, the imperialists and the compradors are bringing this
forth on a huge scale. This is advocated and implemented both by the
ruling classes, their funded organizations, social democratic and revisionist
forces. In our country the countless schemes brought forth by the central
and state governments are a glaring example of this trend. These are being
implemented in all states all over the country while along with these Civic
Action Program by the state armed forces is being vigorously pushed in
states where our movement is strong. Similar programs are taken up in all
countries where Maoist movements are present. Various acts enacted by
the parliament recently regarding food security, land acquisition, hawkers
etc should be seen as part of this reformist trend. The various funded
organizations – funded both by the governments and the MNCs have spread
their network all over the world. Some of them are implementing the lopsided
development model of the imperialists while some are participating in
struggles and working to confine them to a reformist agenda. All kinds of
reformist forces are shamelessly supporting all the neo-liberal economic
policies the ruling parties are bringing. They are supporting the repressive
measures of the governments when people are revolting against them.
Where they are in power they are behaving like neo-fascists in suppressing
the people.

We have to ideologically and politically expose the hollow and deceptive
nature of the reforms sponsored by the imperialists, ruling class parties and
the State. We should expose the futility of reformism in solving the basic
problems of the people and place revolution as the alternative before the
masses. Along with this we should expose and isolate a section of leaders
in the reformist organizations who collaborate with the ruling classes and
oppose people’s movements. We should take a unity and struggle policy
with the reformist organizations even while giving priority to rallying the
masses in the broadest possible fronts to fight on their issues as part of
NDR in our country. We should be careful in exposing such reformist
organizations as people get rallied into those organizations for their genuine
demands and those organizations fight to some extent (in reformist limits).
We  should  take  the  same  stand  regarding  rallying  various  reformist

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



organizations into the broad anti-imperialist front in the world, particularly
against US imperialism. Only when Maoist forces remain at the core of
such broad fronts, they can advance towards achieving their goal.
Domestic situation

The domestic situation also underwent changes in consequence of the
changes in the international situation. As never before in the history of
Indian Parliament, a number of acts including those regarding food security,
land acquisition, company bill etc were enacted without almost any objection
from the opposition this year in a single session. Even bills that have been
pending since decades through various governments were passed now
without  further  ado.  Majority  of  the  restrictions  regarding  imperialist
penetration into our country that remained even after accepting LPG policies
in the 90s were lifted now with unprecedented speed. The rush with which
these bills were passed with the full connivance of the so-called opposition
parties only shows how desperate the imperialist masters and their agents
ruling here are to come out of the financial crisis that is looming over them.
All these acts have the single purpose of furthering the neo-liberal policies
of the imperialists that would deprive the people of Jal, Jungle, Zameen,
Izzat aur Adhikar (water, forest, land, self-respect and rights).

The  LA  act  is  a  strategic  offensive  on  our  agrarian  revolutionary
program. The LA act is a complete sell-out to the imperialists and the CBB
as it will facilitate indiscriminate acquisition of lands by corporate houses.
It concentrates all powers in the central government to hand over lands to
MNCs disregarding all name sake restrictions like FRA, clearance from
environment ministry, 5th and 6th schedules, PESA etc.

The new company law was passed as a complement to the other acts
as it has allowed foreign investments in hitherto restricted sectors and
permission to invest more capital than it was allowed in the past in some
sectors. It has further opened the doors for acquisition of Indian companies
by the MNCs. This would also threaten the existence of medium and small
scale companies with their increasing acquisition by foreign and domestic
corporate houses. The food security act is ostensibly intended to feed the
poor and reduce malnutrition but in reality it would not reach even a small



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

percentage of the target. The juggling of figures done in an extremely
callous manner to show that poverty decreased dramatically in our country
has already paved the way for sabotaging food security of the poor. With
lakhs of farmers committing suicide on the one hand and unemployment
soaring among the working population, every opportunity for genuine food
security is getting reduced rapidly. On the one hand the governments had
been continuously and gradually sabotaging the PDS system since decades
and now with this act the free market has been given a freer hand. This
act is exactly brought to cover up this actual reality and as an election
stunt. Opening doors to more FDI had seriously affected the livelihood of
lakhs of hawkers. The parliament now passed the bill that ostensibly protects
their livelihood but which is in fact a legal action to cover up the loss of
livelihoods of hawkers by giving licenses to a few. Diversion of pension
money into the stock market with the new pension act has now put in
jeopardy even the meager guarantee that the senior citizens had enjoyed.
Disinvestment, opening of more and more sectors and slices of the sectors
to FDI are being carried on without even any need of a parliamentary
session to approve it. Along with all these the changes in labor laws and
making the laws more draconian for suppression of movements have brought
a significant change in this past year.

Along with the fundamental contradictions in the world the major
contradictions  in  our  country  are  also  intensifying.  In  fact,  all  the
contradictions are intensifying and this is leading to all kinds of struggles in
every sphere and by every oppressed class and section of the society.

While the MNCs are putting enormous pressure on the Indian ruling
classes to implement the MoUs signed with them, the people are valiantly
opposing their implementation braving all odds. The reactionary Jayalalitha
government in Tamilnadu in collusion with the center trampled the movement
opposing the Kudankulam nuclear plant and started work. The people are
continuing their agitation. In Jaitapur in Maharashtra, some NGOs withdrew
the agitation against the proposed nuclear plant after getting a promise of
increase in compensation. But the people are keeping the struggle flag
aloft. One after another the gram sabhas are rejecting bauxite mining by
Vedanta in Niyamgiri. Though the Indian state ruthlessly suppressed the

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



anti-POSCO  agitation  in  Odisha  at  gunpoint  committing  innumerable
atrocities on the agitators, they refused to surrender and are continuing to
fight. In DK, people of Bastar and Gadchiroli are still able to stop the
mining process and building of dams but with lot of sacrifices. Several of
the anti-mining and anti-dam activists were killed in fake encounters; several
of them were arrested and incarcerated in jails with dozens of false cases
foisted on them. Mining has started in Saranda in Jharkhand after huge
military operations by adopting ‘clear, hold and build’ policy ‘to flush out
the Maoists’ which meant nothing but a series of all kinds of cruel atrocities
on the people of Saranda.

Socio-economic, political measures like MNREGA, food for work, right
to education and health, right to information, measures supposedly taken
against atrocities on women, increase in minor forest produce rates, Forest
Rights Act have all proved their hollowness under the UPA-1 & 2 leading
to more and more people’s struggles on these issues.

Our country witnessed a huge upsurge of mass protests deploring the
Delhi gang rape case of December 16, 2012. It once again led to a wide-
ranging discussion about the appalling conditions regarding women’s safety
in our country, the increasing violence on them in various forms including
state violence and the causes and solutions.

The UPA coordination committee and the CWC announced in July
end that separate Telangana state would be formed soon. This is a historic
victory for the fighting people of Telangana who have been agitating for
separate statehood since 60 years facing severe repression and several
betrayals by bourgeois parties. Stating that Hyderabad would remain the
common capital for ten years, delay tactics under various pretexts for the
formation on the one hand and simultaneously inciting movements for united
Andhra Pradesh in the Seemandhra region on the other, all indicate that
the people of Telangana should brace up for another round of bitter struggle
for the actual realization of their demand for separate statehood.

The granting of separate statehood for Telangana gave a fillip to the
agitations for separate states in Asom and Gorkhaland in West Bengal.
Though feebly demands for dividing UP into four states and a separate



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

Vidarbha state have also been heard. A new upsurge in these agitations
rocked those regions for months. The central and Asom governments are
carrying on a carrot and stick policy regarding these agitations in Asom by
conducting  talks  with  some  of  the  organizations  demanding  separate
statehood and suppressing them on the other. West Bengal CM Mamta
Banerjee took a tough stand stating that West Bengal would not be divided
and is taking all steps to suppress the agitation for separate Gorkhaland
and Kamatapur. As long as regional inequalities, imbalances and suppression
of nationalities continue, just agitations with national liberation aspirations
including separate statehood are bound to rise and advance braving the
severe repression of the Indian state. We should support, participate and
lead such agitations by concretely analyzing each and every movement, as
part of our NDR program.

The BJP has finally announced the mass murderer Modi as its PM
candidate with RSS backing and prodding, overcoming the severe dog
fight inside the party for power. BJP that tasted power in the past using the
Hindutva agenda of building the Ram Temple in Ayodhya and Muslim
bashing is trying to aggressively use the same card now with Modi in the
lead. This would make the next general elections more communal with the
Hindutva goons already trying to fan communal violence through various
Parikramas and attacks on Muslims like in Muzaffarnagar of UP. They
had already tried to incite communal violence in Hyderabad but were
unsuccessful – as yet. Though BJP and the saffron terrorists may blatantly
use the Hindu card, the people should not forget that Congress has the
shameless record of inciting the anti-Sikh riots in 1984 and was behind
several communal attacks on Muslims all over the country.

The  Muzaffarnagar  communal  clashes  between  Jats  and  Muslims
spread to some more districts in western UP. Poor Muslims became the
obvious victims and these long drawn clashes once again blatantly revealed
the Hindu bias in all the parliamentary parties. The Samajwadi Party that
had posed as the champion of Muslims till now stands exposed as it had
not taken a tough stand on the Hindu rioters. With BJP, Congress, SP and
BSP party MLAs and leaders indicted for rioting, the Muzaffarnagar clashes
had left no parliamentary party unexposed. All the parliamentary parties

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



blamed each other for these clashes but the actual fact is that all of them
are responsible for this situation to arise as every one of them behaved
opportunistically keeping an eye on the upcoming parliamentary elections
in 2014.
War on people and resistance

The OGH – war on people continued brutally in the past one year with
massacres of revolutionary masses and our comrades in our movement
areas. Once again the state targeted our leadership in open activities with
the intention of closing down any kind of mass activity and building of
solidarity  to  the  PW  we  are  waging.  The  imperialists  have  increased
tremendous pressure on the Indian ruling classes to implement the various
MoUs they had signed to loot and plunder our natural resources. The
compradors are resorting to ‘more repression and more loot’ bending to
their pressure and to overcome the now openly acknowledged ‘bad shape
of the Indian economy’.

The  Jeeramghati  attack  was  shown  as  an  excuse  for  higher  level
offensives on our movement but the actual reality is that preparations were
on the anvil long before this attack for OGH third phase. Deployment of
paramilitary personnel for forceful mining and infrastructure development
has increased manifold. Increase in paramilitary battalions in Maoist areas,
increase  in  spread  of  carpet  security,  further  allotment  of  drones  and
helicopters, usage of field weapons like mortars and rockets, increase in
communication towers, intensification of psychological warfare and release
of thousands of crores of rupees for reforms including Civic Action Program
and ‘skill development’, rapid building of roads and other infrastructure are
being  done  on  war-footing. All  the  above  measures  are  concentrated
especially in tri and quadric-junctions of bordering states which are strategic
area of our movement. The strategic role of the Indian army is increasing
in  waging  the  war  on  people.  Deployment  of  huge  number  of  police,
paramilitary forces and army is very likely during the parliamentary elections
and immediately after their completion.

The government is supplying higher capacity drones to the CRPF that
have till now been used only in the borders of our country by the army.



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

Along with this, formation of CoBRA battalions is being made to turn it into
the principal counter-insurgency force in the country. Preparations are
going on at a rapid pace for drone attacks on movement areas. Extensive
usage of helicopter gun ships had already begun in non-combat operations
(for logistics, transporting troops) and also during attacks on villages. The
new helicopter unit at Nagpur was established in the name of logistical
support  but  they  are  to  be  used  in  offensives.  Drones  are  to  be  used
extensively for intelligence gathering and also for attacking.

Since the launch of OGH from mid-2009 until now, led by our party the
PLGA and the revolutionary masses have fought it back bravely making
huge sacrifices and so it gained recognition as ‘war on people’ in our country
and abroad. The uncompromising anti-feudal and anti-imperialist struggles
waged by our party with agrarian revolutionary program at the axis and
anti-displacement struggles as an integral part of it have attracted the
attention of the people of our country further towards Maoism as the solution
and PPW as the path. Even though the armed resistance of the nationality
struggles in Kashmir and north-east receded much, several mass agitations
against state atrocities and political movements with national liberation
aspirations are continuing.

The main successes we achieved since our 8th party anniversary are

as follows:

In spite of intensification and expansion of the offensive of the ruling
classes, on the whole we sustained our movement in our relatively stronger
guerilla zones by keeping up our resistance basing on the strength of PLGA
and  mass  base. We  carried  on  various  tactical  counter-offensives  and
inflicted casualties to the enemy. Since end September of last year till
August 2013, in various big, medium and small scale actions conducted by
PLGA 110 policemen died, more than 185 were injured. We have seized
arms (nearly 70 weapons) and ammunition from the state armed forces
though not at previous levels. We conducted five big actions, nearly a
dozen medium size actions and dozens of small actions in the past one
year. The hollowness and bankruptcy of the parliamentary system  on the
one hand and the brave resistance of the PLGA and the fighting masses

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



led by our party to the lopsided development model of the pro-imperialist
comprador ruling classes on the other is increasingly attracting various
sections of the people who are becoming victims of this model towards
Maoism. This is a success we achieved both ideologically and politically.
People  are  mobilizing  under  our  party’s  leadership  on  several  issues,
particularly against mining, displacement and big dams that have long term
ill-effects on the future generations and ecology. Our efforts to expand to
some new areas and internally within the existing zones and to keep the
various guerilla zones connected are on. Various kinds of mass struggles
though at a local level were led by our party at area, division/zonal and
state levels.

Our comrades are putting determined and tireless efforts facing some
of the toughest conditions that our movement had ever faced in new areas
of extension in the strategic tri-junction area between Tamilnadu, Karnataka
and Kerala. The state has unleashed severe repressive measures in Malnad
in Karnataka and in the tri-junction to nip our movement extension in the
bud. Our party fought back and exposed ideologically and politically the
right opportunist trends represented by Savyasachi Panda in Odisha and
Sriramulu Srinivasulu in AOB. We educated our party about the reasons
for such trends to arise and the need to fight them back.  They had not
been able to influence any considerable section of our cadres. Only a few
cadres had left with Panda and our political efforts to make them understand
the right opportunist danger are on. Division and state level plenums in
AOB,  divisional  plenums  and  plenums  of  some  higher  level  military
formations  were  held  in  other  states  that  helped  their  political  and
organizational  consolidation.  Some  more  efforts  for  political  and
organizational  consolidation  were  put  and  revolutionary  propaganda
continued in all our movement areas to some extent.

As part of our proletarian international tasks we took up a solidarity
campaign for the Philippines new democratic revolution and propagated
their glorious people’s war through several programs for one week from
April 22 to 28, 2013. With the Hamburg conference held in November
2012 and the various international campaigns taken up in support of our
PW and against the OGH in several countries (both imperialist and backward



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

countries) international efforts to build solidarity to our movement have
consolidated further. The selfless sacrifices of our beloved martyrs, our
brave resistance and leading of people’s struggles even amid unprecedented
enemy offensive and achieving some successes played a crucial role in the
further coming together of majority of the revolutionary and democratic
forces world to build this kind of a broad solidarity and support for our
NDR, in India and all over the world.
Immediate Tasks

Our CC had assessed in the beginning of 2013 that from the point of
view of the subjective condition, the situation of our countrywide movement
is critical. It stated that at present all the major contradictions inside the
country and in the world are intensifying and the objective conditions are
turning more favorable to the revolution but in terms of subjective condition
the movement is facing critical situation. In this backdrop let us take up the
following immediate tasks on the 9th anniversary of our party. We must
take up these tasks to prepare our party to overcome the present critical
situation that the Indian revolutionary movement is facing and to successfully
advance the movement.

1.  Give  foremost  prominence  to  Bolshevize  the  party

Keeping in view the overall assessment of the objective and subjective
conditions and needs of the movement, our CC has decided to take up a
campaign for the Bolshevization of the party. The Bolshevization of our
party means – 1. Understanding deeply and adhering firmly to MLM and
the general political line of our party; creatively applying MLM to our
concrete practice and firmly implementing our line; being unwavering
regarding our ideological and political line, establishing its correctness and
enriching it further by fighting against various bourgeois ideologies 2.
Developing our party into a strong organization that is well equipped with
the correct ideological, political, organizational and military line, that correctly
practices democratic centralism, that strictly implements discipline, that
has mass character, that steels itself in protracted people’s war, that is firm
in strategy and flexible in tactics. 3. Fighting against all kinds of right and
left opportunist trends inside and outside the party 4. Honestly accepting

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



our mistakes, shortcomings and weaknesses, correcting and avoiding those
by learning from our practice 5. Following class line and mass line and
realizing in practice the Marxist principle ‘People are the makers of history’
by closely integrating with them and leading them.

Marxism-Leninism-Maoism is our party’s ideology. Our party is molding
itself ideologically and educating the rank and file and the people with the
same ideology, our general political line and path of the revolution to
successfully  complete  the  NDR  as  its  immediate  goal  and  achieving
communism through socialism as its ultimate goal. It has built a people’s
army (in the present level of the movement it is PLGA), built united front in
an embryonic form and is advancing the people’s war to liberate the country
with a strategic view. It is trying to give efficient leadership to the revolution
by coordinating the work of people’s army and united front. But in the
course of advancement of the movement our party is suffering from various
non-proletarian trends and facing problems in sufficiently preparing the
party, people’s army and the masses according to the changing objective
and subjective conditions.  These are hampering its advancement. So we
are not able to - preserve our subjective forces and consolidate them further;
protect our mass base and further expand and consolidate it; consolidate
PLGA and further expand and intensify the guerrilla war; and fully utilize
the increasingly favorable conditions developing in our country and the
world for revolution.

So it is our foremost task to further equip our party with the scientific
ideology of Marxism-Leninism-Maoism to raise our ideological and political
level in order to get rid of the non-proletarian trends and overcome these
weaknesses  inside  the  party. This  would  help  our  party  in  correctly
understanding and analyzing the objective conditions in our country and the
world and the subjective condition of our movement by using the theory of
dialectical historical materialism and applying it as a method. We should
apply the theory of MLM to the concrete objective conditions of our country
and  to  concrete  revolutionary  practice.  Only  in  this  light  we  would
understand anything correctly, take correct decisions, implement them
properly, integrate the party with the people, mobilize people and build
class struggle, improve our leadership work methods and style of work,



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

analyze and synthesize our practice scientifically, learn lessons from our
own experiences while correcting the mistakes and errors that had occurred
in practice, strengthen the party and further advance the movement.

The key to achieving this would be the Bolshevization of our party.
The class composition of our party rank and file is predominantly from
peasantry and petty-bourgeois social class background and the influence
of bourgeois, petty-bourgeois and feudal outlook, notions, culture, work
methods  and  style  of  work  are  negatively  impacting  them.  So  this
Bolshevization should be a continuous process. At present, we should take
up this Bolshevization in the form of a campaign – to overcome the critical
situation our movement is facing, to lessen our losses, to increase our
subjective forces, to mobilize the people actively and on a wide scale, to
revive the movement where we have faced setback or where the movement
has weakened, to extend to newer areas, to strengthen our PLGA and UF
and advance the people’s war and to fulfill the aspirations of the people
(not only of our country but of the entire revolutionary camp in the world)
towards our party and our NDR.

To successfully fulfill the multi-pronged tasks of the revolution we should
rally and organize the people politically and militantly into the people’s war
on a wide scale. The foremost ideological task that we would have to fulfill
to achieve this is to categorically convince the people that the root cause
for all their problems lie in the social conditions prevalent under this semi-
colonial and semi-feudal exploitative system, and the reactionary pro-
imperialist, pro-CBB and pro-landlord policies implemented by the ruling
classes; that they will not be liberated unless this system is smashed by
uniting all democratic classes and social sections under the leadership of
the proletarian vanguard party - the CPI (Maoist). Then the people would
get mobilized into socio, economic and political movements. The party would
have  to  build  its  ranks  among  the  organized  masses  and  expand  the
movement all over the country step by step and thus advance the people’s
war towards victory. For this -

We should take up ideological and political study and training in the
entire  party  as  a  campaign  to  develop  more  clarity  and  scientific
understanding about our world outlook to the rank and file. We should

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



decide on the revolutionary literature that should be given to concerned
level comrades as material for reading and training. They should be taken
up  to  deepen  our  understanding  about  MLM,  Party  Program,  Party
Constitution, Strategy and Tactics of Indian Revolution and party history.
The  higher  level  leadership  (CC  and  state  level)  should  take  up
comprehensive study of MLM, experiences of world revolutions in the
past and present and of concrete social, economic, political and cultural
conditions that are changing. By increasing the level of ideological and
political understanding of the party, PLGA and UF, we must develop unified
thought and action and fighting spirit.

Proletarian discipline ensures the ideological, political and organizational
unity of the party that is the precondition to firmly implement our general
political line, policies and decisions that come from above at every level.
So we must see to it that disciplinary principles and standing orders are
implemented to enhance the level of proletarian discipline in our party,
PLGA and party fractions. The leadership should lead from the front in
bringing significant change in their daily life in matters of discipline. To
encourage implementation of discipline with revolutionary spirit we must
give special attention to education about communist ideals, values and
culture.

Concrete rectification campaigns where and when necessary, review
of our practice and of decisions in every meeting and deep criticism – self-
criticism should be taken up as the means to get rid of non-proletarian
trends like subjectivism, spontaneity, liberalism, sectarianism, bureaucracy,
patriarchy etc that are prevalent at various levels, at various degrees and
in various forms in our party. To succeed in these campaigns we should
pay special attention to ideological, political, military and organizational
education/training and to review of concrete practice at every level including
at individual level.

Comrades should strive to bring a revolutionary transformation in their
style of functioning and life style. This means that we should work or fulfill
every revolutionary task with Bolshevik spirit and efficiency amidst the
countless odds that we face in practice. Achieving this kind of work style



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

should become the aim of every comrade.

Right opportunist and post-modernist trends are cropping up in our
party in some places. The danger of such trends arising would be present
particularly at this juncture when the offensive of the ruling classes on our
movement is increasing and our movement is facing a critical situation.
The entire party from the highest to the lowest levels must be extremely
alert towards these trends and fight them back. Simultaneously, where
sectarian and bureaucratic trends are prevalent in our mass work, in party
relations with masses and in internal relations in our party our mass base is
weakening and party unity is getting damaged at various degrees. We
must also struggle against sectarian and bureaucratic trends and rectify
them. The experiences of our party in internal struggles/two-line struggles
and rectification campaigns should be studied by all for this purpose.

The leadership should plan to stay with the lower level cadres in the
field to guide them in understanding and solving the concrete problems
faced  in  the  course  of  our  movement.  This  means  understanding  the
changing concrete social, economic, political and cultural conditions, the
changing concrete conditions of the movement, changes in the enemy
strategy and tactics in the multi-pronged offensive as part of implementing
the counter-revolutionary LIC policy of  the imperialists and all reactionaries
world over, etc. The leadership should pay special attention to concretely
applying the Bolshevization process during this field training period.

The  leadership  should  identify  the  various  weaknesses  and  their
ideological roots that are hampering our advancement when we take up
various campaigns. They should educate the lower level comrades so that
they can overcome them. They should lead from the front, guide them,
motivate them, and help them in successfully fulfilling their responsibilities.
Through such leadership efforts we must successfully complete the various
campaigns.

We should avoid unnecessary losses of leadership and subjective forces
at all levels. Preserving our subjective forces, particularly the leadership, is
one of the foremost tasks before us. We must review our past mistakes
and the weaknesses prevailing at present which has led to such a large

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



number of severe losses of our forces from top to bottom. One major
reason for the present condition of the movement is the failure in preserving
our subjective forces, particularly the leadership. It is not only very difficult
to successfully Bolshevize our party but also to fulfill any other task without
preserving the present forces. We should put all efforts to develop secondary
leadership at all levels in a planned manner. Simultaneously we should
expand the party with new members.

In our country the casteist, religious and imperialist cultures are damaging
the fighting spirit of the people. They are not only negatively impacting the
people but are also penetrating into our subjective forces in various degrees
and numbing their revolutionary consciousness. One of the reasons for the
decadence of new democratic and communist values in the party and the
PLGA is this. We should develop new democratic culture and values and
socialist culture and values particularly inside the party, the PLGA and in
all revolutionary mass organizations and RPCs and in general in people to
counter  this  danger.  The  revolutionary  cultural  sphere  should  be
strengthened to fight back the degenerate feudal and imperialist cultures.
Our cultural organizations should take up appropriate forms and play a
crucial role in developing revolutionary culture. Study, political classes and
lectures relating to cultural matters should be taken up vigorously as a part
of Bolshevizing our party. Committees should pay attention to distributing
the available revolutionary literature among the cadres.  These cultural
and literary efforts should become an integral part of the ideological, political
and cultural work that every committee takes up.

The leadership comrades should deliver short and inspiring speeches
to motivate whenever our troops meet or disperse and during various training
camps and meetings. They should ensure that our ranks in all spheres are
always filled with revolutionary enthusiasm and spirit.

 We should Bolshevize the party to increase the confidence on the
leadership from the ranks and the people and on the entire party from the
people. This should boost up confidence in the entire party and the people
to boldly face the current critical situation of the movement, to rectify non-
proletarian trends, to resolve problems and to overcome any number of



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

odds to march towards victory.

When the entire party gets Bolshevized it would also develop confidence
among the people that by correcting the mistakes that had occurred in our
understanding and in practice and by learning from our own invaluable
experience gained by spilling a lot of blood - our party and the PLGA
would expand and strengthen and provide capable leadership; our movement
would expand countrywide; we would be able to establish base areas and
lead our revolution to victory.
2. Let us strengthen and expand our mass base by adhering firmly

to class line and mass line
As a part of Bolshevizing the entire party, the Bolshevization of the
party  inside  mass  organizations,  Revolutionary  People’s  Committees
(RPCs) and UF forums should be taken up with the aim of enhancing its
ideological, political and organizational levels. Thus we would be able to
improve its understanding and its ability to lead the masses.

Weakening of the mass base is one of the main reasons for the critical
situation that our countrywide revolutionary movement is presently facing.
The movement is continuing at different levels in different parts of the
country and consequently there is difference in the extent of the mass
base.

The  enemy  offensive  is  intensifying  on  RPCs  and  various  mass
organizations all over the country. It has been more than three decades
since several organizations have been banned by the central and state
governments. Tens of thousands of revolutionary and democratic mass
organization leaders and members have been assassinated, tortured and
put  in  jails.  Booked  under  false  cases  many  of  them  are  facing  harsh
punishments. Massacres, gang rapes, loot and destruction by armed forces
have become the order of the day.

The aim of the ruling classes behind such severe repressive measures
is to isolate us from the people and dent our mass base. So our tactics
should be aimed at uniting the vast masses against the enemy, isolating the
main enemy and using the contradictions between the enemies. These

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



tactics should help us in mobilizing the people politically on a wider scale
and consolidating them. We should strive to preserve our leadership forces
in the central, state and local MOs and RPCs.

Following our general political line we should give priority to politically
mobilize the working class, landless and poor peasants. We should put all
efforts  to  rally  the  middle  peasants  and  urban  petty  bourgeoisie.  The
worldwide financial crisis is negatively impacting the rich peasantry and
the national bourgeoisie who are a part of the four-class alliance. So the
time is more favorable to bring to the fore their demands too. According to
their attitude towards the people and PW, we must take up tactics that
would win over a section of these classes, make a section at least neutral
and  isolate  the  other. We  should  pay  particular  attention  to  forming
appropriate united front forums on various issues that would bring together
revolutionary and democratic organizations, forces and individuals. When
the ruling classes are resorting to all kinds of conspiracies and fascist
offensives to isolate us from the people, friendly organizations and forces,
our practice should be centered on integrating with them further.

In all our strategic areas we should widen our mass base and build,
consolidate and expand the RPCs with the aim of establishing base areas.
We should overcome our shortcomings in uniting the vast masses against
the decadent ruling system, in forming appropriate united front forums,
establishing party leadership in them and in expanding them. The various
kinds of mistakes we are making in integrating with the people and in
implementing mass line and class line should be corrected. We should get
rid of sectarian and bureaucratic attitudes while working among the people.
These trends are not only isolating us from them but also hampering their
initiative. We should strictly avoid any wrong political and military actions
that would harm the interests of the people. We should carry on criticism
and self-criticism sessions and education and rectification campaigns not
only inside the party but also in MOs to correct sectarian, bureaucratic and
other wrong trends.

The mainstay of our propaganda at this juncture should be against the
unjust nature of the OGH and the just nature of our PW. This should be



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

based  on  the  premise  that  this  enemy  offensive  is  against  democracy,
progress, peace and the interests of all the oppressed classes and social
sections and that the OGH is being waged to serve the interests of the
imperialists, CBB and the landlords.

The main direction of our agitations should be towards mobilizing people
on land and displacement issues. We must put efforts to carry on our
propaganda and agitations around the countless issues that are thrown up
due to the intensifying worldwide financial crisis. Where people are agitating
on these issues we should try to support, intervene and lead them.

 We should take up agitations and propaganda on various political, social,
cultural and ecological issues. Maoist political prisoners alone number more
than ten thousand while the number of political prisoners from north-east,
Kashmir and other democratic movements would be several thousands
more. More than ninety percent of these prisoners are common people.
They are languishing in various prisons of our country and facing severe
inhuman conditions and lack of any kind of rights. So we have to give
utmost priority to build movements for their unconditional release and
solidarity movements for their struggles inside prisons. Simultaneously, all
efforts should be put to provide legal aid for their early release. Agitations
for civil liberties, against state repression on mass movements and against
draconian laws should be taken up on a wide scale. We should put extra
efforts to strengthen the civil liberties movement. Wide propaganda about
genuine democracy and NDR that alone can ensure civil liberties should
be carried on hand in hand.

We should continuously expose the fake reform programs that are
aimed to isolate us from the people. We should mobilize the people in class
struggles, take up revolutionary land reforms, consistently carry on political
work among the masses and consolidate them. Without this process it
would be difficult for the people to realize the sham nature of these reforms.
Ideologically and politically we must counter-point the fake development
model of the ruling classes and the people oriented genuine development
model that we are advocating. We should convince them that repression
and fake reforms are the two aspects of the same carrot and stick policy.

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



Practically we should deal with the people in a democratic manner and
convince them that we are the firm supporters and fighters for their welfare
and liberation and are not against their welfare. Simultaneously as an integral
part of class struggle we should deal without any lenience with the class
enemies and those elements that act as ruling class agents and consciously
try to divert the people towards these fake reforms.

Regarding government reforms our tactics may vary depending on the
consciousness of the people and strength of our movement in a particular
area but our policy and direction would not change. Our counter-tactics
should be aimed at uniting the people, preventing a social base from being
formed  for  the  ruling  class  parties  and  raising  the  revolutionary
consciousness of the people and mobilizing them into the PW that alone
can achieve genuine reforms.

We should fight back strongly the psychological operations of the enemy
that are aimed at spreading ideological and political confusions among the
people  and  weaning  them  away  from  our  movement.  Revolutionary
propaganda to counter the enemy false propaganda should be wide, creative
and in various forms.

We  should  utilize  every  opportunity  to  expose  the  sham  of  the
parliamentary system. We should never suggest the election path as a
solution at any level or under any pretext. We should firmly oppose any
attempts at lobbying instead of mobilizing people and depending on their
strength for resolution of any kind of problem.

 We should preserve the remaining forces in the urban areas by following
tactical principles and functioning methods formulated in our Urban Policy
document. We should build the urban movement by working with patience
and with a strategic view.

 As part of mass work we should activate all the mass organizations at
all levels and guide them to function regularly. Mass work and armed
resistance should go hand in hand. All the political, organizational and military
tasks should be fulfilled in coordination with the sole aim of defeating the
OGH and advancing the movement.

In areas of carpet security we must give utmost priority to adopting



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

suitable forms of party and guerilla formations and suitable forms of struggle.
We should give special attention to the selection of cadre and their politico-
military training. We should correct the shortcomings occurring in our methods
of functioning in these carpet security areas by implementing strict secret
methods  of  functioning.  Even  while  giving  priority  to  secret  mass
organizations we should build various broad based united front forums
according to the concrete conditions of that area and movement to mobilize
the vast masses.

In all the movement areas we must intensify anti-imperialist, anti-feudal
struggles based on the agrarian revolutionary program. Though we are
taking up struggles there are severe shortcomings since a long time in
continuing  them  consistently.  Other  important  shortcomings  are  -  not
consolidating the forces that emerge from these struggles, not establishing
our leadership in UF forums and not developing proper methods for legal-
illegal coordination. These shortcomings should be rectified. In this class
struggle we should not confine ourselves to secret and illegal activities. We
should carry on broad-based UF activities that would rally the various
oppressed  classes  and  social  sections.  In  UF  activities  there  is  lot  of
significance to establishing our leadership, preserving our independence
and advancing by basing on our own strength. We should utilize both open
and secret forms of organization and struggle. In UF forums we should
always adhere to democratic methods and avoid any kind of sectarianism
and bureaucracy. We should expose and fight with such tendencies that
may arise from other organizations and forces in these forums. We should
pay  attention  to  mobilizing  the  support  and  solidarity  of  vast  masses
particularly that of intellectuals and democratic elements as it is very crucial
for the fighting people and organizations.

We should strive to turn struggles into political struggles against the
state. The advanced elements that come to the fore in mass movements
should be consolidated and developed as its leadership to expand and
strengthen our mass base. Selected capable elements should be prepared
and sent to work in rural areas and in the people’s army. The leadership of
revolutionary mass organizations and our party fractions in MOs should
work with this understanding.

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



3.  Advance  the  armed  agrarian  revolutionary  war  by

consolidating the PLGA and fighting back the enemy offensive

As a part of Bolshevizing the entire party, the Bolshevization of the
party inside PLGA should be done with the aim of enhancing its ideological,
political, organizational and military levels. Thus we would be able to improve
the understanding and fighting ability of the PLGA. We should help the
PLGA forces to increase their fighting ability and the commissions and
commands to improve their commanding ability by helping them to constantly
study the changes occurring in counter-insurgency and counter-guerilla
warfare, in identifying the weaknesses of the enemy and in fighting back
the enemy offensive basing on this.

The ideological and political levels of the party committees from top to
bottom in the PLGA should be enhanced. They should be given special
education on political and military tactics that are to be followed during
ebbs and flows.

The fighting ability of the PLGA should be enhanced by implementing
the consolidation program in the regional, state and lower level forces. The
party committees inside the PLGA should rise to the level of independently
running their units and fighting back the military tactics of the enemy forces
on their own by studying the changing conditions in social, economic, political,
cultural and military spheres and modifying the present tactics or formulating
new ones.

The meetings of military commissions and commands should be held in
time. This is necessary to take decisions according to the changing situation
and to actively mobilize the guerilla forces to resist the enemy.

We should carry on guerilla warfare in all areas where guerilla forces
are present including depending on our strength and needs of the movement.
Our guerillas should utilize every opportunity to strike at the enemy forces
and to seize arms from them. Only by displaying initiative in this matter can
we smash the initiative of the enemy forces and gradually bring about a
change in the situation. All levels of military commissions should guide the
commands to implement the decisions regarding formations and level of
operations basing on the concrete conditions of each and every state.

We should strive to bring improvement in our TCOCs and counter-



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

offensives. We should study deeply the weaknesses of the enemy. The
leadership should lead the forces in TCOCs and resistance actions. The
role of the people’s militia and the people should be increased in military
actions. We should prevent our losses during armed confrontations. Guerilla
principles and discipline should be strictly adhered to in all PLGA activities.
We should train up the people’s militia to increase its role in resisting
the enemy. We should strive to increase the number of people’s militia
units. The people’s militia should be armed with the weapons available. As
the numbers in almost all combat units in PLGA have come down, we
should try to fill the vacant places by gradually increasing recruitment.

Our guerilla warfare should be aimed at defeating the enemy offensive
concentrated on our strategic areas. Mine warfare should be intensified
and extended by involving the people’s militia and the people in large
numbers.  Guerilla  warfare  should  be  carried  on  by  seizing  arms  and
ammunition from the enemy and fully utilizing other sources. All kinds of
war material should be diligently preserved. We should with immediate
effect correct all the shortcomings occurring while transporting, dumping
and using these materials. All commissions and commands should pay
special attention to this.

We should expand the movement to the areas left vacant inside the
guerilla zones and to newer areas by increasing our subjective forces in
various states in a planned manner. This expansion would help the dispersal
of the enemy forces.

The enemy forces are conducting information-based attacks basing on
their informer network. We should bring changes in our work methods to
avoid losses in such attacks and also in the backdrop of carpet security.
We should not get trapped in the offensives and campaigns of the
enemy conducted with brigade, battalion or somewhat lesser forces and
try to move away from that area. From there we should identify the weak
position of the enemy and try to inflict damages as far as possible. Every
unit should put up resistance according to its strength and level. If any one
of our units gets encircled/trapped in such campaigns, it should put up a
united fight as a single unit and try to get out by breaching the enemy lines.

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



Campaigns should be taken up to expose the counseling and surrender
policies of the enemy. We should consistently carry on the propaganda that
surrender is not only harmful to the interests of the people and the party
but is also treachery. We should meet the families of all party activists and
PLGA fighters working in different spheres in the same state or in other
states, enquire about their problems and extend the possible moral, economic
and material support to them by involving the people. They should be educated
about the deceptive nature of enemy counseling and surrender policy. We
should conduct meetings in villages to expose the dangers posed by the
surrendered  counter-revolutionaries  and  the  ill-effects  of  counseling
programs of the enemy. In these meetings we should make them realize
the importance of people’s vigilance on such betrayers. The police/state
informer networks should be checked.

Alertness, mobility, swiftness and secrecy are very crucial in guerilla
warfare. Without alertness, mobility and swiftness it is not possible to
maintain secrecy for any guerilla unit. Guerilla forces should always stay
alert, be mobile, move swiftly and maintain secrecy. Secrecy is paramount
both for defense and offense. To avoid leakage of our information to the
enemy, guerilla forces should move at night/in dark. Secret methods of
functioning should be strictly adhered to in daily routine - while traveling,
crossing roads, rivers, bridges, while camping temporarily, while fulfilling
political, organizational, production and struggle tasks among the people, in
sentry, in using communication sets, in maintaining contacts-coordination,
in making preparations for actions and during their execution. In areas
where our movement is facing a setback; where we work amid carpet
security; where our guerilla forces work as small units among the people;
and where the enemy is launching offensives with brigade/battalion/company
level forces – any small mistake in following secrecy may lead to heavy
losses. So iron discipline, determination, bravery, alertness, mobility and
swiftness would be crucial if we are to achieve our goals.
4. Prepare for the 10th Anniversary celebrations of Party Formation
It would be ten years since the formation of CPI (Maoist) by September
21, 2014. Our CC has decided to celebrate this occasion on a grand scale
all over the country. On this occasion, we should publish special issues of



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

People’s War, Awami Jung and Maoist Information Bulletin. Also all regional,
state, divisional level party, military, revolutionary mass organization and
RPC magazines should bring out special issues and souvenirs wherever
possible. A year long new enrolment campaign should be taken up to expand
the party. Our preparations to fulfill these tasks should begin now.

We should fully utilize this occasion to place before the party, PLGA,
mass organizations, RPCs and the masses the successes and the positive
and negative experiences achieved by the new party in various spheres;
the tasks before us to advance the movement and educate them.

Comrades,

Though our countrywide revolutionary movement is facing a critical
situation, there are several differences in the social conditions in various
states and in our subjective conditions therein. So our tasks in various
states should be formulated keeping these conditions in view. Our tactics,
methods of work and style of work should also be formulated accordingly.
They should be creatively implemented. Keeping in view the changes
occurring in the course of the movement and in the situation in the world
and in our country, we must make the necessary and timely changes in
them. We would be able to utilize the favorable objective conditions well
by working with Bolshevik spirit and political initiative. These are very
much necessary for the preservation of subjective forces, to fight back the
enemy forces and to build guerilla bases with the aim of establishing base
areas.  Lack  of  Bolshevik  spirit  and  political  initiative  would  lead  to
deterioration of the movement and petty bourgeois impetuosity would lead
to losses. So in all the states and areas our party committees should come
to a correct assessment about the actual objective and subjective conditions
and formulate the tasks. Appropriate methods of work should be formulated
and applied creatively to rally the party, PLGA, mass organizations and the
people actively in a planned manner to fulfill these tasks. Every task should
be implemented from the beginning till the end with determination and
initiative. Only thus can we overcome the critical situation in all states,
areas and all over the country and create the conditions for achieving
higher and newer successes.

On  the  occasion  of  the  9th  anniversary  celebrations  of  our  party

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



formation, our CC calls upon the entire party, PLGA, mass organizations
and RPCs to work with determination to complete the above tasks to fulfill
the dreams of our beloved martyrs.

Let us Bolshevize our party so that it can efficiently wield the two
basic weapons of People’s Army and United Front and lead the revolution
to victory. Let us expand and strengthen our mass base adhering firmly to
class line and mass line. Let us grasp in depth the two Marxist principles –
‘No revolution without a revolutionary party’ and ‘People are the makers
of history’. Grasping the true meaning of these guiding principles and
implementing them in practice would help us tide over the critical situation
we are facing at present. Let us raise the levels of ideological and political
consciousness of the vast masses, build and consolidate wide ranging
movements and fight with determination to bring about a notable turn in
our revolutionary movement. Let us thus advance towards the fulfillment
of our share of the tasks of proletarian internationalism.

Comrades,

Celebrate  the  9th  anniversary  of  our  party  with  revolutionary
enthusiasm in all our guerilla zones and in all areas where our party units
are present. Utilize this occasion to fill the cadres and the people with the
determination to participate with spirit in the Bolshevization campaign we
are taking up as the foremost task. Let us march forward for fulfilling all
our other tasks by learning from the masses. Let us remember the selfless
sacrifices of our great martyrs one more time to imbibe their ideals that
would guide us in overcoming the critical situation we are facing.

Date:  September  1,  2013

With  Revolutionary  Greetings

Central  Committee

CPI (Maoist)



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

Face up to the Challenge!
Seize the Opportunities!

Firmly Advance Along the Path of

Protracted People’s War!

Call of the CC on the occasion of the

10th Anniversary of Our Glorious Party!

Central Committee

Communist Party of India (Maoist)

Face up to the Challenge!
Seize the Opportunities!

Firmly Advance Along the Path of

Protracted People’s War!

Call of the CC on the occasion of the 10th Anniversary

of Our Glorious Party!

Our party, the CPI (Maoist), a vanguard detachment of the international
proletariat, celebrates ten years of its formation this year. The great Marxist
teacher Lenin has taught us that there is no revolution without a revolutionary
party. For us, this entire decade is a testimony to how this principle has
been applied, tested, enriched and once again proven in our practice. The
past decade is a chronicle of the progress achieved and lessons learnt by
the party as the warrior that wields the two weapons of Army and the
United Front (UF) and how to apply this Maoist dictum in practice.

On  this  joyous  occasion,  the  Central  Committee  (CC)  conveys  its
warmest  revolutionary  greetings  to  the  entire  party  ranks,  to  People’s
Liberation Guerilla Army (PLGA) commanders and fighters, to comrades
of Revolutionary People’s Committees (RPC) and mass organisations, to
the thousands of comrades and revolutionary masses who have opened
another battle-front in the prisons, to lakhs of revolutionary masses in our
struggle areas and all over the country – to all of you who have made these
years a decade of great struggles and achievements. It heartily greets the
Marxist-Leninist-Maoist parties and organisations throughout the world
that have come forward in solidarity with the Indian revolution. It expresses
deep respect for the courageous stand taken by all the democrats and
progressives who have stood up, in India and abroad, against the heinous
‘war on people’ waged by the Indian state under the banner of Operation
Green Hunt (OGH).

In the 10 years since the formation of our united party 2332 comrades,
including 10 members of the CC, have laid down their precious lives for



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

the cause of the revolution. They include Politburo (PB) members comrades
Shamsher Singh Sheri (Karam Singh-KS), Rajkumar (Azad), Koteswarlu
(Kishenji) and Sushil Roy (Ashok, Barun); CC comrades Chandramouli
(Navin), Anuradha Ghandy, Parimal Sen (Ajay), Rajamouli (Murali), Patel
Sudhakar (Vikas) and former Secretary of CPI(ML)NAXALBARI and
veteran personality of our party comrade Rawoof, 34 State level, 9 Regional
level, 132 District level, 246 Sub-Zone & Area level party committee
members and hundreds of primary party members and many more of the
PLGA and the UF. In the last one year alone over 120 leadership and other
comrades, from the Party, PLGA and UF and revolutionary masses have
become martyrs. Each one of these losses, in particular the losses of our
eminent leaders, was heavy a loss we grieved over. Yet each one of them
steeled us even more to serve the people, marching on along the path
crimsoned with their blood, to fulfil their communist dreams. The CC bows
its head in homage to the glorious martyrs whose blood has nurtured our
party, PLGA and UF and the New Democratic Revolution (NDR) it leads.
They come in a long line of martyrs, including our founder leaders comrades
Charu  Majumdar  and  Kanhai  Chatterjee.  They  continue  a  glorious
communist tradition of sacrifice and service to the people. The CC also
salutes the revolutionary masses who have willingly suffered loss of life,
savage repression and hardship while standing one with the party and the
revolution and takes inspiration from their sacrifices and creative role in
the making of a new power and society.

On this occasion, the CC pays humble red homage to all the martyrs of
the world socialist revolution (WSR), the martyrs of Maoist parties in the
Philippines,  Nepal, Turkey,  Bangladesh,  Peru  and  other  countries,  the
martyrs of national liberation wars and those who sacrificed their lives in
the anti-imperialist movements the world over.

Comrades,

10 years ago on the occasion of the formation of our party through the
unification of the two major revolutionary streams in the country, we had
declared our aims and tasks before the people:

“The new Communist Party of India (Maoist) will continue to act as a
consolidated political vanguard of the Indian proletariat. Marxism-Leninism-

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



Maoism will be the ideological basis guiding its thinking in all the spheres of
its activities. It will continue its struggle against right and left deviations,
particularly against revisionism, by taking this as the main danger for the
communist movement as a whole. It will still seek to unite all genuine
Maoist groups that remain outside this unified Party. The immediate aim
and programme of the Maoist party is to carry on and complete the already
ongoing and advancing New Democratic Revolution in India as a part of
the world proletarian revolution by overthrowing the semi-colonial, semi-
feudal system under the neo-colonial form of indirect rule, exploitation and
control. This revolution will remain directed against imperialism, feudalism
and comprador bureaucratic capitalism. This revolution will be carried out
and completed through armed agrarian revolutionary war, i.e. protracted
people’s war with the seizure of power through armed struggle remaining
as its central and principal task, encircling the cities from the countryside
and thereby finally capturing them. Hence the countryside as well as the
protracted people’s war (PPW) will remain as the “centre of gravity” of
the party’s work, while urban work will be complimentary to it. Since the
armed struggle will remain as the highest and main form of struggle and
the army as the main form of organisation of this revolution, the armed
struggle will continue to play a decisive role, whereas the united front will
be built in the course of armed struggle and for the seizure of power through
armed struggle. Mass organisations and mass struggles are necessary and
indispensable but their purpose is to serve the war. We also declare that
the PGA and PLGA have been merged into the unified PLGA (Peoples’
Liberation Guerilla Army). Hereafter, the most urgent task, i.e. principal
task, of the party is to develop the unified PLGA into a full-fledged People’s
Liberation Army (PLA) and transform the existing Guerilla Zones into
Base Areas, thereby advancing wave upon wave towards completing the
New Democratic Revolution. The formation day of the PLGA is to be
December 2, the day when a people’s army was formed for the first time
ever in our country in 2000, on the first anniversary of the martyrdom of
the three CCMs, comrades Shyam, Mahesh and Murali.

“Apart from this the unified party will continue to pay added attention
to building a new wave of revolutionary mass movements on various political
and other issues of the people. It will involve all the vast sections of the



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

masses in these struggles directed against imperialism, feudalism and the
comprador bureaucratic bourgeoisie. The vicious imperialist offensive on
our country has resulted in mass destitution of an already impoverished
people, particularly in the countryside, which has even witnessed thousands
of suicides. The CPI (Maoist) will mobilise vast sections of the masses
against the growing onslaught of the imperialists on the country, against
state repression together with mobilising support for all the movements
directed against imperialism and feudalism. The new party will also continue
to support the struggle of the nationalities for self-determination including
their right to secession and condemn the brutal state repression on these
movements. It will pay special attention in mobilising and organising the
women masses as a mighty force of the revolution, and will fight against all
other forms of social oppression, particularly untouchability and casteism.
It will continue to expose, isolate and defeat the more dangerous Hindu
fascist forces, while exposing all other fundamentalist forces. It will continue
to do so while keeping the edge of the people’s struggles directed against
the  new  Congress  rulers  in  Delhi  along  with  the  CPI/CPM  and  their
imperialist chieftains.

“It will continue to expose and resist the expansionist designs of the
Indian ruling classes along with their imperialist chieftains, particularly the
US imperialists. It will more actively stand by the side of the Nepali people
led by the CPN (Maoist), and vehemently oppose the Indian expansionists
and US imperialists from intervening in Nepal with their military might. It
will also continue to support the people’s war led by the Maoist parties in
Peru, the Philippines, Turkey and elsewhere. It will continue to support all
people’s struggles directed against imperialism and reaction. It will also
support the working class movement and other people’s movements the
world over. It will continue to stand by the side of the Iraqi and Afghan
people in their mighty struggle against the US imperialist-led aggression
and occupation.

“The unified party will continue to hold high the banner of proletarian
internationalism and will continue to contribute more forcefully in uniting
the genuine Maoist forces at the international level. Besides, it will also
establish unity with the oppressed people and nations of the whole world
and continue to fight shoulder to shoulder with them in advancing the world

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



proletarian revolution against imperialism and their lackeys, thereby paving
the way towards realising socialism and then communism on a world scale.”
We have made steady and significant advances in fulfilling the tasks
we set ourselves 10 years ago by bitterly resisting the countrywide savage
repression, suffering heavy losses and tackling great challenges. We can
look at the advances, losses and challenges we faced in this decade in
three phases. 1) From the merger of the party to the Unity Congress, 2)
From the Unity Congress to 2012, and 3) From 2013 till present.

While  the  announcement  of  the  unified  party  enthused  the  people
immensely,  the  response  of  the  ruling  classes  was  summed  up  in  the
statement of the Prime Minister that Maoists constituted “an even greater
threat to India than militancy in Jammu and Kashmir and the Northeast.”
The enemy specifically directed its attack against our leadership, inflicting
severe  losses.  Despite  this  and  in  the  face  of  heavy  odds  the  PLGA
delivered powerful blows to the enemy. Militant mass struggles mobilised
tens of thousands and united diverse sections and put up stiff resistance
against the depredatory policies of the rulers.

The  historic  Jehanabad 

jail  break  cum  multiple  raid
(Bihar) where the PLGA supported by the people’s militia seized control
of the town, liberated 341 prisoners including two RCMs and some lower
level cadre and a vast number of revolutionary local activists from the jail,
captured  and  executed  hated  leaders  of  the  feudal  upper  caste  private
army Ranvir Sena and seized weapons is an outstanding example. Giridih
(Jharkhand-JH) raid on home guard armoury, blasting of a mine-proof
vehicle in an ambush and wiping out 24 CRPF personnel in Padeda (Bastar-
Dandakaranya), elimination of 11 Naga Force personnel and 11 policemen
in Murkinaar (Bastar) are some other major battles. The guerilla war that
we were waging for the past 25 years in Dandakaranya (DK) and Bihar-
Jharkhand  (BJ)  advanced. With  platoons  and  companies  acting  as  the
mobilising centres we could centralise our forces and conduct big tactical
offensives. The decentralised combat units continued to carry out small
and medium-level armed actions.

Most importantly, through the planned work taken up after the formation
of the united party, we could expand some guerilla bases as a transitory



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

step  towards  the  establishment  of  liberated  areas.  We  succeeded  in
consolidating RPCs in several villages in these bases. In DK our guerilla
bases were further consolidated by increasing party units at the village
level, forming village party committees, increasing our military formations,
strengthening them and taking them to company-level formations, bringing
a greater number of people into the militia, mobilising people in political,
military, organisational and cultural campaigns and expanding peasant,
women and cultural mass organisations on a wide scale and at the level of
Division and Special Zone, establishing, consolidating and expanding people’s
authority in the form of RPCs at Divisional level also. The guerilla bases
enabled us to carry out strategic tasks to further consolidate and expand
them to advance the revolutionary war.

On the mass front too, forces led by our party carried out political calls
such as the call for the unconditional release of political prisoners, campaign
against Salwa Judum (SJ), against state repression, state-sponsored attacks
on the revolutionary movement in Andhra Pradesh (AP), and observed
revolutionary days, like Party Formation, PLGA Formation, May Day,
International  Women’s  Day  and  Martyrs  Day.  They  mobilised  and
participated in joint activities with allied organisations and forces against
imperialist globalisation and the neo-liberal policies pursued by the Central
and State governments, imperialist occupation of Iraq and the war-mongering
acts of the US imperialists and its allies, displacement of Adivasis and the
peasantry from forest and agricultural lands by huge mining, multi-purpose,
infrastructural  and  other  projects,  atrocities  and  attacks  on  Dalits  and
religious minorities (Muslims and Christians) and other issues.

The exploiting governments formed counter-revolutionary vigilante
gangs like Nagarik Suraksha Samiti, Sendra, Shanti Committee, Harmad
Bahini,  TPC/PLFI/JPC  and  Special  Police  Officer  (SPO)  system  and
carried out campaigns like Salwa Judum (SJ), as part of Low Intensity
Conflict (LIC)/counterinsurgency strategy and tactics for decimating the
revolutionary movement. The PLGA led by the party fought back these
reactionary gangs by firmly implementing class line and mass line and by
mobilising the masses and raising their consciousness. People and particularly
the women stood in the forefront and resisted the SJ goons. A series of
brave attacks put an end to the murderous SJ campaign.

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



One  of  the  greatest  achievements  of  Indian  revolution  which  was
materialised in this period was the successful convening of the historic
Unity Congress-9th Congress of the party, overcoming all the efforts of
the enemy to foil it. Through its deliberations, drawing lessons from four
decades  of  protracted  people’s  war  (PPW),  the  synthesis  of  the  two
revolutionary streams was taken to a new height. All these were synthesised
in the backdrop of significant political and economic changes in India and
in the world. The ideological, political and military positions of the party
were further refined and consolidated through deep and extensive debates.
Debate on some differences of opinions, including some left positions, took
place and were resolved through democratic centralism. An exhaustive
review  was  made  of  the  achievements  and  drawbacks,  successes  and
failures, of the two and half years since the merger. Along with central and
principal task, other important tasks were set. The leadership was further
strengthened. Thus, our party emerged from the Congress, more sharp in
its ideological-political positions, more consolidated in its unity, more steeled
in its determination and fighting spirit, to fulfil its tasks as the vanguard of
the NDR of India.

The years that followed gave ample demonstration of this. Responding
to the call of Congress and led by the party at all levels, the first raid which
symbolised  mobile  warfare  was  conducted  by  the  PLGA  in  2007  at
Ranibodili, wiping out the enemy forces and seizing weapons and ammunition
in large quantities. In 2008, in another blazing attack, the PLGA deployed
its  forces  over  long  distances  from  the  Central  and  Eastern  Regional
Commands and seized the District armoury in Nayagarh of Odisha after
taking control of the town. In the Khas Mahal, Rajpur-Bagheila, Jhajha
raids in Bihar the PLGA forces overcame the enemy and seized large
quantities of weapons and ammunition after controlling and annihilating the
enemy forces. In Silda, Paschim Banga, the PLGA came in vehicles and
motorcycles in broad daylight and seized and destroyed the Eastern Frontier
Rifles camp in an open market, after annihilating 24 enemy troops. The
successes in almost all these valiant actions were possible only through the
supreme sacrifices of several commanders and fighters of PLGA.

In 2007, 299 prisoners out of 377 escaped from the most wretched
conditions of Dantewada Jail, DK. They seized some arms and ammunition



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

from the jail. Comrade Navin, who was recently martyred in the Bethkathi
false encounter (DK) escaped from a juvenile jail in 2007. In 2009, the
PLGA conducted a surprise attack on the Lakhisarai District court, Bihar
with meticulous planning and freed comrade Misir Besra, PBM. On January
17, 2011, leadership (one SC level and two RC level) comrades conducted
a  daring  jail  break  from  inside  of  Chaibasa  Jail,  JH  and  rejoined  the
revolutionary movement. On June 21, seven children from the Bal Sangathan
(childrens’ organisation) escaped from the juvenile home at Panpos near
Rourkela, Odisha and rejoined their organisation. In 2012, a police escort
vehicle was heroically attacked by the people’s guerillas in the vicinity of
Giridih town and eight comrades including 1 SACM and 2 RCMs were
rescued.

The enemy launched a countrywide all-out war called Operation Green
Hunt in mid-2009 with much fanfare. A grand plan was prepared to wipe
us out. Huge forces were concentrated. Thousands of crores of rupees
were spent. Massive propaganda, targeting us as a bunch of terrorists,
was carried out. Intense combing operations, surprise attacks on our forces,
attacks on our mass base in the war zones, large-scale arrests, destruction
of our urban networks, destruction of the infrastructure built up through
the collective labour of the masses were combined with reform activities
meant to sidetrack the people. In the face of this onslaught we did suffer
serious losses. Led by the CC, the whole party, PLGA, people’s militia and
revolutionary masses led by the RPCs and mass organisations (MOs),
stood  firm,  learnt  from  our  mistakes,  redoubled  efforts  and  hit  back.
Simultaneously we waged a political battle. We struck back exposing the
enemy’s  propaganda. This  paved  the  way  for  a  favourable  political
polarisation  within  the  country  and  internationally.  Progressives  and
democratic forces came forward along with revolutionaries to denounce
the OGH as a ‘war on people’. This reaffirmed the capacity of our ideology
to counter the enemy’s psychological war and gave us rich lessons.

In the midst of this, on April 6, 2010, the historic ambush at Mukaram
(South Bastar) completely decimated a company of the enemy forces. 75
CRPF jawans and a district police constable died and seven were injured.
This ambush was conducted with exemplary courage and sacrifice of the
comrades by keeping the guerilla battalion at the core. The leadership of

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



local comrades for the guerilla battalion, the grip this leadership had over
the terrain as a result, the strong bonds with the local people and the strong
mass base complemented each other and helped the success of this ambush.
This courageous operation which was conducted in response to the brutal
OGH as an integral part of establishing base areas was a great inspiration
to the PLGA forces and revolutionary masses all over the country.

During this period the PLGA also gained rich experiences in battling
and breaking the enemy’s ‘cordon and search’ campaigns. When seven
thousand enemy forces (two thousands at the spot and five thousands in
the outer circle) attacked our camp in Mamayil, BJ, with the designs of
eliminating our leadership comrades the PLGA valiantly fought back the
enemy for 30 hours, defeated that attack and successfully broke out. In
Operation Saranda too of BJ, where the enemy had mobilised a force of
10,000 in the inner and outer circles, PLGA forces with the full support of
the people and with exemplary initiative, bravely fought the enemy for 72
hours and broke out. PLGA forces also fought back the tactics of the
enemy of deploying the police and paramilitary forces through helicopters
by firing on the helicopter at Pidiya in West Bastar. An Air Force officer
was killed and three others were injured. PLGA forces fired on a helicopter
in Porahat area of JH and damaged it, foiling the enemy’s plans.

This period also gave important lessons in revolutionary mass struggles
and  co-ordination  between  armed  and  mass  struggles,  through  the
Nandigram, Lalgarh, Narayanapatna struggles, the movement for separate
statehood for Telangana and anti-displacement struggles in several States.
These struggles took the form of mass upsurges. New forms of struggle
and organisation emerged. Conducive ground was laid for the consolidation
of MOs and an anti-feudal, anti-imperialist front. In many other parts of
the country big struggles broke out where the masses came forward to
defend their land. They fought against plans to displace them for the sake
of opening big mines, dams and other pro-imperialist, pro-ruling class
projects. We supported these struggles and led some of them. This gave us
rich experiences in leading mass struggles and uniting a wide variety of
forces. These struggles brought out the vanguard role of the party and the
PW it leads. They were of immense help in extending the war zones and
expanding the party and the PLGA through winning over new forces.



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

In this period, the party has further developed its capacities in different
fields.  It  has  actively  engaged  in  ideological  struggle  against  various
deviations  within  the  communist  movement  in  the  country  and  at  the
international level. It played a key role in the functioning of the Co-ordination
Centre of Maoist Parties and Organisations in South Asia (CCOMPOSA).
The  party  has  paid  attention  to  raise  its  ideological  level  through
systematic study classes. Study material and magazines are published in
various languages. Special effort was taken to develop study/propaganda
material in Adivasi languages. Syllabi and texts prepared for basic education
were further enriched. These are used in the schools run by the RPCs and
for  the  education  of  PLGA  combatants  and  members  of  the  mass
organisations.

The party committees, Commissions and Commands have conducted
recruitment campaigns many times by giving calls to young women and
men belonging to all oppressed classes and sections to join PLGA in large
numbers to expand the PW. In some guerilla zones the revolutionary MOs,
people’s militia and the RPCs play a crucial role in recruiting young women
and men into PLGA through village mass meetings. As part of this, since
the Unity Congress-9th Congress, hundreds of peasant and Adivasi young
women and men joined the PLGA in many guerilla zones. Thousands of
people got consolidated into people’s militia.

By fulfilling various tasks like conducting continuous revolutionary
political propaganda, mobilising the people into various structures (party-
people’s militia-MOs, RPCs), arming the people, training them, mobilising
the people into various people’s struggles, participating in agricultural
production,  education,  health  and  other  welfare  activities  to  raise  the
standard of living of the people and giving medical treatment to people, the
party and the PLGA won a place in the hearts of people in various guerilla
bases, guerilla zones, red resistance areas and other areas.

The party and the PLGA strove hard in building a strong mass base for
the revolutionary movement. Lakhs of people have been mobilised in
revolutionary peasant, women’s, youth, cultural and children’s organisations.
They functioned under the guidance of the Central departments of the
party charged with guiding mass work. They play a prominent role as

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



mass base for PW. Under the guidance of the RPCs the people’s militia,
activists of peasant and women’s organisations and revolutionary artistes
participate in resistance against the enemy forces. They carry supplies for
PLGA, convey information about the enemy to the party, PLGA and people’s
defence departments from time to time and function as sentries in the
villages.

An exceptional contribution of the party is that of arousing the women
who  hold  up  half  the  sky  and  developing  their  capacities  in  political,
organisational, military, cultural and other spheres so that they can lay claim
to their share in struggle. Today around 40 percent of the fighting force of
the PLGA consists of women, though the percentage varies in various
guerilla zones. Women are commanders at the platoon level and members
of company level party committees.

The party has paid a lot of attention to develop revolutionary cultural
activities. Mass cultural organisations exist in many States from village to
State level. These organisations spread the message of revolution and
promote democratic and scientific values through multifarious cultural forms
that learn from and develop national, ethnic, cultural traditions and styles.
They motivate the people to struggle for radical change. Their cultural
messages also play the role of an instrument of rectification that attacks
the reactionary values of the old society gripping the minds of the masses.
These organisations are powerful weapons linking the party with the broad
masses. Apart from these MOs, armed cultural groups are formed within
the PLGA too, at the company and battalion levels.

More people’s political power organs in the form of RPCs emerged in
DK Special Zone, BJ Special Area, and Andhra Pradesh-Odisha Border
(AOB) areas. In Telangana and AP, several RPCs had been formed in the
past and though there had been a setback in our movement in these States,
the people who had enjoyed political power are fighting to overcome the
situation with that inspiration. In DK, several Area level RPCs were formed.
A few Division (District) level people’s governments have also started
functioning. This is a new experience in the history of the revolutionary
movement in our country. These people’s governments are striving to
increase the agricultural production of the people through their cooperative
and collective labour while working very hard to march forward to achieve



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

self-sufficiency for the economic development of the people and support
to the party and the PLGA. This effort is an inseparable part of advancing
the PPW and building base areas.

Another area of struggle is gradually expanding inside the prisons.
Several thousands are in jail. Several Central and District and sub-jails in
about 20 states reverberated with hunger strikes, at times indefinite, on the
demands of political prisoners. Through their activities our comrades in jail
have succeeded in mobilising ordinary prisoners to fight for their rights.
Democratic organisations and forces are also playing a key role in this
even amid countrywide severe repression. Funds were collected from the
people by the party and several MOs and used for court expenses to release
imprisoned comrades and to support their families. Support activities and
struggles demanding release of all political prisoners have spread out across
the country.

Attack on our leadership is a specific and key component of the enemy’s
counter-revolutionary plans. For this they made special teams with notorious
police personnel as part of ‘Special Investigation Bureau’ (SIB) and formed
or strengthened special forces like AP Greyhounds in most of the States
and in the Central government’s ‘National Investigation Agency’ (NIA) to
track down and eliminate our leaders. They succeeded in inflicting a number
of heavy losses to our party and revolutionary movement, particularly
through the capture and murder of comrade Patel Sudhakar, CCM (Political
Intelligence-in Charge) and comrade Azad, Politburo member (PBM).
Another outstanding leader of the Indian revolution, PBM comrade Kishenji
was also captured in an encounter in a village of Lalgarh, brutally tortured
and  murdered. Yet  we  withstood  this.  Even  while  we  suffered  some
disruptions in our work overall, till 2010, we could make advances. Since
then, the enemy has further intensified his attacks using bigger forces.
Coupled with our own weaknesses, this has created a very difficult situation
where we have suffered losses or weakened and been forced to withdraw
from some areas. We have weakened considerably on the urban front too.
In the wake of the severe beating they suffered at the hands of the
PLGA in the Mukaram, Saranda, Lohardagga and several other tactical
offensives, the enemy started taking up operations with even larger forces.
The enemy who was successful in damaging the leadership and cadre in

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



the urban and plain areas is now targeting the leadership in forest areas.
They are strengthening their intelligence network. They target party/PLGA
camps when they are in meetings/political and military training and camps
of the various departments with large contingents of Central and State
forces,  numbering  several  thousands.  They  also  carry  out  sabotage
operations by employing killer gangs. They are trying to hinder our political,
organisational, military, production and propaganda activities and are trying
to dent the morale of the people and the revolutionary mass base. Enemy
forces are deployed in hundreds/thousands and area dominations and road
patrolling are being conducted. The number of Road Opening Parties (ROP)
and the number of persons in the parties were increased. There are nearly
150-200 persons in each batch. If they have specific information or if they
know about the presence of leadership, nearly 800 to 4000 or even more
troops are being deployed. The carpet security used in struggle areas like
Kashmir is being extended day by day. Several dozens of police camps
were newly established in Chhattisgarh (CG), Maharashtra, Bihar, JH,
Telangana, AP, AOB, Bengal and Odisha apart from the borders of these
States. They are establishing several police camps in Malnad area and the
tri-junction area of three south-west States to nip in the bud the newly
extending movement. The AP government decided to take up more security
measures in the police stations on the borders. In camps and police stations
two to three company-level forces are being present. Along with deploying
paramilitary battalions, thousands of police, home guards and SPOs/State
Auxiliary Police forces are being recruited in recent years. To coordinate
these forces and operations, dozens of IPS officers are being deployed in
the movement areas. They are building 400 fortified police stations and
camps in strengthening carpet security in nine states. They are speeding
up their preparations for drone (UAV) attacks. The Central government
decided to build 2200 communication towers mainly in the camps of enemy
forces in areas of our influence in nine States. With the aim of keeping
surveillance on the movements of the guerillas in thick forests they launched
Resat-1 satellite in 2012.

The Indian government has stepped up preparations to deploy the Army
in Bastar Range, particularly in Maad at first and next in strategic areas of
the PW in the Central and Eastern India with a long range strategy. The



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

Army is wary of directly entering the ‘war on people’ since it fears getting
bogged down and over-extended. The plan is to build up a special force on
the lines of the Rashtriya Rifles in Kashmir.  Once it is trained up and
deployed it will engage in encirclements of wide tracts of forest areas to
impart heavy loses to the revolutionary forces and eliminate the entire
local leadership.  Already nearly one-third of Maad is handed over to army
camps by the State government. With the additional security perimeter the
area under direct Army control will be 50%. Once the Army is formally
deployed  the  draconian  provisions  of  the AFSPA,  already  in  force
undeclared, will be imposed on the people. The Air Force is fully involved
in supply and dropping troops in a big way. A wide network with a big
number of helipads and several air bases are being built in CG, Vidarbha,
AP, Telangana, Bihar, JH, Bengal and Odisha to support Central paramilitary
and States forces, future Army offensives and also for conducting Air
Force  attacks.

The Central government is engaged in training thousands of special
State and Central forces on AP Greyhounds model (a special commando
force trained in counterinsurgency warfare). It formed Unified Commands
with Chief Ministers as their Commanders-in-Chief in the States of our
movement. These consist of a retired army brigadier and the top officials
of  Central  and  State  forces.  These  Unified  Commands  function  in
coordination  with  the  centre.  They  had  also  formed  Joint  Operational
Commands in the borders of the States and are carrying on offensives by
particularly concentrating on tri-junctions of the strong movement areas.
Intelligence wings at the Central and State levels were revamped and the
entire administrative mechanism has been restructured at the behest of the
imperialists, particularly the US, to carry on a multi-faceted, centralised,
coordinated, synchronised ‘war on people’ and implement the corporate
agenda. In all of these counter-revolutionary moves they are guided and
supported by the US and other imperialist powers.

Attacks on people, murders, sexual atrocities on women, razing down
houses, loot, destruction of harvests and granaries, slaughter and looting of
poultry and livestock by counter-revolutionary gangs and enemy forces to
smash our mass base have increased further since the formation of the
new party. The attack in Chintalnar area where they razed down four

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



villages, killed and raped is a hideous example. Democratic organisations
have exposed the destruction wreaked by the enemy. It is another matter
that PLGA forces successfully conducted a tactical counter-attack on this
murderous gang in which four fascist Koya Commandos died and eight
were injured.

On the other hand, as part of LIC they are intensifying reforms under
innumerable names according to the conditions with the aim of splitting the
revolutionary camp, isolating the party and the PLGA from the people and
widening the social base of the exploiting classes by strategically mobilising,
concentrating and coordinating the entire reactionary legislative, executive,
judiciary and media and also tactically acting accordingly by putting armed
forces at its core. In the name of ‘civic action programmes’ several reform
schemes of the Central and State governments are being canalised through
the enemy’s troops. Apart from this, huge amounts are given to these
forces for such activities. Household utensils, clothes, radios and cycles
etc are now being showered on remote villages, where the Indian state
never bothered to provide basic amenities for decades together. The Indian
state is now all enthusiastic to provide free boarding and tuition to a section
of deprived Adivasi children who enjoyed the benefits of education for the
first time in their lives through our party and the PLGA. By trying to come
closer to the people through such means they are trying to form their own
intelligence network. They are economically benefiting a section of the
people amongst political leaders, officials, contractors, tribal elders/bad
gentry, rich and middle peasants and even among the poor peasants and
agricultural labourers and are utilising them as their social base. Enemy
intelligence network increased in many places. As part of surrender policy,
they are implementing rehabilitation programmes and forcefully turning
most of them into traitors and are seriously trying to bring pressure on the
village level leadership to turn them against the people. Serious efforts are
going on to turn some weaker elements working in the PLGA and the
party into coverts.

Enemy is carrying on foul propaganda on our movement and leadership
at all levels as part of psychological warfare. Revisionist parties like CPI
(M) and CPI and some of the right opportunist leadership of some ML
groups are attacking our party line and supporting the ruling classes. They



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

put up a deceptive propaganda campaign that squabbles have started between
the leadership comrades in CPI (Maoist) on the lines of the erstwhile parties
(MCCI, PW). They are carrying on psychological operations portraying us
as anti-development, anti-democratic and violent without respite through
all sorts of media and through their class forces by utilising their socio-
cultural hegemony in a thousand ways. They propagate on one hand that
socialism and communism are outdated and that we can never emerge
victorious and so the party should join the electoral politics. On the other
hand they urge those inside the revolutionary camp to join the police or act
as informers by deserting the revolutionary movement as they would be
wiping it out within 5-10 years and as we could never win. They are
encouraging diehard opportunists like Savyasachi Panda and trying to fizzle
out the movement.

On the whole, during the past few years we have been facing a very
difficult situation. While three to three and a half lakh police, paramilitary
and State and Central commando forces were deployed by mid-2010, this
has increased to around five lakhs at present. A measure of the importance
attached by the reactionary Indian state to its ‘war on people’ can be seen
in the fact that a number of Central battalions have been redeployed from
the North East and Kashmir to our war zones during the past one decade.
Paramilitary forces like the BSF, ITBP and CRPF are already heavily
weaponised and the CRPF is being augmented with drones and other hi-
tech equipment. Its combing operations already incorporate real-time inputs
from area surveillance done through drones.

While the tightening blockades, combing and attacks brought out the
steel in the vast majority of our ranks, it has also exposed the rotten elements
that had remained hidden among us. Liquidationists who pretend that PPW
is not suited to our conditions, cowards who flee under different pretexts
hopelessly trying to cover up their defeatism, traitors who sell-out the people
for the pittance thrown at them by the enemy – these trying times have
uncovered  them,  one  after  the  other. Among  the  masses,  some  have
“surrendered” under enemy’s brute force. Repeated and heavy attacks
have  caused  great  harm  to  the  party  structures  in  the  villages  and
consequently to the RPCs and mass organisations too. A section of the
masses have become passive.

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



In the face of all this, the morale of some comrades has dipped, even
while they stick on to their revolutionary tasks. But unless their viewpoint
is sharpened with MLM and transformed into clear-sighted resoluteness,
the opportunities contained in the adverse situation we face will not be
grasped or realised. Let us not forget that every revolution advances in a
wave-like  manner. That  is  a  law  of  history. We  should  heighten  our
ideological level, keep politics in command, take the message of revolution
deeper and wider among the masses, creatively apply the line of PPW and
develop our tactics, be ‘red and expert’ in our political, military, organisational,
propaganda, training, cultural, production, technical and other tasks. Only
thus we will emerge from this situation more united, more disciplined,
stronger,  more  consolidated  and  more  dynamic. At  each  turn  of  the
revolutionary war the need to reforge our ties with the masses on a deeper
and higher level comes up. At each crucial juncture the task of deepening
the politicisation of not only ourselves but simultaneously the politicisation
of the masses also poses itself afresh. We must boldly take up this task to
unleash the revolutionary energy and initiative of the masses in an even
more powerful manner.

In  the  beginning  of  2013,  assessing  the  situation  we  face,  the  CC
assessed that our countrywide movement is facing a very difficult situation
and also formulated the basic tactics to overcome it. The reasons for this
difficult situation to arise are two: one, the Indian ruling classes with the
complete  support  and  guidance  of  the  imperialists  launched  an
unprecedented multi-pronged countrywide strategic offensive to suppress
our  developing  movement;  the  other  reason  for  this  is  our  subjective
weaknesses. The CC had also noted that the weaknesses in our subjective
condition were uneven. The weaknesses in our subjective condition are as
follows :

Weaknesses and shortcomings continuing at varying scales and different
levels in carrying on class struggle basing on agrarian revolutionary program
in all the movement areas, in formulating appropriate tactics keeping in
view the changing domestic and international social, economic and political
conditions, in mobilising the party and the people to implement the tactics
formulated and in putting determined efforts to fulfill our aim, in correcting
the long term non-proletarian trends in our party, PLGA and revolutionary



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

movement, in vastly rallying PLGA and the people in an effective manner
into  armed  resistance  and  counter-attacks,  in  implementing  secret
functioning and guerilla war principles, in the legal-illegal link mechanism,
in training the party, PLGA, RPCs and mass organisations ideologically,
politically, organisationally and militarily in accordance with the situation, in
consolidating and developing the urban movements, in rallying the non-
peasant vast masses inside the movement areas and outside; limitations in
rallying the vast masses into the revolutionary movement by carrying on
political and organisational work in accordance with our line and policies at
all levels; decrease in mass base, recruitment and fighting ability - due to
these problems in the subjective condition, though the revolutionary objective
condition is developing excellently inside the country and in the world, we
are facing limitations in well utilising it.

While we have weakened in some States and suffered setbacks in
some war zones, in others we could sustain. We could also achieve advanced
experiences in some parts and extend into some new strategic areas. Facing
heavy odds and losses, we are opening up a new war front in the Western
Ghats border region of Karnataka-Keralam-Tamilnadu. It shows us the
great strengths of the strategy and tactics of PPW. It shows us how this
war  can  be  sustained  and  advanced  to  victory  so  long  as  we  remain
ideologically and strategically firm, be flexible in tactics and follow our
politico-military line, be determined in boldly fighting the enemy, take
revolutionary politics to the masses and fully rely on them.

The basis has been laid for revival of the movement in some of the
areas from where we had to retreat. In areas where we have weakened,
the party is trying to cope up with the situation with Bolshevik spirit.
Moreover, the objective condition is more favourable. In fact, during the
period up till 2011 we had succeeded in mobilising the masses and spreading
guerilla war and thus upset the enemy’s plans. Therefore it is quite possible
to overcome the present difficult situation of the movement, no matter how
challenging it is, by basing ourselves on the favourable factors and by
taking up correct tactics according to the changing concrete conditions
and firmly implementing them.

As we put conscious efforts, in the past one and half year we could

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



preserve our movement and leadership amid intensified enemy offensive.
In DK, BJ, AOB and Odisha the PLGA forces led by the party with the
support of the people successfully conducted tactical counter-offensive
campaigns (TCOCs) and several armed actions, annihilated enemy forces
and seized arms and ammunitions. Thousands of people and people’s militia
led by the PLGA destroyed road building equipment, vehicles, guest houses,
and camp offices of the government and the big construction and mining
companies. Thousands of people held rallies and vented their ire demanding
the  withdrawal  of  the  Central  and  State  forces.  They  protested  fake
encounters, massacres, illegal arrests and atrocities on women, attacks on
villages, loot and destruction of people’s properties and demanded the release
of political prisoners.

Our party’s efforts to rally the vast masses in both secret and open
forms against the pro-imperialist policies that served the interests of the
ruling classes implemented by the Central and State governments continued.
Various  economic  and  political  mass  struggles  were  taken  up  against
displacement and pollution due to huge dams, mines and industries and also
on daily and seasonal issues of the people (such as tendu leaf picking,
bamboo cutting and transporting, fair prices for forest and agricultural
products etc.) and against the landlords and bad gentry. Revolutionary land
reforms and people’s welfare programmes were conducted.

The PLGA forces valiantly resisted the enemy in all our movement
areas with the aim of defeating OGH. They strove to advance the PPW
by identifying the weaknesses of the enemy as far as possible and dealing
substantial blows to the enemy forces in several medium and small actions
as well as some big actions, and by obstructing the fulfilment of the goals
of the enemy. We inflicted casualties on the aggressive BSF forces at
Rallgadda in AOB using demolition tactics and on the Greyhounds police in
Kurnapalli in Telangana after a long gap.

Responding to the call of the party the people in DK successfully
boycotted the CG assembly elections. The capture and execution of the
hated Mahendra Karma, the main person responsible for the brutal SJ
atrocities was a major achievement. In DK, BJ, AOB and Odisha where
our movement is strong and in areas such as Niyamgiri, Mali-Deomali, and



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

Visakha where movements of Adivasis against mining and displacement
are going on, majority of the people boycotted the Loksabha polls and
expressed their protest against these destructive projects.  As part of the
election boycott campaign the PLGA forces successfully conducted tactical
counter-offensive  actions  on  the  enemy  forces  that  came  to  force  the
people to vote.

During the Loksabha election boycott campaign the PLGA forces gave
blows to the enemy forces that swooped down on the people like vultures
to make them vote, through actions in BJ, DK (Maharashtra and CG),
AOB, Odisha. Some of these actions took place in areas which the enemy
had claimed to have ‘cleared’ and taken control of. Within the first five
months of 2014, spanning the election period, 63 enemy personnel were
annihilated  and  122  injured  in  31  actions.  One  PLGA  combatant  was
martyred. We could seize 36 weapons and 3366 rounds. It is noteworthy
that these actions came in the wake of and during two massive country-
wide special ‘cordon and search campaigns’ conducted by the enemy. The
first lasted for one week from December 26, 2013 to January 1, 2014 in
nine States with 40,000 additional paramilitary forces and State police forces.
The second one was conducted from March 19 to 27, 2014 with about one
lakh paramilitary forces, six thousand commando forces, four Israel Aeron
surveillance planes and several mine-proof vehicles fitted with radars under
the leadership of 70 Inspector-Generals of Police in six States where the
Maoist movement is active. Due to guerilla actions conducted constantly
by the PLGA in various guerilla zones, the enemy forces had to disperse
their forces over a vast area and so were forced into a situation where
they could not deploy their forces as they wished in our crucial areas. Due
to lack of additional forces the enemy couldn’t carry out these campaigns
more intensively in all areas at once except in Bijapur and some other
parts. Therefore it plans to increase its forces. Important aims of these
campaigns were gaining experience in command and control of different
forces from the Central and State levels and familiarisation of terrain.

In DK Special Zone, the people, militia, main force and secondary
forces in their hundreds with the support of the entire masses of that area
surrounded the newly established Minpa paramilitary and police camp and
put up armed harassment of the thousand odd forces stationed there, closed

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



down all supply lines of the enemy for about one week and forced the shut
down of the camp. This is a new experience. In Harra Koder (DK) the
masses of all the neighbouring villages of the area came out in huge numbers
and persisted in peaceful agitation for six days forcing the withdrawal of a
newly established CRPF camp that came for the purpose of facilitating the
building of a dam. The role of women in this struggle was exemplary. We
have also seen instances where the masses either rejected the free goods
distributed by the enemy mercenaries as part of Civic Action Programs or
made a bonfire of them.

The important achievement of this year is the merger into one party of
CPI (Maoist) and CPI(M-L)NAXALBARI as another turning point in the
effort to achieve unity of genuine revolutionaries in our country. As pointed
out in the merger declaration, this gives a boost to the capacity of our party
to better fulfil its role as the vanguard of the Indian revolution. The unity of
Maoists in the face of intense enemy attack has greatly encouraged the
revolutionary  masses.  It  has  been  enthusiastically  welcomed  at  the
international level.

Comrades,

Here we are putting in a nutshell the main positive achievements of
our party in the past decade in the backdrop of the international and domestic
developments of the past decade which we are briefly mentioning here. It
was these positive achievements that have helped our movement to advance
to an unprecedented higher level.

On the occasion of the tenth anniversary of the party, on the one hand,
let  us  first  grasp  the  essence  of  these  positive  achievements  and  then
propagate them widely inside the party and the people. On the other hand,
let us overcome the negative aspects, strengthen the party and develop the
PLGA and the UF to the level of fighting back and defeating the enemy
onslaught, overcome the present difficult condition using the basic tactics
formulated by the CC and further advance the NDR. In the backdrop of
the difficult conditions our party and the movement are facing since 2013,
it  becomes  even  more  necessary  to  grasp  and  propagate  our  positive
achievements as they become our stepping stones to overcome this situation,
as they help us avoid our past mistakes and also to build up confidence



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

among the party rank and file and the people.

Ten years back itself a favourable turn was seen at the international
level  when  US  imperialism’s  aggressive  ‘War  on Terror’  faced  stiff
resistance. This upset its plans, forcing it to change tactics in order to
avoid getting bogged down. Bush was replaced with Obama’s so-called
human face! Utilising its difficult situation Russian imperialism made gains.
Organisations like the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and the BRICS
strengthened.  This  relative  weakening  of  US  imperialism  led  to  more
contention among imperialist powers on the one hand and the strengthening
of  people’s  struggles  on  the  other.  But  the  international  communist
movement could not utilise this to the fullest extent, due to treachery of
various hues of neo-revisionism, most notably the betrayal of the Nepali
revolution by the CPN (Maoist) leadership. In India, the UPA blatantly
pushed the LPG policies and surrendered to the US diktats in the nuclear
deal issue.

Since then, the domestic and international objective conditions have
become even more favourable to the revolution as never before. After the
imperialist economy got bogged down in a worldwide crisis in 2008, changes
are occurring at a fast pace in world politics. Especially the fundamental
contradictions in the world are sharpening. The contradiction between the
imperialists and the oppressed nations & oppressed peoples of the world is
intensifying with each passing day. In neo-colonies and semi-colonial –
semi-feudal countries movements are developing against the imperialists
and their comprador/lackey ruling classes. The proletariat in the capitalist
countries is taking up agitations on a huge scale against the capitalists in
their countries. While the national resistance struggles against NATO forces
led by the US and their lackey government forces in Afghanistan and
Pakistan  intensified, in Iraq the resistance forces are gaining strength
against the puppet government servile to the US and are increasing their
grip in the northern part of the country. Resistance forces are reinvigorating
in Libya. Civil war conditions are prevailing in Egypt. The national liberation
movement of Palestine continues to resist the fascist offensives of Israel.
Syria and Ukraine have become centres of intensifying inter-imperialist
contradictions. Contradictions between the Japanese and US imperialists
and China are further intensifying in the Asia-Pacific Region.

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



The worldwide economic crises shook our economy. In the past few
years budget deficit increased, growth rate fell, current account deficit
increased, inflation increased. The living conditions of the people of our
country are deteriorating even further. The fundamental contradictions in
our  country  are  intensifying.  Dog  fights  among  the  ruling  classes  are
intensifying. All oppressed classes’ and sections’ of people are continuously
getting rallied into struggles on various issues. National liberation aspirations
of the Kashmir and North East people are continuing to get expressed in
various struggle forms. The formation of the Telangana State positively
impacted  the  various  movements  for  separate  States.  Though  the  BJP
newly came to power with the slogan of ‘Vikas’, it exposed its real agenda
within a few days. This indicates the Brahminical Hindu fascist offensive
that is bound to increase. All oppressed classes, sections, religious minorities
and nationalities would definitely become its victims. The need for all of
them to fight in a united manner against this has increased more than ever
before. All of them must get ready for that. Our party must strive to fulfil
its role in this foremost task.

On the other hand, the proletarian revolutionary, national liberation and
democratic forces are gradually strengthening and expanding all over the
world. Particularly, the international movement in support of the Indian
PW is expanding further. Our party participated in polemical debates at
the international level and released an Open Letter to the CPN (M) when
it began turning revisionist. It participated actively in all the international
forums formed with the initiation of various Maoist parties and organisations
and won the political confidence of these parties and organisations through
its political stands and its practice. It built up solidarity for the revolutions
of other countries, particularly to the NDR in the Philippines. We are also
participating in anti-imperialist movements in the world. Thus a strong
aspiration is getting expressed that the development of the PW in India
would serve as a mighty support to the WSR. We have the great responsibility
to make this a reality.

Comrades,

Through its multi-faceted, all-encompassing ideological, political effort
in various spheres, guerilla warfare, Army and UF (RPCs and tactical UF)



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

activities, the party has withstood the onslaught of the enemy in the past
decade, particularly the multi-pronged countrywide offensive that was
launched in mid-2009 despite severe losses to leadership at various levels,
particularly at Central and State levels and loss of some areas and losses in
some crucial departments. The party’s practice in the past decade has
succeeded in establishing it as a ray of hope to the oppressed masses of
our country and the world. This decade has once again proven the Leninist
principle that ‘There is no revolution without a revolutionary party’ through
mainly positive and some negative experiences. The past decade has been
an enriching experience for us in party-building and in wielding the two
weapons of the People’s Army and the UF.

In the course of advancing in the direction of fulfilling the central task
we had set for ourselves after the merger and after the Unity Congress,
we  had  formulated  new  tactics  whenever  new  conditions  arose. We
summarised our experiences from time to time. We gained rich experiences
in  forms  of  struggles  and  organisation  in  the  course  of  our  PW.  Our
understanding about guerilla warfare, people’s army, revolutionary political
power of the people, guerilla zones, guerilla bases and base areas got
enhanced in these ten years of rigorous revolutionary practice.

In this decade our party strove to fulfill its responsibility in the WSR by
unflinchingly upholding, defending and propagating MLM - through its
creative application to the conditions of our country, by fighting back
revisionism, right and left opportunism and non-proletarian trends both in
India and the world, by keeping the red flag of WSR aloft in this part of the
world through immense sacrifices of the leaders and cadres of the party in
the path of the WSR martyrs, by learning from our own experiences and
from other revolutions in the world, by building solidarity with the other
fighting people of the world and by initiating as well as becoming part of
the international activities taken up as an integral part of WSR.

Our party members, right from the top leadership to the village level
party members have continued the legacy of the great martyrs of the world
and Indian revolution, particularly since Naxalbari and once again established
the great revolutionary traditions of sacrifice. They never bent their knees
before the enemy, whether in the battlefield or in enemy custody.

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



We had succeeded in developing our party as a single centre of guidance
for the NDR in our country defeating the conspiracies of the ruling classes
and the revisionists to prevent it. As part of fulfilling the remaining task of
uniting genuine revolutionaries in India we successfully completed the
merger with CPI (ML)NAXALBARI.

The party successfully defeated the various right, left opportunist trends
that arose in the party such as the diehard right opportunist liquidationist
clique in Karnataka and Panda in Odisha and isolated them. Handful of
central  and  state  leaders  left  the  party,  surrendered  to  the  enemy  and
unleashed vicious propaganda on our party, our line and our movement by
joining hands with the ruling classes. Our party successfully fought back
all such reactionary attacks consigning them to the dustbin of history.

After the formation of the new party, our party expanded to some new
areas. New forces had joined the party and they were educated and trained
ideologically,  politically,  militarily  and  organisationally. Apart  from
rectification campaigns and campaigns like Bolshevisation, the party tried
to increase the ideological, political, cultural and educational levels of the
party cadres through regular education and building separate structures
and  schools  at  various  levels  of  the  party  for  imparting  both  primary
education  and  political  education.  It  carried  on  wide-ranging  political
propaganda and agitation through party, PLGA, RPCs and various mass
organisations and raised the educational and political levels of the cadres
and the revolutionary masses through magazines, publications, schools,
propaganda  campaigns,  celebration  of  revolutionary  occasions,  party
statements, preparation of notes on political subjects and topics, meetings,
seminars etc.

The party inside the prisons all over the country stood steadfast in the
face of enemy suppression and successfully kept the red flag aloft inside
the dungeons too in the face of inhuman conditions, tortures and psychological
pressures to abandon the movement. The party placed models of immense
courage  and  resoluteness  before  the  people  of  our  country  through
uncompromising struggles and sacrifices inside the prisons. The most
outstanding of these examples is of Comrade Sushil Roy who was martyred
recently on June 18 2014. The party in the prisons is politicising the jailed
comrades and the common prisoners along with politically influencing the



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

jail staff who but belong to the oppressed classes. The party outside the
prisons has also succeeded to some extent in building solidarity with the
political prisoners’ struggles and issues. The condition of women comrades
inside the jails is worse but they have provided excellent examples of
resoluteness in face of adversity not only to the people of our country but
to the fighting people of the world. Several comrades and common people
have died inside the prisons or after release as a result of the neglect of the
authorities but never bent before the enemy. Some comrades led by the jail
party leadership broke jails from inside while the party outside led the
PLGA in some brave actions to free our jailed comrades. The party set an
example of how to break the enemy dragnet and join the people in the
struggle even in face of draconian laws, strict prison conditions and severe
repression. Thus the party had turned the prisons into centres of struggle,
political education, military actions and organisation and have inspired several
comrades and the people to rejoin the movement once they got released.
As the fascist offensive of the enemy intensified, the psychological
warfare also expanded as a part of it. In the past decade we fought back
the enemy’s psychological warfare by carrying on revolutionary political
propaganda creatively in various forms. We tried continuously and tirelessly
to uphold and propagate MLM, our political and military line, successes
achieved by the people, new democratic culture and tried to fight back and
defeat the enemy foul propaganda. We tried to develop the understanding
among the entire party and the people that PPW is a total war on all fronts
against the counter-revolutionary LIC strategy and tactics. We also strove
to develop the collective participation of the people in the sphere of political
propaganda.

The party successfully carried on the agrarian revolutionary programme
that is the axis of the NDR, put the land issue on top of our agenda in the
form of seizure of lands and struggle for Jal, Jungle and Zameen. Through
this  practice  and  also  ideologically  and  politically  it  fought  back  the
arguments that tried to underplay the semi-colonial, semi-feudal nature of
our society. In the past one decade it once again firmly upheld the path of
NDR for the liberation of our country from the clutches of feudalism,
comprador bureaucratic bourgeoisie and imperialism. It called upon the
people to boycott sham elections and build their own political power under

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



the leadership of the party advancing in the path of PPW.

The death blow given to the social-fascist CPM in Paschim Banga
starting with Nandigram and culminating in the mass uprising in Lalgarh
will go down as one of the biggest achievements of the party in the past ten
years.  More  than  three  decades  of  the  social-fascist  rule  of  the  CPM
crumbled and a revolutionary alternative (of NDR) was brought to the
fore once again most powerfully after Naxalbari period during the Lalgarh
uprising. Lalgarh continues to remain a model to be emulated in every part
of the country. It once again established firmly the PPW line by successfully
implementing it in practice. Another successful model put before the people
by the party in this period is the land struggles in Narayanapatna in Odisha.
The struggles for Jal, Jungle, Zameen is being carried on in various States.
All these once again firmly established the politics of agrarian revolution
among the people.

We follow the principle – the party commands the army. The PLGA is
led by the party at all its levels and in all its activities. Under its leadership,
the PLGA is developing, consolidating and expanding guerilla warfare in
the vast swathes of rural India, particularly in Central and Eastern India.
As part of advancing in the direction of fulfilling the central task of the
Unity Congress the PLGA took its first steps towards developing guerilla
warfare  to  mobile  warfare.  The  PLGA  gained  vast  experiences  in
centralising and decentralising forces and conducting various manoeuvres
at all levels. The party formed and led the various levels of Commissions
and Commands, and guided the building of higher level formations of
Platoons, Companies and Battalions thus gaining experience in running
them and in attacking the enemy with these higher level formations. The
PLGA  conducted  several  successful  tactical  counter-offensives  and
TCOCs, thus arming itself and the revolutionary masses.

The PLGA built various departments necessary for an army and gained
valuable experiences in running them. The party propagated and established
new culture through the PLGA. The PLGA participated in agricultural
production and political propaganda activities integrating with the masses.
Along with supporting the people in building people’s power by destroying
the enemy power it served as an armed support to carry on strategic tasks



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

in the guerilla bases. The PLGA defended the political power of the people
and the revolutionary MOs and the people from enemy attacks. It recruited
youth participating in class struggle and trained them.

The party developed its ideological and political understanding regarding
political and military intelligence and in its light conducted study and
education about the LIC strategy and tactics of the enemy.

The PLGA built various people’s militias in the guerialla zones and
other struggle areas and succeeded in establishing it as the primary form
of self-defence for the people and as the base force in the PLGA. One of
the biggest achievements of the PLGA was the huge mobilisation of the
poor peasants (majority of whom are Adivasis) and women into the militia
in this decade. The creativity of the masses was unleashed as never before
in these militias and several military leaders of the masses emerged from
them.

The party strove to develop people’s resistance – armed and unarmed
– to the enemy repression and this past decade has given the party and
people  immense  experience  on  this  front  too.  DK,  BJ,  Lalgarh,
Narayanapatna and Telangana have given us diverse as well as countless
exemplary models in armed and unarmed people’s resistance.

The party led the PLGA and the UF skilfully in defeating several
repressive campaigns of the enemy in the past ten years. Through continuous
attacks  by  PLGA,  the  SJ,  Sendra,  Nagarik  Suraksha  Samiti,  Santi
Committee, Harmad Bahini etc, were defeated in Bengal-JH and Bihar-
JH-Odisha and AOB areas. The party led the PLGA and the UF in fighting
back  the  above  notorious  counter-revolutionary  campaigns  that  were
unleashed  as  a  part  of  the  onslaught  of  the  ruling  classes  against  the
revolutionary party. In BJ the private armies of the landlords were brought
under control and in the past decade too the PLGA continued to defend the
poor peasants and prevented such armies from raising their heads again.
The most prominent among these successes was the defeat of SJ in DK
which was started with the purpose of forcefully dividing the people by
applying ruthless repression and herding the people into SJ sibirs. It suffered
death blows at the hands of the PLGA and the entire battle against it was
conducted with the huge mobilisation and active participation of the people

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



of DK. People and particularly the women stood in the forefront and resisted
the SJ goons. The DK people put a model before the people of the entire
country on how to defeat one of the most savage onslaughts of the ruling
classes in the garb of SJ. Not only the party in DK, but the entire party
mechanism throughout the country was mobilised in various forms in
defeating it. Every party member in the country had a role in exposing and
defeating it, in mobilising the people’s opinion against it, in rallying the support
of the democratic sections in the society, in sending relief and other help to
the fighting people of DK and also in rallying international support. Thus
the party had put an excellent example before the people of our country on
how  to  conduct  a  coordinated  campaign  against  an  enemy  repressive
campaign by keeping guerilla warfare carried on by basing on the masses
at the centre and by involving vast masses inside and outside the guerilla
zones against it.

Over the past one decade the PLGA (all its forces included) by fully
relying on the vast masses conducted all together 990 small, medium and
big actions, periodically conducted TCOCs and had also resisted, annihilated
and injured the enemy forces when they attacked our forces.  A total of
2064 enemy police and paramilitary personnel were annihilated and 1993
were injured. Apart from this, 169 landlords, bad gentry, 369 counter-
revolutionary gang members and several informants were also eliminated.
Through these actions, the PLGA seized 2109 weapons including high-
power rifles, mortars, 92,061 rounds of ammunition and military equipment
like bullet-proof jackets, communication sets, helmets etc. In these actions
we  lost  165  brave  commanders  and  fighters  including  some  militia
comrades. These actions have clearly proved that guerilla forces can take
on a mighty enemy force and inflict severe losses and seize huge amounts
of arms and ammunitions by applying guerilla warfare principles correctly
and creatively. Thus the party arms the people and increases the armed
strength of the people’s army. We can advance towards victory by carrying
on PPW in this manner.

The party ideologically, politically and organisationally led the formation
and running of RPCs in DK, BJ, North Telangana and AOB in the past ten
years and helped the party and the people gain self-experience in running
them. Through this the party successfully placed an alternative model of



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

development before the people of our country as against the lopsided, pro-
landlord, pro-CBB, pro-imperialist development model of the ruling classes.
It had brought to the fore the agrarian revolutionary programme and the need
for a NDR in our country by placing this alternative model of development
before the people. The new political power, new society, new path of
development, being built by the oppressed masses in Central and Eastern
India under the party’s leadership with the armed support of the PLGA, after
destroying the Indian state piece by piece, stands out as a shining alternative
that is increasingly attracting wider sections in our country.

The party in the past ten years had successfully led the vast masses in
various struggles and formed innumerable organisations and united fronts
to lead the masses on their issues. Thus the party and the people gained
immense self-experience in building and running tactical UF. Revolutionary
politics were propagated widely through the tactical UF activities. The
party’s efforts in the tactical UF had resulted in building huge support to
the fighting people inside our country and also gained international support.
It fought back the draconian laws and inhuman and variously biased judicial
system in our country through building civil rights movements and by fighting
for the rights of political and other prisoners in our country. It exposed the
imperialist (particularly the US) grip over every sphere of our country and
played a role in building anti-imperialist movements in India and abroad. In
this decade our party strongly reiterated its support to the struggles of the
nationalities in India, particularly to the people of Kashmir and the North-
East.

The  party  successfully  mobilised  the  most  oppressed  classes  and
sections of the society into the NDR – poor and landless peasants, the
overwhelming majority of those who joined the Army being from these
classes; the most marginalised sections of the society – Adivasis, women
and Dalits were mobilised hugely into the party, Army and the UF. The
huge presence of women and Adivasis inside the party has had a positive
impact on the people.

These successes were mainly gained till 2012. From 2013 our movement
is facing a very difficult situation. Deeply analysing the various factors
hampering our work the party issued a call in 2013 to Bolshevise the party.

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



Whatever may be the situation, we have a mighty weapon to tackle it. This
is our ideology, MLM. Grasp it deeply and take up this weapon ever more
firmly;  this  is  the  crux  of  Bolshevising  the  party. The  aim  of  this
Bolshevisation campaign is to strengthen the party and the PLGA and
develop PW and through this equip both of them with the capacity to
overcome the present difficult situation our movement is facing. To lead
the revolution to victory the party must mould itself through consistent
effort continuously. This campaign is a part of that long process. For that
the following should be done -

*  Understanding deeply and adhering firmly to MLM and the general
political line of our party; creatively applying MLM to our concrete
practice  and  firmly  implementing  our  line;  being  unwavering
regarding our ideological and political line, establishing its correctness
and  enriching  it  further  by  fighting  against  various  bourgeois
ideologies and opportunist trends inside and outside the party;

*  Developing our party into a strong organisation that is well equipped
with the correct ideological, political, organisational and military
line, that is firm in strategy and flexible in tactics, that has well-
knitted structures, that has correct style of work, that correctly
practices democratic centralism & steely discipline, that functions
with utmost dedication, steely determination, sacrifice and fights
with courage, that has mass character, that defends its leadership
and forces from all kinds of enemy conspiracies, attacks and left
and right dangers by successfully defeating them, that steels itself
in the face of enormous difficulties, twists and turns in the course
of PPW;

*  Further building all three forces of the PLGA as the main form of
organization; boosting its fighting skills and capacities; rousing and
raising its fire power mainly by seizing the enemy’s weapons;
training it even better; developing its command, control, co-ordination
and intelligence and thus making it an even more powerful  and
strong people’s army to carry forward the PPW successfully;

*  The party leadership rallying the vast masses into PPW by correctly
implementing the political and military line and formulating and



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

implementing correct tactics according to the changing conditions
and thus making the people accept its vanguard role and rally under
it;

*  Increasing the strength of our mass base under the leadership of
the proletariat by rallying our firm allies - the agricultural labourers
and poor peasants, reliable allies - the petty bourgeoisie and also
the vacillating allies - rich peasants and national bourgeoisie by
winning over, neutralising and isolating different sections among
them and defeating the enemies one by one and concentrating on
the  main  enemy  by  using  the  contradictions  among  them–  is
necessary. We can achieve this only by developing the ability to
rally all these classes by implementing class line and mass line and
realising in practice the Marxist principle ‘People are the makers
of history’ by closely integrating with them and leading them and
*  Honestly accepting its mistakes, shortcomings and weaknesses,

correcting and avoiding those by learning from practice

We must carry on the present campaign in a planned manner for two
years to achieve concrete targets to overcome the present difficult situation
and advance the revolution. We should implement a concrete program at
all levels according to the ground realities. We should discuss this in the
committee  meetings  and  take  the  necessary  decisions  to  carry  on  this
campaign seriously. Completing this campaign successfully means –

*  Enhancing the ideological study of MLM to improve the proletarian
world outlook inside the party, particularly among the new forces;
*  The entire party, every unit in the party, gaining the most clear-cut
understanding about the goal of NDR and the concrete targets to
be reached at the present juncture;

*  Understanding deeply the three point work style taught by Mao

and improving our work style;

*  The party strengthening its mass base by firmly integrating with
the people and mobilising the people into various economic, political
and other struggles apart from giving priority to rallying the peasants
into the agrarian revolutionary war and putting special efforts among

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



the vast non-peasant masses and the urban population;

*  Enhancing the study of the changing socio-economic, political and
cultural  conditions  and  changing  the  tactics  accordingly,  thus
developing the movement successfully;

*  Along with enhancing our understanding about secret party building
and functioning, quickly rectifying the defects that are occuring in
this work and in implementing guerilla war’s operational principles;
* Giving appropriate training to enhance the ideological, political,
organisational and military levels of the party, Army and MOs-UF
and improving their quality;

*  Along with rectifying the non-proletarian trends continuing in the
party, enhancing the consciousness and alertness of the party to
fight against these, enhancing and strengthening unity of thought
and action and discipline through this;

*  Being able to display the consciousness to face the difficult situations

and dangers that come up in the course of the revolution;
*  Heightening preparedness to valiantly fight the enemy, and
*  Being able to defend our subjective forces, particularly the higher
level leadership and the movement from the cruelest offensives of
the enemy.

Only by achieving this through the present Bolshevisation campaign
can we overcome the difficult condition we are facing and also lay down
the basis for new victories.

Comrades,

With the principal contradiction in the world between imperialism and
the  oppressed  nations  and  peoples  and  the  other  two  fundamental
contradictions sharpening with each passing day, the objective condition in
our country and the world is increasingly turning favourable to the revolution.
All kinds of social contradictions are sharpening and people are coming
closer to the revolutionary path world over to solve them. It is the need of
the hour that we grasp the excellent objective situation and mobilise people
actively and extensively in PW and advance the revolution by intensifying



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

and expanding guerrilla warfare. We must put efforts to completely utilise
the  favourable  objective  and  subjective  conditions  conducive  to  the
development of PW. Though we have suffered losses and weakened, let
us not forget that in a vast stretch of area covering lakhs of square kilometres,
i.e., starting from AP, Telangana borders to Lalgarh and South of the Ganga
River with crores of population, our organisation has been continuing from
a long time, people have gained vast self-experience in class struggle and
at least in some areas they had tasted their own political power. This is our
strength. We must rely on it and unleash its potential in order to defend our
movement  and  develop  it. Another  new  front  has  been  opened  in  the
Western Ghats which has strategic significance and great potential to develop
PPW in a vast area. Thus we can overcome the unfavourable situation
that we have faced in the recent period and advance in the direction of
fulfilling the tasks given by our Unity Congress-9th Congress.

To overcome the situation we are facing today, we must protect our
subjective forces, consolidate them, strengthen our mass base and thus
advance the PPW more powerfully. The new situation emerging after the
coming of the Modi regime must be utilised in this direction. The present
situation no doubt brings up serious challenges, but it also brings even more
opportunities. We must boldly go more deeply and broadly among the
different  oppressed  classes  and  sections  of  the  people,  mobilise  them
politically and unite them in struggle. We must respond to each and every
anti-people, anti-country policy and measure of the Modi government,
persistently expose them, mobilise all the people in struggles against it, and
strive to link them up with the ongoing PPW. Let us creatively apply the
operational principles of guerrilla warfare. Let us deeply integrate with the
masses  and  widely  mobilise  them  in  the  PPW.  Let  us  get  rid  of  our
shortcomings  and  weaknesses  and  strengthen  ourselves  through  the
successful completion of our Bolshevisation campaign. Let us go all out
and seize these opportunities.

It is a lesson of history that dying reactionary rulers will become even
more ferocious when they near their end. The imperialist system is still in
the grip of the worldwide economic crisis. This is severely impacting the
Indian economy. This crisis situation makes the enemies of the people, the
imperialist multinational companies and Indian compradors ever more

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



desperate to plunder the resources of our country and exploit the labouring
classes to the hilt. But the ill effects of this country-selling path are becoming
more and more evident.

There is also another lesson of history. A small force can defeat a big
one. A weak force can destroy a stronger one. This has been repeatedly
proven in numerous revolutionary wars all over the world.

Comrades,

The CC calls upon all party units and comrades to grandly celebrate
the tenth anniversary of our party. We should fully utilise this occasion to
place before the party, PLGA, MOs, RPCs and the masses the successes
and the positive and negative experiences gained by the new party in various
spheres, the tasks before us to advance the revolution and educate them.
Our CC calls upon you to work with determination to complete the tasks
we set for ourselves to fulfill the dreams of our beloved martyrs. Celebrate
the 10th anniversary of our party with revolutionary enthusiasm in all our
areas where our party units are present by mobilising huge numbers of the
masses and successfully implementing all the programs and propaganda
activities planned by us. Utilise this occasion to fill the cadres and the
people with the determination to participate with spirit in the Bolshevisation
campaign, in increasing our mass base, in firmly resisting the enemy through
guerilla warfare and in defending our subjective forces. Let us imbibe the
ideals of our great martyrs to overcome the difficult situation we are facing
and advance.

Let  us  learn  from  both  the  many  positive  and  the  few  negative
experiences of the past decade and put efforts to build a strong proletarian
party to lead our revolution to victory and fulfill our share in the WSR to
march towards socialism and ultimately towards communism. Let us apply
the call of the Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution, “Fight self, defeat
revisionism” to make ourselves more capable of fulfilling the role as the
vanguard of the Indian revolution.

Armed with MLM, steeled in our determination to destroy this hated
human-devouring system, deeply and firmly linked with the masses, we
are invincible. Mao Tsetung has taught us that miracles can be created by
the masses led by the party. This we have seen in our own practice. The



CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)

revolutionary creativity and energy of the masses is boundless. This we
see reaffirmed in the ingenuous methods of resistance they put up, unfazed
by the armed might of the enemy, and how they force him to back off. Let
us take lessons from their creativity and resoluteness. Let us take guidance
from our great teachers. Let us be inspired by our glorious martyrs.

Heighten your ideological-political-military, organisational and cultural
level. Go deeper among the masses. Raise the quality of your fighting
capacity aiming at ‘greater, better, faster and more economical’ results.
Victory is ours because we serve the people. Victory is ours, because our
cause, our revolutionary war, is just.

10-9-2014

With Revolutionary Greetings

Central Committee

CPI (Maoist)

CC Messages on the Anniversary of the Formation of CPI(Maoist)



“Against  this  collective  power  of  the  propertied  classes  the
working class cannot act, as a class, except by constituting itself
into a political party, distinct from, and opposed to, all old parties
formed by the propertied classes.”

- K. Marx, F. Engels
“We see in the independent, uncompromisingly Marxist party
of  the  revolutionary  proletariat  the  sole  pledge  of  socialism’s
victory and the road to victory that is most free from vacillations.”
“Whether or not a party is really a political party of the workers
does not depend solely upon its membership of workers but also
upon the men that lead it, and of the content of its actions and its
political tactics. Only this latter determines whether we really
have before us a political party of the proletariat.”

“In a period of civil war the ideal party of the proletariat is a

- Mao Tsetung

fighting party.”

 - V.I. Lenin
“The new period is one of open class collisions, of revolutionary
action by the proletariat, of proletarian revolution, a period when
forces are being directly mustered for the overthrow of imperialism
and  the  seizure  of  power  by  the  proletariat.  In  this  period  the
proletariat is confronted with new tasks … Hence the necessity for
a  new  party,  a  militant  party,  a  revolutionary  party,  one  bold
enough to lead the proletarians in the struggle for power, sufficiently
experienced to find its bearings amidst the complex conditions of
a revolutionary situation, and sufficiently flexible to steer clear
of all submerged rocks in the path to its goal.”

- J.V. Stalin
“If there is to be revolution, there must be a revolutionary party.
Without  a  revolutionary  party,  without  a  party  built  on  the
Marxist-Leninist revolutionary theory and in the Marxist-Leninist
revolutionary style, it is impossible to lead the working class and
the broad masses of the people to defeat imperialism and its running
dogs.”

