Message of CC, CPI (Maoist)  

 

Conduct martyr’s week from July 28th to August 3rd2017  

all over the country in a grand way! 

Pay homage to the martyrs who laid down their lives in the People’s War! 

Defeat Mission-2017 of the Indian ruling classes in their bid  

To eliminate the revolutionary movement! 

Let us protect the Party leadership from top to bottom and advance the movement! 

Declare that the path of People’s War shown by Naxalbari is the only path for the liberation 

 

Comrades, Revolutionary Masses! 

of the Oppressed masses! 

Laying down one’s life for the people is weightier thanthe Himalayas. Dying for the exploitive classes is 
lighter  than  a  feather.  Life  is  most  valuable  for  human  beings.  Communist  Revolutionaries  totally 
dedicate  themselves  for  the  social  revolution  and  for  the  interests  of  the  people.  They  work  with  a 
strong  aim  dedicating  everything  and  their  life  too.  Every  great  change  demands  sacrifice.  That  the 
history of class struggle is the history of sacrifices is as much a fact as that the history of the society is 
the history of class struggle since the formation of classes. 

In  our  country,  since  the  great  Naxalbari  Armed  Peasant  struggle,  in  the  process  of  New  Democratic 
Revolution for the past 50 years, nearly 15 thousand personsstarting from the higher level leadership to 
the activists and revolutionary people down laid their valuable lives.They sacrificed their lives to achieve 
their  aim  in  the  path  of  Protracted  People’s  War  that  the  founders  of  our  Party,  great  leaders  and 
teachers, martyrs Comrade CharuMazumdar, Comrade KanhaiChatterjeehad formulated. Since July 2016 
until    May  2017,  205  comrades  and  revolutionary  masses  have  laid  down  their  valuable  lives  in  the 
country-wide  fascist,  multi-pronged  offensive,  the  war  on  people  –  ‘Operation  Green  Hunt’  thatthe 
Indian  ruling  classes  are  intensifying  with  the  total  support  and  in  the  direction  of  the  imperialists, 
especially the American imperialists. Out of the martyred comrades, two are CC comrades, 131 are from 
Dandakaranya,  27  from  Bihar-Jharkhand,  35  from  Andhra-Odisha  border,  6  from  Odisha,  1  from 
Telangana, 2 from West Bengal and 1 from Western Ghats. Fifty-four of them are women cadres and 
village women. 

July 28th is the day of the martyrdom of Comrade CharuMazumdar and is the day in which thousands of 
people’s heroes are remembered. The Central Committee of the Party gives the call to grandly celebrate 
the martyr’s week from July 28th to August 3rd in memory of the martyrs in the past one year and the 
martyrs in the past five decades, on the eve of the Fiftieth Anniversary of Naxalbari. 

In the past one year, the martyrdom of the leaders of Indian Revolution, member of the CC and the Polit 
Bureau  Member  Comrade  Narayan  Sanyal  (Vijayda)  (80),  member  of  the  CC  Comrade  KuppuDevraj 
(Ramesh,  Yogesh)  (62)  is  an  irreparable  loss  for  the  revolutionary  movement.  Comrades  Devraj  and 
Ajitha were seriously ill and were going to Kozhikode when they were detained, severely tortured and 
shot dead in the Neelambur forest area in Kerala on 24th November as a part of ‘Operation Brahmagiri’. 

 

1 

Comrade Narayan Sanyal breathed his last on the 16th of April in Kolkata due to cancer. Members of 
State  Committee  –  Senior  ComradeRaghunathMahato  and  Comrade  AsishYadav  of  Bihar-Jharkhand, 
Comrade  Himadri  Roy  (Somenda,  Bighanda)  of  West  Bengal,  Comrades  Prasad  andDaya  of  Andhra-
OdishaBorder, Comrade Ajitha (Kaveri) of Western Ghats are among the martyrs. The martyrs include – 
Regional  Committee  member  Comrade  SangramMurmu  (BJ),  District  Committee  members  Comrades 
Prabhakar, Kiran of AOB, Comrades Prince (Company-1, ERC), Suday (Central Zone), Yatin(Koel-Sankh), 
Sailesh,  AjitYadav  of  Bihar-Jharkhand,  Comrades  Jagath  (West  Bastar),  Pali  (Darbha),  Kailash  (EBT)  of 
Dandakaranya,  Sub-Zonal  committee  member  Comrade  NagendraYadav(BJ),  33  Area  Committee 
members/Platoon Party Committee Members (PLGA Squad/Section, Platoon Commanders and Deputy 
Commanders)  4 GPC and RPC members, 8 People’s Militia Commanders, 7 leaders and activists of Mass 
Organisations, scores of PLGA, People’s Militia fighters, Party activists, sympathisers and revolutionary 
people.  Two  comrades  were  martyred  in  the  jail  due  to  ill-health  and  the  negligence  of  the  jail 
authorities. 

Many of the martyrs laid down their lives in fake encounters, covert operations and ambushes of the 
enemy like in Budhanadi (Koel-Sankh, BJ) and ThelamTumnar (West Bastar, DK). Three comrades were 
martyred  in  the  attack  of  the  counter  revolutionary  murderous  gang  TPC  in  Palamu  of  BJ.  In  the 
encounters in Ramguda of AOB and Budhanadi of BJ our leadership comrades and our guerilla forces 
fought  heroically,  laid  down  their  lives  and  saved  the  Party  leadership  and  cadres.  In  the  Sondaha 
ambush of BJ Comrades Prince and Suday; in Burkapal ambush in DK Comrades Anil (Commander of Pl-
24, Darbha), Ravi (Commander of Charla LOS, Khammam, Telangana) were martyred fighting with great 
courage against the Para-military forces. Few other comrades were martyred due to old age, ill-health 
and snake bite. 

Among  the  women  cadres  –Senior  party  activists  Comrades  Mamatha  and  Latha  (Bharathi), 
MembersBudri, Manjula (Ungi) of AOB, Comrades HemlaAngu (South Bastar), Ramsila (RKB), Sukki, Jogi 
of Darbha, JagbathiYadav (Sony), Rajbathi of EBT, Anupriya of Koel-Sankh of BJ and other comrades were 
martyred  intheir  heroic  fight  in  various  encounters.  Woman  Comrades  HemlaAnju,  PodiyamSukki, 
DoodhiGuddi, Ratna, Adame and village women JyothiGavade and HemlaSukmathi were caught by the 
police,  mass  raped  and  murdered.  These  cannibals  inhumanly  cut  the  private  parts  of  some  of  the 
women comrades after murdering them. 

All the martyrs laiddown their lives in the process of fighting back the unprecedented offensive of the 
government armed forces in Mission 2016 andMission 2017 in the third phase of Operation Green Hunt. 
They  are  the  heroes  of  the  people  and  martyrs  who  sacrificed  their  lives  for  the  interests  of  the 
oppressed  masses.  The  martyred  central  leaders  stood  firm  until  their  last  breath  for  a  long  time 
overcoming many ebbs and flows, ups and downs and twists and turns, firmly committed to the Party 
line. The martyrs shed selfishness and identified themselves with the interests of the people and the 
Party.  They  demonstrated  high  Communist  values,  ideals,  courage  and  dedication.  The  Central 
Committee pays humble homage to all these martyrs who laid down their lives in the People’s War. Let 
us pledge to fight until the last to make the Indian New Democratic Revolution a success as a part of the 
World Socialist Revolution. Let us take the movement another step forward with initiative, courage and 
daring, sacrifice and Bolshevik spirit. On this occasion of the martyr’s week let us remember each and 

 

2 

every one of them and learn from their practice. Let us place their ideals before the Party ranks and the 
people and inspire them to play their role in the revolution. 

Since the NDA government in the leadership of BJP came to power fascist offensive of the central and 
the state governments has intensified much more on the revolutionary movement of the country led by 
our  Party,  CPI(Maoist).  The  movement  is  sustaining  by  fighting  back  this  fierce  reactionary  military 
offensive in an armed manner and facing the exploitive ruling classes in the social, economic, political, 
organisational and propaganda fields with appropriate new tactics from time to time. The central and 
the state governments planned to defeat and eliminate the revolutionary movement in Dandakaranya, 
Bihar-Jharkhand, AOB, Odisha, Western Ghats and other places through Mission 2016. In the process of 
fighting back these counter-revolutionary schemesof the governments we took up political, military and 
organizational efforts in the last year and defeated Mission 2016. All these efforts include the sacrifices 
of the martyrs and the revolutionary people in each and every step. They brought successes to our Party 
and  the  people  in  the  People’s  War  with  their  blood.  In  this  condition  the  central  and  the  state 
governments  consolidated  their  gains  in  the  counter-revolutionary  offensive  in  the  last  year  and 
formulated  another  vile  scheme  under  the  guidance  of  the  imperialists  to  eliminate  the  Indian 
revolution  in  the  coming  two  to  two  and  a  half  years  by  the  end  of  2018  or  by  the  time  of  the 
Parliamentary elections in 2019. 

The theoretical and political understanding of the Party ranks has enhanced in the past three years due 
to  the  bolshevization  campaign  taken  up  to  strengthen  our  Party.  Their  confidence  to  fight  back  the 
enemy offensive has increased and they are more active in the People’s War. So they are mobilizing the 
people on problems of their daily lives, on social, political fundamental issues, against the state violence 
in  a  larger  way,  with  the  aim  to  overcome  the  difficult  condition  the  Party  is  presently  facing.  Class 
struggle is intensifying. There is improvement in the armed retaliation of our PLGA forces against the 
enemy forces. Mass base is strengthening. People’s resistance is gradually increasing against the attacks 
of  the  enemy.People  are  resisting  when  the  police  illegally  arrest  the  activists  of  the  Party  and  the 
Organization, when the police forces kill our Party activists and people in a barbaric manner. They also 
retaliate when there are mass rapes on women and when they are killed after raping them. When the 
police indiscriminately fire on the Party activists, PLGA units and the people, behave inhumanely with 
the dead bodies andtake them to the police stations, the people are encircling the police stations. They 
are fighting with the officers, gettingback the martyr’s bodies and conducting theirlast rites. 

Comrades! 

We  must  deeply  and  comprehensively  understand  the  dialectical  relation  between  the  intensifying 
fascist  offensive  of  the  enemy  and  the  economic  crisis  developing  in  the  country  and  the  world.  We 
must clearly realize the interrelation between the increasing aggressiveness of the enemy forces and the 
imperialist interests of the diehard Brahmanical Hindu fascist forces that came to power in the country. 
In order to come out of the economic crisis of 2008, the imperialists took up certain policies but they 
failed. As a result they intensified their offensive across the country. As a part of it the Comprador ruling 
classes in the leadership of Modi government are implementing the neo-liberal economic policies in a 
more aggressive manner in the direction of the imperialists. All the Brahmanical Hindu fascist policies of 

 

3 

the  Modi-Mohan  Bhagawat-Amit  Shah  clique  for  the  past  three  years  are  aimed  at  aggressively 
implementing the interests of the imperialists and the feudal classes. They are against the oppressed 
classes, oppressed nationalities and oppressed social communities of our country. They are making the 
lives of the broad masses in the country miserable. 

All  the  big  talk  of  Modi  government  about  the  development  of  the  country  in  the  name  of  ‘Make  in 
India’, ‘Start up India’ is mere propaganda. The industrial sector of the country is weak even three years 
after it came to power. Unemployment, hike in the prices of essential commodities, increase in agrarian 
crisis are exposing the shallowness of this ‘development’. The various schemes it brought forth in the 
name  of  elimination  of  poverty  have  failed.  Modi  government  recently  gave  an  explanation  to  the 
Supreme  Court  according  to  which  12  thousand  farmers  are  committing  suicide  every  year  due  to 
untimely  rains,  drought,  indebtedness  and  lack  of  remunerative  prices  for  their  crops.  This  crisis  has 
intensified and the farmers of Punjab, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat are taking up militant 
struggles demanding waiver of loans, proper remunerative prices and subsidies. 

In the three years of Modi rule, there are increasing attacks of the Brahmanical Hindu fascist forces on 
the  Dalits  and  Muslims  of  the  country.  Presently  Modi  government  has  the  agenda  of  banning  cow 
slaughter  all  over  the  country.  Starting  from  Dadari  in  Uttar  Pradesh,  Saharanpur,  Una  in  Gujarat, 
Alwarin Rajasthan there were such attacks. In these attacks the Dalits, Muslims, Adivasi and theother 
oppressed castesmobilized in Una and formulated an action plan to face Hindu Communalism. 

Tribal and non-tribal people are waging militant struggles on the problem of displacement. The tribal 
people  of  Chota  Nagpur  in  Jharkhand  took  up  large  scale  struggles  against  the  amendmentsto 
Chotanagpur Tenancy Act and SanthalPargana Tenancy Act. In Telangana a militant struggle broke out 
against the government policies to seize tribal lands in the name of ‘harithahaaram’ (green belt). The 
anti-displacement  struggles  of  the  tribal  people  took  militant  form  in  Chhattisgarh,  Maharashtra, 
Jharkhand, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha in the past one year. 

After RohithVemula’s suicide in Hyderabad, the foisting of ‘sedition’ charges on the student leaders of 
Jawaharlal Nehru University in Delhi in 2015, progressive students, Dalit, Adivasi and religious minority 
students  across  the  country  broke  into  united  spate  of  struggles  against  the  Hindu  fascist  offensive. 
Similarly,  this  year  there  was  a  large  scale  united  movement  of  the  students  and  professors  of 
Universities and Colleges of 14 states against the attacks of the Hindu Sanghparivar on the progressive 
students of Ramjas College in Delhi. 

Atrocities on women are constantly on the rise. As per the statistics there is violence on women once in 
every three minutes. Eight thousand women are dying every year owing to dowry killings. There are 50 
thousand incidents of atrocities and 40 thousand women are being kidnapped. There are increasing acid 
attacks,  child  marriages,  forced  prostitution,  feticide  and  killing  of  girl  child  due  to  growing  feudal, 
imperialist culture. Women and democrats are taking up these issues all over the country. 

Since Modigovernment came to power in the centre it is absolutely selling off the country to imperialist 
capital. On the other hand it is instigating national-chauvinist frenzy and fake patriotism. It is employing 
the  provisions  of  the  ‘sedition’  act  against  the  organisations  and  intellectuals  who  opposed  these 

 

4 

reactionary  policies.  Democratic,  genuine  patriotic  forces  are  taking  up  struggle  against  the 
indiscriminate attacks of the Hindutva gangs on the people’s civil and democratic rights. 

Opposing  the  anti-labor  policies  of  the  Modi  government  more  than  15  crores  of  workers  in  the 
leadership of left Trade Unions carried out a general strike last September.This year 10 lakh government 
sector  bank  employeesorganised  a  successful  country-wide  general  strikeon  the  28thFebruary  against 
the  amendments  in  labor  laws,  outsourcing  and  other  anti-people  policies.  In  a  bid  to  weaken  the 
leadership  of  the  ongoing  militant  worker’s  movements  the  worker’s  leadership  of  the  MarutiSuzuki 
Company was put in jail and given life imprisonment. The Working class must fight it back in a united 
manner. 

The government amended the indirect tax system and introduced GST to mold the whole country as a 
uniform market in the interests of the imperialists and the Big Comprador Bureaucratic Capitalists. With 
the false propaganda of wiping out corruption big notes were dissolved and the monetary wealth of the 
people was accumulated in the banks. On the one hand,this has filled the coffers of the giant corporates 
the funds for the RSS and its affiliated organisationshave been increased on the other. This not only put 
the poor, the middle classes, the peasantry, small traders and small capitalists to great inconveniences 
but in fact made them bankrupt. 

Since  BurhanWaniof  Hizb-ulMujahideenwas  shot  dead  last  July  there  is  an  upsurge  in  the  Kashmir 
national liberation struggle.This is continuing even after the murder of his associate Sabjar Ahmad Bhat 
this year in May. The people of Kashmir are scaring the state and the central governments with their war 
with ‘stones’ on the Indian Army and the Para-military forces. All through this year students became a 
militant  part  of  this  struggle.  In  the  North  East  the  National  Liberation  struggle  organisationshave 
consolidated again, formed a United Front and are fighting against the Indian expansionists in a united 
manner. 

A  situation  hasemerged  where  Workers,  Peasants,  the  Middle  classes,  theNational  Bourgeoisie, 
Oppressed Nationalities, Religious Minorities, Dalits, Adivasis, Women, Students, Youth and others are 
fighting  against  Brahmanical  Hindu  fascism.  There  is  a  clear  polarisation  of  forces  in  the  country. 
Brahmanical  Hindu  fascism  became  pro-imperialist  and  a  common  enemyof  the  oppressed  classes, 
nationalities and oppressed social communities with itsanti-country and outdated reactionary policies. 
This and the brewing people’s resistance in various forms to change this situation is a new development 
in the country’s politics in the past three years. 

Comrades, 

Our People’s Guerillas wiped out 37 CRPF personnel and injured another 10 in two ambushes in March 
and April in Sukma district of Chhattisgarh after which a top level meeting was held with Chief Ministers, 
Police top officials and district Collectors of ten states presided over by the Central Home Minister on 8th 
of May. Ruling out the question of deploying the IndianArmy in the areas of our movement, plans for 
elimination of the movement were formulatedunder the guidance of military officers. As a part of it they 
have  decided  to  –shift  the  CRPF  (LWE)  Central  Zone  Command  Centre  to  Raipur  from  Kolkata;  to 
establish  Unified  Commands  up  to  district  level;to  strengthen  Commands  at  the  Tactical-Operational 

 

5 

level; to form a committee for better coordination between the state and the central forces; to shift the 
NaxalSpecial  DG  office  in  Raipur  to  Jagadalpur  (Bastar);  to  expand  the  intelligence  system  and 
strengthen  especially  human  and  electronic  intelligence;  to  make  this  network  effectively  useful  for 
potential  use  with  real  time  intelligence  through  electronic  system  (UAV,  Satellites,  GPS,  Thermal 
Imaging,  Infrared  technology,  CC  TV  cameras,  radars  and  other  such  things);  to  utilise  Air  Force  in 
Operations (Commando force is deployed in helicopters for attack and strafing and to carry out drone 
attacks); to impart new kind of training for the forces; establish counter-insurgency schools in Sukma 
and  Bijapur  districts;  to  improve  coordination  between  the  central  and  the  state  forces;to  complete 
roads in the areas of the movement as soon as possible in the protection of Para-military forces and 
with  the  help  of  modern  technology;construction  of  more  communication  towers  and  other  such 
decisions.They  have  announced  that  the  National  Security  Adviser  AjitDobhal  and  Internal  Security 
Adviser K.Vijay Kumarwould guide the campaign for the elimination of Maoists. The important decision 
in  this  meeting  was  to  make  surgical  strikes.  All  these  reveal  the  aim  to  wipe  out  the  revolutionary 
leadership  and  the  revolutionary  subjective  forces  in  Mission  2017.  As  a  part  of  it  they  have  already 
announced  that  they  would  target  civil  rights  activists,  social  activists  and  democrats  in  the  name  of 
‘white clad’ Naxalites. 

Mission 2017 started very aggressively with murderous attacks. In the first five months the police killed 
60 village level leaders, local activists and revolutionaries in the areas of our movement in the country. 
Mass rapes on women, murder, arson, arrest and torture are being increasingly centralized and made 
more cruelsince  the days of SalwaJudum and  Sendra. Life imprisonment is given to the revolutionary 
massesand  the  intellectuals  who  support  them,  to  democrats  and  traders.  Revolutionaries  are  given 
death sentence. 

History has repeatedly proved that no matter how much the exploitive ruling classes indulge in cruel 
repression  on  the  people’s  struggle,  it  is  bound  to  fail.  So  we  must  take  up  the  immediate  task  of 
defeating  Mission-2017,  protect  the  Party  leadership  from  the  top  to  the  bottom,  advance  the 
movement and continuethe People’s War-Guerilla War depending on the mass base. In order to achieve 
success in this, we have to protect our forces to the extent possible. We have to utilize the weaknesses 
of the enemy and as soon as we get an opportunity we have to concentrate the PLGA forces. We have to 
attack  the  separate  units  of  the  enemy  forces  or  divide  their  forces  and  attack.  We  must  seize  their 
weapons. For this let us implement the rules and  principles of  Guerilla War – Secrecy,  Speed, Strong 
Will, Self-defense through change of place, offensive tactics with initiative and intensify and widen the 
Guerilla War. Let us advance the People’s War one more step forward to achieve the immediate aims of 
enhancing self-defense, mass base, developing and consolidating our subjective forces, expanding the 
movement and other suchaims with a sacrificing nature. 

We have achieved successes in the  Guerilla war, in people’s resistance, in the mass  movements only 
through the sacrifices of the martyrs. The ideals they have established are to identify with the people by 
fighting against the enemy in the interests of people until the last breath and stand as a basis for the 
People’s War. The oppressed masses of India see their future in the path of the sacrifices of the martyrs. 
Let us pledge to make efforts with a strong will by holding aloft their ideals, aspirations and traditions of 

 

6 

sacrifice and to achieve our theoretical, political, organizational, military and cultural tasks with a single 
mind and united practice. 

Comrades! 

Let us enthusiastically celebrate the martyr’s memorial week in the areas of our movement throughout 
the  country  with  the  immediate  task  of  defeating  Mission-2017  implemented  with  the  aim  of 
eliminating  the  revolutionary  movement  and  protecting  the  Party  leadership  from  the  top  to  the 
bottom. Let us mobilise the people in a big scale during this memorial week. Let us propagate the great 
sacrifices  of  our  dear  martyrs  among  the  Party  cadres,  PLGA  forces  and  the  villagers.  Let  us  hail  the 
ideals of the martyrs through posters, banners, pamphlets, wall writing, road writing and by publishing 
the histories of the martyrs through booklets and exhibiting their photos in a big way. Let us conduct 
meetings and rallies in the Village, Area, District/Division/Zonal, SAC/SZC/SC levels, mobilise the masses 
in a big scale andinstill self-confidence in them. Let us commemorate the sacrifice of the martyrs, their 
courage and daring, their strong will and other such ideals. Let us inspire and enthuse the people so that 
they follow their path for buildinga New Democratic society. Let us give a callto go forward on the path 
of the martyrs. This is the actual homage we can pay to our dear martyrs. 

 
June 3rd, 2017  

With Revolutionary greetings, 
Central Committee, 
CPI(Maoist) 

 

7 

