 

 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

10 September 2014 

 

Message to the Milan International Conference in 

Solidarity with the People’s War in India 

 

To all the delegates who have gathered in this Conference,  

To all the parties, organisations and individuals who have worked to organise it,  

To  the  International  Committee  to  support  the  people’s  war  in  India  that  is  leading  this 

Conference, 

Warmest  revolutionary  greetings  and  heartfelt  Lal  Salam  from  the  CPI  (Maoist)  and  the 
People’s  Liberation  Guerrilla  Army  (PLGA),  Revolutionary  People’s  Committees  (RPCs), 
Revolutionary Mass Organisations and revolutionary people of India, it leads. 

We greet you especially with the joy of celebrating the momentous 10th anniversary of the 
foundation  of  our  party  and  with  deep  appreciation  of  your  organising  this  Conference  in 
conjunction with these celebrations exactly in the condition of great turmoil in the world. The 
formation  of  the  CPI  (Maoist)  which  united  the  two  major  revolutionary  streams  in  India 
realised a dream long cherished by the revolutionaries and masses. In its 10 years of its existence 
2332 comrades, including members of the Politbureau, Central Committee, State, Region, District, 
Sub-zone, Area and Village level party committees, primary party members and many more of the 
PLGA and the United Front, have made the supreme sacrifice to fulfil the revolutionary tasks it 
had set itself. We pay homage to these martyrs, to the revolutionary masses who have willingly 
suffered loss of lives and unimaginable repression  to  participate  and  support  the  people’s  war, 
and  to  all  those  who  laid  down  their  lives  for  the  great  cause  of  communism  throughout  the 
world. 

 
 
 
 

For us the celebration of the 10th anniversary of our party is an opportunity to take stock of 
our achievements and shortcomings. The PLGA, People’s Militia and revolutionary masses led by 
it have waged heroic political and military battles against a heavily armed and trained enemy, 
guided  and  backed  by  imperialism,  particularly  US  imperialism.  Our  comrades  in  jail  have 
written  splendid  tales  of  resistance.  We  celebrate  these  achievements,  aware  of  our 
shortcomings, in order to forge ahead along the path of protracted people’s war.  

Comrades, 

  Allow us to first place an account of the past ten years. 

During this period our party, the PLGA, RPCs and all the revolutionary mass organisations 
led  by  it  have  striven  hard  to  realise  the  tasks  we  shouldered  at  the  time  of  its  formation.  In 
2007,  defeating  the  persistent  attempts  made  by  the  enemy  to  thwart  us,  we  successfully 
convened our long cherished Unity Congress, the 9th Congress. This enabled us to further deepen 
and enrich our ideological, political unity. An exhaustive review was made of the achievements 
and drawbacks, successes and failures, of the two and half years since the merger. Along with central 
and principal task other important tasks were set. The leadership was further strengthened. Thus, our 
party emerged from the Congress, more sharp in its ideological-political positions, more consolidated 
in its unity, more steeled in its determination and fighting spirit, to fulfil its tasks as the vanguard of 
the new democratic revolution of India, as a contingent of the international proletariat.  

Since 2004, and more so after the Congress, the PLGA took major strides through arduous 
efforts and carried out heroic raids and ambushes. It advanced from company level formations, is 
taking  initial  steps  in  forming  battalions,  and  improved  its  capacity  of  command  and 
coordination  of  its  primary,  secondary  and  base  forces.  This  has  allowed  it  to  attack  and 
completely annihilate the Indian state’s mercenary para-military forces, in general at the platoon 
level,  and  in  particular  at  the  company  level  in  the  Mukaram  battle.  It  has  built  up  a  broad 
People’s Militia, numbering in the thousands. This has been instrumental in defeating counter-

2 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

revolutionary vigilante groups such as the Salwa Judum and Sendra, etc. where the enemy tries 
to ‘turn the people against the people’. The People’s Militia and the revolutionary masses have 
also been of great importance in the PLGA’s successes in major battles.  

This period also gave important lessons in revolutionary mass struggles and co-ordination 
between  armed  and  mass  struggles.  We  must  particularly  note  that  this  was  done  under 
conditions where almost all open mass organisations linked to our party, or even suspected to 
have relations to it, are banned and its members hunted, murdered or imprisoned. In the midst 
of  this  persecution,  fully  aware  that  the  ‘masses  are  the  real  creators  of  history  and  we 
communists are mere children’, we have persisted in building mass organisations suited to the 
conditions  and  mobilising  the  masses  in  the  hundreds  of  thousands.  We  led  some  major  mass 
struggles that took the form of mass upsurges. New forms of struggle and organisation emerged, 
such as those in Lalgarh and Narayanpatna. Conducive ground was laid for the consolidation of 
an anti-feudal, anti-imperialist front. In many other parts of the country big struggles broke out 
where the masses came forward to defend their land. They fought against plans to displace them 
for the sake of opening big mines, dams and other pro-imperialist, pro-ruling class projects. We 
supported these struggles and led some of them. This gave us rich experiences in leading mass 
struggles, uniting a wide variety of forces. These struggles brought out the leading role of the 
party and the people’s war it leads. They were of immense help in extending the war zones and 
expanding the party and the PLGA through winning over new forces. 

Another  important  arena  of  struggle  is  gradually  expanding  inside  the  prisons.  Several 
thousands  are  in  jail.  Several  Central  and  District  and  sub-jails  in  about  20  States    have 
reverberated with the hunger strikes, at times indefinite, on the demands of political prisoners. 
Through their activities our comrades in jail have succeeded in mobilising ordinary prisoners to 
fight for their rights. Democratic organisations and forces are also playing a key role in this even 
amid  severe  countrywide  repression.  Support  activities  and  struggles  demanding  release  of  all 

3 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

political  prisoners  have  spread  out  across  the  country  and  internationally.  The  solidarity 
activities you have taken up in support of political prisoners in India were specially important 
and we cherish them as a glowing example of internationalism. 

Over these ten years the party has further developed its capacities in different fields. It has 
actively engaged in ideological struggle against various deviations within the country and at the 
international level. It played a key role in the formation and functioning of the Co-ordination 
Centre of Maoist Parties and Organisations in South Asia (CCOMPOSA).  

The party has paid attention to raise its ideological level through systematic study classes 
and rectification campaigns. Study material and magazines are published in various languages. 
Special effort was taken to develop study/propaganda material in adivasi languages. Syllabus and 
texts prepared for basic education were further enriched. These are used in the schools run by 
the RPCs and for the education of PLGA combatants and members of the mass organisations.  

An exceptional contribution of the party is that of arousing the women who are half the 
sky  and  developing  their  capacities  in  political,  organisational,  military,  cultural  and  other 
spheres  so  that  they  can  lay  claim  to  their  share  in  struggle.  Today  around  40  percent  of  the 
fighting force of the PLGA consists of women, though the percentage varies in various guerrilla 
zones.  Women  are  commanders  at  the  platoon  level  and  members  of  company  level  party 
committees.  

The  party  has  paid  a  lot  of  attention  to  develop  revolutionary  cultural  activities.  Mass 
cultural organisations exist in many States from village to State level. They spread the message of 
revolution and promote democratic and scientific values through multifarious cultural forms that 
learn from and develop national, ethnic cultural traditions and styles. They motivate the people 
to  struggle  for  radical  change.  Their  cultural  messages  also  play  the  role  of  an  instrument  of 
rectification  that  attacks  the  reactionary  values  of  the  old  society  gripping  the  minds  of  the 

4 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

masses.  These  organisations  are  powerful  weapons  linking  the  party  with  the  broad  masses. 
Apart from these mass organisations, armed cultural groups are formed within the PLGA too, at 
the company and battalion levels. 

Most importantly, through the planned work taken up after the formation of the united 
party,  we  could  expand  some  guerrilla  bases  as  a  transitory  step  towards  the  establishment  of 
liberated  areas.  We  succeeded  in  consolidating  Revolutionary  People’s  Committees  (RPC)  in 
several  villages  in  these  bases.  The  guerrilla  bases  enabled  us  to  carry  out  strategic  tasks  to 
further consolidate and expand them to advance the revolutionary war.  More people’s political 
power  organs  emerged  in  the  period  after  the  Congress.  In  Telengana  and  Andhra  Pradesh 
several RPCs had been formed in the past. Though there had been a setback in these States, the 
people  who  had  enjoyed  political  power  are  fighting  to  overcome  the  situation  with  that 
inspiration.  In  Dandakaranya  (Chhattisgarh),  several  Area 
level  revolutionary  people’s 
governments were formed earlier. A few Division (District) level people’ governments have also 
started functioning. This is a new experience in the history of the revolutionary movement in 
our country. They are placing an alternative political, economic and cultural model in front of 
the  Indian  people  by  rejecting  the  fake  democratic  system  and  the  pseudo  reforms  of  the 
exploiting  governments.  These  people’s  governments  are  striving  to  increase  the  agricultural 
production  of  the  people  through  their  cooperative  and  collective  labour  while  working  very 
hard to march forward to achieve self-sufficiency for the economic development of the people 
and to support the party and the PLGA. Thus we march forward to realise the central task of our 
revolution, the seizure of political power through armed struggle. 

Following the formation of the united party in 2004, the enemy has redoubled its efforts to 
destroy the revolution by expanding the US imperialism guided ‘Low Intensity Conflict’ strategy 
to the entire country. It now acknowledges us as the ‘greatest threat’ to its security.  

5 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

Through  this  strategy  the  enemy  has  paid  special  effort  to  attack  and  destroy  our 
leadership. As you know it has succeeded in this to a significant extent, causing heavy losses. In 
2009  it  launched  its  even  more  ruthless,  intensive  and  extensive  suppression  strategy,  the 
‘Operation Green Hunt’, the notorious ‘War on the People’.  A grand plan was prepared to wipe 
us  out,  employing  fascist  methods.  Huge  forces,  including  special  forces,  were  trained  and 
concentrated. Thousands of crores of rupees were spent. Massive propaganda targeting us as anti-
development  and  a  bunch  of  terrorists  was  carried  out.  Intense  combing  operations,  surprise 
attacks on our forces, attacks on our mass base in the war zones were conducted by mobilising a 
huge  number  of  forces  in  every  operation.  Large  scale  arrests  of  activists  of  all  people’s 
organisations in rural and urban areas and militia in all guerrilla zones, burning and destruction 
of houses, properties and crops, mass murder of people and mass raping of womenfolk and killing 
and taking away a large number of livestock had become a routine one, fake encounter killings 
continued, destruction of our urban networks, destruction of the infrastructure built up through 
the collective labour of the masses were combined with reform activities meant to sidetrack the 
people.  In  the  face  of  this  fascist  onslaught  we  did  suffer  serious  losses.  Led  by  the  Central 
Committee, the whole party, PLGA, People’s Militia and revolutionary masses led by the RPCs 
and  mass  organisations,  stood  firm,  learnt  from  our  mistakes,  redoubled  efforts  and  hit  back. 
Simultaneously we waged a political battle. We struck back exposing the enemy’s propaganda. 
This paved the way for a favourable political polarisation within the country.  Progressives and 
democratic forces came forward along with revolutionaries to denounce the enemy’s Operation 
Green Hunt as a ‘War on the People’. Internationally too a broad movement came up to build 
world public opinion against this assault of the Indian state.  This reaffirms the capacity of our 
ideology to counter the enemy’s psychological war and gives us rich lessons. 

In the wake of the severe mauling they suffered at the hands of the PLGA in a few tactical 
offensives where they were wiped out in large numbers, the enemy started taking up operations 

6 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

with even larger forces. The enemy who was successful in damaging the leadership and cadre in 
the urban and plain areas is now targeting the leadership in forest areas. The enemy has already 
engaged its 500,000 Central and State troops in these war zones and is planning to increase it by 
several thousands. Drones are employed. The Air Force is involved in a supportive role and the 
Army is being readied.  

Facing  these  attacks  the  PLGA  has  gained  rich  experiences  in  battling  and  breaking  the 
enemy's ‘cordon and search’ campaigns, deploying at times a force of 10,000. The PLGA, with 
the full support of the people and with exemplary initiative, bravely fought hour long battles, 
even for three days, to break the enemy’s cordon and successfully defeated its plans to capture 
leadership comrades.  PLGA forces and people’s militia also fought back the tactics of the enemy 
of deploying the police and paramilitary forces through helicopters by firing on and damaging 
them with ordinary rifles. 

While  the  tightening  blockades,  combing  and  attacks  brought  out  the  steel  in  the  vast 
majority of our ranks, it has also exposed the rotten elements that had remained hidden among 
us.  Liquidationists  who  pretend  that  protracted  people’s  war  is  not  suited  to  our  conditions, 
cowards who flee under different pretexts hopelessly trying to cover up their defeatism, traitors 
who sell out the people for the pittance thrown to them by the enemy – these trying times have 
uncovered them, one after the other. Among the masses some have “surrendered” under enemy 
brute force. Repeated and heavy attacks have caused great harm to the party structures in the 
villages and consequently to the RPCs and mass organisations too. A section of the masses have 
become passive. 

In  the  first  quarter  of  2013,  assessing  the  situation  we  face,  the  Central  Committee  had 
noted  that  the  weaknesses  in  our  subjective  condition  were  uneven.  It  assessed  that  our 
countrywide movement is facing a very difficult condition. The reasons for this situation to arise 

7 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

are  both  objective  and  subjective.  The  Indian  ruling  classes,  with  the  complete  support  and 
guidance  of  the  imperialists,  have  launched  an  unprecedented  multi-pronged  countrywide 
strategic  offensive  to  suppress  our  developing  movement.  We  suffered  some  losses,  lost  some 
ground temporarily while withdrawing in the face of superior forces. The other reason for this is 
subjective,  the  mistakes  we  made  in  rising  up  to  the  demands  of  changing  conditions  of  the 
revolutionary  war  and  leading  the  PLGA  and  people,  continuing  remnants  of  non-proletarian 
tendencies  in  ourselves  and  failure  in  avoiding  serious  loses.  The  Central  Committee  has 
formulated the basic tactics to overcome this situation. It issued a call to Bolshevise the party 
aimed  at  becoming  capable  of  overcoming  the  present  difficult  condition  and  achieving  it  by 
educating the entire party in MLM, political and military line and basic policies, tactics, style of 
work  of  the  party  and  fighting  style  of  the  PLGA,  lessons  learnt  from  practice,  rectifying  its 
mistakes and shortcomings and thus strengthening the party, PLGA and mass base and paving 
the way to advance the movement. Whatever may be the situation, we have a mighty weapon to 
tackle it. This is our ideology, MLM. Grasping it deeply and taking up this weapon ever more 
firmly; this is the crux of Bolshevising the party. This campaign is going on and the party and all 
the forces led by it are striving to develop their capacities to defeat the enemy’s onslaught. 

During the past 15 months we put efforts to preserve our movement and leadership amid 
intensified  enemy  offensive.  In  the  recent  period  the  PLGA,  with  the  support  of  the  people, 
conducted  tactical  counter-offensive  campaigns  and  several  armed  actions,  annihilated  enemy 
forces  and  seized  arms  and  ammunitions.  Thousands  of  people  and  people’s  militia  led  by  the 
PLGA  destroyed  road  building  equipment,  vehicles,  guest  houses,  and  camp  offices  of  the 
government and the big construction and mining companies. Along with starting Bolshevisation 
campaign in the entire party, PLGA mass organisation and United Front organisations, we could 
achieve some positive experiences in some parts and extend into some new strategic areas. We 
are striving hard for revival of the movement in some of the areas from where we had to retreat. 

8 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

In areas where we have weakened the party is trying to face the situation with Bolshevik spirit. 
Facing  heavy  odds  and  losses,  we  are  opening  up  a  new  war  front  in  the  Sahyadri  (Western 
Ghats) border region of Karnataka-Keralam-Tamilnadu.  

Our party’s efforts to rally the vast masses in both secret and open forms against the pro-
imperialist policies that served the interests of the ruling classes implemented by the Central and 
State governments continued. Thousands of people held rallies and vented their ire demanding 
the withdrawal of the Central and State forces. They protested fake encounters, massacres, illegal 
arrests and atrocities on women, attacks on villages, loot and destruction of people’s properties 
and demanded the release of political prisoners. Revolutionary land reforms and people’s welfare 
programmes were conducted by RPCs by mobilising the masses and PLGA also participated in 
these  programs.  The  capture  and  execution  of  the  hated  Mahendra  Karma,  the  main  person 
responsible for the brutal Salwa Judum atrocities was a major achievement. Responding to the 
call  of  the  party  the  people  in  rural  Dandakaranya  (DK)  boycotted  the  Chhattisgarh  assembly 
and  parliament  elections  and  some  rural  areas  of  Bihar,  Jharkand,  Odisha  and  Andhra-Odisha 
Border  (AOB)  people  successfully  boycotted  parliamentary  elections  by  resiting  thousands  of 
additional state forces and their brutal suppression.  In areas where movements of adivasi peoples 
against mining and displacement are going on, majority of the people boycotted the Loksabha 
polls and expressed their protest against the these destructive projects.   

As part of the election boycott campaign the PLGA forces successfully conducted tactical 
counter-offensive actions on the enemy forces that came to force people to vote in most of the 
war  zones  of  Central  and  Eastern  India.  Some  of  these  actions  took  place  in  areas  which  the 
enemy had claimed to have ‘cleared’ and taken control of. Within the first five months of 2014, 
spanning the election period, 63 enemy forces were annihilated and 122 injured in 31 actions. 
One PLGA combatant was martyred in these offensives. We could seize 36 weapons and 3366 
rounds. It is noteworthy that these actions came in the wake of and during two massive country-

9 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

wide special ‘cordon and search campaigns’ conducted by the enemy. Through guerrilla actions 
conducted  constantly  by  the  PLGA  in  the  various  guerrilla  zones  the  enemy  forces  had  to 
disperse  their  forces  in  a  vast  area  and  so  were  forced  into  a  situation  where  they  could  not 
deploy their forces as they wish in our crucial areas. Due to lack of additional forces the enemy 
couldn’t carry out these campaigns more intensively in all areas at once except in Bijapur (DK) 
and some other parts of the country.  

New  forms  of  struggle  are  being  developed  to  counter  the  enemy’s  ‘carpet-security’ 
strategic  network  where  heavily  fortified  camps  with  hundreds  of  troops  are  put  up  at  short 
distances  of  2  to  6  km  from  each  other,  steadily  encircling  our  guerrilla  bases  and  other  war 
zones. In two instances, the masses, along with the PLGA or on their own with its support, have 
engaged  in  armed  harassment  or  besieged  such  camps  for  days  together  and  forced  their  shut 
down. The role of women in these struggles was exemplary. We have also seen instances where 
the masses either rejected the free goods distributed by the enemy mercenaries as part of Civic 
Action Programs or made a bonfire of them. 

In this period an important achievement in last 15 months was the merger into one party 
of  CPI  (Maoist)  and  CPI  (M-L)  NAXALBARI.  This  was  another  turning  point  in  the  effort  to 
achieve  unity  of  genuine  revolutionaries  in  our  country.  As  pointed  out  in  the  merger 
declaration, this gives a boost to the capacity of our party to better fulfil its role as the vanguard 
of the Indian revolution. The unity of Maoists in the face of intense enemy attack has greatly 
encouraged  our  entire  party,  PLGA  and  the  revolutionary  masses.  It  has  been  enthusiastically 
welcomed at the international level too.  

Overall  the  situation  we  face  is  still  very  difficult.  But  we  are  firmly  holding  on,  boldly 
facing up to it, and pushing forward to overcome it. Needless to say, the solidarity you extend 
immensely  helps  us  in  this  task.  We  are  glad  to  see  that  you  agree  with  us  on  the  need  to 

10 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

vigorously  take  forward  the  campaign  to  end  Operation  Green  Hunt.  This  campaign  and  the 
solidarity movement in support of people’s war in India complement each other. Defeating this 
counterrevolutionary multi-pronged countrywide offensive of the enemy is an immediate task 
before us.   

Every  revolution  advances  in  a  wave-like  manner.  That  is  a  law  of  history.  In  times  of 
difficulties we should heighten our ideological level, keep politics in command, take the message 
of revolution deeper and wider among the masses, creatively apply the line of protracted people’s 
war  and  develop  our  tactics,  be  ‘red  and  expert’  in  our  political,  military,  organisational, 
propaganda,  training,  cultural,  production,  technical  and  other  tasks,  be  more  determined, 
dedicated  and  ready  for  sacrifice.  Only  thus  can  we  emerge  from  this  situation  more  united, 
more disciplined, courageous, stronger, more consolidated and more dynamic. This is the lesson 
we  learn  from  the  great  revolutions  of  our  class,  summed  up  in  the  teachings  of  our  great 
teachers. They have also taught us the need to reforge our ties with the masses on a deeper and 
higher level at each turn of the revolutionary war. At each crucial juncture the task of deepening 
the politicisation of not only ourselves but simultaneously the politicisation of the masses also 
poses  itself  afresh.  We  resolutely  take  up  this  task  to  unleash  the  revolutionary  energy  and 
initiative of the masses in an even more powerful manner. 

Such is the brief account of our successes and failures, of the people’s war in India, over the 
past  ten  years.  Such  is  the  main  way  we  have  been  contributing  to  the  advance  of  the  world 
socialist revolution.  

Comrades, 

During  the  past  decade  a  number  of  important  developments  have  taken  place  at  the 

international level. We wish to draw your attention to some salient features. 

11 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

The initial years of the last decade saw huge outpourings of the masses against globalisation 
policies  that  destroyed  their  lives  and  a  strengthening  of  people’s  wars  and  armed  liberation 
struggles. The ideology of the proletariat was more sharply posed through the establishment of 
Marxism-Leninism-Maoism. Its wider adoption strengthened the grounds for closer unity among 
Maoist forces, internationally and in different countries. Stirrings of a new wave of revolution 
could be seen in the world. Mainly in response to this, imperialism, particularly US imperialism 
initiated  and  launched  a  massive,  worldwide  counter-revolutionary  offensive,  directed  against 
the people. This was the main content of the so-called ‘War on Terrorism’ which all imperialists 
and  reactionaries  joined  or  supported.  Wars  of  aggression  against  Afghanistan  and  Iraq, 
curtailment of democratic rights, attacks on people’s struggles, growing fascicisation throughout 
the world, step up of suppressive campaigns against armed struggles, people’s wars and Maoist 
parties — such were its main features. But the arrogance of US imperialism, the sole superpower 
soon got soundly rebuffed. The challenge was met. A worldwide struggle emerged against the 
war  on  Iraq  and  continued  after  the  launch  of  the  war.  Powerful  resistance  in  Iraq  and 
Afghanistan  bogged  down  the  aggressors  and  upset  their  plans.  Masses  throughout  the  world 
refused  to  be  cowed  down  and  continued  their  struggles  against  the  ravages  of  globalisation, 
liberalisation  and  privatisation.    People’s  wars  continued  to  advance.  As  a  result  of  all  these 
factors, US imperialism was forced to change tactics within a few years. Bush was replaced with 
Obama.  Talk  of  ‘decades  of  war’  was  replaced  with  hurried  plans  for  disengagement  and 
withdrawal of troops. This is a stark indicator of the favourable situation that has emerged in the 
world. This period also saw a growth in the contention between imperialist powers as Russian 
imperialism began to assert itself in the context of the US getting bogged down.  

As  we  all  know,  the  global  crisis  of  the  imperialist  system  that  broke  out  in  2008  has 
further  exacerbated  the  situation  world  over.  In  both  imperialist  and  oppressed  countries, 
millions  took  to  the  streets  and  fought  pitched  battles  with  reactionary  state  forces,  workers 

12 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

seized factories, masses occupied squares and shut down governments. Students, youth, women, 
workers, immigrants, pensioners — all have come out in struggle. The heady days of the Arab 
Spring  are  still  live  in  our  memories.  Several  hated  dictatorships  were  brought  down  by  the 
persistent  struggles  of  the  people.  This  blooming  of  the  masses  didn’t  arrive  at  realising  their 
aspirations for a genuine democracy, exploitation free system and people’s rule. But it has stirred 
up  these  societies  in  a  deep  way.  It  gave  hope  to  the  world  peoples.  The  results  will  surely 
appear. 

This is the world today. It shows a situation of great potential for a powerful new wave of 
revolution.  But  there  is  another  side  to  this,  a  bitter  side,  one  of  betrayal.  Once  again  in  the 
history of the international communist movement revisionism has blocked it from gaining the 
most of a favourable situation. The betrayal of the people’s war in Nepal by the CPN (Maoist) 
leadership, particularly the Prachanda-Bhattarai clique, was the most damaging of its acts. The 
possibility  of  forcing  the  enemies  of  the  people  to  drop  their  guise  as  saviours  of  democracy 
fighting obscurantist fanatics and bringing them into direct confrontation with a revolutionary 
people,  of  raising  the  banners  of  a  people’s  war  led  by  Maoists  as  a  rallying  centre  against 
imperialism  and  reaction,  of  winning  over  broad  sections  of  the  people  to  the  cause  of 
communism,  was  destroyed.  From  another  end  we  see  a  liquidationist  attack  on  our  ideology 
that  seeks  to  pull  down  the  banners  of  a  MLM  and  replace  it  with  the  hollow  claims  of 
Avakianism. This has already destroyed some Maoist parties, who once had an honourable place 
in the ranks of the ICM. Both of these deviations have been confronted by the Maoists and the 
struggle continues. Efforts are on to consolidate Maoist parties and build new ones. But the loss is 
evident.  There  is  a  considerable  drop  in  the  subjective  forces  of  world  proletarian  revolution, 
caused not by enemy suppression, but by the enemies emerging from within it.  

Thus  we  see  the  contradiction,  the  glaring  gap  between  the  potential  of  the  objective 
situation and the subjective capacities of the Maoist forces. This is what we must confront. All 

13 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

our  activities  must  be  directed  to  overcome  it.  This  is  the  deepest  need  of  the  oppressed  and 
exploited throughout the world, the demand of these times. As Mao would say, “We must seize 
the hour, seize the time”. Our party believes that it is the need of the hour for the communist 
forces to strive to mobilise the broadest possible anti-imperialist, democratic and revolutionary 
forces to strengthen the campaign to end OGH and with a view to build a broad worldwide anti-
imperialist  front  that  is  in  process.  And  the  further  strengthening  of  the  unity  of  communist 
forces world over would lead to stronger support for the Indian Revolution too.  

In the present situation, the objective potential of the world situation is far outstripping the 
subjective capacities of the individual parties. Yet much can be done to win over a large section 
to the cause of communism through their united effort. The recent years have seen collective 
activities  in  the  form  of  joint  May  Day  statements,  seminars  on  important  developments, 
conferences  of  Maoist  parties  for  summing  up  experiences  of  international  organisation  and 
strengthening  the  struggle  against  neo-revisionism,  joint  forums  such  as  the  International 
Support Committee organising this Conference and the solidarity activities it has initiated. We 
have  welcomed  these  efforts  and  continue  to  support  them.  We  must  now  explore  the 
possibilities of making the closer ties born out of these activities and growing unity of thinking 
on ideological, political issues the basis for further advance. 

Just  as  the  Indian  revolution  serves  the  world  proletarian  revolution  so  too  is  its  future 
vitally linked to how best the Maoists throughout the world can make the most of the world 
situation  and  advance  world  revolution.  We  take  confidence  from  the  burning  desire  for 
revolution  expressed  in  the  proceedings  of  the  Hamburg  Conference,  seen  in  its  motto  that 
advancing the revolution in our respective countries is the best way of expressing solidarity to 
similar revolutions in other countries.  

14 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

Our party which carries forward the legacy of Naxalbari had always considered the new 
democratic  revolution  that  we  are  waging  in  India  as  an  integral  part  of  the  world  socialist 
revolution,  the  party  a  vanguard  contingent  of  the  world  proletariat.  The  invaluable  and 
incredible sacrifices that are being done by the people and comrades in our revolution are also an 
integral  part  of  the  great  sacrifices  done  by  innumerable  beloved  martyrs  of  world  socialist 
revolution in each and every country. 

Finally,  before  we  conclude,  we  wish  to  speak  about  the  great  efforts  you  are  doing  in 
support of the people’s war in India. The news of your campaigns, its vivid images, are being 
taken to our ranks, PLGA combatants and revolutionary masses as widely as possible through our 
open  and  secret  magazines  and  several  other  means.  When  they  know  that  their  sisters  and 
brothers  in  far  off  lands  stand  up  in  militant  solidarity  with  them,  when  they  see  images  of 
protests  before  Indian  embassies,  of  wall  writings  taking  the  message  of  their  revolution  to 
masses in those countries, their hearts swell with pride — we are not alone, our people are there, 
we are everywhere. Your acts have inspired us; they have made us more determined. We will 
strive our utmost to fulfil the confidence you have reposed in us. Our future, the future of the 
world revolution, the future of the world proletariat, oppressed nations and oppressed people is 
certainly bright but the path is a thorny, arduous and full of zigzags. The future of our enemies, 
the imperialists and their lackeys the world over, is dark and their doom is inevitable.  

With revolutionary greetings, 

Central Committee, 

CPI(Maoist) 

   

 

15 
 
 
 
 

