 

Message from the CMC on the occasion of the 17th anniversary of 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

PLGA 

Intensify and expand Guerilla War – People’s War all over the 

country! 

Defeat the new counter revolutionary strategic offensive 

‘Samadhan’ (2017-2022) of the enemy 

to eliminate the Indian Revolution 

 

 

Message from the Central Military Commission (CMC), CPI (Maoist) to all the Party 

Committees, Members, Red Commanders and warriors of PLGA, People’s Militia forces, 

Leaders and activists of the Revolutionary People’s Governments and Mass Organisations 
and the Oppressed masses to celebrate the 17th Anniversary of PLGA from 2nd December to 

the 8th with revolutionary enthusiasm and revolutionary spirit! 

 

Central Military Commission 

CPI (Maoist) 

 

Intensify and expand Guerilla War – People’s War all over the country! 

Defeat the new counter revolutionary strategic offensive ‘Samadhan’ (2017-2022) 

of the enemy to eliminate the Indian Revolution 

 
Dear Comrades and People! 
December 2nd is the day that stands in the history of Indian Revolution. The people of the country 
remember this day as the day when in 2000 People’s Liberation Guerilla Army (PLGA) was formed in 
the leadership of CPI (Maoist) to liberate the oppressed people of the country from the exploitation 
and oppression of imperialism, comprador bureaucratic capitalism and feudalism. PLGA was formed 
in  the  direction  and  guidance  given  by  the  founders  of  Indian  Revolution  and  martyrs  Comrades 
Charu  Mazumdar  and  Kanhai  Chatterjee,  with  the  inspiration  of  our  beloved  leaders  and  martyrs 
Comrades  Syam, Mahesh and Murali and with the spirit of thousands of martyrs, making true the 
long felt dreams of the oppressed people of India and the world. Our brave PLGA would complete 17 
years  coming  December  2nd.  On  this  occasion  the  Central  Military  Commission  (CMC)  of  the  CPI 
(Maoist)  conveys  red  red  salutes  to  all  the  Party  Committees,  Commands,  Party  Members,  brave 
Commanders  and  warriors  of  PLGA,  the  leaders  and  activists  of  the  Revolutionary  People’s 
governments  and  Revolutionary  Mass  Organisations,  the  members  of  People’s  Militia  and  the 
revolutionary people. CMC conveys revolutionary greetings to all the comrades in the country who 
took  part  in the  efforts of multipronged (political, military and organizational) resistance to defeat 

 

 

the  counter  revolutionary  Operation  Green  Hunt.  It  pays  humble  homage  to  the  martyred  heroic 
guerillas and all the martyrs who laid their lives  in various encounters, fake  encounters, betrayals, 
covert  operations  of  the  enemy,  accidents,  in  jails,  with  snake  bites,  ill-health  and  other  such 
reasons. Let us learn their Communist values, unwavering courage and their dedication towards the 
people  and  gain  inspiration.  Let  us  pledge  to make  true  their  dreams  and  ideals.  On  this occasion 
CMC hopes that the comrades injured in guerilla war actions would recover soon and jump into the 
arena of war with war enthusiasm. 
On  this  occasion  CMC  calls  upon  all  the  Party  ranks,  PLGA  units,  Revolutionary  People’s 
governments,  Mass  Organisations  and  people  to  celebrate  the  17th  Anniversary  of  PLGA  from 
December 2nd to the 8th in the villages of the area of the movement, in the towns and all over the 
country with revolutionary enthusiasm and revolutionary spirit. It calls upon to take up recruitment 
campaign all through the month of December across the country to contribute to the consolidation 
of  PLGA  with  the  objective  of  defeating  the  counter  revolutionary  new  strategic  offensive 
‘Samadhan’ (2017-2022) of the enemy. 
Nearly  140  comrades  laid  their  lives  in  the  past  one  year  to  make  the  Indian  New  Democratic 
Revolution  successful,  dedicated  to  achieve  the  tasks  of  the  Unity  Congress-Ninth  Congress, 
relentlessly  making  efforts  to  defeat  Operation  Green  Hunt.  More  than  30  of  them  are  woman 
comrades. 
Out  of  the martyrs  two  are  members  of our  Central  Committee, 98  are  from DK,  19  from  BJ,  two 
from  Telangana,  7  from  AOB,  two  from  Odisha,  one  from  West  Bung,  two  from  MMC  and  one 
comrade  from  the  Western  Ghats.  Three  of  the  martyrs  are  from  the  rank  of  State  Committee,  7 
from ZC/DvC, three from the Sub-ZC, 22 are AC/PPC, more than fifty are the members of Party and 
PLGA, nearly 40 militia activists and 15 revolutionary people. 
The  martyrs  are  –  two  leaders  of  Indian  Revolution  and  members  of  our  Central  Committee 
Comrades  Narayan  Sanyal  (Vijayda,  member  of  Polit  Bureau),  Comrade  Kuppu  Devraj  (Ramesh, 
Yogesh),  State  Committee  rank  comrades  Raghunath  Mahato  (member  of  BJSAC),  Himadri  Roy 
(member of West Bung SC), Ajitha (Kaveri, member of SZC, Western Ghats). 
On the occasion of the 17th Anniversary of PLGA let us memorise all the martyrs who laid their lives 
in the past one year and pay humble revolutionary homage to them. Let us pledge to fight until the 
end for achieving their ideal. 
Our  countrywide  political,  military  and  organizational  effort  to  defeat  Mission-2017  and  the 
results 
The Central and the State governments started the third phase offensive of Operation Green Hunt 
since  the  beginning  of  2014  to  eliminate  the  countrywide  Revolutionary  movement.  Since  NDA 
(National  Democratic  Alliance)  in  the  leadership  of  Narendra  Modi  came  to  power  in  the  centre 
these attacks  have  attained  more  fascist  character and  there  is  a  rise  in  their severity  and  extent. 
PLGA-People’s Militia, Revolutionary People’s Governments, Mass Organisations and Revolutionary 
people in the leadership of our Party fought back Mission-2016 with multipronged counter offensive 
tactics and defeated it and so the enemy formulated Mission-2017. We intensified political, military 
and organizational effort all over the country depending on the strength of the movement and could 
contain  Mission-2017  to  an  extent.  The  vital  thing  in  this  is  the  People’s  War-Guerilla  War  that 
continued resisting counter revolutionary war of the exploitive ruling classes. Along with this we also 
took up mass movements on the problems of daily life and fundamental problems, united activities 
increased  and  anti-displacement  struggles  intensified  and  expanded.  These  and  other  such  things 
contributed a lot in fighting back the enemy offensive. With the Leadership Training Program to train 
the  leadership  in  the  Party  and  Military  fields  in  all  levels,  Social  Investigation  with  the  aim  of 
formulating new tactics, taking up Agrarian Revolutionary Program-Revolutionary reform helped us 
achieve better results. 
 
 

 

 

Let  us  see  the  actions  of  People’s  War-Guerilla  War  of  PLGA  and  revolutionary  people  in  the 
leadership of the Party to defeat Mission-2017 
In the past one year 72 police, Para-military, Commando forces were eliminated and 96 injured. 35 
modern weapons including 21 AK and nearly 3500 rounds of ammunition were seized. Forty police 
informers,  two  enemies  of  the  people  and  six  enemy  agents  were  eliminated.  Roads,  culverts, 
mobile  towers, Railway  lines,  vehicles and timber were  burnt  or destroyed to stop the projects of 
various kinds of comprador corporate classes that displace the people. 
Four  big  actions  –  KothaCheruvu,  Burkapal,  Karampalli  and  Thondamarka  took  place  among  the 
actions  of  retaliation  in  the  Tactical  Counter  Offensive  Campaigns  in  Dandakaranya.  Much  other 
small and medium kind of actions took place. These actions, especially the Burkapal ambush instilled 
new enthusiasm and confidence in the revolutionary camp not only in the country but also across 
the world. It gave a severe blow to the morale of the enemy forces. 
TCOC  and  the  retaliatory  actions  in  DK  gave  strong  resistance  to  Mission-2017.  Along  with  these 
actions, there were guerilla war actions. The enemy took these, the extent of mass base that led to 
the  success  of  these  actions,  the  domestic  and  international  situation  into  consideration  and 
changed their strategy in Mission-2017. They had to formulate a new counter revolutionary scheme 
and strategy-tactics to eliminate the Indian Revolution with the name of ‘Samadhan’ for the coming 
five years (2017-2022). 
The  TCOC  and  retaliatory  actions  of  DK  helped  in  the  protection  of  guerilla  bases.  Big  actions  like 
Burkapal  stood  vital  in  the  protection  of  the  guerilla  bases.  The  TCOC  this  year  gave  a  new 
experience  in  the  construction  of  Improvised  artillery  and  expanded  its  utilization.  There  were 
widespread sniper actions. The Central and the State governments stopped all kinds of resources for 
the  revolutionary  movement  and  attempted  to  lessen  the  extent  and  severity of  war  actions.  The 
guerilla  war  actions  of  DK  are  attaining  new  experience  as  a  counter  to  this  ill  scheme  and  are 
instilling self-confidence in the revolutionary camp. The new experiences of DK Guerilla zone in the 
recent  time  are  the  Burakapal  kind  of  joint  operations  by  concentrating  PLGA  forces,  building 
primary level artillery basing on local resources, training snipers and the intensification and extent of 
mine warfare through improvised explosive devices. These experiences help for the development of 
the PLGA forces in various guerilla zones and red retaliation areas all over the country. 
In the TCOC in AOB in 2016-2017, 15 policemen died and 21 were injured. Out of these retaliatory 
actions Mungaru Gummi-Sunki ambush is a big kind of action. In this 9 OSAP (Odisha State Armed 
Police) were wiped out and four were injured. 
In Telangana four policemen died and three were injured in the guerilla war actions in 2016-2017. 
These  taking  place  of  guerilla  actions  of  Telangana  where  policemen  were  wiped  out  is  a  good 
development after many years. 
In Madhya Pradesh-Maharashtra-Chhattisgarh (MMC) in the guerilla war actions in 2016-2017 four 
policemen were wiped out and three were injured. 
In Odisha one policeman died and seven were injured. 
On the whole 96 policemen were wiped out and 134 were injured in DK, AOB, Telanana, Odisha and 
MMC of the Central Region, in the past one and a half years. 
In the Eastern Region, in the more than 40 retaliatory actions in Bihar-Jharkhand, East Bihar-North 
East  Jharkhand and West  Bung states,  twelve  policemen were  wiped out  and seven injured in the 
past  ten  months.  An  anti-people  political  leader  and  ten  counter  revolutionaries  were  eliminated. 
Crores  of  rupees  of  properties  of  the  government,  exploitive  classes  and  comprador  bureaucratic 
corporate companies were destroyed. 
In  the  past  ten  months  PLGA  took  up  more  than  200  guerilla  attacks  in  the  guerilla  zones  in 
Chhattisgarh,  Maharashtra,  Bihar,  Jharkhand,  AOB,  Odisha,  Telangana,  MMC,  West  Bung  and 
Western  Ghats.  More  than  110  police  were  wiped  out  in  these  attacks  and  nearly  135  injured. 
Seventy-five people’s enemies, anti-people political leaders, counter revolutionaries, informers and 
coverts  were  eliminated.  Thousands  of  people  were  mobilized  in  the  areas  of  our  revolutionary 

 

 

movement  in  anti-feudal,  anti-imperialist,  anti-displacement  people’s  struggles  and  against  state 
violence, in which especially women’s participation was in a big number. 
Thus,  depending  on  the  experiences  of  the  areas  of  revolutionary  movement,  applying  these 
experiences  to  the  specific  conditions  in  the  newly  expanding  areas  in  the  guerilla  zones  and  red 
resistance areas in DK and BJ, intensifying and expanding the guerilla war going on in the respective 
areas,  mobilizing  the  people  in  a  large  way  across  the  country  and  intensifying  anti-feudal,  anti-
imperialist  class  struggles,  we  can  undoubtedly  declare  that  we  can  defeat  the  2017-2022  new 
counter revolutionary scheme of the Central government. 
When compared to 2016 there is a rise in the intensity and extent of guerilla war actions all over the 
country in the past ten months. However we lost the subjective forces of our Party, PLGA and Mass 
Organisations in the intensified enemy attacks. Enemy also got hold of a considerable number of our 
Arms  and  Ammunition.  As  Comrade  Lenin  said,  the  advancement  of  People’s  War-Guerilla  War 
through defeating counter revolution is as much a fact as revolution fights back counter revolution. 
It shall advance invincibly only by formulating counter tactics to the enemy schemes, concentrating 
the  whole  forces  for  the  implementation  of  the  same,  making  PLGA  firm  in  the  leadership  of  the 
Party  against  the  various  non-proletarian  trends  and  mobilizing  and  arming  the  people  and 
intensifying People’s War. 
‘Samadhan’  strategy  is  the  new  counter-revolutionary  scheme  of  the  enemy  after  Burkapal 
ambush 
The  countrywide  guerilla  actions  of  our  PLGA  in  the  TCOCs  and  retaliatory  actions  gave  a  stiff 
resistance to Mission-2017 of the enemy. Especially after the Burkapal ambush the Indian exploitive 
ruling classes,  the  Central and the  state  governments were deeply worried. They held a high level 
meeting on the 8th of May in Delhi in the direction of the Central Home Minister and formulated new 
counter revolutionary scheme-strategy and tactics for the elimination of Indian Maoist movement. 
As per this counter revolutionary scheme they decided its aim to wipe out the Maoist movement in 
the country in the coming five years (2017-2022). The main points in the strategy and tactics of this 
counter revolutionary scheme are like this – 
They decided that the police, Para-military and Commando forces engaged in anti-Maoist operations 
must shed methods of self-defense and take up offensive attacks, penetrate into the areas of strong 
hold  of  the  Maoist  movement  and  make  attacks.  It  means  they  will  concentrate  on  attacking  our 
guerilla bases and strategic areas. 
They decided to make aerial attacks through Indian Air Force and the air borne forces of the various 
Para-military forces (forces that make attacks with war planes and helicopters). 
They are arranging a mechanism to provide 24 hours Air support in various areas of Bastar range to 
make aerial attacks and to shift the injured police in the Maoist attacks. In the coming days they will 
develop the mechanism providing air support to make such attacks if necessary in the areas of our 
movement and strategic areas. Depending on all these they will also intensify attacks on PLGA forces 
in the night. 
They will expand and strengthen the intelligence system. Along with human intelligence they would 
especially  expand  technical,  electronic  intelligence  and  strengthen  it.  UAV/Drones,  Satellites,  GPS, 
Thermal  Imaging,  Infrared  technology,  CC  TV  cameras  and  Radars  shall  be  used  to  collect 
intelligence. 
Enemy shall severely try to change persons helping us in civil and military supplies and other works 
as  informers  and  coverts.  There  shall  be  constant  severe  vigilance  on  the  movements  of  PLGA 
through various kinds of technical and electronic intelligence. 
The centre of strategic command of CRPF was shifted from Kolkata to Raipur to efficiently run these 
counter revolutionary attacks. In addition to the Unified Command in state level in Chhattisgarh until 
now they decided to form Operational and Tactical Unified Commands in the district level. 
As per this the civil, police, Para-military and Air force officers of the respective districts shall be part 
of  this  Unified  Operational  Commands  to  plan  operations  in  the  district  level.  Tactical  Unified 

 

 

Commands will be formed with the high level officers of the central and the state forces that go to 
implement these operations in the field. 
They  decided  to  have  better  coordination  by  rectifying  the  shortcomings  in  the  coordination 
between the central and the state police forces. According to this they decided that the state forces 
must  constitute  one  third  of  the  forces  going  for  combat  operations,  for  the  protection  of  road 
construction, ROP and other such work and the local forces must be in the forefront. 
They  decided  to  take  up  large  scale  ill  propaganda  campaign  describing  us  as  anti-development 
when  we  oppose  the  infrastructural  work  like  laying  of  roads  and  bridges,  communications,  fiber 
optical network, Railway and electricity lines  – the ‘development’ necessary for the exploitation of 
imperialist, comprador bureaucratic bourgeois classes and when we eliminate the police and Para-
military forces coming for the protection of such works. 
They decided to obtain support from Israel in counter insurgency and counter terrorist operations. 
They are imparting training to the Indian Para-military and Air force from Israel to make attacks on 
the Maoist forces. They are importing ultra-modern, bio-tech weapons and technology. 
They  formulated  special  scheme  to  make  attacks  in  Sukma  district  of  Dandakaranya  as  core  area. 
They decided to deploy two battalions of COBRA for this purpose. 
They decided to give a blow to the economic resources of Maoists to control their activities. 
The Central Home Ministry announced their present strategy of ‘Samadhan’ with the eight letters as 
eight kinds of practice of their strategy and tactics – S is Smart Leadership, A is Aggressive strategy, 
M  is  Motivation  and  training,  A  is  Actionable  intelligence,  D  is  Dash  board  based  indicators,  H  is 
Harnessing  technology,  A  is  Action  plan  for  each  threat,  N  is  no  access  to  financing.  This  is  their 
strategy. 
On the occasion of August 15th Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the agenda of developing 
India as a ‘new India’ by the  time of the 75th  Anniversary (2022) of quit India. Modi have  a call to 
eliminate  dirt  and  make  clean,  to  eliminate  poverty  and  develop  and  to  build  an  India  without 
corruption, terrorism, casteism and fundamentalism. This is only to deceive the ordinary people. The 
actual objective hidden in this agenda is to build an India without any hurdles to the class interests 
of  imperialism,  comprador  bureaucratic  bourgeois  and  big  landlords  and  to  stabilize  the  power  of 
the  imperialist,  comprador  bureaucratic  bourgeois,  big  landlord  classes.  The  actual  aims  of  ‘Nava 
Bharath  Nirman’  (building  of  new  India)  are  like  this  –  India  should  be  a  reliable  servant  to  US 
imperialism  in  South  Asia  and  fight  China.  The  oppressed  castes,  especially  the  Dalits  must  be 
suppressed to stabilize the hegemony of the higher castes in the country (in their language this is the 
casteless). Brahmanical Hindu fascism must be strengthened by suppressing the religious minorities 
(in their language this is the communal less). Class struggle and the Maoists waging Armed struggle 
against  imperialism,  comprador  big  bourgeois  and  big  landlord  classes  must  be  suppressed,  the 
National Liberation Struggles of Kashmir and North East must be suppressed (in their language this is 
the  elimination  of  terrorism)  to  establish    ‘Hindu  Raj’.  So  the  aim  of  the  Indian  exploitive  ruling 
classes is to totally wipe out the Indian revolutionary movement for the building of ‘Nava Bharath’. 
We  can  understand  the  fascist  character  of  ‘Samadhan’  only  when  we  understand  both  these 
together. 
The main concentration of this counter revolutionary new scheme and strategy-tactics would be in 
Dandakaranya, Bihar-Jharkhand but it aims to wipe out the revolutionary movement of the country. 
The  whole  revolutionary  camp  must  be  prepared  to  take  up  active  efforts  to  enlighten  and 
consolidate the people in a large scale to fight back this scheme. 
Let us utilize the domestic and international situation turning favorable to revolution and defeat 
the enemy offensive 
Since  the  central  and  the  state  governments  are  implementing  globalization  policies  and  anti-
worker,  anti-farmer  policies  as  a  part  of  it  for  the  past  26  years  since  1991,  the  lives  of  worker 
peasant masses have become miserable. The industrial and service sectors are going into the hands 
of  Multi-National  corporate  organisations  and  the  namesake  rights  of  the  workers  too  are  being 
violated. This brought lakhs of workers of the organized and unorganized sectors on the roads and 

 

 

they  are  in  the  path  of  struggle.  There  is  severe  repression  on  the  worker’s  movements  and  the 
leadership.  Many  leaders  of  the  movement  are  foisted  with  false  cases  and  are  facing  life 
imprisonment. But the workers’ movements are going on in a militant manner. On the other hand 
the  agricultural  sector  is  in  crisis.  Farmers  are  affected  with  the  burden  of  loans  due  to  less 
remunerative  prices.  The  central  and  the  state  governments  are  implementing the  dictates  of  the 
World  Bank  for  the  past  two  and  a  half  decades  due  to  which  the  Indian  Agricultural  sector  was 
affected.  Two  and  a  half  lakhs  of  farmers  committed  suicide  in  the  three  years  of  Modi  rule.  The 
farmers of Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, 
Jharkhand,  Rajasthan  and  Tamilnadu  took  up  militant  agitations  for  remunerative  prices  in  the 
recent  period.  In  the  coming  time  the  peasant  struggles  shall  grow  more  militant  and  be 
consolidated. 
In  the  name  of  war  on  black  money,  corruption  and  terrorism  the  Modi  government  suddenly 
demonetized  the  big  currency  notes.  This  did  not  contain  black  money  and  more  over  severely 
affected  agriculture,  small 
industries,  unorganized  sector  and  retail  trade.  In  addition  to 
demonetization  the  pro  imperialist  policies  of  the  Modi  government  led  to  the  slowdown  of 
industrial growth. Due to all this the ‘growth rate’ of Indian economy was severely affected. Inflation 
is on the rise. Small capitalists, traders and all sections of the society are facing severe problems. 
There are eighteen crores of educated unemployed in the country. The electoral assurance of Modi 
that they would provide jobs and employment to one crore per year proved to be false in the past 
three years. In the three years Modi government provided only 2.5 lakh jobs. While one crore and 
thirty lakh people are coming into the job market each year with degrees in their hands, the central 
and the state governments are unable to provide jobs for them and proved to be anti-people. There 
are  increasing  conditions  that  this  army  of  the  unemployed  shall  take  up  militant  struggles  in  the 
coming years. 
Presently US president Donald Trump is following the policies of first preference to the Americans 
(first employing the Americans and paying them better) and made changes regarding H1B visa. Thus 
the opportunities for employment to those who wish to go to the US for jobs have reduced. Britain, 
Australia,  Singapore  and other  imperialist  and  capitalist  countries  too  imposed  many  sanctions on 
immigration.  With  this  nearly  5-6  lakhs  fell  in  a vulnerable  situation  of  losing  jobs  in  the  Indian  IT 
industry. On the other hand the economic crisis continues in the international level. The employees 
of Indian origin in the foreign countries are removed and there are no new job opportunities. There 
are increasing attacks with racial discrimination on the Indians in many countries including America. 
Thus  the  employees  and  students  of  the  IT  industry  and  other  fields  are  taking  up  the  path  of 
struggles. 
GST came into implementation since July 1st in the name of one country-one tax that affected lakhs 
of small producers and small traders all over the country and gave way to a situation of the rule of 
only  the  Multi  National  Organisations,  their  comprador  products  and  business  branches.  So  the 
coming days shall see the struggles of small producers and small traders too. 
The offensive of Brahmanical Hindu fascism is taking a severe form on the Dalits, Adivasis, Religious 
Minorities, Women, Oppressed Nationalities and Progressive intellectuals day by day. These sections 
are  taking  up  struggle  against  this  in  various  forms.  Of  late  there  are  relentless  such  attacks.  In 
Karnataka famous progressive magazine editor and writer Gowri Lankesh was murdered. In Gujarat 
the  Dalits  were  attacked  in  Una.  After  their  resistance  there  are  non-stop  attacks  on  the  Dalits  in 
Saharanpur  of  Uttar  Pradesh  and  other  places.  Military  and  Para-military  employed  severe 
repression on the Kashmir National Liberation struggle and the militant struggle with the demand of 
Gorkhaland.  There  are  increasing  attacks  on  the  students  of  Universities.  Especially  there  are 
imposing  Manudharma  on  the  women  students  with  patriarchal  sanctions.  In  this  background 
conditions are maturing towards the direction of united and militant struggles against Brahmanical 
Hindu fascism starting from the local level to the centre. The Hindu fascist offensive is intensifying 
the fundamental contradictions in the Indian society. These are forming more favorable conditions 
for the formation of United Front against Brahmanical Hindu fascism. 

 

 

The financial crisis that started in the US in 2008 and expanded to the whole world is not yet solved. 
All the attempts of the imperialist countries to solve this crisis are failing. With this the imperialist 
countries have chosen economically protectionist policies, politically fascism and militarily war as the 
way for solution. Thus all the fundamental contradictions are intensifying. 
Middle  East,  the  area  of  South  China  Sea  and  Korea  Island  collective  have  become  the  centre  for 
conflicts  between  imperialist  US,  Russia  and  China.  US  deployed  more  than  five  lakhs  of  US  and 
South  Korean  forces  in  the  Asia-Pacific  area  against  China  and  North  Korea.  Imperialist  China  is 
making preparations since the beginning in its exploitive interests. Imperialist Russia on one hand is 
increasing friendship with China and is countering US to sustain its position in the Middle East. 
China Belt and Road Forum (BRF) arranged a two day meeting in capital Beijing in the month of May 
this  year  to  discuss  the  One  Belt-One  Road  (OBOR)  project.  Leaders  of  29  countries  and 
representatives from more than one hundred countries participated in this meeting. US opines the 
One Belt-One Road scheme shall become a major challenge to its hegemony in the world economic 
order. 
The policies of US President Donald Trump to revive the hegemony of US imperialism are turning to 
be a major danger to the world peace. Immediately after Donald Trump came to power he enhanced 
US  forces  in  Syria  and  Afghanistan  and  intensified  attacks.  He  made  evil  schemes  to  pose  Saudi 
Arabia against Iran and saw the tensions between the two countries do not cool down, in order to 
permanently  find  place  in  the  Middle  East  and  exploit  the  oil  and  the  markets  there.  He  made 
agreements to sell weapons of a value of 35,000 crores of dollars to Saudi Arabia in this decade. He 
added Sunni-Shia conflicts to the conflict between Saudi Arabia and Iran and ignited the conditions 
for a permanent division of all the Middle East countries as two opposing parts. He is posing Japan, 
South Korea, Australia and India against China. All these developments create major danger to the 
world peace. 
As  a  result  the  developments  are  turning  favorable  to  revolution  and  the  world  proletariat, 
revolutionaries and revolutionary parties must utilize this. As a part of this it is necessary to intensify 
People’s War against imperialism and its domestic compradors. 
The financial and political policies of the imperialist countries are creating the opportunities for the 
growth of right fascist parties of the exploitive classes in those countries and also creating favorable 
conditions  for  the  birth  of  proletarian,  Communist  Parties,  for  the  growth  of  small  parties  to  big 
parties and to take up militant struggles. 
Due  to  the  intensity  of  imperialist,  comprador  bureaucratic  bourgeois,  feudal  exploitation  and 
oppression in our country adivasis are losing their power on the forests, workers and employees are 
losing  their  jobs,  students  are  not  assured  of  jobs,  the  Dalits,  Muslims,  Adivasis  and  Oppressed 
Nationalities  are  facing  Brahmanical  Hindu  fascists  and  are  mobilising  in  an  unprecedentedly 
extensive and militant manner. The trend is on the rise. These movements growing extensively and 
militantly are the biggest source and basis for the advancement of revolutionary movement and for 
defeating  the  enemy  offensive.  Let  us  formulate  necessary  tasks  and  tactics  according  to  the 
favorable conditions growing internationally and domestically and defeat the enemy offensive. Let 
us advance the Indian New Democratic Revolution. 
Tasks 
The circular ‘Present situation-Our tasks’ of the CC released in February 2017 directed regarding the 
tasks to be fulfilled and the tactics to be taken up in the coming two years. In view of this we have to 
work to fulfill the below mentioned tasks. 

1.  Concentrate  on  defeating  the  counter  revolutionary  ‘Samadhan’  offensive  of  the  central 

and the state governments in a bid to eliminate the Indian Revolutionary Movement! 

The new counter revolutionary ‘Samadhan’ offensive of the central and the state governments is a 
multipronged  offensive.  This  offensive  formulated  in  the  guidance  of  LIC  strategy  will  be 
implemented in all the political, economic, military and cultural sectors in the most fascist methods 
with  tactics  deceiving  revolutionary  masses,  Party  cadres  and  PLGA  warriors together  with  a  large 
scale psychological war. It will go on as perception management to mold the ideas of the people in 

 

 

their favor. We can understand this offensive in a comprehensive manner only when we understand 
it together with the strategic scheme of the Indian exploitive ruling classes for ‘Nava Bharath nirman’ 
(building of new India). So the cadres of the Party, warriors of PLGA must politically understand the 
conspiracy of ‘NavaBharath nirman’ and the fascist character of Samadhan offensive and explain to 
the revolutionary masses. 
Though  the  new  counter  revolutionary  scheme  of  the  central  and  the  state  governments  to 
eliminate Indian Revolutionary movement is occupational, we have to properly analyse the strength 
and weakness of it and our strength and weakness in facing them. Based on this understanding we 
have  to  formulate  offensive-self-defense  tactics  to  face  this  counter  revolutionary  offensive.  We 
have  to  provide  this  understanding  to  our  Party,  PLGA  cadres,  to  the  local  organisations  and  the 
revolutionary masses. We must  politically prepare  all of them to face  the enemy offensive. This is 
important. 

2.  Take  up  countrywide  political  exposer  propaganda  movement  to  expose  this  scheme  of 

the Indian exploitive ruling classes in the name of ‘Nava Bharath’ to stabilize their power! 

We  must  explain  to  the  people  about  the  ‘Nava  Bharath  nirman’  and  tell  them  not  to  fall  in  this 
deception in this manner – Poverty will not be ridden only by giving a few houses to the rural and 
the urban poor in the name of ‘eradication of poverty’. This is only to see that the social unrest rising 
among  the  oppressed  masses  of  the  country  due  to  the  pro  imperialist,  anti-people,  anti-nation 
policies of the exploitive ruling classes does not transform to be a source of revolution. The problem 
of  the  rural  and  the  urban  poor  people  is  the  question  of  land.  It  is  the  question  of  power  on 
instruments of production and state power. Unless it is solved any of the reforms of the exploitive 
ruling classes will not eradicate poverty. The exploitive ruling classes have been deceiving the people 
of the country with fake development activities for the past 70 years. 

3.  Expose the war frenzy and national frenzy of the Indian exploitive ruling classes! 

The Indian exploitive ruling classes have been instigating war frenzy and national frenzy to divert the 
people  from  socio-economic  problems  like  poverty,  illiteracy,  diseases,  starvation  deaths  and 
farmer’s suicides. We have to politically enlighten the people and see that they do not fall into such 
things. If the oppressed class and the proletariat go into such things, revolutions will fail. 

4.  Mold PLGA and United Front as strong instruments in the hands of the Party against rising 

fascism! 

Rising  fascism  intensifies  the  contradictions  in  the  society  much  more.  As  a  result  of  this  the 
revolutionary  conditions  might  turn  to  be  a  revolutionary  crisis.  In  such  a  situation  the  politically 
enlightened forces will have a favorable condition. They inspire the people, mobilise lakhs of them 
and  play  the  role  of  creating  mass  upsurges.  They  can  bring  a  change  in  the  balance  of  forces.  So 
PLGA and United Front must be molded as strong instruments in the hands of the Party and made to 
play such a role. For this they must understand the political changes and develop accordingly. They 
must acquire the initiative and flexibility. 
Build a broad United Front and a strong militant movement against Brahmanical Hindu fascism with 
the  Revolutionary  forces,  Democrats,  Progressive  forces,  organisations,  Religious  minorities, 
Secularists, Dalits, Adivasis and Women! 

5. 

Intensify  anti-imperialist,  anti-feudal,  anti-state  class  struggles  all  over  the  areas  of  the 
movement! 

We must mobilise the landless, poor and the middle class peasantry in the vast countryside into class 
struggles  against  the exploitation  and  oppression  of  landlords,  money-lenders  and  traders.  People 
must  be  organized  into  political  agitations  in  a  large  scale  against  imperialist  globalization  and  on 
political, economic and social problems like displacement. These must be united with People’s War. 
Revolutionary, Democratic organisations, forces, individuals and the vast masses must be mobilized 
and a strong people’s movement must be built on a broad basis. 
Take up Social Investigation and Class analysis in all the States/Special Areas/Special Zones with the 
objective of developing the tactics of People’s War according to the transforming social conditions! 

 

 

Formulate proper tactics on this basis, apply it to the specific conditions creatively and advance the 
People’s War invincibly! 
Take  up  programs  to  enhance  the  theoretical  level of  the  Party,  the  military  leadership  ranks  and 
activists! 

6.  Consolidate PLGA in a political, military and organizational manner! 

We must pay attention to increase recruitment into PLGA from all the areas of the movement over 
the  country.  We  have  to  intensify  class  struggle  to  develop  mass  base,  identify  the  active  and 
militant  forces  that  come  forth  in  this  struggle,  pay  attention  to  them  and  increase  recruitment. 
Where  the  movement  is  weak,  we  have  to  recruit  limited  persons  and  in  places  where  the 
movement is relatively strong we have to recruit in scores and hundreds. 
Call of the Central Military Commission 
It is seventy years since the transfer of power on the 15th August 1947. In the past 70 years all kinds 
and  colors  of  political  parties  of  the  country  were  in  power  either  in  the  centre  or  the  state.  But 
these parties and the parliamentary system utterly failed in solving any of the problems in the daily 
life  or  the  fundamental  problems  of  the  people.  In  future  too  these  political  parties  and 
parliamentary system cannot solve the problems of the people. Now the ‘Nava Bharath Nirman’ that 
Narendra  Modi  preaches  too  cannot  solve  the  people’s  problems.  It  shall  only  more  stabilize  the 
exploitive classes but shall not eliminate poverty, casteism and communalism. Believing the agenda 
of  Narendra  Modi  means  nothing  but  being  deceived  once  more.  So  the  people  of  the  country 
should  not  be  deceived  once  more  and  have  to  advance  in  the  path  of  Armed  Struggle  for  the 
success of New Democratic Revolution. 
None  of  the  oppressed  classes  and  oppressed  social  communities  was  left  un-attacked  by  the 
Brahmanical Hindu fascists in the past three years of Narendra Modi’s rule. Neither the opposition 
parties nor the NGOs have the strength to stop these attacks. In order to fight back these attacks the 
oppressed  masses  and  the  people  of  the  oppressed  social  communities  must  organize  in  the 
Communist  Party  of  India  (Maoist)  and  PLGA,  become  armed  and  resist.  So  the  Central  Military 
Commission calls upon the people of the oppressed classes, oppressed social communities, religious 
minorities and oppressed nationalities to recruit into the CPI (Maoist) and PLGA. 
Propagate in a big way the courageous TCOC and the retaliatory actions of PLGA to defeat Operation 
Green Hunt all over the country in the past one year. Take up campaign for recruitment in the whole 
month of December. 
 
 

  Defeat the new counter revolutionary ‘Samadhan’ offensive! Eliminate the enemy and 

seize arms! 

  Surrendering to the enemy is equal to slavery! Fight back the LIC policy of the enemy of 

surrender showing many kinds of greed! 

Intensify anti-feudal, anti-imperialist class struggle! 

  Consolidate the Party, PLGA and United Front! 
  Recruit youth in a large number into PLGA! 
 
  Build strong and militant movement against Brahmanical Hindu fascism! 
 
 
 

Long live Marxism-Leninism-Maoism! 
Long live PLGA! 
Long live CPI (Maoist)! 

 
 
 
14-10-2017 

Revolutionary Greetings 
Central Military Commission (CMC) 
CPI (Maoist) 

