MessageRevolutionary greetings to the

Fiftieth Anniversary of our Party!

Strengthen the Party theoretically, politically
and organizationally so as to spread and intensify

countrywide Protracted People’s War!

Celebrate the 50th Anniversary of our Party and
the 15th Anniversary of our new Party – CPI
(Maoist) from September 21st to November 8th all
over the country with revolutionary enthusiasm

and revolutionary firm will!

A call to the Indian revolutionary ranks and

people!

Central Committee

Communist Party of India (Maoist)

Dear Comrades and people!
The Communist Party was formed in our country in 1925. The
party betrayed the great Telangana Armed Peasant struggle, stepped
into the Parliamentary mire and became a revisionist party. The revo-
lutionary ranks lacked an alternate revolutionary leadership to oppose
this revisionist leadership and the revisionist line and so continued in
this. In 1964 the CPI split into the CPI and the CPI (M). There is only a
slight theoretical, political difference between the two. The neo-revi-
sionist policies of the CPI (M) came out into the open with the two line
struggle in its 7th Congress in 1964 November. So by the time of
Naxalbari the revolutionary ranks realized that the CPI, the CPI (M)
and their lines were outright revisionist.
A large number of Maoist forces including the first rank great lead-
ers such as Comrade Charu Mazumdar and Comrade Kanhai
Chatterjee came forth opposing revisionism and neo-revisionism and
proposing an alternate revolutionary line in the turbulent Sixties when
– the Communist Party of China in the leadership of Mao held ‘Great
Debate’ against the modern revisionism of Khrushchev that came forth
in the World Socialist camp; the Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution
started in China; people’s movements broke in several countries. This
led to the outbreak of the great Naxalbari Armed Peasant struggle
followed by countrywide Armed Peasant struggles. The Communist
Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) was formed on the birth centenary of
the great Marxist teacher Comrade Lenin on the 22nd April 1969 and
the Maoist Communist Centre (MCC) on the 20th October 1969. Sub-
sequently on 22nd April 1980 the CPI (M-L) (People’s War) was formed
together with the genuine revolutionary forces of the CPI (M-L) stream
and new CPI (M-L) [People’s War] was formed in 1998 with the unity
of the People’s War Party and CPI (M-L) Party Unity. The MCC uni-
fied genuine Marxist-Leninist groups – RCCI (M), RCCM, CPI (ML)
(Second CC) and RCCI (MLM) (Organising Committee) and devel-
oped into the MCCI in 2003. The MCCI and the CPI (M-L) [People’s
War] merged and the new CPI (Maoist) emerged on 21st September
2004. Two main revolutionary streams of our country merged and the
genuine proletarian revolutionary party the CPI (Maoist) came to ex-

3

istence as the genuine continuation of all the revolutionary aspects of
the long history of the Indian Communist Movement going on since
1925. Thus a single revolutionary party, a single proletarian People’s
Army (PLGA) and revolutionary Mass Organisations and new
organisations of political power with a single political nature came
into existence. Later it continued the process of unifying genuine Com-
munists and unified CPI (M-L) Naxalbari in 2013 December.
As a continuation to the six Congresses of the CPI and the Sev-
enth Congress of the CPI (M), the Eighth Congress of the CPI (M-L)
was held in 1970 May and in 2007 January the historic Unity Con-
gress-Ninth Congress of the CPI (Maoist) was held. This Congress
approved the basic documents and enriched the theoretical, political,
military and organizational lines. The Party realized its mistakes and
weaknesses in the light of MLM and conducted rectification campaign.
In the past fifty years CPI (Maoist) was formed and developed
amidst many ebb and flows, ups and downs, severe losses and set-
backs. It is advancing in waves, continuing New Democratic Revolu-
tion through Protracted People’s War and is relentlessly striving to
lead the worker, peasant, middle class and other oppressed people
and oppressed sections of India. At times it took great leaps and even
achieved higher and considerable victories. Our Party is going ahead
fighting back the unceasing, full-fledged counter revolutionary offen-
sive of the Indian reactionary comprador bureaucratic capitalist and
feudal ruling classes that serve the interests of the imperialists and
also theirs, with the help of the people through People’s War.
We must celebrate the 15th foundation anniversary of CPI (Maoist)
and together with it in the heritance of the CPI (M-L) and MCC, the 50th
foundation days of the two parties. In view of the importance of these
anniversaries we have to celebrate these days from 21st September
to 8th November. This must be combined with the celebration of the
70th anniversary of the revolution of People’s China on October 1st.
The Central Committee of our Party calls upon all the Party Com-
mittees from the top to the bottom and units to participate in the study
of the history of the bright Party in the light of MLM on the occasion of
the Fiftieth Anniversary of our Party and to be trained with our rich
4

subjective experiences gained through shedding a lot of blood. It calls
upon to successfully celebrate these anniversaries with the aim of
accomplishing New Democratic Revolution and later establish So-
cialism-Communism and with the tireless, heroic spirit of struggle of
our Party and its experience. It appeals to take up this occasion through
pamphlets, posters, banners, brochures and booklets, through cul-
tural programs all over the country and hold rallies, meetings, semi-
nars, photo and art exhibitions in a big way and spread that Commu-
nism is invincible.
Hundreds of leadership cadres, thousands of Party Members and
many thousands of revolutionary people have become martyrs work-
ing for the cause of accomplishing New Democratic Revolution in
our country and ultimately Socialism-Communism all over the world.
115 comrades have been martyred in the past one year out of which
40 are woman comrades. On the occasion of the 50th anniversary of
our Party, let us pay countless revolutionary homage to all the revolu-
tionary warriors and martyrs who served the Party and the Revolution
dedicating themselves wholly for the people until their last breath in-
cluding Comrade Charu Mazumdar and Comrade Kanhai Chatterjee,
the great leaders of Indian Revolution and the founders and teachers
of our Party. The CC pays revolutionary homage to the heroic fighters
who laid their lives in the movements in various countries in the lead-
ership of Maoist parties and organisations with the objective of ac-
complishing the World Socialist Revolution and to the fighters who
laid their lives in the various nationality liberation struggles and the
democratic, progressive and patriotic movements. The successes of
the Indian people’s revolution were possible only because of the dedi-
cation and sacrifices of the martyrs. Let us imbibe the spirit of their
ideals. Let us follow their spirit of selfless sacrifice!
The reactionaries and counter revolutionaries are making con-
stant vain attempts to nullify the people and the revolutionary forces
saying that the Maoist party making NDR through PPW could not
achieve complete success even after 50 years. They try to hide the
fact that the ruling semi-colonial, semi-feudal system is becoming
rotten continuously. In fact the outdated system is on the deathbed

5

and we have to overthrow it out through NDR and establish a new
system.
On this occasion our Party must make efforts with much more
will to sustain its strength and the victories it achieved, to utilize the
favorable objective international and domestic conditions and to mold
its work in the coming years to develop its strength and to achieve big
successes.
The Party leadership can prove itself to be genuine and efficient
in the Indian Revolution only by enlightening, mobilizing, consolidating
and militantly taking forward the vast oppressed people according to
the path of New Democratic Revolution with the axle of Armed Agrar-
ian Revolution. The efficiency of this leadership will be expressed mostly
through bringing the people widely into the political arena, in the Tacti-
cal Counter Offensive Campaigns taken up by the PLGA (like am-
bush and raid) and through the unlawful and lawful democratic struggles.
These struggles will further strengthen our subjective forces and fur-
ther weaken the enemy. Therefore we have to assess the successes
of the revolutionary movement with the formation, expansion, con-
solidation of the Party, People’s Army (PLGA), the various revolution-
ary Mass Organisations and the organs of political power, with devel-
oping people’s movements and guerilla war and with the expansion of
the areas of the movement. People’s Army and People’s War are the
main instruments that fulfill the political objective of the people. Un-
lawful and lawful forms of struggle and organisation are inevitable to
advance armed revolution. They have a distinct feature and play a
distinct role. These are definitely necessary to mobilise the people in
a large number in the revolutionary movement and to fight against the
enemy and gain success.
The Party Committees of all levels from top to bottom must take
up consolidation campaign on the occasion of the Fiftieth Anniver-
sary. They must deeply discuss about the Party organisation in their
purview and take the necessary decisions to strengthen them. In the
background of alien class tendencies and mistakes in the party the
CC appeals to take up this campaign successfully to enhance the
theoretical, political, military and organizational level of the Party and
6

Communist values with the objective to rectify alien class trends and
minimize the losses.
In order to implement the strategic line of PPW against the out-
dated semi-colonial, semi-feudal system of India and accomplish New
Democratic Revolution, our Party must efficiently utilize the three
magic weapons to enlighten, mobilise and organize the people and to
defeat the enemy.
The first weapon is the CPI (Maoist). This is the vanguard of the
proletariat. The Party leads People’s Army-People’s War, United Front-
wide people’s movement and all the sectors. It must coordinate the
various organisations and struggles. The second weapon is the
People’s Army-People’s War (Armed Revolutionary movement). These
are the high forms of organisation and struggle. They are meant to
destroy the reactionary state and to establish people’s democratic
government. The third weapon is the United Front. This very efficiently
brings forth various forms of United Front to mobilise lakhs and crores
of people in the revolution and to isolate, weaken and destroy the
enemy in the revolutionary war or the patriotic war against the aggres-
sion of the imperialists.
We have to spread and consolidate our Party to achieve great
successes in the revolutionary movement. We have to adopt a prac-
tical scheme regarding recruitment with the objective of expanding the
Party in various levels. We have to adopt a proper training scheme
with the objective of consolidating the party. We have to concentrate
on recruiting advanced forces from the proletariat, agricultural labor,
poor peasantry, semi-labor, and the main oppressed classes and
sections such as women, Dalits, adivasis and religious minorities that
are into the Party. We have to develop Party leadership from them.
Expanding the Party means recruiting qualified persons from the vari-
ous revolutionary Mass Organisations (workers, peasants, students,
youth, women, intellectual and other organisations) in the towns, plains
and forest-rural areas and from PLGA (People’s Army) as Candidate
Members. Consolidation of the Party means promoting the Candi-
date Members as fulltime Party Members in proper time. So the Party
Primary Course (Party Primary Units, Village/Factory, town, college

7

Party Committees) must be completed during the period of Candi-
date Membership thus making them more active in the Party Primary
Units and allotting them responsibilities. Advanced people’s activists
must be recruited in time into the Party as Professional Revolutionar-
ies. They must be guided closely and be imparted theoretical educa-
tion properly and in proper time. Then the Party leadership and mem-
bers will develop better knowledge, become more decisive and expe-
rienced. They can wholeheartedly, militantly and efficiently fulfill their
political and organizational efforts. If not so all kinds of work will be
affected. Theoretical education is being neglected in the stream of
daily works. We have to impart theoretical and political training and
promote them as per our cadre policy into AC/PPC/Town Commit-
tees and strengthen them. The Party Committees at all levels must be
consolidated and new leadership be developed in each and every level.
In view of the state offensive we have to arrange protection and take
up study classes in the specified time period as per the syllabus for-
mulated by the CC to better theoretical and political training from the
bottom to the top as per our cadre policy. Through this campaign we
have to develop our Party, the Party leadership, People’s Army and
United Front quantitatively and qualitatively.
Our Central Committee must be decisive in the Armed Revolu-
tion as the General Staff of the whole Party in order to expand the
mass base, strengthen, to recover the affected areas of movement
and extend to new areas. The Party Committees from the bottom to
the top and the PLGA units must definitely closely study the schemes,
tactics, deployment and operations of the enemy in the rural areas of
armed struggle and adopt proper self-defense-offense plans. The tasks
and policies related to the Party and the main force, secondary and
base forces of the PLGA must definitely be implemented. Attention
must be paid to see that there is a proper balance between mass
work and tactical counter offensive.
The Party Committees must see the changes, favorable and un-
favorable conditions in the enemy situation and in revolutionary move-
ment. In any conditions the committees must protect themselves ac-
cording to the principle of standing on one’s own legs and advance
the armed revolutionary movement.
8

Starting from the central level to the district level the leadership
committees must see that there is continuous flow of young Party
leadership and Party Members from the towns to the rural areas and
into PLGA (People’s Army), so that the party organisation develops in
the towns, plain areas, forest-rural areas and to develop certain politi-
cal, professional and technical efficiencies.
We must constantly take up theoretical consolidation in a planned
manner. We have to regularly summarise our experiences in our work
in various levels and various areas/sectors. The Party leadership com-
mittees must regularly review the military efforts such as military for-
mation, training, war operations, on the implementation of revolution-
ary land reforms, mass work regarding the anti-feudal, anti-imperialist
people’s struggles, the formation of people’s organisations and con-
solidation, on the construction of red resistance areas, guerilla zones,
guerilla bases-base areas and other such things and must take les-
sons from the positive and negative experiences.
The development of our countrywide movement is in various lev-
els in various areas and is unequal. Therefore in view of the concrete
conditions of the respective areas the Party must enter into close
relations with the majority of the people and build all kinds of eco-
nomic, political and social movements. We have to develop political
consciousness of the people mobilizing into these struggles and con-
solidate the party organizationally and regularly. We have to build se-
cret and open Mass Organisations and recruit advanced forces from
them into the Party.
Organizational work among the masses is very important. Work-
ing without proper organisations among the people will be spontane-
ous. It will not provide expected results. It is also not possible to ex-
pand party organisation. If there are proper organisations planned work
will be possible. They will consolidate the influence of our Party among
the people.
We must consolidate four classes – Workers, peasantry, petty
bourgeois  class  and  National  bourgeois  class  in  the  Mass
Organisations. We must mainly depend upon the basic classes. We
must form secret revolutionary mass organisations. We must also
9

make efforts to build and develop open political movements and open
mass organisations.
The organized strength of the Party will develop by – forming new
Party cells, Party branches, village/factory/college/town Party Com-
mittees, Militia, PLGA units and various levels of RPCs; reorganising
and strengthening the organisations affected due to enemy offensive;
improving secret methods of work; rectifying mistakes; strengthening
democratic centralism, discipline and the unity of the Party; and
strengthening the secret coordinating mechanism, protection of the
Party and other such things in a proper manner. The leadership cad-
res at all levels in the party must fulfill their duties with proletarian revo-
lutionary firmness and unity. They must fulfill the tasks with selfless
sacrifice and communist spirit even in difficult conditions.
Since the beginning our Party has been studying MLM and has
been creatively applying it to the concrete conditions of the country.
However we must take up periodical social investigation and class
analysis in order to understand the trends and developments in the
mode of production and the composition and relations of the class
forces of the country. We have to rectify our mistake in this regard.
We have to constantly improve our tactics according to the changed
conditions.
The struggle between proletarian ideology and unmolded petty
bourgeois ideology always exists in the party. Social reality reflects in
one or the other way in the party. There is unequal consciousness
among the party membership. There are advanced, medium and back-
ward sections. So a few petty bourgeois forces that are not molded
stick to their narrow-minded, selfish and individualist ideas. They try
to develop non-proletarian ideas in the proletarian party in the respec-
tive levels. So we have to relentlessly take up struggle against such
non-proletarian ideology and trends in proper methods.
The various formations of PLGA take up guerilla offensive op-
erations in the leadership of the Party. Our Party Committees and
PLGA Commands must properly analyse the reasons that are com-
ing in the way of PLGA in fulfilling its main responsibility in implement-
ing the actions, in the process of fight against the enemy in various
10

conditions and in successfully carrying out the various battles. They
must exactly identify the mistakes and weaknesses, draw lessons
and make the necessary theoretical, political, military and organiza-
tional effort and once again take up operations successfully.
We are making guerilla war in the stage of strategic self-defense.
Therefore we have to firmly stick on to guerilla war tactics and rules.
We have to gain hold on the terrain, take up centralization-
decentralisation, the tactics of change of place, always grasp the
weaknesses of the enemy and make a surprise attack on those weak-
nesses with the aim of achieving victory. We have to wipe out small
enemy units with the support of the people and seize arms and other
war equipment.
We must not largely decentralize small units without proper pro-
tection in view of the information based attacks and encirclement-all-
out offensive of the enemy. The PLGA must definitely follow active
self-defense policies. Our guerilla units and party cadres must not
unnecessarily be exposed. They must keep the vital information se-
cret. The people and the militia must be imparted political and military
training so as to fulfill various tasks in the guerilla war, collect intelli-
gence information during ambush and raid and lending active support
to the guerilla units in conducting operations in the rear of the enemy
and mobilise them.
When the PLGA forces are encircled by the strong enemy forces
they must immediately come out of the encirclement. They must not
fight in the inner circle of the enemy but in the outer circle.
We must strengthen command, communication, coordination
and control between the various guerilla units. We must have the po-
litical and military initiative. We must closely observe the movements
of the enemy. Everyone must realize the role of every area and unit in
guerilla war and in cooperation. We must develop the military knowl-
edge of the comrades in various levels and the efficiency of the com-
manders and political and military training. We must provide clarity
towards the methods of assessment and methods of political and
military synthesis. We have to coordinate the daily struggles of the
people in support of the People’s War.

11

We must pay utmost attention towards the consolidation of Party
committees leading strategic and tactical United Front. Since the Party
directly leads strategic UF it must be built in a secret manner. We
must give the clarity that we hold the initiative in tactical UF.
In areas where there is mass base and intense enemy offensive
we have to build various levels of PLGA commands and units in the
leadership of the party and these must intensify guerilla war and people’s
struggles mainly basing on secret methods. We must build people’s
agitations on the fundamental problems of the people such as jal-
jungle-zameen, against state repression and on various economic,
political and social problems. We must make the people conscious
of the politics of seizure of state power right from the beginning so
that they do not fall in economism and reformism. We must arm the
people and widely consolidate them in militia. In areas where we had
given a blow to the state power of the enemy we must build
organisations of revolutionary state power – RPCs as soon as pos-
sible and concentrate on their consolidation.

Dear Comrades, People!
The world capitalist economic crisis is making severe impact all
over the world. The imperialists are following globalization policies
and direct and indirect interventionist policies in political and military
spheres and aggression wars to overcome the crisis. The imperialist
exploitive policies are leading to economic inequalities all over the
world. The wealth of 62 rich of the world is equal to that of half of the
world population. All the governments are adopting liquidate deficit
budget policies, imposed severe cut in people’s welfare schemes and
services that made the lives of the toiling people more miserable. The
real wages of workers and middle class people are falling down un-
employment reached a severe level. As a result the worker and middle
class movements in the capitalist, imperialist countries, especially in
Europe are intensifying day by day.
The imperialist interventionist wars are turning crores of people
of West Asia, Africa and Latin American countries into refugees. They
are in a terrible situation and are even dying. There is a spate of pro-
test movements and resistance struggles against the imperialist poli-
12

cies that are causing this situation. The Kurd people are making armed
revolution for the right to self-determination of nationalities. The na-
tional liberation struggle of Palestine is going on in a militant manner.
The armed struggle of the Taliban in Afghanistan has been going on
for two decades and is showing impact on the US imperialists. The
Maoist parties of Philippines, India, Turkey, Peru and other countries
are leading armed revolutionary movements according to the line of
New Democratic Revolution. Many such movements are inspiring the
people of several countries of the world so as to start People’s War in
the broad rural areas of their country.
The dog-fight between the imperialists for the re-division of the
world market and to loot the natural resources is intensifying in the
trade and military sectors. The Brexit developments reflect the inten-
sity of the contradictions between the imperialists. The protectionist
policies that the US brought forth in the economic sphere in the place
of globalization policies are being severely opposed by the other im-
perialist countries. Trade war between the US and China is going on
in an utmost severe manner. West Asia and Indo-Pacific areas are
the centre of contradictions between the imperialists. With the vain
attempts of the US to sustain world hegemony by facing Iran in West
Asia, North Korea in East Asia and the Russian and Chinese imperial-
ists that support these countries are increasing tensions. It especially
targeted Iran that is following independent policies without surrender-
ing to the US and imposed several economic sanctions on it. The
outbreak of the people against the ‘extradition bill’ in Hong Kong brought
by the Chinese government violating the aspirations of the people in a
way reflects the contradictions between the imperialists. On the whole
the three fundamental contradictions of the world are intensifying.
The struggles brewing all over the world out of the world capital-
ist economic crisis are favorable for the emergence and growth of
revolutionary forces. As a part of imperialist neo-colonial exploitation
a few Multi-National Companies of the world set up their production
units in several countries and are gaining super profits out of severe
exploitation of the proletariat. This is increasing competition between
the proletariat of the developed and the developing countries. These

13

developments show the necessity of the unity and united struggles of
the world proletariat. In the coming days the proletariat shall increas-
ingly play a leadership role for the revival of new democratic, socialist
revolutions. It is necessary for the proletarian revolutionary forces of
all the countries to utilize this favorable situation to strengthen theo-
retically, politically and organizationally and lead the anti-imperialist
struggle. These forces must industriously study the universal theory
of MLM. They must analyse and identify the distinct characteristics of
the revolutionary movement of their country and creatively apply MLM
to the concrete conditions.
The world capitalist crisis severely affected our country. The Brah-
manic Hindu fascist Modi government that came to power for the
second time is aggressively implementing imperialist sponsored, pro-
ruling class agenda. It is working towards absolutely liberalizing the
economy of the country to get foreign loans and to attract foreign
capital. Due to its policies our country is becoming more and more
dependent on the imperialists. The future of the people of the country
is falling in danger day by day. Trade deficit is increasing and is highly
dependent on loans. Unproductive expenditure is growing. The impe-
rialist Multi-National companies are looting the natural resources of
the country at dead cheap rates. Corruption is on the rise. All these
are leading to a degradation of the social and economic conditions of
the people of the country. Economic inequalities reached severe level.
The wealth of 9 rich persons of the country is equal to that of half of
the people in the lower strata. The economic policies of Modi govern-
ment are throwing the people into the evil circle of making the rich
richer and the poor poorer.
The people are suffering in extreme poverty due to lack of land
for agricultural labor and poor peasantry in the semi-colonial, semi-
feudal society India, rise in unemployment, falling of real wages, in-
crease in living expenditure, large scale rise in poverty, hunger and
diseases and an overall decline in social and economic conditions.
Globalization is destroying the rural-agrarian economy of the country.
The existence of the farmer fell in danger. There is no end to the sui-
cides of the farmers. The Multi-National companies and their

14

compradors having monopoly on the agricultural market are expand-
ing ‘corporate agriculture’ and ‘contract agriculture’. Lakhs of tribal
and non-tribal peasantry are displaced in the interests of corporate
sector. This is the essence of the new agrarian policy of the Modi
government. Our Party calls upon the peasantry, the revolutionary,
democratic peasant organisations and well-wishers of the peasants
to expose these policies of ‘corporate development model’ that are
pushing agriculture into irrecoverable crisis and intensify anti-feudal,
anti-imperialist-corporate struggles and as a part of it prominently raise
the demand of free distribution of land to the tiller.
There are two types of financial attack of the imperialists on our
country. The first is the direct attack of foreign capital through interna-
tional financial institutions. The second is the indirect attack of the
comprador bureaucratic capitalists with their collaboration with the
imperialist Multi-National companies. In both the cases the Prime Min-
isters, Ministers, Chief Ministers, higher officials, political, intellectual
and other sector agents are facilitating the way as an inseparable part
of the Indian comprador ruling classes and agents.
In this era of globalization all the fascist governments did not leave
a law untouched or liberalized in order to much more intensify their
exploitation and oppression on the people. This process is going on
indefinitely. The members of the Parliament or the Assembly make
noise on meaningless, trivial issues. This is to cover up their traitor-
ous deeds. But in fact they are speedily ratifying the bills in the inter-
ests and on the dictates of the imperialists and comprador exploit-
ative ruling classes without any discussion or knowledge of anyone.
The judiciary too is working as an instrument of the foreign and
comprador financial capital and is giving reactionary judgments re-
garding workers, peasants, small industrialists, women, dalits, and
adivasis and even regarding human rights and people’s welfare. It
means the legislative bodies, administration and judiciary all the three
are aggressively working in the interests of the imperialists and
comprador ruling classes.
In its first budget after coming to power the second time the Modi
government boasted that it would make the country as an economy

15

of 5 lakh crore dollars by 2025 and the third biggest economy of the
world. It said it would achieve 8 per cent GDP growth rate and this is
only to deceive the people. The budget increased the burden of taxes
on the people and shall make the country’s economy as an absolute
hub of the investments and exploitation of the Multi-National compa-
nies and big capitalists of the country in the name of ‘Make in India’. It
shall not bring out the people out of poverty, hunger, unemployment,
suicides and life and death diseases. For example there is no plan in
the budget to solve malnutrition that causes the death of hundreds of
children. The Modi-1 rule proved that doubling the income of farmers
and concentration on basic infrastructure in agriculture for this pur-
pose in the name of farmer’s budget is sheer talk. The Kisan Samman
Yojana turned the donors of food as beggars. The budget did not pro-
vide any relief to the problems of the oppressed sections like women,
Dalits, tribal and Muslim people. Modi government imposed a tax of 2
paisa per rupee for those having 500 crore rupees of property and 3
paisa per rupee for those having 1000 crore rupees. This is the way of
Modi’s budget.
On the other hand the central government highly increased the
military budgets to wipe out the revolutionary movement, the national-
ity liberation movements and democratic movements and for expan-
sionist purposes. It reduced funds for education, health and other such
people’s welfare schemes and services and made it nominal. There
is an extreme rise in corruption in the bureaucratic ruling machinery
from the central level to the village level. In fact most of those consid-
ered semi-employed are unemployed. Unemployment reached its
zenith.
The value of real income of the workers, peasants and middle
class people is falling down. At the same time there is deficiency of
goods and services due to inflation in production. The living standards
of the people are declining due to widespread poverty, frequent infec-
tious diseases, lack of health services, decline of government schools,
destruction of environment, shortage of water, constant cuts in elec-
tricity and effect on urban basic infrastructure. The imperialists and
their big comprador-feudal agents are unceasingly destroying envi-

16

ronment in many ways. The rate of destruction of forests is on the
rise. There are frequent floods, famines, land erosion, decline of un-
derground waters, degradation of biodiversity, drying of rivers and
extreme decrease in fishing causing heavy destruction in the lives of
the people.
The main agenda of the Brahmanic Hindu fascist Modi that came
to power for the second time is to serve the interests of the imperialist
MNCs, the comprador bureaucratic capitalists and the landlords of
the country and for his purpose, to establish ‘Brahmanic Hindu state’
i.e. fascist state in the country. The ‘Hindu state’ it planned to form in
the name of Ek Bharat (one India), Sresht Bharat (best India) and new
India is absolutely against the oppressed classes, oppressed sec-
tions and oppressed nationalities of the country. Cruel attacks of the
government armed forces in the areas of our movement and Brah-
manic Hindu fascist attacks on Muslims, Dalits, women, tribal people
all over the country and the oppressed nationalities of Kashmir and
the North East intensified within two months of its rule. ‘Jai Sriram’
slogan reverberates in Parliament also. Muslims are insulted on sight.
They are beaten to make them utter ‘Jai Sriram’ and ‘Bharat maata ki
jai’ or mob lynched. Murders of Muslims, Dalits and tribal people in
the name of ‘Goraksha’ (protection of Cow), abuse and insult of the
Dalits and the tribal people in the name of caste, burning them alive or
forcing them to commit suicide, attacks on the government officers
who do not execute their orders or cooperate with them have be-
come common in the rule of ‘naya Manu’. The government armed
forces are making war on the people of Kashmir and North East na-
tionalities. The Modi government made a bill amending the citizenship
law and threw lakhs of people of Asom in an uncertain and insecure
situation. Thousands were put in prison like repression camps and 50
persons were forced to commit suicide. The Hindu fascist forces are
increasingly attacking the people of the North East with the support of
the government armed forces. Fascist laws like UAPA, AFSPA are
turned to be crueler than the TADA. In the name of wiping out terror-
ism the Modi government brought the ‘NIA amendment bill-2019’ and
the ‘UAPA amendment bill-2019’ with the objective of cruelly suppress-
ing the countrywide people’s movements against state violence and
17

the international support to revolutionary, democratic and nationality
liberation movements. It brought forth the ‘Human rights protection
amendment bill-2019’ with the ill intention of filling the central and the
state human rights commissions with Brahmanic Hindu religious chau-
vinist forces and of violating the nominal human rights of the oppressed
classes, sections and nationalities. The ‘Right to Information amend-
ment bill-2019’ has been passed that liquidates the ‘Right to Informa-
tion law-2005’ that democrats and people achieved through struggle.
Through such bureaucratic bills it is openly fascising the state and is
preparing ground for a big fascist offensive all over the country. The
Hindu fascist clique is conspiring to wipe out opposition in the coun-
try. It is buying MLAs of various states and the MPs of Lok Sabha and
Rajya Sabha violating the law on changing of party. It is threatening
them. People’s resistance is growing day by day all over the country
against the atrocities of this fascist clique. This needs to be devel-
oped in a more united, militant and constructive manner.
The central and the state governments (whichever party might be
in power in the states) together widened the carpet security system in
the areas of our movement and deployed 6 lakh police, Para-military
and commando forces. These forces make indiscriminate firing on
the people, kill them, bomb through artillery, indulge in massacres,
make large scale arrests, torture, murder in fake encounters, sexually
assault and insult and even murder the women. They destroy the gue-
rilla bases, take up search and destroy operations in the areas of
stronghold of PLGA and forcibly displace the people. They are taking
up suppression-wiping out campaigns (operations) with a compre-
hensive multipronged offensive war policy with the aim of wiping out
and disrupting the revolutionary forces, party, PLGA and UF all over
the country. As a part of it they are formulating and implementing full-
fledged psychological war tactics. They make large scale ill propa-
ganda that Naxalites are for violence, they are anti-development, trai-
tors, anti-people and that they kill the tribal and Dalit people. They imple-
ment the surrender policy, turn the surrendered activists as traitors of
revolution, implement rehabilitation reforms, recruit the traitors in the
police, Para-military and commando special forces and make them
act criminal towards the people. The people are facing countless dif-
18

ficulties from the intense military campaigns. This not only shows the
aggressive offensive tactics of the enemy but also the growing de-
spair. Our Party, PLGA, various revolutionary Mass Organisations,
the organs of revolutionary people’s power and the revolutionary people
must be much more alert towards these enemy tactics and must pre-
pare to fight back these tactics with much more organized conscious-
ness and integrity in the theoretical, political, military, organizational
and cultural spheres.

Dear Comrades and people!
The history of the Party in the past 50 years proved that our line is
correct. In this long period our Party faced many ups and downs, twists
and turns, gained valuable experience and enriched the Party line. In
this process our Party is tempered. All the severe losses and set-
backs to the movement and the Party due to the enemy offensive,
lack of experience in the Party, the mistakes and right and left trends
are only temporary. If we stick to our Party line and confide in the
Party and the people we can overcome the present difficult situation
of the revolutionary movement and advance the movement. This enor-
mous experience will contribute a lot to do so. Let us work with firm
will to strengthen the three magic weapons basing on this vast revolu-
tionary experience! Let us take the initiative to totally utilize the favor-
able international and domestic conditions for revolution! Let us suc-
cessfully fulfill our role in speeding up the mobilization and united
struggles of proletarian revolutionary forces, oppressed nationalities
and oppressed people in order to wipe out the imperialists and reac-
tionaries all over the world! Let us lead the people of oppressed classes,
oppressed sections and nationalities in the path of liberation to estab-
lish New Democratic Revolution and ultimately Socialism-Commu-
nism! Let us mobilise lakhs and crores of oppressed people into the
Protracted People’s War going on in the leadership of our Party and
expand the People’s War all over the country! Let us theoretically,
politically, militarily and organizationally strengthen the Party to achieve
this objective! On the occasion of the 50th anniversary of our Party let
us increase our strength in the coming years and step forward to
achieve big victories! Let us prove that all the fascists and reactionar-

19

ies all over the world including the Brahmanic Hindu fascists in our
country are paper tigers, that their ultimate death is certain and that
the people will achieve the final victory!

and intellectuals!

 Long live the unity of workers, peasants, students
 Long live the Party, PLGA and United Front!
 Long live Marxism-Leninism-Maoism!
 Long live Communist Party of India (Maoist)!
 Long live New Democratic Revolution!
 Long live World Socialist Revolution!

24th July 2019

Revolutionary Greetings
Central Committee
Communist Party of India (Maoist)

20

