COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

 
July 17, 2011 

CONDEMN GRUESOME MUMBAI BOMB BLASTS! 

Demand for an impartial and independent probe into 

all the incidents of bomb blasts including Mecca Masjid, Malegaon 

and Samjhauta Express blasts! 

 

Communist Party of India (Maoist) severely condemns the bomb blasts took place in Mumbai on July 
13, 2011. These incidents of serial blasts are inhuman in which at least 20 innocent people have lost their 
lives  and  nearly  80  people  were  injured.  Our  Party  also  strongly  condemns  the  devious  and  baseless 
allegations of exploitative ruling classes and their police/intelligence agencies who are trying to blame our 
Party without any clue of who might be responsible for these bomb blasts and even before the investigation 
is  started.  The  oppressed  people  of  India  know  very  well  that  our  Party  which  is  fighting  for  the 
emancipation  of  people  would  never  commit  such  attacks  aimed  at  innocent  people  putting  their  lives  at 
peril.  Murderous  ruling  classes  and  their  corporate  media  are  deliberately  blaming  us  so  as  to  depict  our 
Party  as  a  terrorist  organization  and our  just  people’s  movement  as  terrorist  one,  and thus  to  justify  their 
brutal  suppression  campaign  and  the  Army  deployment  in  the  second  phase  of  ongoing  Operation  Green 
Hunt — the War On People. 

If we retrospect into the earlier incidents of bomb blasts took place till this day in our country, we would 
never know the real culprits hidden behind those who are being shown as offenders. It’s become a norm now 
that  whenever  such  incidents  of  bomb  blasts  take  place,  the  pro-Hindu  fundamentalist  Indian  state,  its 
intelligence/investigative  wings  and  the  corporate  media  immediately  claim  that  Muslims  and  so-called 
Islamic terrorist organizations are responsible. In fact, as part of a conspiracy and collusion of the Indian 
state which always try to blame Muslim society for every attack of this kind and the top leaders of the ruling 
class  parties  like  Congress  and  BJP,  the  IB  itself  created  an  illusionary  organization  named  Indian 
Mujahiddin which is being held responsible for every incident of bomb blast by the authorities. Corporate 
media barons and bankrupt intellectuals servile to the ruling classes are branding all those who ask for proof 
of these allegations and who demand for comprehensive and impartial probe as outright traitors and attacking 
them belligerently, irrationally and frantically. Thus people are being kept at bay from knowing the truth. In 
our so-called biggest democracy on the earth, the big joke is not asking for incisive probe has become the 
touchstone for patriotism and the person who asks for any probe is branded as traitor! 

In  earlier  instances  of  bomb  blasts  in  Mecca  Masjid,  Malegaon,  Samjhauta  Express  etc.  hundreds  of 
innocent Muslims,  particularly the youths were arrested, tortured inhumanly and sent to jails. Many were 
killed in fake encounters. Even after the obvious evidences came forth that the Hindu fanatics belonging to 
the right-wing RSS gang were responsible for those ghastly incidents, no justice was done to the Muslims. 
No leader of the Hindu terrorist organizations like Abhinav Bharat, Hindu defence force, Rashtriya Jagaran 
Manch,  Bajrang  Dal,  Viswa  Hindu  Parishad  has  been  punished  until  this  day.  At  the  same  time,  death 
sentence given to Afzal Guru in the case of attack on Parliament and to 11 Muslims in Godhra train carnage 
case recently on March 1 are some examples of the anti-Muslim and pro-Hindutva character of the Indian 
State.  While  the  butchers  like  Narendra  Modi  whose  hands  have  stained  with  the  blood  of  over  2,000 
innocent  Muslims  are  freely  wandering  in  the  corridors  of  power,  Muslims  are  being  meted  out  stringent 
punishments by virtue of bizarre and inadequate evidences. And this has been spreading the feeling of severe 
frustration and fury among the Muslim masses. 

It’s  an  obvious  fact  that  because  of  the  grisly  incidents  like  the  destruction  of  the  Babri  Masjid  and 
Gujarat  genocide,  the  Muslim  community  in  general,  a  large  section  of  Muslim  youth  in  particular,  has 
become furious and outrageous against the Indian ruling classes. Another irrefutable fact is that this situation 
has given birth to some Islamic organizations. Exploiting this situation and by taking organizations of this 
sort into their grip or by misleading them in a deceitful manner or by even creating some new organizations 
of this kind, both India’s and Pakistan’s intelligence agencies like RAW, IB, ISI are engineering bomb blasts 
 

1

and other attacks in both countries as part of serving their vested political interests. Failing to identify their 
real enemies many a frustrated Muslim youths are stuck in this lattice and taking part in acts of mindless 
violence of this kind. Thus they are taking of the lives of innocent people. This is such a vicious cycle where 
these youths don’t even know in whose hands are they acting and whose vested interests are being fulfilled 
with such attacks in deed. 

On the other hand, after it was clearly exposed that an organization called Abhinav Bharat belonged to 
the  Sangh  gang  (i.e.  RSS)  was  responsible  for  bomb  blasts  of  Malegaon,  Mecca  Masjid  and  Samjhauta 
Express, people of India have started seeing Saffron terrorism as a dangerous trend. When it became obvious 
that the Saffron terrorists are responsible for Ajmer Sherif bomb blast also, the demand for a review of all 
investigations done into the incidents of bomb blasts in various places of our country has come forth. The 
Muslim youths of Malegaon and Hyderabad have demanded that the government should apologize for the 
police atrocities inflicted on them. Despite of all its rhetoric, the Congress-led UPA government has been 
instigating Saffron terrorism as a part of promoting its wicked political motives. The corporate media which 
act  hand  in  glove  with  Hindu  fundamentalism  in  general,  on  the  one  hand,  attack  Muslims  and  Islamic 
organizations aggressively without any clear evidence and on the other hand, report as less as possible even 
when there is evident proof is available that the Saffron terrorist organizations were responsible for various 
incidents of bomb blasts. 

If we see in this backdrop, we could arrive at the conclusion that Saffron terrorist organizations or so-
called Islamic militant organizations sponsored by the very intelligence agencies like IB, RAW might have 
committed these heinous acts of July 13 Mumbai bomb blasts. It’s also likely that the mafia gangs hand in 
glove with police top brass and ruling class political leaders could have committed these attacks. Whoever 
else has done this, only the interests of ruling classes would be served with such acts of mindless violence. 
Firstly, people’s attention could be diverted from the issues like price rise, corruption, scams, black money, 
Swiss banks accounts which have become burning issues in the country now. Secondly, by posing terrorism 
as  biggest  danger,  even  more  draconian  laws  could  be  prepared  and  the  teeth  of  State’s  suppressive 
machinery could be sharpened by importing arms and technology from imperialist countries on a massive 
scale misusing trillions of rupees of hard earned people’s money. Thirdly, by supporting directly or indirectly 
all  invasive  wars,  attacks  and  intimidations  of  US  imperialism  going  on  in  the  name  of  ‘Global  War  on 
Terror’ and thus by acting as its junior partner in south Asia region, the Indian State could go ahead reducing 
the country more servile to it by signing the treacherous treaties like Homeland security, civil nuclear deal 
etc.  Fourthly,  using  the  pretext  of  terrorism,  public  consent  could  be  built  for  crushing  the  people’s 
movements  and  growing  Maoist  revolutionary  movement  militarily  which  are  surging  against  anti-people 
and pro-imperialist neo-liberal policies of the governments. Apart from this, consolidating Hindu vote bank 
by  blaming  Muslims  and  Islamic  organizations  every  time  without  any  proof  and  diverting  the  people’s 
attention  from  the  basic  problems  of  our  country  like  food,  clothing,  shelter,  price  rise,  unemployment, 
poverty,  starvation,  displacement  etc.  are  necessary  for  both  Congress  and  BJP  and  for  the  feudal  and 
comprador  bourgeoisie  classes  whom  they  represent,  so  that  their  exploitative  rule  can  be  carried  on 
unchecked. 

However, Communist Party of India (Maoist) believes that the real perpetrators of Mumbai blasts could 
be  traced  only  through  an  impartial  and  independent  probe.  Our  Party  humbly  appeals  the  masses  and 
democrats  of  the  country  to  not  to  sway  away  with  the  malicious  propaganda,  falsehood  and  prejudices 
unleashed by the ruling classes, their intelligence agencies and the corporate media in a mad, one-sided and 
irrational manner. Our Party demands to uncover the culprits responsible for these blasts and punish them 
severely. At the same time, our Party calls upon entire people of the country to demand the governments for 
impartial  and  independent  probes  into  all  incidents  of  bomb  blasts  that  took  place  since  1992  and  for 
unconditional release of Muslims and Christians who are languishing in various jails with false cases. Our 
Party also calls upon the people of the country to demand to punish all those Saffron terrorist leaders who are 
responsible  for  all  the  attacks  perpetrated  on  religious  minorities  including  the  Babri  Masjid  destruction, 
Gujarat  genocide,  Kandhamal  (Odisha)  attacks  and  to  condemn  Hindu  religious  fundamentalism  and  all 
other religious chauvinisms.  

 

2

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

