Communist Party of India (Maoist) 

Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee  

Press Statement 

 

 

Date: 12 May 2014 

 

 

Murmuri ambush is the retaliation against the fake encounters, atrocities and 

white terror unleashed by the notorious C-60 forces! 

In the multi-pronged attacks under Operation Green Hunt - the unjust war imposed on the 

Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee of CPI(Maoist) congratulates and hails the brave 
red fighters of the PLGA who carried out a daring attack on the notorious C-60 commando forces 
and wiped out seven of them, while grievously injuring two others on 11 May 2014 on Muranda-
Murmuri road in Chamurshi tahsil of Gadchiroli district in Maharashtra. We take this occasion to 
strictly warn the C-60 commandos who by forgetting their class roots in the service of the 
exploitative ruling classes have unleashed a reign of terror on the struggling masses of Gadchiroli 
and Gondia, that if they do not stop their aggressive attacks on the people, they will have to suffer 
even graver consequences than this in the coming days. Murmuri offensive is a part of the 
Tactical Counter-Offensive Campaign (TCOC) carried out under the leadership of our party for 
self-defense and to resist Operation Green Hunt while furthering the revolutionary people's war. 
This is a retaliation against the atrocities and terror of the C-60 commando forces. 
 
oppressed people of the country by the central and state governments - more than 30 of our 
comrades have been brutally massacred in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli and Gondia districts during 
the thirteen months between January 2013 and February 2014. Attack on  villages, ruthless 
beating up of villagers, illegal arrests, incarceration in false cases, gruesome murder of 
revolutionaries and common people in encounters and fake encounters, atrocities on women have 
become a commonplace today in the movement areas of Maharashtra. Along with the killing of 6 
comrades in Govindgaon of Gadchiroli, 5 in Bhatpar, 7 in Sindesur, 7 in Betkathi of Gondia 
during this period, in Medri village of Gadchiroli district itself 6 women comrades were killed in 
cold blood. The 6 women comrades in Medri were brutally murdered after being caught and 
tortured. Not content at committing such cruelties, the mercenary C-60 commandos not only 
dishonoured the dead bodies of our slain women comrades, but also shot videos of their sadistic 
acts. They have been selling these video clips in the shops and are also forcibly screening them in 
the villages of Gadchiroli and Gondia.  
 
rights activists and organisations, pro-people journalists and others to strongly condemn this 
heinous and shameful act by the C-60 forces and to demand the strictest punishment for the 
perpetrators. We appeal to you to intensify the movement to oppose Operation Green Hunt and to 
extend all possible help to the revolutionary people's war under the leadership of the party that is 
leading the fight against Operation Green Hunt. Support the struggle of the exploited and 
oppressed masses, particularly the adivasi masses, who are fighting for establishing their birth-
right over their jal-jangal-zameen, for a life with dignity and for their very existence.  
 
 

We appeal to the students, youth, progressive and democratic forces, intellectuals, civil 

 
 
(Gudsa Usendi) 
Spokesperson 
Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee  
CPI(Maoist) 

