CPI(Maoist): 9th Congress 
 
 

Resolution on Nationality Struggles 

 
India is a country of many nationalities at various phases of 
development. They have been struggling in different forms against 
the repressive and expansionist policies of the Indian ruling 
classes. Kashmiris and different nationalities of North-East India 
such as the Assamese, Nagas, Manipuris, Tripuris, etc., have been 
long since waging armed struggle against the Indian Government 
for their right to self-determination, including the right to secede 
from the so-called Union of India. The Indian ruling classes and 
their imperialist masters, particularly US imperialism, have been 
suppressing these struggles mercilessly. They are being crushed 
under the boots of the Indian Army stationed in various states of 
the north-east and in Kashmir. In Kashmir alone, the Indian 
military and paramilitary forces have murdered over 70,000 people 
in the last 16 years. A year ago, the Indian Army along with the 
Bhutanese Army killed hundreds of activists and supporters of the 
ULFA, Bodos and the KLO. However, even these most cruel 
repressive actions by the Indian Government could not stifle the 
voice of the struggling masses of these nationalities. They still 
continue to wage armed struggle and carry out their attacks, 
striking blows at the Indian armed forces. 

Of late, the Indian ruling classes have deviously begun a phase of 
talks with organizations leading the nationality struggles in a bid to 
douse the fire of these struggles with false promises and to co-opt 
their leadership into the existing system. They are trying to win 
over a section of the leadership of the struggling organizations of 
these nationalities and conspiring to have them oppose the 
struggling sections. However, their ploy does not seem to succeed. 

The ULFA has become active once again. With the Indian 
Government’s rejection of the Naga proposal to form a Union of 
Nagaland or ‘Greater Nagaland,’ the talks between NSCN and 
Government of India appear to be in dicey waters. Last year, the 
people of Manipur, especially the women waged a valiant struggle 
against the ‘Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act.’ The PLA too has 
stepped up its attacks in Manipur. The struggle of the Kashmiri 
people with the Indian forces, which has continued unabated, has 
generated fresh mass resentment in the wake of the Centre’s 
designs to hang Afzal Guru. The Kashmiri people, along with the 
enlightened democratic sections all over India, have raised the just 
demand to desist from hanging the innocent Afzal Guru. 
Meanwhile, the demand for separate statehood in Telengana has 
again gathered momentum and the Vidarbha issue too seems to be 
emerging. 

This Unity Congress – 9th Congress unequivocally supports the 
right of self-determination of all the oppressed nationalities, 
including their right to secede from the autocratic Indian state 
(which they were forced to join). The Congress condemns the 
ongoing state repression of nationality movements and vows to 
carry out a joint movement against the Indian ruling classes along 
with the people of different nationalities. According to the time 
and circumstances, it may be necessary to form a separate 
organization to take up the nationality issue, and we should form 
such organizations in accordance with the concrete situation. This 
Congress asserts that the various nationalities are independent, 
equal and sovereign, and that they are free to form a voluntary 
union based on the principle of the right to self-determination and 
equality. The Congress also supports the just struggles of those 
nationalities and sub-nationalities that demand a separate state for 
their development. Moreover, it also reiterates its resolve to extend 
all possible support to their just and democratic struggle. 

*    *    *    *    *    * 

