 
 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

  

 

            Press Release:                                                                              September 19, 2008 

  

Condemn the gruesome killing of innocent people in the New 

Delhi bomb blasts! 

Resist the moves of the rulers to enact draconian acts to 

suppress the people! 

 

 
The Central Committee of the CPI (Maoist) strongly condemns the gruesome and dastardly killing of 
innocent  people  in  the  New  Delhi  serial  bomb  blasts  on  the  evening  of  13th  of  this  month.  This  is  a 
senseless  act  as  the  victims  are  innocent  citizens.  If  any  Muslim  organizations  are  really  involved,  as 
alleged by the police, then it is high time these organizations realize that they cannot fight Hindu fascist 
forces  by  carrying  out  such  bomb  blasts  in  public  places  thereby  harming  ordinary  civilians  but  they 
should  concentrate  their  attacks  on  the  saffron  leaders  and  the  policemen  and  officials  who  are  hand  in 
glove with them in unleashing terror on innocent people belonging to the Muslim community. 

 
The  police  and  the  government  representatives  are  making  desperate  attempts  to  frame  the  Muslim 
organizations such as SIMI after having utterly failed to furnish any substantial evidence to justify its re-
imposition of ban on SIMI. Utilising the allegations of the police, leaders of Hindu fanatical parties like 
BJP’s Advani, Narendra Modi, VHP’s Praveen Togadia and Ashok Singhal, Bajrang Dal’s Vinay Katiyar 
and  others  are  raising  a  hue  and  cry  that  the  UPA  government  is  “soft  on  terror”  while  remaining 
conspicuously silent on the attacks on churches, convents, property and lives of Christian community by 
their  saffron  goons  such  as  the  lumpen  elements  of  Bajrang  Dal  in  Orissa,  Karnataka,  Madhya  Pradesh 
etc.  They are clamouring for re-enacting the draconian POTA so as to target the Muslim  community as 
done by their Hindu fascist leader, Narendra Modi in Gujarat. The UPA government is, no doubt, soft on 
terror  unleashed  by  the  saffron  brigade.  Like  Neros,  Manmohan  Singh  and  Shivraj  Patil  have  been 
fiddling  in  Delhi  as  Orissa  was  burning  for  almost  a  month  and  the  Hindu  fanatical  fire  spread  to 
Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh. At the same time these Neros act as Hitlers in the case of Muslims showing 

bomb blasts as pretexts. Innocent Muslims are arrested, false cases are filed against Muslims without any 
evidence.  Worse  still,  Muslim  youth  are  illegally  detained,  tortured  and  murdered,  and  entire  Muslim 
community is persecuted by the khaki-clad hoodlums in the name of fighting terror. The media is playing 
the most dubious role in whipping up frenzy against the Muslims by circulating the lies dished out by the 
police and fabricating its own chain of false stories against Muslim organizations. 

 
By  pointing  out  an  accusing  finger  against  SIMI  and  other  Muslim  organizations  the  rulers  are 
consciously  trying  to  downplay  the  brutal  murders  and  attacks  against  the  religious  minorities  by  the 
Indian state and the Hindu fanatical saffron terrorists. The burning down of Churches, burning alive nuns 
and murdering and beating up the people belonging to religious minorities by organized saffron gangs are 
acts  are  no  less  dangerous  and  ghastly  than  bomb  blasts.  In  fact,  they  pose  even  greater  danger  as  they 
tend to polarize the society along communal  lines  and take on a large-scale  character. The entire media 
and  the  political  establishment  are,  however,  trying  to  blow  up  the  incidents  of  bomb  blasts  out  of 
proportion and projecting these as the biggest threat while brushing aside the larger conflagration of Hindi 
fascist attacks that affect lakhs of people.  

      The CPI (Maoist) calls upon the people of our country to fight against the moves of the government to 
bring in more draconian legislation in the name of containing terrorism. These draconian acts will be used 
not against the saffron terrorists who are already in power in several states and have their men in the state 
machinery,  but  against  hapless  Muslims  and  Christians  who  take  up  arms  in  self-defence,  against  the 
people of Kashmir fighting for self-determination, against the Maoists who are fighting for the liberation 
of  the  country  from  the  clutches  of  imperialism,  feudalism  and  comprador  capitalism,  and  against  all 
struggling  nationalities  and  people.  anti-people  policies  of  the  government  and  the  fascist  attacks  on 
people’s struggles and on their democratic rights. The CC, CPI(Maoist) calls upon the fighting people and 
organizations of oppressed nationalities, religious minorities, and other toiling masses not to get diverted 
by  indiscriminate  violence,  like  killing  or  causing  injuries  to  the  innocent  people,  and  instead,  to  direct 
their wrath against the oppressive state, Hindu fascist leaders, cruel oppressors and exploiters who protect 
and perpetuate this inhuman oppressive and exploitative system. 

signed/  
Azad, 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI(Maoist) 

[From: CPI(Maoist) Information Bulletin, #5, Winter 2008-2009, preliminary MS Word edition.] 

 
 

 

 

 

