 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

 

Press Release:  November 15, 2008 

 
 

Barack Obama’s Presidency cannot refurbish the 

image of American Imperialism! 

 

Oppressed nations and people of the world should 

unite to defeat US imperialism!! 

 
 

 
Faced  with  the  deepest  economic  crisis  since  the  Great  Depression,  rapidly  declining  standards  of 
living for a significant  chunk of US population, increasing  home foreclosures, and the ill  effects of two 
wars  of  aggression  and  continuous  massive  military  build-up,  it  is  not  surprising  that  an  African-
American  and  a  first-time  senator  from  the  Democratic  Party,  Barack  Obama,  should  win  the  US 
Presidential  election.  The  corporate-financial  elite  ruling  America  brought  Obama  to  the  fore  in  their 
desperation  to  refurbish  the  image  of  American  imperialism  badly  battered  during  the  reign  of  George 
Bush.  They  think  that  Obama’s  relatively  clean  image  and  his  African-American  descent  would  be 
acceptable  to  the  American  people  and  the  world  at  large.  Given  the  depth  of  the  current  crisis  and  its 
impact on the people of the US, the frustration, anger and dissatisfaction of the people against the policies 
and misrule of Bush, anyone who contested against Republican Bush would have easily won the election. 
 
 
The overwhelming opposition of the people to Bush shows the grave impact of the crisis on the lives 
of the people. Reports speak of a third of the US population living in extreme hunger and starvation. Even 
many  Third World  countries  fare  better  than  a  considerable  section  of  the  American  people.  Moreover, 
Bush  has  become  synonymous  with  a  whole  new  vocabulary  of  anti-people  terms:  Guantanamo  Bay, 
Abu-Ghraib, global war on terror, weapons of mass destruction, bail-outs, if-you-are-not-with-us-you-are-
with-terrorists, homeland security, and so on. Hated by the world people as the biggest terrorist and vast 
majority  of  the  world  population  eager  to  lynch  him  if  ever  an  opportunity  presented  itself,  Bush  had 
become the safest bet for the victory of Obama. 
 
  Moreover,  the  victory  of  Obama  also  points  to  the  acute  contradictions  within  the  American  ruling 
classes  accentuated  by  the  deepening  crisis.  The  sectarian  and  disastrous  policies  of  the  Republicans 
under  Bush  had  alienated  even  a  section  of  the  ruling  elites  such  as  the  Big  Three  of  Detroit  who  felt 
humiliated by Bush denying them a share in the bail-out package of $700 bln which is exclusively meant 
for the mortgage and investment banks. 
 
 
But can Obama bring any basic change in the lives of the people? Can he break with the policies of 
his  predecessor  Bush?  He  had  already  declared  that  there  would  be  continuity  of  policies  pursued  by 
Bush, that he would increase the troop strength in Afghanistan and step up attacks on so-called Al Qaeda 
bases  in  Pakistani  territory,  his  tall  talk  of  withdrawal  of  troops  from  Iraq  is  only  due  to  the  increasing 
casualties suffered by US troops and growing world-wide opposition and also in order to deploy them in 
Afghanistan.  He  is  one  with  Bush  in  bailing  out  the  rich  and  wealthy  corporations  from  the  financial 
crisis. Prior to the election, he met the representatives of the monopoly capitalist class and assured that he 
would  bail  them  out  of  the  crisis  if  he  was  elected  as  President.  The  New  York  Times,  The  Washington 

Post and a big section of the mainstream media suddenly made a turnabout and endorsed Obama which 
gave  a  further  fillip  to  his  Presidential  campaign.  Even  the  consistently  Republican  supporter  like  The 
Chicago  Tribune,  and  ex-secretary  of  state  under  George  Bush,  Colin  Powell,  endorsed  Obama 
abandoning  their  own  Republican  candidate.  So  much  was  the  enthusiasm,  and,  of  course,  compulsion, 
among the corporate-financial  elites of America for Obama that his campaign managers collected funds 
that  had  far  surpassed  the  fund  collections  of  George  Bush  in  the  last  elections.  By  approving  the  $700 
bln bail-out package Obama has proved himself to be no different than Bush in transferring wealth of the 
poor to the filthy rich, from the Main Street to the Wall Street. 
 
 
The  entire  world  media  and  the  reactionary  classes  have  hailed  Obama’s  victory  as  a  victory  of  the 
people,  a  victory  of  the  Blacks,  women  and  have-nots.  They  showered  praises  on  the  resilience  and 
greatness of US democracy. They tried to hush up the reality of the US crisis, its tottering economy, and 
its designs for global hegemony. Some predicted that Obama would reverse the policies of Bush, put an 
end to militarism and war-mongering, restore democracy, assist in bringing a new balanced world order, 
and so on. In India too, some hoped that a similar ‘miracle’ would happen here and a Dalit would become 
the President of the country. All this is nothing but media hype. 
 
  Whether  it  is  George  Bush  or  Barack  Obama  America  is  not  going  to  see  any  real  change  for  the 
better. Power and authority are not in the hands of any individual, however powerful he/she might seem 
outwardly, but in the hands of the ruling class dominated by a tiny military-industrial, corporate-financial 
elite. The US military machine is pre-programmed to carry out aggression, invasion, subversion, bullying, 
mass  murder  irrespective  of  the  consequences  to  fulfill  its  aim  of  achieving  global  hegemony.  Bush  or 
Obama can only act as the instruments to carry out these goals, the only difference being that of degree of 
efficiency in the execution of this global project and the degree of deception that one is capable of. Hence, 
hushing  up  this  stark  fact,  a  hype  and  so-called  mass  appeal  has  been  diligently  built  up  by  the  ruling 
elites and the media around Obama, projecting him as a saviour who can pull out America from the mess 
that it had come to be particularly under eight years of George Bush. 
 
 
The  oppressed  people  and  nations  of  the  world  are  going  to  confront  an  even  more  formidable  and 
dangerous  enemy  in  the  form  of  an  African-American  President  of  the  most  powerful  military  machine 
and  world  gendarme.  Under  Obama,  the  new  killer-in-chief  of  the  pack  of  imperialist  wolves,  all  the 
policies pursued by George Bush will stay in place with a few cosmetic changes. The world people should 
unite  to  wage  a  more  relentless,  more  militant  and  more  consistent  struggle  against  the  American 
marauders  led  by  Barack  Obama  and  pledge  to  defeat  them  to  usher  in  a  world  of  peace,  stability  and 
genuine  democracy.  Any  illusions  on  the  so-called  black  President  of  the  most  dangerous  imperialist 
power will lead to greater enslavement and misery for the oppressed people and nations of the world. 
 
 
(Signed) 
Azad, 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI(Maoist) 
 
 
 

[From: CPI(Maoist) Information Bulletin, #6, Nov. 5, 2008.] 

 

