COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL REGIONAL BUREAU 

Press Release

 

April 19, 2013 

Condemn the fascist Puvvar massacre! 

Make success the Central Region Bandh on April 27 
protesting the massacres and destruction perpetrated by the police,  
Special Commando/Grey Hounds and Central paramilitary forces of 

Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra and Odisha in the Central Region! 
On April 16, 2013 the AP Grey Hounds, Chhattisgarh police and CRP-CoBRA forces led by Khammam 
SP  Ranganath  and  Kothagudem  OSD  jointly  attacked  the  Puvvar  village  (Konta  block,  Sukma  district, 
Chhattisgarh) on the borders of Andhra Pradesh based on information given by informers and murdered nine 
comrades  including  five  women  comrades  belonging  to  North Telangana.  North  Telangana  Special  Zonal 
Committee member Comrade Marri Ravi @ Sudhakar, Gugloth Lakshmi @ Pushpa (KKW DVCM), Vetti 
Narsakka @ Sabita (Eturunagaram ACS), Durgam Raju (ACM), Reena (ACM), Vetti Ramakka @ Urmila 
(ACM), Maddi Seeta @ Navata (DVCM guard), Madkam Bhima @ Ajay (DVCM guard) and Arli Venkati 
@ Gautam (SZCM guard) were martyred in this attack. The Central Regional Bureau is paying red homage 
to all these martyrs and is pledging itself to carry on their aims. Since the past few years AP Grey Hounds 
barged into Dandakaranya and is resorting to these kinds of massacres and destruction. After the Kanchal 
massacre  of  2008  this  is  another  huge  massacre.  Our  party  is  severely  condemning  this  massacre  and  is 
calling upon the people and the PLGA to resist the onslaught of the police, Grey Hounds and paramilitary 
forces.    

Since  the  past  four  months  Dandakaranya,  Andhra-Odisha  Border  Zone,  North  Telangana,  Gondia 
(Maharashtra) areas are being crunched under the iron heels of police, Grey Hounds and paramilitary forces. 
Each day and from every corner one hears about the murders, fake encounters and terror unleashed by the 
government security forces. The Indian ruling classes that claim to be the biggest democracy in the world are 
resorting to unprecedented brutality on the people, particularly the Adivasis, who have been victims of the 
most cruel exploitation, oppression, suppression, injustice, discrimination and neglect since generations. The 
War  on  People  waged  in  the  name  of  Operation  Green  Hunt  since  the  past  four  years  with  the  aim  of 
completely  decimating  the  revolutionary  movement  with  the  support  and  aid  of  their  imperialist  masters, 
particularly  US  imperialists  is  intensifying  with  each  passing  day.  Within  the  past  ten  days  at  least  20 
revolutionaries and common people were killed in the name of encounters in Dandakaranya. The police and 
Commando forces of various states and the central forces are conducting joint operations particularly in the 
border areas of Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha and Maharashtra states and resorting to indiscriminate 
encounters, massacres and destruction. Recently the top police officials of the four states conducted special 
meetings in Sukma of Chhattisgarh and Kataram of Karimnagar district in Andhra Pradesh and planned these 
attacks. Along with increasing the usage of Air Force helicopters and UAVs, they are contemplating attacks 
by Air Force. On the other hand, it is on their agenda to deploy Army in the War on People by occupying the 
entire Maad region in the name of training. Through these attacks they are concentrating on decimating the 
new  people’s  political  power  system  built  by  the  people,  their  guerilla  army  and  their  party.  Some  more 
recent incidents too stand testimony to this. 
  On April 12, police suddenly attacked the people in Sindesur village (Dhanora Taluq, Gadchiroli district, 
Maharashtra)  while  they  were  making  arrangements  to  feed  the  guerillas  and  shot  dead  two  unarmed 
women Vasanti Kovasi and Sangita Atram along with Comrade Kailas @ Pankaj (ACM) and Comrade 
Champa Nureti (Company-4 member). 

  On April 4, C-60 commandos fired indiscriminately on the guerilla squad conducting a meeting with the 
people in Bhatpar village of Bhamragarh taluq in the same district and killed Comrade Laxman (ACM), 
militia members Comrades Prakash, Sudhakar, two teenager girls named Ammi and Sunita belonging to 
that village. 

 

1

  On April 2, they attacked Konge village in Maad region (Narayanpur district, Chhattisgarh), arrested six 
innocent Adivasis who went to hunt in the forest and declared that they were Naxalites with a price on 
their head. Before this, they resorted to loot and destruction like bandits by barging into the houses. 

  On March 14, the police conducted a huge attack in the forests  near Kobramenda village  (Gadchiroli 

district, Maharashtra) with the aim of annihilating the party leadership. 

  On March 9, a village woman named Kunjam Deve died in the firing by AP Grey Hounds near Kanchal 
village (Bijapur distrit) and one woman was injured. They conducted this brutal attack on them when 
they  came  to  take  water  from  a  water  body.  Later  they  took  the  dead  body  of  Deve  and  the  injured 
woman in a helicopter, put uniforms on them and declared them naxalites. 

  On  March  1,  they  fired  on  militia  members  in  Mandoda  village  (Narayanapur  district)  and  murdered 

Comrade Gudhram Nendi. 

  On  February  24,  paramilitary  forces,  Chhattisgarh  police  and  STF  attacked  Korseli  village  (Bijapur 
district)  and  caught  Comrade  Salim  (Sammi  Reddy)  leading  an  ordinary  life  and  shot  him  dead  near 
Avunar village the next day. 

  Between  February  5  and  8,  hundreds  of  Chhattisgarh  and  Maharashtra  police  and  the  CRPF  attacked 
Gattakal village (Narayanpur district) in Maad division and resorted to destruction and loot. They razed 
down an Ashram School run by the Krantikari Janatana Sarkar (Revolutionary People's Committee).  

  On February 4, they attacked Singam and Rengam villages and gang raped the village women.  
  Between 21 and 23 of January, the police and the paramilitary attacked the Pidiya village near Gangalur 
in Bijapur district and resorted to huge destruction. They barged into the homes, looted them and later 
razed down twenty homes. They razed down an Ashram School run by the Krantikari Janatana Sarkar in 
Doddi Tumnar village. 

  On January 19, the police lay in wait with prior information and attacked the guerillas who were ready to 
move  after  completing  a  meeting  with  the  villagers in  Govindgaon  (Aheri  Taluq,  Gadchiroli  district). 
Comrades Shankar Lakda (DVCM), Vinod Kodopi (Aheri squad commander), Gita Kumoti (Platoon-14 
deputy commander), Mohan Kovasi (deputy commander) and squad members Lebbe Gawde and Juru 
Mattami were martyred in this attack.  

  The BSF jawans fired upon guerillas while they were bathing near Bhurbhusi village (Kanker district, 

Chhattisgarh) and two women comrades Sanoti and Sumitra were martyred there. 
In  the  second  week  of  January  the  police  attacked  Nimmalagudem  village  on  the  borders  of  AP-
Chhattisgarh and abducted two village women. They tried to kill them after making them wear uniforms. 
Later they were produced in the court.  

 

  The  AP  police  continuously  conducted  attacks  in  Charla  and  Dummugudem  area  and  on  the  border 
villages  of  Chhattisgarh,  arrested  hundreds  of  villagers  and  sent  them  to  jail.  They  are  closing  down 
weekly markets on the borders of AP-Chhattisgarh. 
All the above mentioned incidents are just the tip of an iceberg. Several more incidents are taking place. 
They are arresting Adivasi peasants, declaring that they are Naxalites with a price on their heads, foisting 
false cases on them and sending them to jails. They are pronouncing harsh punishments on them using false 
witnesses.  

The ruling classes are conducting psychological warfare too along with these suppressive attacks. They 
are propagating that Maoist leaders are ailing and that they are getting bed ridden and not able to work. They 
are conducting false propaganda that Maoist leaders are running away taking huge amounts of money with 
them. Through surrendered Maoists they are making foul propaganda that women are being exploited in the 
party and that forceful vasectomies are being conducted. On the other hand they are repeatedly propagating 
the  surrender  policy  and  announcing  prices  on  the  heads.  They  are  propagating  through  posters  that  they 
would give lakhs of rupees to those who run away from the movement with weapons. On the other hand, the 
police and paramilitary are distributing materials in the name of civic action programmes. As part of their 
LIC  attack  the  oppressive  governments  are  intensifying  psychological  warfare  and  implementing  fake 
reforms apart from military repression. 

The  aim  of  this  attack  is  to  decimate  the  revolutionary  movement  all  over  the  country,  destroy  the 
people’s political power developing in the various revolutionary movement areas in the country and through 
this to get rid of the hurdles in handing over the invaluable natural resources of our country to the MNCs and 
the corporate companies of the comprador bureaucratic bourgeoisie. While Sonia-Manmohan-Chidambaram-

 

2

Shinde-Jairam Ramesh ruling clique is leading this attack, the various state governments are taking part in 
this  with  coordination.  The  MoUs  worth  lakhs  of  crores  of  rupees  signed  with  the  comprador,  foreign 
corporate  companies  such  as  Tata,  Mittal,  Jindal,  Essar,  Al  Khaima  and  NECO  Jaiswals  are  not  getting 
implemented due to the resistance of the people all over the country and as this resistance is being led by the 
CPI (Maoist) in several areas. That is why at present the Maoist movement became the ‘biggest threat’ in the 
eyes of the exploiting ruling classes. That is why the imperialists, comprador bureaucratic bourgeoisie and 
the feudal classes are eager to decimate it.  

We  are  appealing  to  the  people  that  they  must  severely  oppose  all  the  economic,  political  and 
suppressive policies of the imperialists and their running dogs the exploiting Indian ruling classes and that 
they  must  resist  their  mercenary  police,  paramilitary  and  military  forces  more  determinedly  in  order  to 
defend themselves, to build their future basing on their own collective efforts and to fulfill their democratic 
aspirations. We are appealing to the workers-peasants, students-intellectuals, democrats and entire patriots of 
our country to condemn this onslaught and demand that it be stopped. We appeal to them to demand the 
withdrawal of the paramilitary forces that entrenched themselves in the revolutionary movement areas and a 
stop to the military training program. The Central Regional Bureau of our party is calling upon the people to 
make success the Bandh that would be conducted in the Central Region (North Telangana, Andhra-Odisha 
Border  Region,  Dandakaranya,  Gondia  and  Gadchiroli  in  Maharashtra  and  Balaghat  district  in  Madhya 
Pradesh) on April 27 protesting this onslaught. We appeal to the people to express their protest against this 
onslaught by closing down educational and commercial institutions, banks, railways, transport etc. (We are 
exempting the exams of the students and emergency services like health care from this Bandh). 

 

Pratap, 
Spokesperson, 
CPI (Maoist) 
Central Regional Bureau 

 

3

