COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

11 May, 2011 

Release the Maoist leaders arrested in Bihar unconditionally! 

Make success the 'Bharat Bandh' on May 21 and 22 

against the arrests of CPI (Maoist) Central Committee members, 

the ongoing unjust war on the people waged by the ruling clique of the country 

and the brutal repression of Uttar Pradesh peasants! 

 

On  April  29,  the  central  and  the  state  intelligence  agencies  of  Andhra  Pradesh,  Bihar,  Chhattisgarh  etc 
conducted a well-planned attack and arrested seven persons including three CC members of our party from Barsoi 
village in Katihar district of Bihar. Among those arrested are CC members Comrade Pulendu Sekhar Mukherji alias 
Saheb  da,  Varanasi  Subrahmanyam  alias  Vimal  alias  Srikanth,  Vijay  Kumar  Arya  alias  Jaspalji,  Comrade 
Abhimanyu alias Umesh Yadav – the secretary of the Uttar Bihar-Uttar Pradesh Regional Bureau under the Bihar-
Jharkhand  Special  Area  Committee,  Nokhelal  Choudhury,  Syamji  Rushi  and  house-owner  Anirudh  Ravidas.  The 
APSIB  notorious  for  hunting  and  killing  revolutionaries  has  been  following  the  movements  of  Comrade 
Subrahmanyam  since  some  months.  In  end  July  last  year,  he  narrowly  escaped  being  caught  by  them. When  our 
comrades  met  for  a  meeting,  the  Bihar  STF  officers  arrested  them  on  information  provided  by  the  central-state 
intelligence agencies. 

67  year  old  veteran  Maoist  leader  Comrade  Pulendu  Sekhar  Mukherji  known  as  Saheb  da,  Gagan  da  and 
Akash da in the party has been leading the revolutionary movement since 45 years. Born in Kolkata city, he left his 
higher studies and joined the revolutionary struggle with the inspiration of Naxalbari and dedicated his whole life 
for  the  advance  of  people's  war.  In  his  long  revolutionary  career,  he  strove  to  build  revolutionary  movement  in 
various  states  including  Bengal  and  put  substantial  efforts  for  the  unity  of  communist  organizations  and  genuine 
revolutionaries.  Though  suffering  severely  from  asthma,  ulcer  and  other  ailments  he  is  carrying  on  his 
responsibilities with great spirit. 

Comrade Subrahmanyam known as Vimal among the AP cadres and famous as Srikanth among the party ranks 
all  over  the  country,  completed  his  higher  studies  from  Andhra  University  in  Visakhapatnam  and  entered 
revolutionary  activities.  In  the  1970s  he  led  the  Radical  Students  Union,  Radical  Youth  League  and  Singareni 
Karmika  Samakhya.  Responding  to  the  call  of  the  party  he  went  to  North  India  and  put  great  efforts  in  building 
revolutionary movement in many states there. He worked day and night at various levels and in various spheres in 
spite of his severe ill-health.  

Comrade  Jaspalji  well-known  among  the  Bihar  masses  as  Vijay  Kumar  Arya  played  a  crucial  role  in  the 
revolutionary  movement  leading  the  peasantry  and  the  cultural  field.  For  more  than  three  decades  he  led  the 
revolutionary movement in various spheres and areas and built mass movements. 

Indian  intelligence  agencies  which  were  trained  by  foreign  intelligence  agencies  like  CIA  and  Mossad 
notorious  for  their  infinite  cruelty  are  hunting  senior  comrades  leading  the  revolutionary  movement  and  catching 
them.  In fact, it is the CIA and FBI of US which are running the intelligence agencies in  our country.  In the past 
two years the intelligence agencies murdered comrades Patel Sudhakar, Sakhamuri Appa Rao and Azad among the 
top leaders who were caught. Some more central and state level leadership comrades were arrested and put in jails. 
False  cases  were  foisted  on  them  in  various  states  and  they  are  left  to  rot  in  jails  without  granting  bail  for  many 
years.  False  witnesses  are  summoned  and  harsh  punishments  and  life  sentences  are  pronounced  basing  on  such 
testimonies.  The  women  leaders  and  activists  are  particularly  subjected  to  inhuman  physical  and  mental  torture. 
Comrades  like  Sushil  Roy,  Sheela  didi,  Narayan  Sanyal,  Kobad  Gandhi  and  Amitabh  Bagchi  who  are  suffering 
from serious ailments are harassed by denying them health care.  

The imperialists are intensifying the exploitation of resources in backward countries to come out of the severe 
crises  faced  by  the  world  economy.  They  are  threatening  those  countries  which  do  not  cater  to  their  interests.  If 
they  do  not  heed  bombs  are  dropped  and  unjust  wars  are  launched  against  them.  The  Indian  feudal,  comprador 

 1 

bourgeoisie  ruling  classes  even  while  denying  that  there  is  any  effect  of  the  crisis  on  the  country's  economy  are 
getting  bogged  down  in  it  with  each  passing  day.  They  are  opening  the  doors  of  the  economy  to  imperialist 
exploitation  and  are  implementing  neo-liberal  policies  with  impunity.  The  central  and  state  governments  have 
signed  MoUs  worth  billions  of  rupees  with  several  MNCs  and  are  selling  the  natural  resources  of  our  country. 
Lands  are  forcefully  grabbed  from  the  people  in  the  name  of  SEZs,  nuclear  and  thermal  power  plants,  big  dams, 
express highways, wildlife sanctuaries etc. While destroying forests, water, land and ecology on the whole they are 
rendering  the  people  and  particularly  the  adivasis  homeless.  Hiding  behind  these  policies  the  ministers,  chief 
ministers  and  bureaucracy  are  resorting  to  scams  on  a  huge  scale  and  stashing  away  billions  of  rupees  in  Swiss 
banks  and  rendering  the  lives  of  workers,  peasantry,  employees  and  middle  classes  unbearable. While  the  Tatas, 
Birlas, Ambanis, Jindals, Mittals, Mahindras, Ruiyas, Neko Jaiswals and  Sun networks are amassing wealth worth 
trillions of rupees, 77 percent of the country's population is living on less than 20 rupees a day. The people of our 
country  are  caught  in  a  whirlpool  of  problems  like  starvation  deaths,  price  rises,  unemployment,  displacement, 
diseases  and  malnutrition.  Lakhs  of  police  and  paramilitary  is  deployed  by  the  ruling  classes  against  those  who 
question  this  situation  and  fight  against  it  to  suppress  them  under  the  iron  heel.  Black  laws  are  enacted  crushing 
underneath their feet democratic and civil rights. Billions of rupees are poured down the drain to sharpen the fangs 
of the repressive machine to suppress the people.  

The  ruling  classes  which  realized  that  the  huge  discontent  and  anger  erupting  against  the  ruling  classes  is 
strengthening  the  Maoist  movement  have  launched  the  well-planned  campaign  that  'Maoist  movement  is  the 
biggest internal security to the country'. They are portraying the Maoist movement as violent and the Maoist party 
as a terrorist organization and is carrying on a malicious propaganda campaign on a large scale. To continue their 
pro-imperialist policies and to completely decimate the Maoist party which they think is the biggest hurdle for the 
loot of resources they have launched the most  fascist offensive in the name of 'Operation Green Hunt' particularly 
since  two  years.  This  offensive  which  even  has  the  avowed  aim  of  destroying  the  alternative  people's  power 
developing at various levels in the Maoist movement areas has been intensified since January  2011 and now they 
are  calling  it  'Operation  Green  Hunt  –  2'.  As  part  of  this,  the  police,  paramilitary  forces,  Special  Forces  and  the 
counter-revolutionary  vigilante  gangs  launched  by  them  have  intensified  fake  encounters,  indiscriminate  killings, 
burning  of  villages,  loot,  atrocities  on  women,  arrests  and  tortures.  They  are  making  full  preparations  to  deploy 
army  in  Chhattisgarh  and  are  on  their  way  to  grab  800  sq.  kms  of  land  in  Maad.  In  Maad  and  on  the  borders  of 
Chhattisgarh and Odisha two army training centres are coming up. Apart from making preparations to establish an 
Air-Force base they have given permission to the Air-Force to conduct attacks in 'self-defence'. 

In Chintalnar area of Dandakaranya between 11 and 16 of March, 350 Cobra commandos, Koya commandos 
and hundreds of STF forces descended on Morpalli, Timmapuram and Tadimetla villages, created havoc and razed 
to the ground 300 houses. Thousands of quintals of food grains were burnt. Every home was looted. Three villagers 
were  shot  dead,  two  went  missing,  five  women  were  gang  raped  and  nearly  50  villagers  were  severely  tortured. 
Democrats  who  went  to  inquire  into  this,  media  persons  who  went  to  report  this  and  social  activists  who  were 
taking relief material to the victims were attacked by the Salwa Judum goons and not allowed to enter the area at 
the behest of fascist chief minister Raman Singh, the running dogs of the ruling classes DGP Viswaranjan, Bastar 
IG Longkumer and Dantewada SSP Kalluri. In the background of the furor which rocked the state and country on 
this  atrocity, Raman Singh  was forced to visit Tadimetla  village. Even  while he  was speaking at  the meeting, the 
Koya commandos went on a rampage once again and looted fifteen houses, beat some villagers and raped a woman 
in the same village. This is the level of fascist terror being unleashed in Chhattisgarh today. These kinds of attacks 
are  being  conducted  regularly  in  Gadchiroli  district  of  Maharashtra  too.  Moreover  secret  killer  gangs  are 
encouraged  to  attack  and  kill  mass  organization  activists  and  party  activists.  They  are  told  to  particularly  target 
women  activists – to rape  and kill  them. On  April 19, 14 year old boy Rajnu  was killed in cold blood in Chinari 
village and a fake encounter story was circulated. These are just recent examples of the severe repressive campaign 
unleashed on a daily basis in Dandakaranya. 

On  March  14,  six  Maoists  including  three  women  were  killed  by  the  police  in  East  Champaran  district  of 
Bihar.  Some  more  were  arrested.  The  Jharkhand  government  is  deploying  thousands  of  police  and  paramilitary 
forces  with  the  aim  of  annihilating  Maoist  leadership  and  is  carrying  on  offensives.  Indiscriminate  arrests  are 
continuing. Fascist attacks are conducted on people fighting against displacement and forceful evictions from land. 
In Odisha the comprador Naveen Patnaik government carried on fake encounters all over the state and killed more 
than 25 Maoists, anti-mining activists and ordinary people within four months. The fact that there is a 12 year old 
girl Janga and some more teenage girls among the dead bares the brutal face of the Patnaik regime. 

With  the  aim  of  continuing  their  fascist  rule  of  the  past  34  years  at  any  cost,  the  CPM  government  in West 
Bengal  intensified  its  attacks  on  people  and  the  Maoists.  It  is  resorting  to  massacres  and  the  most  appalling 
atrocities  using  police,  paramilitary  and  its  goonda  force  of  Harnad  Bahini.  Arrested  Maoist  leaders,  particularly 
women,  are  being  treated  in  the  most  inhuman  manner.  Recently  WB  police  severely  attacked  the  political 

 2 

prisoners who were striking against the horrible conditions in the Medinipur jail. The AP government which claims 
to  have  decimated  the  Maoist  movement  in  the  state  is  going  on  increasing  its  police  forces  on  a  large  scale.  It 
intensified its hunt for Maoist leaders.  It is suppressing the people fighting for separate Telangana.  Its leaders are 
being  attacked  by  state-sponsored  black  gangs.  The  Maharashtra  government  is  continuing  the  campaign  of 
repression in the adivasi movement areas, is arresting Maoist leaders and democrats in the urban areas and foisting 
false cases on them. 

This  fascist  onslaught  is  not  just  aimed  at  the  Maoist  movement.  The  oppressive  ruling  classes  have  been 
resorting to fascist repression against every democratic movement. Last month, on 18th, police had indiscriminately 
fired  at  the  people  of  Jaitapur  area  in  Maharashtra  who  were  agitating  against  the  proposed  nuclear  power  plant 
killing one protester named Tabrez.  And now, the police forces are brutally suppressing  the agitating peasants of 
Uttar Pradesh  who are opposing to give  away their lands for proposed Express Highway  to be built from Greater 
Noida to Agra. At least two peasants were killed and so many people  were injured  when  police force resorted to 
beatings and firings. People of Bhatta-Parsaul and nearby villages boldly resisted the police rampage in which two 
policemen  were  also  killed  and  some  others  including  few  officers  were  injured.  Next  day  people  of  Agra  and 
Aligarh  also  intensified  their  agitation  and  resisted  the  highhandedness  of  the  police.  Taking  this  as  a  pretext, 
fascist Mayawati government has resorted to severe repression on the peasants of Uttar Pradesh. Laying siege upon 
the villages, it is inflicting inhuman atrocities upon the villagers. 

Beloved People! Democrats! Patriots!  

The above fascist repressive measures and the arrests of Maoist leaders are part of the War on People  waged 
by the ruling  clique of Sonia-Manmohan-Chidambaram with the support of the imperialists in the  name of OGH. 
We must see this political repression, massacres and attack on civil rights in the context of the repercussions of the 
severe  crisis faced by the  world capitalism on all the spheres in our society.  It is part of a conspiracy to carry on 
their  pro-imperialist,  anti-people  policies  unchallenged  by  completely  destroying  the  Maoist  revolutionary 
movement.  It  is  a  historical  truth  that  repression  leads  to  resistance.  The  daydreams  of  Sonia-Manmohan-
Chidambaram  ruling  clique  that  they  would  be  able  to  suppress  mass  movements  and  revolutionary  movements 
through  arrests,  murders  and  repressive  campaigns  are  bound  to  end  in  a  nightmare.  The  feudal  and  comprador 
bureaucratic bourgeois ruling classes and imperialists who control them are the biggest enemies to the development 
of our country, self-reliance, sovereignty and people's welfare. Our Central Committee is calling upon the people to 
join  in  huge  numbers  in  the  People's War  waged  by  our  party  and  in  the  New  Democratic  Revolution  conducted 
with  the  aim  of  completely  eliminating  these  people's  enemies.  Our  CC  is  appealing  to  all  civil  rights  activists, 
intellectuals, democrats and those who wish for peace talks to visit our movement areas and see with your own eyes 
the inhuman atrocities and massacres perpetrated by the state here. It is requesting you to place before the people of 
this country the facts about the fascist state violence unleashed on adivasis - the poorest of the poor - in the heart of 
this country which calls itself 'the largest democracy'. 

Our  CC  is  calling  upon  the  people  and  the  democrats  to  condemn  these  arrests,  massacres,  destruction,  loot, 
atrocities,  foul  propaganda,  fascization  of  the  state,  forceful  land  acquisitions  and  black  laws  like  UAPA  and  to 
fight  unitedly  against  all  these.  It  is  demanding  that  the  arrested  Maoist  leaders  be  released  unconditionally  and 
immediately. The only way before us is to fight back unitedly and militantly the fascist state terror and our CC is 
calling  upon  the  people  to  come  forward  bravely  to  resist  this.  It  is  clearly  stating  that  only  by  intensifying  the 
people's resistance movement ongoing under the leadership of our party and PLGA and by getting mobilized into it 
in thousands and lakhs can we defeat this offensive. 

Our CC is appealing to the people to make success the 48 hour 'Bharat Bandh' to be observed on May 21-22 
protesting the arrests of Maoist leaders and against the war on people by the ruling clique and against the ongoing 
repression of Uttar Pradesh peasants. This bandh would be mainly observed in six states – Jharkhand, Bihar, West 
Bengal,  Odisha,  Andhra  Pradesh  and  Chhattisgarh;  in  three  districts  of  Maharashtra  –  Gadchiroli,  Chandrapur, 
Gondia; in the border districts of Uttar Pradesh adjoining Bihar and in Balaghat district of Madhya Pradesh. There 
will be protests in various forms in other states. Emergency services like health care, examinations of students and 
interviews are exempted from the bandh. 

 

 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

 3 

