COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

February 13, 2013 

Condemn the execution of Afzal Guru! 

Activists of mass movements, nationality struggles 

and revolutionaries are not terrorists,  

the Indian State itself is the biggest terrorist! 

 
The Indian State which boasts itself as world’s biggest democracy has executed Afzal Guru 
on  February  9,  2013  in  Tihar  jail  of  Delhi  in  a  most  clandestine  manner.  Afzal  Guru,  who  was 
arrested on the charges of abetting the attack of December 13, 2001 on Indian parliament, was not 
given any opportunity to prove his innocence and even he was denied from deputing a lawyer of his 
choice. The supreme court of India confirmed death penalty to him in 2005 to ‘satisfy the nation’s 
collective conscience.’ Without conducting any impartial enquiry of who might be the real actors 
behind that attack and what might be the real conspiracy, activists and sympathizers of Kashmiri 
nationality struggle were deviously framed in this case. 

As part of the ‘global war on terror’ unleashed by the US imperialists after 9/11 attacks, the 
Indian State launched a massive propaganda campaign through the corporate media depicting the 
nationality organizations and revolutionary organizations as terrorist ones. To systematically divert 
the people’s attention from their immediate and genuine problems, it has been propagating that the 
‘terrorism’  is  the  lone  biggest  problem  of  all.  In  Kashmir  and  in  all  states  of  India,  Muslim 
population in general are in a state of great agony for the fascistic massacres, atrocities, tortures, jail 
custodies  and  inhuman  discrimination  inflicted  on  them  by  both  Congress  and  BJP  governments 
and various Hindu religious fanatic forces belonging to the Sangh (RSS) gang.  Some Muslims are 
resisting this in their own ways. As one of the forms of this resistance, at times, some unwanted 
destructive acts have also been taking place. The ruling classes and the Hindu religious chauvinist 
forces only are responsible for this. At the same time, intelligence wings of Indian government and 
the US and the groups connected to the Hindu fundamentalist Sangh gang have been perpetrating 
bomb blasts and other disruptive actions in various places of the country in a deceitful way.  The 
government and the media which stands hand in glove with it are portraying the innocent Muslims 
and nationality organizations as responsible for all of these attacks. They are being falsely framed 
under fake charges. Indian State’s mission is to suppress every just mass movement using this as a 
pretext. The dramatic attack on parliament was nothing but a part of this conspiracy. 

The  Congress-led  UPA  government  which  till  now  has  been  postponing  the  execution  of 
Afzal Guru, now hastily took this decision so as to gain upper hand over BJP and to prove itself as 
champion over ‘terrorism’. In this process it has violated many a legal norms. It didn’t give prior 
information to Afzal’s family that the President of India had rejected his mercy petition. And he 
was  not  allowed  to  meet  his  family  members  before  his  death.  After  imposing  curfew  in  entire 
Kashmir valley, the Indian government has resorted to this cowardly act. By not giving even his 
dead body to the family members – just as world’s biggest terrorist US imperialism did by throwing 
the body of Osama into the ocean – it has inhumanely cremated his body in the jail premises. 

By  executing  Afzal  Guru,  the  Indian  government  has  hurt  the  conscience  of  not  only 
Kashmiris, but entire democracy-loving Indian masses. It’s a fact that even after butchering of over 

80 thousand Kashmiris and turning entire valley into a military cantonment with the deployment of 
over 700 thousands of armed forces in Kashmir, the national aspirations of Kashimiri people have 
not  been  suppressed.  Government  of  India  is  daydreaming  that  by  stringing  up  Afzal  Guru  the 
fighting  spirit  of  the  Kashmiri  people  could  be  curbed  down.  Over  many  decades,  the  people  of 
Kashmir are justly fighting for the national liberation and azadi. Despite of many ups and downs, 
their  struggle  has  been  marching  ahead  in  various  forms  and  at  times  it’s  been  erupting  like 
volcano.  This  kind  of  callous  acts  of  Indian  fascist  rulers  will  only  add  salt  to  the  wounds  of 
Kashmiri people, but cannot suppress them forever. 

Communist Party of India (Maoist) condemns this fascistic act in severest terms. It warns 
the ruling classes that their hope of suppressing people’s movements and nationality struggles by 
committing  such  acts  will  definitely  be  faded  away.    Kashmir  belongs  to  Kashmiri  people  only. 
Neither India nor Pakistan has any right over it. Our Party fully supports the liberation movement of 
the  Kashmiri  nationality.  We  call  upon  the  workers,  peasants,  students,  youths,  dalits,  adivasis, 
religious minorities, women, traders.... entire oppressed masses and nationalities to fight against the 
big comprador bureaucratic bourgeois and feudal ruling classes and their imperialist masters who 
had turned this country into prison house of nationalities. Only by marching ahead hand in hand 
with the ongoing struggle aimed at building of People’s New Democratic State – which would be 
the united front of workers, peasantry, small and national bourgeoisie – can the nationalities achieve 
the  right  of  self  determination  including  the  right  to  secede  and  can  the  entire  oppressed  people 
achieve liberation from all kinds of exploitation and suppression.  

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, CPI (Maoist) 

(Translated from Hindi original) 

