 

 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release 

 

                                                                               September 23, 2010 

Condemn the brutal killings of Kashmiris 

who are agitating for their freedom by the Indian ruling classes ! 

Participate in huge numbers in the 24 hour bandh called on September 30, 2010 

in protest of the massacre of Kashmiris by the government armed forces and 

in support of the just movement of the Kashmiri people! 

 
Massacres of people in Kashmir by the state is out bursting all limits. People are conducting protest 
marches  all  over  the  Kashmir  valley  against  the  innumerable  atrocities,  indiscriminate  firings  and 
endless  curfew  hours. The  slogan  of  AZADI  is  reverberating  all  over  the  valley.  More  than  a  hundred 
Kashmiris  have  lost  their  lives  since  June  11  in  the  firings  done  by  the  paramilitary,  army  and  police 
forces  to  suppress  the  just  struggle  of  the  Kashmiri  people.  Most  of  those  who  died  are  youngsters 
below  20  years  of  age  and  children.  Hundreds  of  protestors  have  been  injured.  The  exploitative  and 
expansionist  Indian  ruling  classes  who  claim  that  this  is  the  biggest  democracy  in  the  world  are 
shamelessly  deploying  the  armed  forces  to  suppress  the  Kashmiris  who  are  conducting  peaceful, 
unarmed  and  just  protests.  While  the  UPA  government  led  by  the  Congress  and  all  parliamentary 
parties including the so called left parties CPI, CPI(M) are supporting directly or indirectly this massacre 
of the Kashmiri people, the Hindu chauvinist BJP is repeatedly inciting the government to suppress the 
Kashmiri people  in cruelest manner. The  Omar Abdullah government which  is working as a stooge of 
the  Indian  ruling  classes  is  participating  in  this  brutal  suppression  and  has  been  completely  isolated 
from the people. Kashmiri people hate these traitors. Firing, tear gas shelling and lathi charges on each 
and every procession have become the order of the day. It is in this background that the Kashmiri youth 
are  resorting  to  counter  offensive  by  hurling  stones.  This  resistance  done  in  self-defence  against  the 
brutal massacres is completely justified and democratic. 

Kashmir  people  had  never  considered  themselves  a  part  of  India.  By  1947  when  a  sham 
'independence'  was  handed  over  to  India  and  Pakistan  by  the  British  rulers,  Kashmir  was  an 
independent state under the rule of Raja Hari Singh.  The Indian and Pakistani ruling classes who are 
stooges of the British imperialists had integrated Kashmir into their countries for their own interests and 
against  the  aspirations  and  desires  of  the  Kashmiris.  One  part  was  occupied  by  the  Indian 
expansionists and the other half was occupied by Pakistan. Thus Kashmir was divided into two parts in 
the  most  atrocious  manner.  In  order  to  cool  down  the  fury  of  the  Kashmiris,  Nehru  government  had 
promised to the people of Kashmir and the UNO in writing to conduct a plebiscite and promised that it 
would  give  them  independence  if  people  wanted  to  secede.  Nehru  had  reiterated  this  promise  many 
more times. But within a short time Nehru began suppressing the Kashmiris under the iron heels of his 
armed  forces.  This  promise  had  been  deeply  buried  by  every  ruling  class  party  which  had  come  to 
power  from  Nehru  to  Sonia-Manmohan's  UPA.  Indian  expansionists  had  always  used  repression 
against  the  Kasmiris  whenever  they  agitated  for  their  independence.  The  Indian  ruling  classes  had 
been  conducting  a  planned  propaganda  that  Kashmir  is  an  integral  part  of  India  by  hiding  even  the 
recent  past  and  burying  the  promises.  The  desire  for  independence  has  been  simmering  inside  the 
hearts  of  the  Kashmiris  since  then  and  it  turned  into  a  militant  armed  movement  in  the  90s.  Many 
militant  organizations  conducted  armed  struggle.  Though  there  are  some  differences  in  the  political 
aims  of  these  organizations,  they  got  the  support  of  the  people  because  they  expressed  the  national 
liberation aspirations of the Kashmiris. But the fascist Indian ruling classes had deployed more than  7 
lakh  para  military  and  military  forces  all  over  the  Kashmir  valley  and  had  already  killed  more  than  80 
thousand Kashmiri people. Thousands of Kashmiris had gone missing. It is no exaggeration to say that 
no other government had carried out such  a cruel repression  on any  nationality struggle  by deploying 
armed forces in such large numbers on such a massive scale. The Indian ruling classes had resorted to 

 

 

all  kinds  of  conspiracies  and  scheming  and  had  ignited  differences  between  Kashmiri  Hindus  and 
Muslims  using  divide  and  rule  policy.  They  are  still  conspiring  to  counter  pose  the  Kashmiri  Pandits 
against the just movement of the Kashmiri people. Particularly, the role of the expansionist chauvinist 
Congress,  and  role  played  by  the  saffron  Hindu  chauvinist  Sangh  Parivar  in  the  past  and  present  is 
outrightly  heinous.  With  the  excuse  that  there  are  pro-Pakistan  forces  and  Islamic  forces  in  the 
movement of the Kashmiris, Indian rulers are propagating that the movement of the Kashmiris is aimed 
at seceding from India and integrating in Pakistan. This is nothing but an utter lie. The only aspiration of 
the Kashmiris right from the beginning is to win  liberation for their  nationality. That is why, though the 
Indian ruling classes had been repeatedly stating that they had put down militancy in Kashmir,  in fact, it 
had  never been extinguished. Though this  movement has been erupting  under various circumstances 
as  a  response  to  different  problems,  the  fact  that  the  main  slogan  of  all  these  agitations  is  AZADI  is 
testimony to this. CPI (Maoist) firmly reiterates that Kashmiri movement for the liberation of Kashmiris, 
for their right to self-determination is completely just and that neither India nor Pakistan have any rights 
over them. 
 
Freedom-loving people of Kashmir, 

Our  party  supports  and  stands  in  complete  support  of  your  struggle  for  independence  and  right  to 
self-determination  against  the  expansionist  Indian  ruling  classes.  Our  party  is  sending  revolutionary 
greetings  to  you  on  behalf  of  the  entire  revolutionary,  democratic  and  struggling  people  of  India  and 
salutes the determination you are demonstrating in your agitations braving police firings, lathi charges, 
curfews,  continuous  searching  operations  and  unending  insults.  Though  dozens  of  youngsters  are 
being killed in indiscriminate firings, you are hoisting the dead on your shoulders and are participating in 
the funeral marches in thousands all the while demanding AZADI. Your determination and sacrifice will 
forever  be  etched  in  the  annals  of  history.  Our  party  expresses  deep  condolences  to  all  the  martyrs' 
families,  their  near  and  dear  and  to  the  whole  Kashmiri  society  who  had  lost  their  beloved  sons  and 
daughters to the bullets of the mercenary troops of the Indian expansionists. It is the ruling classes who 
are  trying  to  isolate  you  by  branding  you  as  anti-national  and  your  movement  as  a  secessionist 
movement  who  are  the  real  enemies  of  all  the  oppressed  nationalities  and  peoples  all  over  the  sub-
continent. So let's fight unitedly against this common enemy of ours. Let us intensify our struggles. 

 

Justice-loving people of India, 

Our  party  is  appealing  to  all  of  you  to  not  to  believe  the  chauvinist  lies  propagated  by  the  Indian 
exploitative  ruling  classes,  particularly  by  Congress  and  saffron  terrorist  brigade  against  the  just 
struggle of the Kashmiris. It is appealing to all of you to verify facts and stand in firm support of this just 
struggle. We are calling upon all of you to participate in huge numbers in observing a 24 hour bandh on 
September  30,  2010,  in  support  of  the  just  struggle  of  the  Kashmiris  and  against  the  massacres 
perpetuated by the government armed forces. 

 

The concrete demands of our party in this context are as follows  

1.  Stop immediately the massacres of Indian armed forces in Kashmir ! 
2.  Withdraw immediately military and para military forces from Kashmir ! 
3.  Immediately repeal the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) which authorizes 

the armed forces to kill the people indiscriminately ! 

4.  Plebiscite  should  be  conducted  in  Kashmir  and  Kashmiris  should  be  allowed  to 

decide their future on their own ! 

5.  Release all political prisoners unconditionally ! 

 
We are calling upon the people of six states (Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Odisha 
and Andhra Pradesh), people of Gadchiroli, Gondia, Chandrapur districts of Maharashtra and people of 
Balaghat  in  Madhya  Pradesh  to  close  down  all  rail  and  road  traffic,  banks,  government  and  private 
offices, industries, educational institutions and business establishments and refuse to attend them. We 
are excluding essential services like hospitals and other services from this bandh call. 

 
 

 
 

(Anand) 

 

 
 

 
 

Secretary, Central Regional Bureau 
 

Central Committee, 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
(Abhay) 

   

Spokesperson, 

Central Committee, 

 

 

CPI (Maoist)  

 

 

 

 

 

CPI (Maoist) 

 

 

