COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

 

Press Release 

 

30 April 2017 

A veteran communist of Naxalbari generation and Politburo Member of 
our Party Comrade Narayan Sanyal will continue to inspire us to daringly 

traverse the path of PPW till victory! 

 

Comrade  Narayan  Sanyal  (Bijay,  Prasad),  veteran  communist,  Politburo  member  of 
our Party and one of the last of the Naxalbari generation of revolutionaries passed away on 16 
April 2017 in Kolkata due to cancer at the age of 80. He was made to suffer nearly nine years 
of  imprisonment  by  the  enemy  on  fabricated  charges  and  was  released  only  in  November 
2014 on bail due to his advancing age and failing health. He was still fighting several serious 
charges foisted by the police in various states at the time of his death. Prolonged confinement 
and  wilful  neglect  by  the  Indian  government  in  providing  him  medical  care  in  prison  had 
exacerbated  the  ailments  he  was  suffering  from  at  the  time  of  arrest.  It  is  the  Indian 
government  which is  squarely  responsible for creating the conditions  of his  untimely death. 
With  the  demise  of  Comrade  Bijay,  our  CC,  Party,  the  revolutionary  movement  and  the 
country’s toiling masses have lost one of their beloved leaders who selflessly served them for 
nearly half a century with nothing but the interests of the oppressed masses and the revolution 
in his heart. His demise is a great loss to our Party, the Indian revolution and the people. The 
CC  of  our  Party  pays  its  humble  red  homage  with  a  heavy  heart  to  our  beloved  Comrade 
Bijay da and takes pledge with clinched fists to continue the revolutionary class struggle until 
its  final  victory  to  realise  the  aspirations  for  which  he  lived  and  died.  Our  CC  extends  its 
condolences to his family, friends and comrades who were familiar with him throughout the 
country. The entire Party, PLGA and revolutionary mass organisations across the country will 
pay  revolutionary  red  homage  to  this  exemplary  communist,  learn  from  his  proletarian 
qualities, take inspiration from his lifelong dedication to the path of Naxalbari and take vow 
to realise his dream for a society free from exploitation and oppression. 
 
Early political life: Comrade Narayan Sanyal was born in a middle class educated family in 
West Bengal in 1937. He was inspired by the anti-colonial struggle, Partition of India and the 
communist  movement,  particularly  the  Tebhaga  movement  in  Bengal  during  his  childhood. 
He  got  influenced  by  communism  at  an  impressionable  age  and  became  an  activist  of  the 
Students’  Federation  during  his  student  life.  Soon  he  became  a  member  of  the  Communist 
Party  of  India  (CPI).  After  completing  his  graduation,  he  took  up  a  job  in  a  public  sector 
bank. He continued his political work as an activist of the bank employee’s union affiliated to 
the CPI, the leadership of which was neck deep in revisionism. The Great Debate launched 
by  the  CPC  led  by  Mao  against  the  Khrushchev  revisionist  clique  of  CPSU  stirred  anti-
revisionist struggles in the Communist Parties of the world. In India too, genuine communists 
started to question the revisionist leadership of CPI and an ideological struggle ensued, which 
became  sharper  during  the  Indo-China  War.  Comrade  Bijay  followed  this  debate  in  the 
international communist movement with much interest. He supported the CPC and joined the 
revolutionaries  within  the  CPI.  When  the  party  split  and  CPI(M)  was  formed,  he  became  a 
member of the new party with the hope that it would decisively break with revisionism and 
tread a revolutionary path. But CPI(M) leadership soon proved to be right-opportunist in its 
programme  and  practice.  Genuine  revolutionaries  like  comrades  CM  and  KC  launched 

 

1 

scathing criticisms against it. The historic Eight Documents of Comrade CM in particular had 
a  galvanizing  effect  on  the  followers  of  the  revolutionary  path  who  upheld  Mao  Tse-tung 
Thought  and  the  CPC.  Comrade  Bijay  was  greatly  influenced  by  this  bitter  ideological 
struggle  in  the  CPI(M).    The  struggle  intensified  in  the  backdrop  of  the  GPCR  and  the 
growing  revolutionary  crisis  in  the  country,  culminating  in  the  outbreak  of  the  glorious 
revolutionary  peasant  uprising  of  Naxalbari.  Comrade  Bijay  firmly  supported  CM’s 
revolutionary line and hailed the revolutionary peasants of Naxalbari.  Breaking all ties with 
CPI(M), he jumped into revolutionary activities. He became a member of the newly-formed 
CPI(ML).  Soon  thereafter,  Comrade  Bijay  gave  up  his  bank  job  and  became  a  Professional 
Revolutionary.  To  expand  the  flames  of  Naxalbari  and  with  a  perspective  of  building  base 
areas,  the  leadership  of  CPI(ML)  sent  him  to  rural  Bihar  in  the  late  1960s  to  organise  the 
peasantry  reeling  under  feudal  oppression.  The  tremors  created  by  Naxalbari  had  already 
fuelled  the  anti-feudal  struggle  in  Bihar  and  comrade  Bijay  fully  immersed  himself  in  this 
struggle. Hundreds of comrades were martyred in the attacks by the landlord’s goons and the 
police during 1969-1972 throughout the country, while thousands were arrested as a part of 
severe  state  repression.  He  stood  firm  upholding  the  line  of  Naxalbari  in  this  difficult 
situation and fought back the revisionist line that raised its ugly head. He firmly led the fight 
against the splittist, right-opportunist and liquidationist line of Satyanarayan Singh (who was 
a  CCM  and  PBM  of  ML  Party)  and  boldly  upheld  the  line  of  Naxalbari  in  1971-72.  After 
SNS’s betrayal of the Party and the movement, Comrade Bijay became the Secretary of the 
Bihar State Committee. But due to his arrest within a short period in 1972, he did not get the 
opportunity to guide the movement for long in Bihar and develop it. 
 
Role  in  the  unity  of  revolutionary  forces  and  the  formation  of  CPI(ML)PU:  After  his 
arrest, Comrade Bijay was first lodged in a jail in Bihar and later in Bengal. He faced brutal 
torture  in  police  custody,  but  remained  firm  and  inspired  others  to  boldly  face  the  enemy. 
Along  with  several  other  leading  comrades,  he  and  other  revolutionaries  withstood  many 
attacks  orchestrated  by  the  jail  authorities.  With  them,  he  led  many  struggles  of  the  jail 
inmates  on  many  demands  including  for  the  rights  of  the  political  prisoners.  Comrade 
Narayan Sanyal built close relations with like-minded comrades in jail like Comrade Parimal 
Sen [(Ajay), who became a CCM of CPI(Maoist)] and Comrade Ajit [who became a member 
of  West  Bengal  State  Committee,  CPI(Maoist)]  and  some  other  leading  cadre.  They 
collectively reviewed the revolutionary movement led by the CPI(ML) so far and developed 
similar  ideas  on  some  basic  issues.  Based  on  this,  they  came  to  an  understanding  about 
uniting  with  genuine  revolutionaries  on  a  common  basis  if  any  genuine  Party  was  already 
functioning. In an atmosphere when right-opportunists were carrying out ruthless attacks on 
CPI(ML)’s line, CM’s role, splits, disunity and demoralisation stalked the revolutionary camp 
after the martyrdom of Comrade CM and setback of Naxalbari, Comrade Bijay played a very 
important  role  in  making  efforts  to  unite  the  genuine  revolutionary  forces  from  jail  and 
rebuild the movement. 

After the Emergency was lifted, Comrade Bijay and a large number of comrades came 
out of the jails. He and the like-minded comrades soon made earnest efforts to hold talks with 
the genuine revolutionary groups and individuals to unite on the basis of the line adopted by 
the Eighth Congress of CPI(ML) and on their past review of the movement. But those efforts 
did not bring the desired results. They realised that their efforts would not materialise much 
unless they developed the revolutionary moment on the basis of their review. This realisation 
led them to hold a Conference in November 1978. Three important documents that dealt with 
the historic significance of CPI(ML), on Unity, and on the ‘line’ of annihilation were adopted 
and a new Party CPI(ML)  (Party Unity) was formed in  this historic Conference. A COC to 
lead the Party was elected and Comrade Bijay became its member. The Party decided to build 

 

2 

a revolutionary peasant movement in South Central Bihar with a strategic view. Work among 
the peasantry also began in Nadia and Murshidabad districts of West Bengal. 

After the formation of the Party Unity, the COC continued the unity efforts with other 
revolutionary  groups.  The  first  unity  was  achieved  with  the  Communist  Kranthikari 
Sanghatan  (CKS)  in  1980  which  led  to  the  formation  of  CPI(ML)(UO).  A  section  of  the 
erstwhile  COC,  CPI(ML)  led  by  comrades  Sharma  and  Appalasuri  merged  with  UO  in 
January  1982  to  form  CPI(ML)  Party  Unity.  The  Bihar  faction  of  the  CCRI(ML),  an 
organisation  mainly  active  in  West  Bengal,  united  with  PU  in  1988.  A  section  of 
CPI(ML)[CT], known as the Co-ordination Centre,(or Sangram group) of Punjab united with 
the PU in 1990. Comrade Bijay played the main role in all these mergers. 
 
Role in developing the revolutionary movement: Strengthened by the mergers, PU worked 
with  a  perspective  to  develop  the  agrarian  revolution  in  Magadh  region  of  Bihar.  A 
considerable  section  of  the  Party’s  central  leadership  concentrated  on  this  task.  Comrade 
Bijay  led  this  effort  from  the  front  by  being  in  the  field.  Learning  from  the  experience  of 
revolutionary  peasant  struggle  of  Naxalbari  and  applying  the  mass  line,  a  powerful  anti-
feudal struggle was built up in Koel-Kaimur, Jehanabad and Aurangabad region. Party units 
were formed, workers’ and peasants’ organisation (MKSS) was established, a peoples’ militia 
was built  and  guerrilla squads were formed to resist  landlord’s goons  and the state’s  armed 
forces. The movement was strengthened by recruiting members from mass organisations and 
the militia into the Party and the guerrilla squads which were expanded by seizing arms from 
landlords  and  the  police.  To  consolidate  the  gains  of  the  movement  and  advance,  Party 
education was imparted. Similarly, peasant revolutionary struggle was developed by the Party 
in  the  plains  of  Bengal  by  fighting  against  CPM’s  social  fascist  rule,  particularly  in  Nadia, 
Murshidabad and Malda districts.  A section of the PU leadership concentrated in advancing 
this movement and it emerged as an important area of class struggle led by the PU.  

In  both  Bihar  and  Bengal,  along  with  anti-feudal  struggle,  by  learning  from  past 
experience,  political  mobilisation  was  done  against  imperialism,  feudalism  and  on  other 
people’s issues. In Patna city, Kolkata, Krishnanagar, workers, students, youths, women and 
other oppressed sections were organised in worker’s, student’s and youth fronts. A women’s 
front was developed in rural areas. The rural revolutionary movement was developed in some 
pockets of Punjab and of Srikakulam and Vijayanagaram districts in Andhra Pradesh. In this 
way, the Party developed a revolutionary movement in eastern India with a mass base in rural 
and  urban  areas.  In  the  planning  and  execution  of  all  this  work  as  a  member  of  the  Party’s 
COC, Comrade Bijay played a crucial role. 
 
Role in leading the Party in internal struggle: Just when the conditions were maturing for 
the  movement  to  advance  by  summing  up  the  past  experience  and  formulating  new  higher-
level tasks, a right-opportunist line was brought  forward by the then Party secretary Ashok. 
The advocates of this line asserted that there were fundamental changes in the semi-colonial 
and semi-feudal relations due to the development of capitalist relations in agriculture, making 
agrarian  revolution  and  PPW  obsolete.  But  they  failed  to  substantiate  their  claims  with  a 
Marxist  analysis  or  to  place  any  concrete  strategy  and  tactics  to  carry  out  their  line.  This 
revisionist  line  threatened  to  liquidate  the  revolutionary  character  of  the  Party  and  all  the 
gains it had achieved so far. This ideological-political struggle came to a head in the Party’s 
Central  Conference  held  in  1987.  Comrade  Bijay  resolutely  led  the  struggle  against  this 
wrong  line  to  defend  the  correct  line  and  safeguarded  the  Party.  As  a  result  of  this,  the 
erroneous line was defeated at the Conference and the line of Protracted People’s War with 
agrarian revolution as the axis of the New Democratic Revolution was reaffirmed. The Party 
achieved unity on a higher basis. Ashok and another COCM deserted and Comrade Bijayda 

 

3 

became the Party Secretary. He ably led the Party as its secretary from 1987 till 1998 when it 
merged with CPI(ML)(PW) to form a new unified Party, the CPI(ML)[PW].  
 
Role  in  merger  and  in  the  unified  party:  As  the  Secretary  of  PU  Comrade  Bijay 
consistently  upheld  the  understanding  of  the  Eighth  Congress  of  CPI(ML)  that  genuine 
communist revolutionaries should unite on the basis of a common review of the past. Unity 
talks began between CPI(ML)(PW) and CPI(ML)PU in 1995 based on similar understanding 
of important  domestic and international  developments  and continued. As a part of the unity 
process,  PU’s  Central  Conference  was  held  in  1997  where  eighteen  years  of  the  movement 
led  by  the  Party  was  reviewed.  Some  vital  questions  on  the  party  line  were  raised  in  a 
Critique Document was placed by a COCM during the Conference. The two-line struggle that 
followed  led  to  the  enrichment  of  the  PU’s  political  line  and  some  valuable  and  correct 
criticism  made  by  the  critique  document  was  incorporated  in  the  POR  by  the  Conference. 
Comrade  Bijay  played  an  important  role  in  conducting  this  two-line  struggle  in  the  correct 
method and contributed to the successful conference. It had played a most important role in 
achieving  unity  between  the  PU  and  PW.  After  nearly  three  years  of  unity  process  and 
reaching  a  common  understanding  on  all  basic  ideological,  political,  organisational  and 
military  issues  the  two  parties  merged  to  form  CPI(ML)[PW].  Comrade  Bijay  played  the 
main  role  on  behalf  of  PU  in  leading  its  delegation  and  putting  forth  its  positions  with  a 
desire for unity. After the merger, the united Party began preparations for the Ninth Congress 
to  be held  nearly thirty  years  after the Eighth  Congress  of 1970 held  under Comrade CM’s 
leadership.  As  a  senior  comrade  and  a  PBM,  Comrade  Bijay  was  deeply  involved  in  the 
preparations,  in  drafting  Congress  documents  by  summing-up  the  movement  and  in 
conducting the Congress held in 2001. When a left-sectarian line came up in the Congress, he 
played an important role as an elder comrade of the CC in defeating it. He had an important 
role  in  the  successful  completion  of  the  Congress.  As  the  PB  in-charge  from  the  CC, 
Comrade Bijay  guided the South West Regional Bureau of the Party  along with  the SWRB 
Secretary. When a right-opportunist line raised its ugly head in Karnataka, he fought it back 
with other comrades and defeated it. When new revolutionary forces emerged in Assam, he 
helped  to  consolidate  them  by  imparting  ideological-political  education  and  played  an 
important role in expanding the Party there. He also maintained relations with a few national 
liberation organisations of the Northeast. 

As  a  veteran  comrade  who  was  part  of  the  revolutionary  movement  since  Naxalbari 
and a CCM and PBM of CPI(ML)[PW], Comrade Narayan Sanyal played an important role 
in leading the new Party. He had the experience of the benefits of unity and the harmfulness 
of disunity for the revolutionary movement and the Party leading it. With the PU-PW unity, a 
large majority of the ML forces in the country were united. But the ongoing clashes between 
PW and MCC in Bihar (later referred to as the Black Chapter in the Party’s history) worried 
him  seriously.  With  sincere  efforts  from  both  sides  and  the  fraternal  Parties,  MCC  and PW 
successfully  stopped  the  clashes  with  a  self-critical  attitude.  It  paved  the  way  for  the 
resumption  of  bilateral  relations  in  2001  which  led  to  unity  talks.  On  behalf  of  the  CC  of 
CPI(ML)[PW], Comrade Bijay played an important role in the unity talks with the MCC and 
preparing documents for the united Party with enriched understanding, leading to the merger 
of  PW  and  MCCI  and  the  emergence  of  CPI(Maoist).  This  made  him  extremely  happy.  He 
became  a  CCM  and  PBM  of  the  new  Party  and  played  important  role  in  the  task  of 
formulating its new tasks and in expanding the movement. A new Regional Bureau called the 
Central-Eastern  Regional  Bureau  comprising  of  North  Chhattisgarh  and  Odisha  state  was 
formed  to  carry  out  the  expansion  work  in  a  planed  manner.  Comrade  Bijay  became  the 
secretary  of  this  RB.  Unfortunately,  however,  he  got  arrested  within  fifteen  months  of  the 
merger and even before this RB could become functional.  

 

4 

 
Jail life, release and open activities: On 28 December 2005, Comrade Narayan Sanyal was 
abducted from Raipur by the SIB of AP Police with the connivance of the local and central 
authorities  and  was  produced  in  a  district  court  in  AP  only  in  the  evening  of  4  January. 
Numerous  cases  were  foisted  on  him  in  several  states  including  the  attack  on  Chandrababu 
Naidu  at  Tirupati  (AP),  Operation  Jailbreak  in  Jehanabad  (Bihar),  raid  on  Homeguard 
armoury  in  Giridih  (Jharkhand),  Madhuban  multiple  raid  (Bihar),  wiping  out  of  24  CRPF 
personnel  in  DK  (Chhattisgarh),  and  so  on.  A  local  court  in  Chhattisgarh  convicted  him  in 
one of the fabricated charges along with civil rights activist Dr Binayak Sen and businessman 
Piyush  Guha  and  pronounced  life  imprisonment.  The  conviction  and  long  confinement, 
however, failed to break his revolutionary will and spirit. He remained firmly committed to 
MLM  and the revolutionary line of the Party in  prison  and set  an example of  resilience for 
any  communist  to  emulate.  But  the  long  prison  life,  the  difficult  conditions  of  the  jail  and 
lack  of  adequate  medical  care  took  a  severe  toll  on  his  health.  When  he  was  released  in 
November  2014  after  nearly  nine  years  behind  the  bars,  his  health  problems  got  much 
aggravated.  In  spite  of  his,  without  bothering  about  his  health,  Comrade  Bijay  soon  got 
involved in open activities as a top-ranking veteran leader of the Party. In spite of his failing 
health, he placed some proposals before the CC to advance the movement and expressed his 
willingness  to  take  up  a  share  of  the  responsibility.  In  this  way,  he  made  all  efforts  to 
contribute to the revolutionary movement and gave his best till his last breath. He succumbed 
to cancer and passed away on 16 April 2017 in Kolkata amidst his family members, comrades 
and friends.  
  
The loss of our beloved Comrade Bijay dada is a matter of profound grief for the CC, 
Party,  the  revolutionary  movement  and  the  oppressed  masses  of  the  country.  His  lifelong 
contribution as a steadfast communist, his role in the unity of the genuine communists and the 
PU-PW and PW-MCCI merger, his role in the CC and the Party will continue to inspire us. 
His indomitable spirit, youthful enthusiasm, initiative, sacrifice of everything he had for the 
liberation of the masses, remaining firm on MLM and the basic line of the Party without ever 
wavering,  fighting  and  defeating  right  and  ‘left’  opportunism,  strong  desire  for  unity  of 
communists,  integrating  with  comrades  and  the  masses,  his  unbending  communist  resolve 
while in prison and the enthusiasm he displayed after release from jail will be etched in our 
memory for long.  

Comrade  Bijay  personified  great  communist  qualities.  He  never  hankered  after  any 
recognition for himself. He maintained close and friendly relations with his comrades and the 
oppressed  masses.  He  led  a  life  of  plain  living  and  hard  struggle.  He  had  deep  interest  in 
studies  and  his  knowledge  was  wide-ranging.  He  was  always  frank,  straight-forward  and 
pointed  in  expressing  his  opinion.  He  refrained  from  expressing  himself  without  study  and 
investigation  of  an  issue  under  discussion.  He  always  respected  democratic  centralism  and 
collective  functioning.    He  followed  the  opinion  of  the  majority  even  when  he  was  not  in 
agreement  with  any  issue.  He  was  always  ready  to  contribute  and  extend  his  help  to  his 
comrades as an elder in the CC. He remained unmarried to dedicate his whole and sole to the 
revolution.  

With all these qualities, Comrade Narayan Sanyal easily won the recognition, respect 
and  love  of  his  comrades  and  the  oppressed  masses  as  a  veteran  leader  of  the  Indian 
revolution. His five-decade long revolutionary life, his communist qualities and his sacrifice 
will  continue  to  inspire  all  of  us.  Just  as  the  outbreak  of  Naxalbari  armed  revolutionary 
peasant  uprising completes its fiftieth  anniversary, Comrade Narayan Sanyal  too  has left  us 
after five decades of relentless revolutionary struggle. A comrade like him is an ideal before 
us.  Our  CC  calls  upon  each  and  everyone  in  Party,  PLGA  and  the  revolutionary  mass 
organisations  to  learn  from  him  and  imbibe  his  communist  qualities  to  boldly  advance  the 

 

5 

Protracted  People’s  War  to  victory  by  fighting  back  the  attacks  of  the  ruling  classes  and 
imperialists  and  the  Brahmanical  Hindu-fascist  forces  at  their  service  by  taking  inspiration 
from Comrade Narayan Sanyal. Red-red salutes and humble homage to our beloved comrade 
Bijay dada! We take pledge to continue on the path of PPW by surmounting every hurdle to 
fulfil the dreams for which he lived and died!   

 
 

(Abhay) 
Spokesperson 
Central Committee 
CPI(Maoist) 

 

 

 

 

 

6 

