COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 
DANDAKARANYA SPECIAL ZONAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release 

August 20, 2011 
 

Condemn the fake encounters carried on 

by fascist Raman Singh government! 

Stop Operation Green Hunt - the War on People! 

 
Even before the gruesome killing of an adivasi girl Meena Khalkho in a fake encounter gone 
off  from  the  minds  of  the  people,  Raman  Singh's  fascist  government  of  Chhattisgarh  state  has 
carried out one more fake encounter thereby exposing its anti-adivasi face once again unmistakably. 
Madkami Maasa, the patel (village head) of Chikpal village in Kerlapal area of South Bastar region 
was picked up by the armed forces from his house and was shot dead on August 6, 2011. Police 
announced the killing of an unknown Naxalite in encounter and buried his body. Exactly one month 
prior to this, police had murdered a 16-year-old girl named Meena Khalkho in Sarguja district. She 
was subjected to gang rape before being killed cruelly. Later, police had claimed as usual that 'a 
woman Naxalite was killed in encounter'. Earlier in March, the gruesome terror campaign of killing, 
looting, village-combustion and rape by the state armed forces in Chintalnar area of Bastar region is 
still fresh in everyone's mind. These acts of terror were widely condemned by the various sections 
of  people  of  Chhattisgarh  and  all  over  India.  Supreme  Court  has  ordered  the  CBI  probe  into 
Chintalnar  carnage.  Despite  all  of  this,  the  Chhattisgarh  government  has  been  carrying  on  the 
campaign of murdering adivasis in fake encounters unabatedly. 

As  part  of  fascist  suppression  campaigns  of  earlier  Salwa  Judum  and  ongoing  Operation 
Green Hunt, hundreds of Adivasis were killed by the state armed forces in Chhattisgarh, particularly 
in Bastar and Sarguja regions. 99 percent of the encounter incidents took place especially during the 
last six years were bogus, in which police had claimed to have killed Naxalites. During attacks on 
villages, police and paramilitary forces pick unarmed people and kill them or fire indiscriminately 
at  them  on  sight.  But  the  truth  comes  out  only  on  rare  occasions  because  this  whole  area  is 
transformed into a war zone where it is extremely difficult to get facts out. The journalists and the 
human rights activists who try to bring truth into the light are attacked and are banished even. 

Dandakaranya  Special  Zonal  Committee  of  CPI  (Maoist)  severely  condemns  the  brutal 
murders  of  Meena  Khalkho  and  Madkami  Maasa.  The  family  members  of  Madkami  Maasa,  the 
villagers and several Adivasi leaders have mobilized themselves and started their protest program. 
They are conducting road blockades and dharnas demanding stringent punishment to the culprits. 
But the government is still bent on protecting the guilty. Actually it would be wrong to believe that 
police  or  paramilitary  forces  are  resorting  to  fake  encounters  without  government's  orders.  The 
campaign of murdering Adivasis in fake encounters is a part of the Operation Green Hunt being 
waged by the Central and State Governments in a coordinated manner. The sole aim of this unjust 
war  which  has  been  going  on  under  the  leadership  of  the  ruling  clique  of  Sonia-Manmohan-
Chidambaram-Pranab Mukherjee-Raman Singh etc in the name of crushing Maoist movement is to 
pave way for foreign and big capitalists to plunder the precious mineral wealth. This is a part of the 
plot  to  spread  terror  among  the  people  by  such  killings  so  as  to  separate  them  from  the  path  of 
revolutionary movement. 

Dandakaranya  Special  Zonal  Committee  of  CPI  (Maoist)  calls  upon  the  people  of 
Chhattisgarh as well as entire country including democrats, workers, farmers, students, intellectuals, 
writers, artistes and journalists to agitate with the demand to arrest immediately and punish severely 
the police and paramilitary officers responsible for the killings of Meena Khalkho and Madkami 
Maasa and the leaders like Chidambaram, Raman Singh, Shekhar Dutt, Nankiram who provoked 
them for such dastardly acts. We humbly appeal to one and all to lend your heartfelt support and 
cooperation to the ongoing struggle of Bastar people against the murder of Madkami Maasa. We 
warn  central  and  state  governments  that  we  would  respond  with  intensified  people's  resistance 
against  the  suppressive  policies  and  we  would  defeat  the  designs  of  pillaging  the  Jal-Jungle-
Zameen of Adivasis by murdering them brutally. We call upon the fighting people of Dandakaranya 
to build consolidated, broad and militant struggles against the fake encounters being carried on by 
the  government  armed  forces  and  to  defeat  Operation  Green  Hunt  run  by  the  oppressors  and 
robbers. 

 

 
(Gudsa Usendi) 
Spokesperson 
Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee 
CPI (Maoist) 

