COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

DANDAKARANYA SPECIAL ZONAL COMMITTEE 

Press Communiqué 

Condemn The Gruesome Murder Of 

Beloved Mass Leader Comrade Ganti Prasadam! 
Mass Struggles And Revolutionary Movements 

Can’t Be Stopped by Fascist Killings! 

July 5, 2013 

 
On July 4, the congress government lead by Andhra Pradesh (AP) chief minister Kirankumar Reddy 
under the guidance of Sonia-Manmohan-chidambaram-Shinde-Jairam Ramesh’s ruling clique has organised 
the assassination of Comrade Ganti Prasadam, the leader of mass movements, in a most conspiratorial and 
fascistic manner. However, murders of such kind are not new for AP government, the oppressive rulers, who 
have been beating the drums in recent years that they had finished off the revolutionary movement in AP, 
have in fact displayed their fright and cowardice through this murder. 

Comrade  Ganti  Prasadam  was  a  senior  leader  who  joined  the  revolutionary  movement  with  the 
inspiration of glorious Shrikakulam armed struggle. He was a hardened communist firmly marched in the 
path of revolutionary movement and mass struggles till the end keeping the Red Flag always high. He was 
also known for his revolutionary poetry and literary contributions. Earlier he served as AP state committee 
member of the Party. At that time police had arrested him along with some revolutionary writers and kept in 
jail implicating him in false cases. After his release, keeping his age and health condition in mind, he decided 
to continue in open mass activities instead of underground life. Since then he continued in the committee of 
relatives  and  friends  of  Martyr  Heroes  (Amaraveerula  Bandhumitrula  Committee)  and  participated  in  all 
legal  and  open  democratic  movements  that  have  been  going  on  in  AP.  He  stood  in  support  of  the 
revolutionary  literary  movement  also.  He  integrated  with  the  ongoing  mass  movement  for  Separate 
Telangana State. He stood against the ruling classes who are hell bent on paving the way for the plunder of 
country’s natural wealth in the hands of MNCs and comprador corporate houses displacing the adivasis and 
other oppressed people in large numbers. While the governments have been destructing the people’s life in 
the name of big dams, SEZs, national parks, thermal projects, opencast mining, the people of AP are fighting 
back  everywhere  heroically.  Comrade  Ganti  Prasad  stood  firmly  in  support  of  all  these  struggles.  He 
participated in them. He gave guidance to many of such. This is the reason why he became the enemy of the 
exploitative rulers. 

The UPA government in centre in connivance with various state governments has been waging ‘War on 
People’ in the name of Operation Green Hunt since mid 2009. It resorted to this unjust and fascist offensive 
alleging that the Maoist movement was the biggest internal security threat for the country. In fact, the Maoist 
movement has become the main hurdle for the neo-liberal policies being implemented by the ruling classes 
and for the loot of natural resources of our motherland being pushed on as a part of them. As a part of this 
unjust  war  Maoist  leadership,  activists,  mass  movement  leaders  and  activists  are  being  targeted.  This 
offensive is aimed at not only Maoist movement, but at all those forces fighting for justice, democracy and 
liberation. Comrade Ganti Prasadam’s assassination is nothing but a part of this. 

On  May  25,  In  Bastar  region  of  Chhattisgarh  under  the  leadership  of  our  Party,  PLGA  conducted  a 
major  attack  in  which  the  arch  enemy  of  the  oppressed  people  of  Bastar  and  mass  murderer  Mahendra 
Karma,  worst  reactionaries  V.C.  Shukla  and  Nandkumar  Patel  and  some  others  were  eliminated.  In  the 
pretext  of  this  attack,  the  rulers  of  the  country  have  conspired  to  crush  all  democratic  and  revolutionary 
movements  and  to  carry  on  their  offensive  with  more  severity.  Comrade  Ganti  Prasadam’s  killing  should 
also be seen as a part of this conspiracy. 

With this murder, the oppressive rulers have once again clearly displayed their anti-people and fascist 
nature.  Just  like  the  murders  of  Dr.  Ramanatham,  Jafa  Laxma  Reddy,  Azam  Ali,  Purushottam,  Narra 
Prabhakar Reddy, Dr. Ande Narayana, Belli Lalita and Kanakachari committed in the past, they have get 

Comrade Ganti Prasadam killed at the hands of mercenary killers and white clothed policemen. On the other 
hand, they are claiming that they knew nothing about this. By this murder, the State is threatening all those 
forces who are raising their voice, agitating and fighting against its anti-people and oppressive policies. It’s 
daydreaming that it could be able to crush the just mass movements through such murders. But the history 
has time and again proved that oppression inevitably leads to resistance. Movements cannot be contained by 
murdering people. Individuals may be killed but not their ideas. With the inspiration of the martyrdom of 
Comrade Ganti Prasadam, not only in AP but also in entire country democratic and revolutionary struggles 
would definitely march forward. 

Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee of CPI (Maoist) condemns Comrade Ganti Prasadam’s murder 
in strongest terms. It pays Red Homage to this Martyr who strived hard for revolutionary and democratic 
movements  for  about  four  decades.  We  express  of  our  grief  and  heartfelt  condolences  to  his  life  partner, 
relatives,  comrades  and  the  organizations  he  associated  with.  We  call  upon  the  people  to  take  up  protest 
programs and agitations against the murder of Comrade Ganti Prasadam. 

 

 

 
(Gudsa Usendi) 
Spokesperson 
Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee 
CPI (Maoist) 

