COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

30 July 2014 
Condemn the Invasion of Gaza and Massacre of Palestinians by 

Zionist Israel! Hail the Heroic National Liberation  

Struggle for Independent Palestine!! 

 
The  CC,  CPI(Maoist)  condemns  Israel’s  military  aggression  against  Gaza  that  has 
already led to the death of 1200 Palestinians, mostly women and children. It demands that 
Israel  immediately  cease  its  invasion  and  end  the  inhuman  economic  blockade  of  Gaza.  It 
hails  the  heroic  Palestinian  armed  resistance  that  is  being  carried  forward  with  supreme 
sacrifice.  

This latest Israeli onslaught is aimed at undermining the recent understanding reached 
by  Hamas  and  Al-Fatah  to  form  a  national  government  encompassing  all  the  Palestinian 
territories. Moreover, it wants to take advantage of the fissures in the Arab world that have 
sharpened in the wake of Shia-Sunni sectarian strife particularly in Syria and Iraq. Being the 
main prop of US imperialism in West Asia, Israel has the support of the US and European 
imperialist powers. 

Foreign  Minister  Sushma  Swaraj  shamelessly  declared  in  the  parliament  that  the 
government will continue to support the Palestinian cause while strengthening its ties with 
Israel at the same time. This is tantamount to an open support of Israel’s aggressive war and a 
betrayal  of  the  people  of  Palestine.  Indian  ruling  classes  in  general,  and  its  Brahmanical 
Hindu-fascist faction represented by BJP in particular, find close ideological affinity with the 
expansionist, chauvinist and anti-Muslim policy of its Israeli counterpart. India has developed 
close  ties  with  Israel,  becoming  the  largest  importer  of  Israeli  military  equipment.  Joint 
military  exercises,  training  of  the  Indian  army  and  police,  sharing  of  intelligence  and 
expertise in combating ‘Islamic terrorism’ and the Maoist-led revolution is being regularly 
carried  out  by  the  two  countries.  Though  the  Congress  is  crying  hoarse  about  NDA 
government’s  unwillingness  to  condemn  Israel’s  actions,  it  was  during  Congress  rule  that 
regular diplomatic and economic relations were established with Israel. 

revolutionary  and  democratic  organisations,  oppressed  nationalities, 
organisations  of  Muslims  and  other  religious  minorities,  freedom  and  peace-loving  people 
belonging to all political parties and the people of our country must stand in solidarity with 
Palestinian people and strongly protest against the Indian government’s conciliatory policy 
towards Israeli rulers. Our party calls upon the Maoist forces, anti-imperialist organisations, 
national  liberation  organisations  and  freedom  and  peace-loving  people  of  all  countries  to 
unitedly oppose Israel’s aggressive war and support the fighting people of Palestine. 

All 

the 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, CPI (Maoist) 

 

1 

