COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

Central Committee 

Press Release 

7th August, 2019 

Take up people’s movement demanding the withdrawal of ‘Jammu-Kashmir Reorganizing bill – 
2019’ that dissolves the special status of the state and supporting the right to self-determination of the 

Kashmir people! 

Call from CPI (Maoist) to all the democrats, nationalities, oppressed classes and sections in 

Kashmir and in the entire country! 

The  Brahmanic  Hindu  fascist  Modi  government  sealed  the  state  of  Jammu-Kashmir  with  its  fascist 
government  mercenary  armed  forces,  withdrew  Article  370  and  35A  that  provide  special  status  to  the  state  and 
passed the ‘Jammu-Kashmir Reorganizing bill-2019 on the 5th and 6th of August bureaucratically suppressing even the 
opposition parties. The President of India immediately approved the bill and issued a gazette notification.  The  bill 
deprived  the  people  of  Kashmir  their  minimum  rights.  The  act  reorganized  the  state  into  two  Union  territories  – 
Jammu-Kashmir as a Union Territory with an Assembly and Ladakh area as a Union territory without Assembly. 

The ruling Hindu fascist Modi-Amit Shah-Mohan Bhaagavat clique in the centre took the opportunity of its 
strength in the Lok Sabha and withdrew the special status to the state of Jammu-Kashmir to suppress with iron heel 
the struggle of the people of Kashmir that has been going on for the past 70 years with the democratic aspirations of 
right to self-determination with the objective to achieve ‘Kashmir freedom’ and terribly violated the Constitution of 
the  country.  This  is  nothing  but  another  aggression  of  Kashmir.  The  Central  Committee  of  our  Party  severely 
condemns the bill. 

The government shamelessly justified this measure stating that Jammu-Kashmir is an integral part of India, 
that India has right not only on Jammu-Kashmir but also on Pak Occupied Kashmir and that the Indian government 
has the right and ‘efficiency’ to make an act on Kashmir. It is a historic fact that Kashmir was never a part of India 
before 1948. Like the earlier central governments the Modi government also is making futile attempts to hide the 
fact. For this purpose it also kept aside he resolutions that the United Nations made with the approval of India and 
Pakistan  on  the  Kashmir  issue  that  –  status  quo  must  be  maintained  in  India,  Pakistan,  border  of  China  and  in 
Kashmir;  LOC  must  not  be  violated;  and  hold  plebiscite  and  take  a  decision  on  Kashmir.  The  Shimla  accord  and 
Lahore  declaration  that  the  two  countries  made  earlier  to  solve  the  Kashmir  issue  through  bilateral  talks  and  the 
Indian Constitution that the government promised to preserve too were violated. All the political parties of Kashmir 
together held a multilateral meeting and threatened that ‘if Modi government withdraws Article 370 and 35A it shall 
be  considered  as  an  attack  on  Kashmir’,  but  the  government  did  not  heed  to  it.  It  made  a  bureaucratic  act 
unilaterally and made an aggression on Kashmir. 

The  Modi  government  is  trying  to  deceive  the  people  saying  that  -  the  two  articles  are  stopping  the 
development of Jammu-Kashmir; they only help to increase the corruption of the local political leaders; if the articles 
are abolished the path to development of this area shall be opened; companies from outside shall purchase lands 
here, invest and set up industries; the area shall be industrialised in a big way and the problem of unemployment will 
be solved; more revenue shall be collected in this area; and terrorism will come to an end in the valley. The actual 
situation  is  that  India  is  breaking  records  in  the  rise  in  poverty,  unemployment  and  corruption  and  atrocities  on 
religious  minorities,  Dalits,  women  and  tribal  people.  In  fact  the  government  made  preparations  on  war  foot  to 
trample  any  kind  of  protest  or  resistance  from  the  Kashmir  people  with  the  introduction  of  the  bill.  It  already 
murdered Kashmiri youth and people on daily basis branding them as terrorists. It threw many leaders of Hurriyat 
Conference  in  jail.  In  addition  to  the  5  lakh  armed  forces  of  the  Indian  government  it  deployed  an  additional  25 
thousand. It imposed house arrest on prominent political party leaders of the state and put many in jail. It deployed 

the army in a big way on the border of Pakistan and is inviting war. Immediately after introducing the bill it issued a 
red alert in all the states to instigate fake nationalism and to make attacks on the Muslims in the name of terrorists. 
In fact the Modi government wants the land in Kashmir but not the people or their aspirations. The actual intention 
of the act is to violate the nominal rights of the states, to fulfill the expansionist interests of the Indian ruling classes, 
to facilitate the loot of the abundant natural resources and human labor in Kashmir for the imperialist Multi-National 
Companies  and  the  domestic  Comprador  Bureaucratic  giants  and  to  divide  and  rule  the  people  of  Kashmir  and 
Ladakh. The Indian government is trying to make Kashmir  another Palestine with its neo-Zionist policies and make 
the  Kashmiris  into  a  minority.  But  the  corporate  media  is  making  goebbelsian  propaganda  that  the  people  are 
celebrating the bill all over the country and is deceiving the people.  

The actual situation in Kashmir is that the people are protesting the government mercenary armed forces on 
the streets with stones  against  the  Germany’s Nazi kind of policies of the  Indian government violating the  curfew 
imposed by the government. People are holding protest demonstrations in many parts of the country. The people of 
several  states  participated  along  with  the  Kashmir  students  in  the  large  scale  protest  demonstrations  in  Jantar 
Mantar in Delhi. Most of the opposition parties of the country severely protested the withdrawal of Article 370. The 
Pakistan government expressed severe protest. China reacted in a serious way regarding Ladakh and clearly stated 
that the Indian government cannot take a decision on Ladakh. But the UN simply advised India and Pakistan that the 
Kashmir problems must be solved through discussions in harmony and kept quiet. 

Dear people of Kashmir! People of the oppressed nationalities, classes and sections of India! Democrats! 

The comprador ruling classes of India are making serious attempts to build ‘Akhand Bharat’ in the name of 
‘integrity  of  the  country’  and  ‘unity  of  the  country’  as  a  part  of  transforming  the  country  into  utmost  centralized 
‘Hindu  fascist  state’  to  fulfill  the  interests  of  their  imperialist  masters  and  their  expansionist  wishes.  This  is  the 
essence  of  ‘new  India’  of  the  Modi  government.  The  Modi  government  recently  made  the  ‘NIA  amendment  bill-
2019’,  UAPA  amendment  bill-2019’  in  the  name  of  eliminating  terrorism  in  the  country  with  the  aim  of  cruelly 
suppressing  the  people’s  movements  of  the  Dalits,  women,  various  nationalities  and  religious  minorities  of  the 
country  for  their  democratic  rights  and  against  state  violence  and  the  international  support  to  the  just  liberation 
movements.  It  is  openly  fascising  the  state  by  passing  several  bureaucratic  bills  such  as  ‘Human  rights  protection 
amendment bill-2019’ with the conspiracy to suppress the nominal human rights of the oppressed classes, sections 
and  nationalities  and  fills  the  central,  state  human  rights  commissions  with  Brahmanic  Hindu  religious  chauvinist 
forces, the ‘Right to information amendment act-2019’ liquidating the ‘Right to Information Act-2005’, the ‘National 
Medical Commission Act-2019’ that handovers the medical sector to the Multi-National Companies, the act violating 
the rights of workers and is preparing ground for a big fascist offensive. It started its Hindu fascist offensive in an 
aggressive manner in the country by making an attack on Kashmir. In the coming time the offensive shall take a more 
severe  form  on  religious  minorities,  especially  Muslims,  on  women,  Dalits,  tribal  people,  several  oppressed 
nationalities including those of the North East and on the genuine democrats fighting in the interest of the people. It 
will take the country towards destructive changes. So the present attack on Kashmir by the Modi government must 
be seen as that on the various nationalities, states, religious minorities, Dalits, tribal people and women. The Central 
Committee  of  our  Party  appeals  to  the  entire  oppressed  classes  and  oppressed  sections  of  Kashmir,  the  political 
parties,  democratic  organisations,  democrats  and  the  democrats,  oppressed  nationalities,  oppressed  classes, 
sections and the political parties opposing this bill to mobilize the people in a large scale and build a militant people’s 
movement demanding the withdrawal of the bureaucratic, harsh Jammu-Kashmir reorganizing bill – 2019. 

 

Abhay 
Spokesperson 
Central Committee 

