COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

January 13, 2012 
 

Revolutionary greetings from CPI (Maoist) to 
the friends of Indian revolution and well wishers 

 
Comrades and Friends, 
 

On 24 November, 2011 the Indian revolution lost its great leader and the oppressed masses of India lost 
their most reliable servant. November 24 would remain a dark day in the history of the Indian revolution. On July 
1, 2010 the Indian ruling classes had murdered our Politburo member and spokesperson Comrade Azad. Within 
one and a half years, another Politburo member Comrade Koteswarlu (who is popular among the people and party 
ranks as Kotanna, Prahlad, Ramji, Kishenji and Bimal) was caught alive in a covert operation, tortured inhumanly 
and was killed in a fake encounter. In India which claims to be the largest democracy in the world, the feudal and 
comprador  bureaucratic  bourgeois  ruling  classes,  with  the  support  of  the  imperialists,  particularly  the  US 
imperialists,  are  trying  to  suppress  the  democratic,  national  liberation  and  revolutionary  movements  with  iron 
heel. Particularly, since 2009 they are carrying on an unjust war on the people in the name of ‘Operation Green 
Hunt’. They are shamelessly violating even the constitution and the laws formulated by themselves and are killing 
people, activists and leaders of the movement. They are unsuccessfully trying to justify all their unlawful murders 
in the name of a lie named ‘encounter’ tracing the footsteps of the British colonial rulers. Now it is an established 
fact that ‘encounter’ anywhere in India means a conspiratorial murder by the state. 

Comrade Koteswarlu was born on November 26, 1954 in Peddapalli town of Karimnagar district which 
has a legacy of the glorious Telangana armed struggle. He led the Indian revolutionary movement for nearly four 
decades. Comrade Koteswarlu was brought up by democratic thinking parents and imbibed patriotic feelings and 
love  for  the  oppressed  people  since  childhood.  He  was  a  top  rank  representative  of  the  generation  after  the 
glorious Naxalbari rebellion. Though the Naxalbari rebellion which established Maoist Protracted People’s War as 
the path for the Indian revolution was suppressed within a few years, it had a great impact all over the country. 
Peasant rebellions arose in many areas following its model. It awoke the students in colleges and universities. The 
slogan  ‘Naxalbari  Ek  Hi  Rasta’  (The  Only  Way  is  Naxalbari)    reverberated  all  over  the  country.  It  was  this 
backdrop that turned Comrade Koteswarlu into a Maoist revolutionary. Firstly, at the end of 1970s, he organized 
the peasantry against deeply entrenched feudalism in his home district of Karimnagar and led many struggles. He 
played a key role in the peasant movement popularly known as ‘Jagityal Jaitrayatra’ (Victory March of Jagityal). 
In no time this spread to the whole of North Telangana apart from Karimnagar and Adilabad districts. Even while 
mobilizing  peasants  into  anti-feudal  struggles,  he  greatly  strove  to  attract  students,  writers,  intellectuals, 
workers…all oppressed classes and sections of people into the fold of revolutionary movement. In this course, he 
worked as a party organizer at first, then as the district committee secretary and was later elected as the secretary 
of the Andhra Pradesh Sate Committee and won the accolade of the people and the party ranks. Since 1986, he 
played  a  crucial  role  in  the  development  and  expansion  of  the  revolutionary  movement  in  central,  eastern  and 
northern parts of India. He particularly concentrated on Dandakaranya for eight years and on West Bengal for 
eighteen years.  Since 1993 till he breathed his last he worked as a Central Committee member, later as Politburo 
member member and held responsibilities for Northern and Eastern Regional Bureaus. He contributed greatly in 
many spheres in the party such as political education, magazines, propaganda and shone as a man of many talents. 
He played a prominent role in enriching the party documents and in developing party political-military line and 
policies.  He  represented  the  CC  in  the  meetings  and  bilateral  talks  held  with  various  national  liberation 
organizations  and  Maoist  forces  in  South  Asia.  He  strove  a  lot  to  unite  the  Marxist-Leninist  groups  and 
individuals that divided and scattered after the setback of Naxalbari and particularly to achieve unity of the ML 
and  MCC  organizations  which  continued  as  separate  streams  since  Naxalbari.  Thus  his  role  remains  etched 
forever in the annals of the history of Indian revolution. 

At the end of 1970s, Comrade Koteswarlu played a crucial role in the Jagityal peasant movement and in 
the first decade of the 21st century he became the architect of the illustrious Lalgarh people’s upsurge. He was an 
inspiring leader who never left the people and the cadres and who stood firmly during many an ebb and flow in 
the  Indian  revolutionary  movement  with  courage  and  initiative.  He  was  an  organizer  with  initiative,  a  warrior 
 

1

commander and a guide who imparted love and care. His very presence proved to be a hard nut to crack for the 
enemy right from the beginning. He successfully fought back several attacks and attempts to murder him. He was 
a tireless warrior who fought incessantly and uncompromisingly and never let go of any opportunity to attack the 
enemy  politically  and  militarily.  That  is  why  the  ruling  clique  of  this  country  led  by  Sonia-Manmohan-
Chidambaram-Pranab-Jairam colluded with the Chief Minister of West Bengal Mamata Banerjee and killed him 
in the cruelest manner. The brutal signs of torture on his dead body indicate the fascist nature of the enemy, his 
cowardliness and his defeat. On the other hand he bore all the inhuman tortures in the hands of the enemy and 
emerged victorious even in the face of death. The crimson of the international red flag of the proletarians turned 
deeper with the blood spilled by him in Jungle Mahal. 

With  the  murder  of  Comrade  Koteswarlu  @  Kishenji  the  Indian  revolutionary  movement  lost  a  great 
leader. This is a huge loss for our party. Our party has been continuously losing main leadership forces since a few 
years and this loss cannot be surmounted under these circumstances. However our party would fight firmly to 
advance the Indian revolution on the path of victory by overcoming these losses. The exploitative ruling classes 
can never comprehend the truth that people and the people’s movements give birth to hundreds and thousands of 
leaders  like  Koteswarlu  and  Azad  and  they  continue  daydreaming  that  they  could  suppress  the  movements  by 
killing the leaders. As long as there are exploitation and suppression, people would continue to revolt. Leaders 
like Koteswarlu keep on emerging. That is why the great struggles with sacrifices and the ideals established by the 
thousands of great martyrs serve as an inspiration. 

Our Central Committee pays red homage with bowed heads to the great martyr Comrade Koteswarlu. Our 
CC is expressing deep empathy to mother Madhuramma who was calling upon the people to follow the footsteps 
of her son even while immersed in deep sorrow, to other family members and friends of Comrade Koteswarlu. 
Our Central Committee calls upon entire Party, PLGA, activists of mass organizations and revolutionary masses 
who are immersed in deep sorrow and agony with the brutal murder of Comrade Koteswarlu to overcome the grief 
and intensify the People’s War. Our CC calls upon the youth to join our Party and PLGA in large numbers and to 
march  forward  in  the  footsteps  of  Comrade  Kotanna  to  fulfill  his  cherished  dreams.  Our  party  is  sending 
revolutionary greetings to the democrats and revolutionary sympathizers who brought the deadbody of Comrade 
Koteswarlu from West Bengal to Peddapalli and to all the people who participated in the funeral procession on a 
huge  scale  to  pay  last  respects  to  the  fallen  leader  by  overcoming  many  restrictions  and  encirclements  of  the 
governments  and  police  forces.  We  humbly  express  our  thanks  to  various  mass  organizations,  civil  rights 
organizations,  revolutionary  parties,  democrats,  writers,  journalists,  media  friends,  artistes  and  the  agitators  of 
Separate Telangana struggle who condemned the brutal murder of Comrade Kishenji. Our red salutes to all those 
writers and intellectuals who have written articles and reports unequivocally condemning this killing. Our CC is 
sending revolutionary greetings to all the revolutionary parties and democratic organizations of several countries 
that condemned the murder of Comrade Kishenji and the war unleashed by the Indian government on its people 
and sent condolence messages to our party. 

Our  CC  is  firmly  taking  the  vow  once  again  on behalf  of  the  entire  party,  PLGA,  revolutionary  mass 
organizations and the revolutionary masses of India that we would advance by overcoming all the hurdles in the 
path  of  accomplishment  of  New  Democratic  Revolution  of  India  with  the  aim  of  achieving  socialism  and 
communism and that we would carry the unfulfilled aims of the thousands of martyrs including Comrade Kishenji 
till their fulfillment. It is assuring the oppressed masses of India as well as entire world that it would not rest until 
feudalism, comprodor bureaucratic bourgeoisie and imperialism are sent to the grave and all kinds of reaction are 
put to an end. 

  Long Live Comrade Kishenji! 
  Long Live Marxism-Leninism-Maoism! 
  Long Live Proletarian Internationalism! 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

 

2

