COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

 

Fight back the anti-working class amendments to Labour Laws by 
the NDA government! Vikas model of Modi is Vinash for the people of 

India and Vistar for the imperialists and compradors!  

26-09-2014 

 

The  Modi  led  NDA government has once again bared  its  anti-working class  stance 
with the recent amendments to the labor laws. In the first week of September, 2014 it brought 
amendments  to  The  Industrial  Disputes  Act,  1947;  The  Contract  Labour  (Regulation  & 
Abolition) Act, 1970; The Factories Act, 1948; The Apprentices Act, 1961, and Trade Unions 
Act. Narendra Singh Tomar, the Central labor minister announced these without batting an 
eyelid  as  if  he  is  a  minister  responsible  for  the  welfare  of  the  factory  owners  and  not  the 
laborers. These amendments were done with the single purpose of super-exploitation of the 
workers,  to  increase  the  super  profits  of  the  imperialist  and  Indian  corporations  that  are 
pouncing like vultures for the blood and flesh of our working people.  

These amendments now make existing rights for overtime extra wages redundant and 
would allow the factory owners to make the workers work for 12 hours instead of the eight-
hour  workday.  They  make  night  shifts  for  women  legal.  They  now  allow  those  factory 
owners employing up to 300 workers to retrench workers or shut down the factory without 
going  through  any  procedures,  according  to  their  will.  The  Industrial  Disputes  Act  would 
now favor the factory owners more in all labor related disputes. Now the Contract Labour Act 
would apply to firms employing more than 50 persons instead of 20 which means that units 
employing less than 50 contract workers would not get even the meagre protective provisions 
in the Act. Till now the principal employer was responsible for any violation of the law in 
case of contract workers though they are employed through a contractor. The amendments are 
letting off the hook now.    

Now  workers  would  be  able  to  form  a  trade  union  only  if  they  have  30%  of  the 
workers  with  them  whereas  previously  seven  workers  could  move  an  application  for 
registering  a union  and  could form  one  even if  15% of them  came  together. This  is being 
done in the name of reducing the burden of dealing with multiple unions but it is nothing but 
a  blatant  attempt  to  prevent  the  workers  from  organising  for  their  rights  and  allowing  the 
capitalists to exploit, oppress and suppress them as they please. What kind of a democracy is 
this if the workers cannot even properly exercise their right to form a union? Given the fact 
that revisionist, bourgeois trade unions that are mostly hand in glove with the managements 
and work against the interests of the workers, have entrenched themselves dominantly among 
the  working  class,  it  would  now  become  extremely  difficult  for  the  working  class  to  free 
themselves from their shackles and form their own independent unions.  

To be precise, these amendments have with a stroke of pen turned several illegalities 
regarding working conditions in factories legal, making a mockery of all the hard won rights 
of the workers of centuries old struggles, which are in a sense also a legacy to the struggles 
dating back to the slave rebellions against complete exploitation of human labor. The eight-

 

1 

hour  workday,  not  making  women  work  in  night  shifts  and  regulation  of  overtime  and 
compensation for overtime work were all won through decades of class struggle between the 
capitalists and the workers. The above amendments would seriously affect the physical and 
mental  health  of  the  workers,  would  lead  to  industrial  accidents  and  have  serious  social 
impact too. In a context where women working in BPOs are being targeted for sexual attacks 
when they commute to their work places at night and several researches have established that 
the  health  of  women  is  seriously  and  irreparably  affected  due  to  night  shifts,  this  kind  of 
legality to making women work in the night shifts would not only affect their physical and 
mental health, create gynecological problems but also put them at much risk at the workplace 
and on their way to work. On the whole this kind of work pressure would lead to workers 
ageing  early  and  the  capitalists  would  then  mercilessly  throw  them  out  and  employ  new 
workers who would go through the same cycle of exploitation and get thrown out eventually.  
Much blood has been shed to win these rights, in workers’ struggles world over and in 
revolutions  that  aimed  to  end  labor  exploitation  and  oppression  of  all  the  toiling  masses 
including the proletariat. These rights were won as a cumulative effect of both of these kinds 
of  struggles  as  the  whole.  And  now  the  NDA  government  is  bent  on  turning  the  clock  of 
history back by bringing in these amendments. In fact, it is following the path treaded by all 
the  previous  governments  in  power  since  the  New  Economic  Policies  were  introduced  in 
1991 and LPG policies gained momentum, in bringing in these anti-working class measures 
with the prodding of the imperialists. In fact, Indira Gandhi tried to bring such changes in 
labour laws in 1982 itself but had to withdraw due to severe opposition to these. The UPA 
government  has  several  such  anti-working  class  measures  in  its  account  including  some 
equally  atrocious  amendments  to  labor  laws.  All  those  measures  not  been  possible  for  the 
coalition governments would now be made possible through the ‘majority’ government that 
claims to have the ‘mandate’ of the people. Did the people give them the ‘mandate’ to deny 
them their very fundamental rights? 

In its 100 day rule the Modi led NDA government would go down in history for its 
record of bringing forth one or more anti-people measures during each day of its rule, this 
slew  of  anti-labor  amendments  being  the  latest.  Modi  &  Co  is  playing  the  archetypal 
comprador by opening hitherto unopened sectors and partially opened sectors to full entry of 
FDI. Already SEZs are functioning like countries within a country with their own set of anti-
worker measures and not bound by the Indian Constitution. Not just the Centre, almost every 
State  government  has  a  dubious  record  of  brutally  crushing  the  struggles  of  workers  and 
employees when they resorted to strikes or agitations for their just demands. The crushing of 
striking State government employees in Tamilnadu and the repression on workers in Gurgaon 
of  Haryana  are  just  stark  examples.  In  fact,  it  was  the  BJP  government  in  Rajasthan  that 
cleared a Cabinet proposal to amend three key labour laws on 5th July itself. In face of severe 
opposition it retracted saying they were ‘mere proposals.’ The judiciary is doing its part in 
pushing  the  globalisation  agenda  by  passing  anti-labor  judgments  including  the  infamous 
judgment banning strikes. The corporate media is providing deceptive arguments to support 
such  anti-worker  policies  saying  they  would  ‘provide  employment’,  ‘create  jobs’  ‘increase 
share of manufacturing in GDP’ etc.  

With  unemployment  and  under-employment  reaching  higher  proportions  in  the 
context of the worldwide economic crisis and inflation soaring, the real wages of the workers 
are  increasingly  getting  depressed.  The  people  are  increasingly  finding  themselves  in  the 
classic  capitalist  quagmire  where  the  ones  who  manage  to  get  work  are  made  to  work  for 
extremely  long  hours  under  horrible  working  conditions  and  outside  the  factory  gates  the 
starving workers mill around without getting even one hour of work to feed themselves or 
their families. This huge reserve army of the unemployed is further pushing down the wages 

 

2 

of  the  workers  due  to  cut-throat  competition  for  work.  Coupled  with  the  latest  anti-labor 
amendments, the situation would become grimmer for the working people in our country.  

Though  the  ruling  classes  juggle  with  figures  of  growth  rate  citing  increasing 
investment of speculative capital in the stock market and try to pass it off as an indication for 
the development of the country, they very well know that real wealth comes from the labour 
of the workers. They know very well that only by exploiting the labourers to their last drop of 
blood, can they fill their coffers to the brim and wallow in luxuries. Now the need of the hour 
is for the working class to realise this fact more clearly and organise and wage a bitter class 
struggle against their exploiters and the comprador politicians who lick their boots.  

There has been a spurt in working class struggles all over the world particularly in the 
context  of  the  worldwide  economic  crisis.  Even  the  US  and  Europe  have  witnessed 
movements like Occupy Wall Street, not to mention the huge demonstrations and agitations 
all over Europe against layoffs, cutting down of welfare and the loss of savings due to bank 
crashes. The working class in India is also erupting in struggles for better working conditions 
and workers’ rights like the right to form unions or even to hold meetings or dharnas. The 
workers and employees have not taken such amendments to labour laws lying down. There 
have been vehement militant and peaceful protests including a Bharat bandh by all the trade 
unions  against  such  a  previous  attempt  by  the  UPA  government.  Mainstream  trade  unions 
have also criticised the above amendments to labour laws. The need of the hour is for all the 
trade  unions  and  employees  associations  to  come  together  to  fight  back  this  ruling  class 
offensive on the entire working people. 

CC, CPI (Maoist) calls upon the workers of our country to unitedly rise against the 
latest anti-working class amendments brought forth by the Modi led NDA government and 
bring it to its knees through their militant struggles and protests. It appeals to all democratic 
and progressive organisations and individuals to stand by the workers in their struggles and 
lend  their  voice  against  the  super-exploitation  of  workers  by  the  comprador  rulers  of  our 
country to feed the imperialist beast.  

Unmask the Vikas model of Modi government which is country selling, treacherous 
and anti-people. It is nothing but a model of the imperialists aiming at exploiting, oppressing 
and repressing the toiling masses of our country. Let us unite and fight back this treacherous 
and  pseudo  Vikas  model  and  build  independent,  self-reliant,  people  oriented  development 
model. 
 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, CPI (Maoist) 

 

3 

