COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

May 19, 2014 

The victory of BJP in Narendra Modi’s leadership indicates  

the intensification of exploitation, oppression and fascism in the country! 

Build a widespread struggle to fight back  

the threat from Brahmanical Hindu-fascists  

by uniting all the revolutionary and democratic forces! 

The so-called largest democratic process in the world, the elections for the sixteenth Loksabha, has 
been conducted in an unprecedented manner extending over nine phases. For this, 70 lakh election officials 
and millions of armed forces were deployed. Public funds amounting to tens of thousands of crores of rupees 
belonging to the people of the country were spent on this exercise. The Election Commission claimed that it 
was done in order to ensure a “free, fair and impartial” election. There was great anger among the masses 
against these farcical parliamentary elections. Our party CPI(Maoist) and the national liberation movements 
of Kashmir and a few forces from North East particularly in Manipur called for a boycott of these farcical 
elections. It is only to suppress the growing anger of the people against these elections that such a large 
number of armed forces were deployed during the elections all over the country, and in areas of people’s 
struggles in particular. Elections were conducted like a war exercise under the supervision and control of the 
Indian armed forces. 

The  Election  Commission  in  an  unprecedented  way  have  been  carrying  out  many  new  kinds  of 
maneuvers to entice the people of the country to vote and to increase the total poll percentage since the 15th 
Loksabha elections of 2009, which was continued in this year’s elections too. Behind the scene, all kinds of 
help were extended by the imperialist agencies to carry out the process and by taking this help the corporate 
sector of the country directly entered the electoral fray to drum-up the importance of “right to vote”. By 
using  the  corporate  media,  parliamentary  parties  as  usual  made  false  promises  to  the  people.  A  sort  of 
illusion was created about the significance of parliamentary elections and a tempo was created around it. 
People were pressurized to cast their vote in areas where the masses are more critical of the parliamentary 
system.  It  is  claimed  that  the  Election  Commission  has  put  enormous  efforts  to  conduct  the  elections 
successfully and has significantly curbed money and muscle-power. Disproving such claims, all the parties 
presented scamsters, gangsters and criminals as candidates before the people. Not a single party raised and 
brought forth the basic problems faced by the vast masses of the people and the country. During election 
campaigns, competing parties and candidates concentrated more on attacking one another, thereby exposing 
and  unmasking  one  another’s  anti-people  character,  reactionary  and  self-seeking  activities,  scams  and 
corrupt  practices.  Black  money,  muscle-power,  religion,  caste,  regionalism,  liquor,  drugs  and  other 
enticements or coercive measures were used extensively by all parties and candidates. For instance, more 
than 200 crores of cash and over 2 crore litres of liquor were seized by the police across the country during 
the elections which were meant to be distributed among the electorate. As can be imagined, this is just the 
tip of the proverbial iceberg. Corporate media itself has revealed that more than 30,000 crore rupees were 
spent to advertise and promote Narendra Modi alone. Flouting the official limit to election expenditure of 70 
lakhs per candidate with impunity, each candidate in the fray spent an average of 8 crore rupees during this 
election. The farcical nature of the so-called largest parliamentary elections of the world can be perceived 
from such revealing facts.  

The Congress played a most reactionary and anti-people and treacherous role while being in power 
for the last ten years and aggressively implementing pro-imperialist and pro-ruling classes’ policies in a big 
way. The Congress committed all kinds of crimes against the country and its people. As a result, its seats got 
reduced to less than fifty in an unprecedented manner in this election – the worst ever electoral defeat in its 
entire history. By using the people’s pent-up anger against the Congress, BJP and NDA under the leadership 

of Modi emerged as the first ever non-Congress party to win a clear majority in the parliament with 282 
seats and together with its NDA partners captured 334 seats out of 543. 

Even  before  the  announcement  of  the  elections,  a  large  number  of  additional  paramilitary  forces 
were deployed and the armed forces intensified cordon-and-search operations in all the revolutionary areas 
of 14 states, in areas of national liberation struggles in Kashmir and the North East and other regions where 
people’s  resistance  movements  are  going  on.  The  first  countrywide  week-long  (26  December  2013  to  1 
January 2014) suppression campaign was carried out in 9 states with 40 thousand additional paramilitary 
and state police forces. In the second suppression campaign that lasted from 19 March to 27 March 2014, 
more than a hundred thousand paramilitary troops and 6000 commandos, four Israeli spy aircrafts, a large 
number of mine-proof vehicles fitted with radars, etc., were used led by 70 Inspectors General (IG) in six 
states  where  the  Maoist  movement  is  active.  These  counter-revolutionary  campaigns  were  aimed  at 
suppressing  the  movement  and  create  a  white  terror  among  the  people  to  conduct  their  ‘democratic’ 
elections.  In  the  areas  of  revolutionary  and  national  liberation  movements,  tens  of  political  activists, 
liberation  fighters  and  common  people  were  murdered  by  these  forces.  A  large  number  of  people  and 
political  activists  were  captured  and  tortured.  They  did  not  spare  even  women,  children  and  the  aged. 
Villages were attacked and their residents were collectively punished through merciless beating. Elections 
were conducted at gunpoint by unleashing widespread state-terror. The statewide bandh in Kashmir called in 
protest  against  the  detention  of  Hurriyat  Conference  leaders  who  had  given  a  poll  boycott  call,  was 
successfully observed on 21 April. Kashmir Valley was rife with bandhs and protests against the atrocities 
and  repression  by  the  Indian  army  and  other  state  forces  on  the  one  hand  and  with  state  repression 
accompanied by curfew on the other. Kashmiris fought pitched battles against the gun-wielding army and 
paramilitary forces with stones by defying curfew and other prohibitory orders.  

In spite of using coercion and threat to such a large extent and even after creating an atmosphere of 
terror, the polling percentage fell far short of the 90 percent target set by the Election Commission. Only 
66% percent voters cast their vote as per official reports. The actual voting percentage, however, would be 
much  less  if  we  take  into  account  the  percentage  of  rigged  and  false  votes  among  them.  Money-power, 
muscle-power,  the  state  machinery  and  the  armed  forces  were  rampantly  used  for  such  electoral  fraud 
involving all the major parliamentary parties. Even after deploying innumerable helicopters and aircrafts of 
Indian Air Force and Indian and foreign private companies to transport election officials and material, many 
election  booths  were  shifted  to  police  stations  and  paramilitary  camps  in  areas  where  revolutionary  and 
national liberation movements are strong with the pretext that conducting polling in those areas would be 
difficult. Large-scale fake votes were cast in these booths. Nevertheless, even 5-20 percent polling did not 
take  place  in  Dandakaranya,  Bihar-Jharkhand,  Odisha  and  Andhra-Odisha  Border  and  other  areas  where 
Revolutionary People’s Committees are present and the Maoist movement is strong,. In Kashmir, even after 
creating state-terror prior to elections, merely 27% polling took place as per official claims. In the context of 
elections, the slogan of Azad Kashmir once again reverberated across the valley. 

The ‘alternative’ of NOTA has been brought forward to deny the people the ‘right to recall’. Due to a 
lack of alternative and threats from the political parties and armed forces, more than one crore voters pressed 
NOTA  button.  This  is  primarily  because  those  who  chose  not  to  vote  are  often  branded  as  terrorists  or 
Maoists. In the revolutionary and nationals liberation movement areas, responding to the call of poll boycott, 
the people of these areas and in places where democratic movements and anti-displacement movements are 
going  on,  people  in  significant  numbers  have  rejected  these  farcical  elections  in  protest  against  the  anti-
people policies of the governments their repression. The CC, CPI(Maoist) extends revolutionary greetings to 
all  of  them  for  daring  to  defy  the  state  and  boycott  the  elections  even  while  facing  grave  threats  and 
intimidation.  

In defensive campaigns against the reactionary forces, the red fighters of our PLGA conducted many 
heroic attacks in Dandakaranya (Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra), Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and Andhra-Odisha 
Border Area and other regions and inflicted a number of casualties to the enemy troops and seizing many 
arms  and  ammunitions.  It  is  a  matter  of  great  regret,  however,  that  our  PLGA  forces  ambushed  vehicles 
carrying poll officials mistaking them to be police vehicles. Some employees engaged in poll duty died or 
got injured due to such mistakes. Concerned units of our party has already apologized for these unfortunates 
incidents. We once again extend our apology to the people for this and express our heartfelt condolence to 
the relatives and friends of the deceased.  

 

2

In the farcical elections, the BJP has claimed that it has won an unprecedented and historic victory. 
However, the total vote share they received is no more than 35 percent. There can be no bigger bankruptcy 
in this so-called largest democracy of the world than to claim a ‘historic victory’ for a party that wins a mere 
35  percent  of  the  votes  polled.  One  more  time  the  scamsters,  gangsters  and  criminals  came  to  power, 
revealing the farcical nature of the parliamentary system.  

Narendra Modi was put forward as the BJP prime-ministerial candidate by the Sangh-Parivar and 
with its sponsorship and full involvement in the elections, BJP has gained an unprecedented victory under 
Modi’s  leadership,  however  may  be.  On  the  other  hand,  the  UPA-led  by  Congress  had  to  suffer  a 
humiliating defeat. During the rule of UPA government, neo-liberal economic, political, social, cultural and 
ecological  policies  were  implemented  in  a  large  scale,  corruption  and  scams  manifested  itself  in  an 
unprecedented  manner,  price  rise  skyrocketed,  access  to  healthcare  and  education  became  much  more 
meager  for  the  people,  lack  of  accountability  to  the  people,  high  rate  of  unemployment,  retrenchment  of 
workers, farmer’s suicide, atrocities and violence on women, gaping social inequality, starvation, atrocities 
on  dalits  by  the  Brahminical  casteist  forces,  suppression  of  the  rights  of  the  oppressed  nationalities, 
depriving the adivasis and the oppressed of their jal-jangal-zameen, haq-adhikar aur izzat, state repression 
on the anti-displacement movements and the separate statehood movements particularly in Telangana and 
Gorkhaland,  rampant  ecological  destruction,  etc.,  all  of  which  are  major  reasons  resulting  in  the 
accumulation of people’s anger against the Congress and its allies.  

The  mass  anger  against  UPA  government  and  the  anti-corruption  campaign  initiated  by  Anna 
Hazare-Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has been successfully utilized by the BJP for electoral gain. By remaining 
behind  the  scene,  BJP-RSS  orchestrated  anti-Muslim  attacks  and  stirred-up  Hindu  religious  chauvinism 
against them all over the country, particularly through the attacks in Muzaffarnagar and Samli, UP. RSS 
played a central role in this. In the North East, particularly  in Assam, BJP could mobilize the Hindus to 
some  extent  against  the  perceived  Bangladeshi  Muslim  immigrants  and  garner  their  votes.  The  above 
explains  the  hollowness  of  BJP’s  claim  that  it  has  gained  the  votes  from  all  sections  and  thereby  the 
divisions of religion, caste, community and gender etc. It is a fact that BJP has not gained the majority of 
votes from the Muslims and dalits. That behind BJP’s win there is no countrywide ‘Modi-wave’ is shown by 
the election results of Kerala, Odisha, Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Seemandhra, etc., where BJP did not 
perform  well.  In  Tripura,  Arunachal  Pradesh  and  Sikkim  too  non-NDA  parties  have  won.  The  so-called 
Modi-wave is the joint creation of the big corporations and its corporate media. Narendra Modi has been put 
forward by the imperialists, the MNCs, big comprador bureaucratic bourgeoisie and big landlords to divert 
the people’s wrath against the neo-liberal policies of the ruling classes and usher in fascism like Hitler to 
serve their interests more effectively. In fact, the Congress has been thoroughly exposed and discredited as 
an out-and-out anti-people, reactionary and corrupt party.  Perceiving the people’s anger, the Indian ruling 
classes and imperialists have presented another ruling-class party in the form of BJP and Narendra Modi in 
place of Manmohan Singh as an alternative before the people, only to hoodwink them with parliamentary 
illusions for another five years. 

In this election, UPA constituents and particularly Congress were wiped out in Rajasthan, Gujarat, 
Seemandhra, Delhi and in some other places. In most of the other states Congress was reduced to a very few 
seats. In spite of creating some reformist rhetoric, AAP could not perform well because it lacked a clear-cut 
position on the basic problems of the people and the country and even burning issues facing the people. SP, 
BSP, RJD, JD(U), DMK, the Left Front led by CPI(M) and other regional parties which championed the 
same  policies  of  Manmohan  Singh  government  and  that  were  mired  in  corruption,  exploitation  and 
suppression and opportunism too had to suffer ignominious defeat. DMK, BSP and National Conference in 
particular have been washed out and have no presence left in the parliament. In Odisha, BJD came to power 
for the fourth time due to the absence of any effective parliamentary opposition. In Andhra Pradesh, Telugu 
Desam Party and TRS took advantage of the people’s anger against the Congress and registered victories. In 
Kashmir, National Conference had to pay for its collusion with the Congress party and policies aimed at 
crushing and liquidating Kashmir’s national liberation movement. 

After  securing  a  simple  majority  in  the  parliament  under  the  leadership  of  Modi,  BJP  is  acting 
magnanimous in victory and is promising to carry along its NDA partners. It has promised to work for even 
those voters and social sections who have not voted for it. Modi himself in his address to the people after the 
election  victory  has  said  that  “It  is  a  victory  for  Bharat”,  that  “India  will  be  made  self-reliant”  and  that 
“Acche din anewale hai” (“Good days are ahead”). Hearing this, some people are under the illusion that this 

 

3

is a beginning of ‘good governance’ and that Modi will bring about ‘change’. Some also naively believe that 
BJP will not run its government on the basis of its Hindu-fascist agenda as in Gujarat but on the basis of a 
development agenda. Some believe that the days of the 2002 Gujarat pogrom have been left behind and that 
all  sections  and  communities  will  be  treated  equally,  corruption  will  be  checked,  unemployment 
opportunities will be created, women’s safety will be ensured, etc. under Modi’s NDA regime. However, 
Modi and other champions of Brahmanical Hindutva will never fulfill these aspirations. On the contrary, the 
neo-liberal policies implemented by the UPA government will now be even more aggressively executed by 
the NDA government led by Modi. The conditions of the masses will further deteriorate in all fronts. 

NDA’s clear majority in the parliament under Modi’s leadership, absence of a strong parliamentary 
opposition,  and  most  importantly  RSS/BJP’s  Hindutva  agenda  are  indications  of  the  coming  fascist 
onslaught.  It  will  not  take  long  for  BJP-led  central  government  to  reveal  its  fascist,  pro-imperialist,  anti-
federal  and  Indian  expansionist  face  while  using  the  people’s  mandate  to  justify  its  anti-people  actions. 
Workers, peasants, Muslims, dalits and other exploited masses will soon find themselves amidst growing 
persecution  as  BJP’s  government  reveals  its  fascist  face.  Modi  and  co.  and  the  big  compradors  and  big 
landlords  are  promoting  his  ‘Gujarat  Model’  in  a  big  way  in  their  attempt  to  create  illusions  among  the 
masses. The real meaning of this Gujarat Model, which has been said to be ‘the laboratory of Hindutva’, is 
the  suppression  of  all  forms  of  dissent,  including  that  of  the  workers,  peasants,  religious  minorities 
particularly Muslims, and other exploited and oppressed sections of the society. It means suppression and 
control of dissent coming from its opposition camp and even from within its own camp, opening the doors 
for  the  big  domestic  and  international  corporations  to  plunder  and  loot  as  much  as  they  wish,  and  other 
similar  measures.  Combined  with  these,  ‘Gujarat  Model’  signifies  the  extensive  use  of  mass  media  in  a 
Goebblesian manner to present the image of an iron-willed leader and a strong party capable of resolving all 
of people’s problems. Modi’s Gujarat Model of fascist rule now extends to the entire country and amplifies 
the  expansionist  threat  in  the  entire  South-Asian  sub-continent.  The  election  manifesto  of  BJP  does  not 
forget to present its anti-Muslim, anti-Kashmir nationality and Hindutva agenda. It promises to scrap Article 
370,  impose  Uniform  Civil  Code  and  build  Ram  temple,  among  other  things.  This  poses  a  threat  to  the 
people of India and an existential threat to the armed agrarian revolutionary war, religious minorities and 
oppressed nationalities and dalits and other oppressed communities.  

The emergence of fascism to overcome its crises and counter the growth of revolutionary, national 
liberation and democratic movements in the context of deepening imperialist crises worldwide is a growing 
phenomenon in the present times. To effectively implement the neo-liberal policies, imperialists and their 
allies seek to establish neo-fascist forms of rule. This can be seen in India as well. This is a challenge before 
the revolutionary and democratic forces and the masses of our country. That is why the exploited masses of 
India,  oppressed  nationalities,  patriots  and  pro-people  individuals  and  organisations,  students  and  youth, 
intellectuals and other progressive forces should comprehend the serious threat posed by the growth of the 
Brahmanical  Hindu-fascists.  Building  broad-based  and  powerful  mass  movements  by  uniting  all  the 
revolutionary  and  democratic  organizations,  forces  and  individuals  and  the  vast  masses  against  all  ruling 
classes, particularly against saffron fascism, is an important task before us. Simultaneously, struggles must 
be waged to resolve the day-to-day and the basic problems facing the masses. No right can be won by the 
people  without  struggles.  Only  by  uniting  all  the  struggling  forces  and  defending,  intensifying  and 
expanding  the  protracted  people’s  war  and  the  completion  of  the  new  democratic  revolution  with  armed 
agrarian  revolution  at  its  axis  can  the  basic  problems  of  the  people  and  our  country  be  resolved  and  all 
reactionary, fascist and counter-revolutionary weeds be uprooted.  

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, CPI (Maoist) 

 

` 

4

