COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

DANDAKARANYA SPECIAL ZONAL COMMITTEE 

Press Communiqué 

May 26, 2013 
 

Elimination of fascist Salwa Judum leader Mahendra 
Karma: Legitimate response to the inhuman atrocities, brutal 
murders and endless terror perpetrated on the Adivasis of Bastar! 
Attack on top Congress leaders: Inevitable reprisal to the 

fascist Operation Green Hunt being carried on by the UPA 
government hand in glove with various state governments! 

 
On May 25, 2013, a detachment of the People’s Liberation Guerilla Army conducted a massive attack 
on  the  20  plus  vehicles  convoy  of  Congress  party  which  resulted  in  wiping  out  of  at  least  27  Congress 
leaders,  activists  and  policemen  including  Mahendra  Karma,  the  bitter  enemy  of  the  oppressed  people  of 
Bastar and Nand Kumar Patel, president of the Congress’ state unit. It took place when the Congress party 
leaders  were  touring  in  Bastar  region  as  part  of  their  ‘Parivartan  Yatra’  program  (i.e.  March  of  Change) 
keeping  their  eye  on  forthcoming  assembly  elections.  At  least  30  others  were  also  injured  in  this  attack 
including ex-central minister and veteran Congress leader Vidya Charan Shukla. During this action, PLGA 
has seized a total of 23 weapons including nine AK-47s, seven INSAS rifles, two SLRs and five pistols from 
the  police  forces  and  security  guards.  1,030  cartridges  and  10  walkie-talkies  also  were  seized.  The  dog’s 
death of Mahendra Karma, notorious tyrant, murderer, rapist, robber and maligned as corrupt, in this historic 
attack  has  created  a  festive  atmosphere  in  entire  Bastar  region.  Former  state  home  minister  Nand  Kumar 
Patel was also had the history of suppressing the people. It was in his tenure, paramilitary force (CRPF) was 
deployed  in  Bastar  region  for  the  first  time.  It  was  also  not  hidden  from  anyone  that  the  former  central 
minister VC Shukla who had been in various portfolios including Home Ministry, was also a people’s enemy 
who had acted as a loyal servant of imperialists, comprador bureaucratic bourgeoisie and landlords and had 
played a key role in formulating and implementing exploitative policies. The goal of this attack was mainly 
to eliminate Mahendra Karma and some other key reactionary Congress leaders as well. However, during 
this massive attack some innocent people and some lower level Congress party activists who were in fact not 
our enemies, were also got killed and injured caught in the two-hour long gun battle that ensued between our 
guerrilla forces and the armed police forces. Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee of Communist Party of 
India (Maoist) regrets for this and expresses condolence and sympathy to the families of the bereaved. 

Dandakaranya  Special  Zonal  Committee  of  Communist  Party  of  India  (Maoist)  takes  absolute 
responsibility for this attack. We send our revolutionary greetings to the PLGA commanders who led this 
daring ambush, to the red fighters who contributed in its success, to the people who took part in it by lending 
active support and to the entire revolutionary masses of Bastar region. This attack has once again proved the 
historic fact that those fascists who perpetrate violence, atrocities and massacres on the people, will never be 
forgiven and they would inevitably be punished by the people. 

The so-called tribal leader Mahendra Karma was born into a feudal manjhi family. Both his grandfather 
Masa Karma and father Bodda Manjhi were notorious harassers of the people in their times and were acted 
as  trusted  agents  of  colonial  rulers.  His  family’s  entire  history  is  known  for  inhuman  exploitation  and 
oppression of Adivasis. Mahendra Karma’s political life was started in 1975 as a member of AISF while he 
was studying the law. He was elected as MLA from CPI first in 1978. Later in 1981, when he was denied 
ticket by CPI, he joined Congress. In 1996, he had gone with a breakaway faction of Madhavrao Scindhia 
and became member of Indian Parliament as an independent candidate. Later he rejoined the Congress party. 

 

1

In 1996, a massive movement took place in Bastar demanding the implementation of Sixth Schedule. 
Though mainly CPI had led that movement, our party – it was CPI (ML) [People’s War] then – also took 
active part in that movement mobilizing the masses on a large scale. But Mahendra Karma took bitter stand 
against  that  movement  proving  himself  as  a  representative  of  the  selfish  urban  business  people,  who  had 
come  to  Bastar  as  settlers  and  had  accumulated  massive  wealth.  Then  only  his  anti-adivasi  and  pro-
comprador nature was clearly exposed before the people. Since the 1980s itself, he had strong bonds with big 
business and capitalist classes in Bastar. 

Then in 1999, Karma’s name was exposed in a big scam called ‘Malik Makbuja’. A Lokayukta report 
revealed  that  in  the  period  of  1992-96,  Mahendra  Karma  hand  in  glove  with  timber  black-marketers  had 
made  millions of rupees by cheating adivasi people in collusion with revenue and forest officials and the 
district  collector.  Though  a  CBI  probe  was  ordered  into  this  scam,  nothing  harm  was  done  to  any  of  the 
culprits as always happen. 

Mahendra Karma was minister of jails in undivided Madhya Pradesh. Later he became industries and 
commerce minister in Ajit Jogi’s government when Chhattisgarh state was carved out of it.  At that time a 
forceful land acquisition took place in Nagarnar for the proposed steel plant by Romelt/NMDC. While the 
local people refused to give up their lands, Mahendra Karma took stand against the people and in favor of the 
capitalists. He played a key role in forcibly taking away the lands by suppressing the people with the help of 
brutal  police  force.  The  people  who  lost  their  lands  in  Nagarnar  received  neither  compensation  nor  the 
employment as government had promised till now. They were forced to disperse. 

From the very beginning, Mahendra Karma stood as an arch enemy of the revolutionary movement. The 
reason  is  clear  –  being  born  into  a  typical  feudal  family  and  ‘grown  up’  as  an  agent  of  big  business  and 
bourgeois  classes.  The  first  Jan  Jagaran  (‘awareness’)  campaign  was  launched  in  1990-91  against  the 
revolutionary  movement.  The  revisionist  CPI  had  participated  in  that  counter-revolutionary  campaign. 
Karma and many of his relatives belonged to the landlord classes had actively participated in it. The second 
Jan  Jagaran  campaign  was  launched  in  1997-98  led  by  Mahendra  Karma  himself.  This  was  started  in 
Mahendra  Karma’s  own  village  Faraspal  and  its  surrounding  villages  and  spread  up  to  Bhairamgarh  and 
Kutru areas. Hundreds of people were tortured and arrested and sent to jails. Many an incidents of looting 
and setting fire to houses took place. Women were raped. However, under the leadership of our party and 
mass  organizations  people  came  together  and  strongly  countered  this  counter-revolutionary  onslaught. 
Within a short time, this campaign was defeated. 

Later the revolutionary movement became more consolidated. Anti-feudal struggles were intensified in 
many areas. Landlords like Podia Patel, the brother of Mahendra Karma, and some close relatives of him 
were killed as part of mass resistance actions. In many villages the power of feudal forces and bad gentry 
was thrown out and the process of establishment of People’s Revolutionary Power organs began. The feudal 
forces including Mahendra Karma were very furious as their lands were redistributed among the poor and 
landless peasants and the customs like unjustly forcing the people to pay penalties to the landlords and bad 
gentry were stopped. They opposed the progressive changes like stopping of forced marriages of women, 
discouraging polygamy etc. also. And at the same time, the revolutionary movement was seemed as a hurdle 
by  the  corporate  houses  like  Tatas  and  Essars  who  started  their  attempts  to  plunder  away  the  natural 
resources  of  Bastar  region.  So,  they  naturally  colluded  with  the  counter-revolutionary  elements  like 
Mahendra Karma. They fed him with millions of coffers in order to create conducive atmosphere for their 
arbitrary  depredations.  On  the  other  hand,  after  the  emergence  of  CPI  (Maoist)  as  a  country-wide 
consolidated  party  as  an  outcome  of  the  merger  between  the  genuine  revolutionary  organizations, 
exploitative  ruling  classes  intensified  their  counter-revolutionary  onslaught  in  the  guidance  of  the 
imperialists  so  as  to  crush  the  revolutionary  movement.  Thus,  a  brutal  attack  in  connivance  with  the 
Congress and the BJP has started in Bastar region namely ‘Salwa Judum’. So many followers and relatives 
of Mahendra Karma like Soyam Muka, Rambhuvan Kushwaha, Ajay Singh, Vikram Mandavi, Gannu Patel, 
Madhukarrao, and Gota Chinna etc. emerged as key leaders of Salwa Judum. 

One can hardly find any examples in the history to compare the severity of the devastation and barbarity 
caused by Salwa Judum to the lives of the Bastar people. It killed more than one thousand people in cold 
blood; torched 640 villages into ashes, robbed thousands of houses; ate or took away chickens, goats, pigs, 
etc.; forced more than two million people to be displaced; dragged more than 50 thousand people into state-
run ‘relief’ camps. Thus the Salwa Judum became an anathema to the people. Hundreds of women were gang 
raped.  Many  women  were  murdered  after  rape.  Massacres  took  place  in  many  places.  The  atrocities 
perpetrated on the people and havoc created by the hooligans of Salwa Judum, the police and paramilitary 

 

2

forces,  especially  the  Naga  and  Mizo  battalions  crossed  all  limits.  There  were  several  incidents  in  which 
people were brutally cut into pieces before being dumped in rivers. Cherli, Kotrapal, Mankeli, Karremarka, 
Mosla,  Munder,  Padeda,  Paralnar,  Pumbad,  Gaganpalli...  in  a  number  of  villages  people  were  killed  en 
masse. Hundreds of tribal youth were recruited as SPOs and were turned into hardened criminals. Mahendra 
Karma himself led the attacks on several villages in the name of conducting meetings and marches. Many 
women were raped by the goons with the direct instigation of Mahendra Karma. He was directly involved in 
many incidents of burning the villages, torturing and murdering the people. Thus, in the minds of the people 
of  Bastar,  Mahendra  Karma  remained  as  an  inhuman  killer,  rapist,  dacoit  and  a  loyal  broker  of  the  big 
capitalists. In entire Bastar people have been demanding our party and the PLGA for  many years that he 
must be punished. Many of them came forward voluntarily to give active support in this task. There were 
also a few attempts, but due to petty mistakes and other reasons he was able to escape. 

With this action we have taken revenge of over a thousand adivasis who were brutally murdered 
in the hands of Salwa Judum goons and government armed forces. We also have avenged on behalf of 
those hundreds of mothers and sisters who were subjected to cruelest forms of violence, humiliation 
and  sexual  assault.  We  have  taken  revenge  on  behalf  of  the  thousands  of  Bastarites  who  lost  their 
homes, cattle, chickens, goats, bald, pottery, clothing, grain, crops ... everything and were forced to live 
a miserable life in subhuman conditions. 

Immediately  after  this  attack,  Prime  Minister  Manmohan  Singh,  UPA  Chairperson  Sonia  Gandhi, 
Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Raman Singh etc. dubbed this as an attack on democracy and democratic values. 
One wonders whether these pet dogs of exploiter classes have any moral qualification even to take the 
name  of  democracy!  Of  late,  on  May  17,  when  eight  people  including  three  innocent  children  were 
killed by police and paramilitary forces in Edsametta village of Bijapur district, then why did none of 
these  leaders  bother  to  speak  about  ‘democracy’?  Between  January  20  to  23,  when  villages  named 
Doddi Tumnar and Pidiya of Bijapur district were attacked by your forces who torched 20 houses and 
a school house run by the people, did your ‘democracy’ flourish there? Exactly 11 months ago, on the 
night of June 28, 2012 in Sarkinguda village, 17 adivasis were slaughtered and 13 women were gang 
raped.    Were  those  incidents  a  part  of  your  ‘democratic  values’?  Does  your  ‘democracy’  only 
applicable  to  the  mass  murderers  like  Mahendra  Karma  and  ruling  class  agents  like  Nand  Kumar 
Patel? Do the poor adivasis of Bastar, the elderly, children and the women come under the umbrella of 
your ‘democracy’ or not? Are the massacres of adivasis a part of your ‘democracy’? Do any of those 
who are shouting loudly against this attack have any answer for these questions? 

By  the  end  of  2007,  Salwa  Judum  was  defeated  through  the  people’s  resistance.  Then  in  2009, 
Congress-led UPA-2 has unleashed a countrywide offensive by name Operation Green Hunt (OGH). The US 
imperialists  are not only giving guidance and help and support, but they also are actively participating in 
counter-insurgency operations by deploying their special forces in India. They are giving more emphasis on 
eliminating the Maoist leadership. The Union government has so far sent more than 50 thousand paramilitary 
forces to Chhattisgarh as part of ongoing OGH, i.e. ‘War on People’. As a result, there has been manifold 
increase  in  massacres  and  destruction.  400  adivasis  were  killed  by  central  and  state  armed  forces  here  in 
Bastar so far since 2009. From mid-2011, Army troops have started creating their bases in Bastar region in 
the  pretext  of  setting  up  ‘training  schools’.  Both  Chidambaram  and  Shinde,  the  former  and  present  home 
ministers,  including  PM  Manmohan  Singh  have  been  eagerly  rendering  all  support  to  the  Chhattisgarh 
government and expressing full satisfaction over Raman Singh government’s performance in crushing the 
revolutionary movement. Raman Singh too has been expressing his gratitude on every occasion for Centre’s 
help. Therefore, in Chhattisgarh, there are no differences between ruling BJP and opposition Congress 
in terms of policies of suppressing the revolutionary movement. Only due to public pressure, as well as 
to gain electoral benefits, some of the local leaders of the Congress, at times, came in condemnation of 
incidents like Sarkinguda and Edsametta massacres. Their opposition is sham which is nothing more 
than  opportunism.  Both  Congress  and  BJP  are  equal  in  implementing  corporate  friendly  and 
oppressive policies. The frequent penetration of Greyhounds forces across the Chhattisgarh borders 
from  Andhra  Pradesh,  and  the  mass  murders  it  committed  first  in  Kanchal  (2008)  and  recently  in 
Puwwarti (April 16, 2013) are part and parcel of the oppressive policies adopted and implemented by 
Congress party. That's why we have targeted top leaders of Congress. 

Today,  the  Indian  ruling  clique  of  Sonia-Manmohan-Chidambaram-Shinde-Jairam  Ramesh  who  are 
leading the all-out war with the aim of wiping out the revolutionary movement; Chhattisgarh Chief Minister 
Raman  Singh,  Home  Minister  Nankiram  Kanwar,  Ministers  Ramvichar  Netam,  Kedar  Kashyap,  Vikram 

 

3

Usendi, Governor Shekhar Dutt, Maharashtra Home Minister RR Patil etc.; DGP Ram Niwas, ADG Mukesh 
Gupta and other senior officials of the police, who are particularly hell-bent on crushing the revolutionary 
movement of Dandakaranya, are in the big illusion that they are unbeatable. Mahendra Karma also has kept 
the illusion that Z plus Security and bullet-proof vehicles would save him forever. In world history, Hitler 
and Mussolini were in the same pride that no one could beat them. In the contemporary history of our 
country, the fascists like Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi also were victims of similar misgivings. But 
the  People  are  invincible.  People  only  are  the  creators  of  the  history.  Ultimately,  these  handful 
exploiters and their pet dogs will only be thrown in the dustbin of the history. 

Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee of Communist Party of India (Maoist) calls upon the workers, 
peasants,  students,  intellectuals,  writers,  artists,  media  persons  and  all  other  democrats  to  demand  the 
governments to stop the OGH immediately; to withdraw all kinds of paramilitary forces from Dandakaranya; 
to give up the conspiracy of deploying the Army in the guise of ‘training’; to put an end to the interference of 
Air  Force;  to  release  all  the  revolutionary  activists  and  ordinary  adivasis  languishing  in  various  jails 
immediately; to scrap the cruel laws like UAPA, CSPSA, MACOCA, AFSPA, etc.; to cancel the all those 
MoUs signed with the corporate houses with the aim of plundering the natural wealth of the country. 

 

 
(Gudsa Usendi) 
Spokesperson 
Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee 
CPI (Maoist) 

 

Note:  This  is  translated  and  slightly  abridged  version  of  Hindi  original.  If  there  is  any  difficulty  in 
understanding due to translation problem, please refer Hindi original. 

 

4

