Celebrate the Fiftieth Anniversary of Naxalbari Armed AGRARIAN Revolutionary 

UPSURGE in all the rural areas with revolutionary enthusiasm and inspiration! 

THE PATH OF Naxalbari is the only path for the  

liberation of the oppressed masses of india! 

Let us raze imperialism and feudalism to ashes in the fire of the 

People’s War created by Naxalbari! 

Let us make success the new democratic revolution! 

 

 
Dear Comrades, Friends! 
Like a spark becoming a flame the Armed Agrarian Revolutionary struggle of Naxalbari area of 
Siliguri Sub-Division in Darjeeling district in Bengal directed the path of Indian Revolution. 
Since then Naxalbari came to be known not as a mere village but as a symbol of a political path. 
The Naxalbari Armed Rebellion will complete fifty years on 23rd May, 2017. 
With the inspiration from the Great Debate against the modern revisionism of Khrushchev and 
the Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution in the leadership of the Communist Party of China led 
by Comrade Mao, a large number of Maoist revolutionaries including first rank leaders like 
Comrade Charu Mazumdar and Comrade Kanhai Chatterjee jumped into the arena.  
Since 1967 March the poor peasantry started rebelling against the landlords and the money 
lenders and seized their lands. As per the then leader of CPM and the Home Minister in the 
State government Jyoti Basu’s directions, the government armed police forces made an attack 
on the peasantry on the 23rd of May in village Naxalbari. In the armed conflict one policeman 
died. On the 25th the police made indiscriminate firing on the people in the village Prasadjote in 
which eleven persons including eight women and two children laid down their lives. The Peking 
Radio described the Naxalbari rebellion as ‘Spring Thunder’. Within no time the spark of 
Naxalbari spread across the country to Srikakulam (Andhra Pradesh), Mushahari (Bihar), 
Lakhimpur-Kheri, Terai (Uttar Pradesh), Debra-Gopi Ballavpur, Birbhum, Sonarpur, Kanksa 
(Bengal), Punjab, Kerala, Tamilnadu, Odisha, Kashmir, Asom and Tripura. The Guerilla War of 
the armed peasantry against the Police, Para-Military forces and the Indian Army who came 
with the support of the landlords, terrorised the landlords and the imperialists. This 
revolutionary wave not only made an impact on the rural areas but also on the urban areas. 
There was large scale urban guerilla war in the capital city of Bengal, Kolkata in the leadership 
of the students and the youth. 
The great Naxalbari rebellion is the result of creative application of - Marxism-Leninism-Mao 
Thought, the path of Protracted People’s War of building People’s Army with the objective of 
making the New Democratic Revolution a success, seizing power area-wise through armed 
struggle, first liberating the rural areas and then finally encircling the towns and achieving 
country-wide success – to the specific conditions of India. This is a blow to the deep-rooted 
revisionism in Indian Revolution. This is an inseparable part of the World Socialist Revolution. 
It made a break with revisionism and with the guidance of Marxism-Leninism-Mao Thought 
stood as a great beginning for the formation of a Maoist Revolutionary Party, for a genuine 
political path, strategy, method of struggle and method of leadership. In a way this is a great 
turn and a qualitative leap in the history of Indian Revolution. 

 

1 

CPI (ML) was formed in the leadership of Comrade Charu Mazumdar who led the great 
Naxalbari struggle. MCC emerged in the leadership of Comrade Kanhai Chatterjee following the 
same theory, path and strategy. They led the then revolutionary wave. Anyhow though the 
strategy of this revolution was correct, due to the shortcomings in tactics, the disruptive 
activities of the rightist forces and the reactionary repression of the ruling classes across the 
country, the movement faced severe losses and setback by mid 1972. Opportunists and 
disruptors split and weakened the party. 
Genuine revolutionaries took valuable lessons from Naxalbari and made efforts with strong will 
and sacrifice to develop the three magic weapons – Party, People’s Army and the United Front. 
Revolutionary movement once again rose like a wave. The revolutionary forces reorganized. 
These revolutionary forces are upholding the Naxalbari line in nearly 20 states of our country 
now. Those who upheld this line were Naxalites until yesterday and now they rose and became 
Maoists. They highlighted the alternative of revolutionary politics effectively and stood as the 
most dangerous elements for the exploitive ruling classes. This is the reason why we have to 
hold high the Naxalbari revolutionary line that paved the way for such development and 
expansion in the past 50 years and say it is invincible. 

1.  Naxalbari gave a blow to revisionism that was rooted in India. 
2.  It united those working relentlessly for building revolutionary movement in the country. 
3.  It took up Marxism-Leninism-Maoism as the guiding theory for its practice. 
4.  It correctly defined the character of Indian society and the principal contradiction 

among the fundamental contradictions of the Indian society. 

5.  It clearly showed the destination of Indian Democratic Revolution, the revolutionary 
path, revolutionary strategy, revolutionary path, revolutionary targets and the forces 
of revolution. 

The issues Naxalbari brought forth have tremendous historical importance. The present 
struggle has stood firm on them. The exploitative ruling classes have conducted many military 
offensives and campaigns starting from ‘Steeplechase’ to ‘Operation Green Hunt’ without break 
for the past 50 years to eliminate the struggle. Nearly twenty thousand persons have laid their 
lives for the sake of revolution. They said Naxalbari does not die. They said it is invincible. 
Naxalbari proved the historical fact that a small spark would lead to a prairie fire. The line of 
Protracted People’s War made true the fact that revolutionary movement advances from 
isolated places to vast areas. 
Revolutionary People’s Committees (RPCs) were formed in many strategic areas in India and are 
maintaining alternative power among the people. The people of the areas of revolutionary 
movement are fighting militantly against the imperialist New Economic Policies of the Indian 
ruling classes. In places where the RPCs are firm people are fighting for ‘Jal-Jungle-Zameen-
Ijjat-Adhikar’ in a dedicated manner. They chased away the Comprador Capitalists from 
Singur, Nandigram, Lalgarh, Lohandiguda, Dhurli-Bhansi and Paradeep areas. Dandakaranya and 
Bihar-Jharkhand have stood as the centres of the masses struggling against the policies of the 
ruling classes, especially the Brahmanical Hindu fascists, who have further opened up the 
country for the exploitation of the imperialists. These areas have developed as struggle 
centres in a higher plane, highlighting the Naxalbari line, are continuing the legacy of the 
heroic Naxalbari revolution. This is the reason the exploitive ruling classes and their owners 
announced All Out war centering these areas. 

 

2 

Dear Comrades and Friends! 
Strategies were formed to eliminate the revolutionary movement in the country in a manner 
unprecedented in the past five decades in the recent Delhi meeting. They adopted policies to 
intensify the war on people with the firm decision to eliminate the legacy of Naxalbari and the 
present Maoists. There would not be any limit to drones and choppers in the sky, police and 
Para-military forces in the forests, attacks, murders, atrocities, gutting of houses, destruction 
of crops and loot of the villages by armed forces. Attacks would intensify targeting democrats, 
students, intellectuals, patriots, nationalists, employees and pro-people forces in the towns. 
The present conditions make it clear that class polarisation would emerge in clear terms in the 
country and the class war would take a much more fierce form. This is the time to firmly face 
such difficult conditions and advance the revolutionary line of Naxalbari. Let all of us 
revolutionary forces who have faced many hurdles in upholding the line of Naxalbari take the 
present conditions as a challenge and declare unswervingly that the Naxalbari line will win. 
Come Comrades! Friends! Writers, poets and artists, students and intellectuals, journalists, 
employees, women, advocates, doctors and all pro-people forces! Let us hold high the Naxalbari 
flag! Let us get ready to hold high the flag of Armed Revolution. Let us bury the exploitation 
of imperialists. Let us make the New Democratic Revolution of the country a success. 
Celebrate the 50th anniversary of Naxalbari in all the towns and villages with enthusiasm and 
the firmness of struggle. Make each and everyone who loves Naxalbari a part of this. 
Celebrate the anniversary in a revolutionary atmosphere from May 23rd to 29th. 
 
 
 
* Naxalbari is the only path! * Long live Marxism-Leninism-Maoism! * Down with all kinds of 
revisionism! * Down with Imperialism, Feudalism and Comprador Bureaucratic Capitalism! * 
Destroy the power of the exploitative ruling classes and establish Revolutionary people’s state 
power of self-reliance! * The masses have nothing without Revolutionary Party, People’s Army 
and People’s State Power * Long live Armed Agrarian Revolutionary War! * Long live Indian New 
Democratic Revolution! 
 
 
 
May, 2017 

With Revolutionary Greetings, 
Central Committee, 
Communist Party of India (Maoist) 

 

3 

