COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

June 15, 2011 

Fight back the new state offensive in Chhattisgarh and Odisha 

as part of Operation Green Hunt – Phase II! 

Any fascist offensive aimed at looting this country is bound to be defeated 

by the courageous resistance of the self-respecting people of India! 
On 14-06-2011 the Union Home Minister P. Chidambaram had a high level meeting with the chief ministers of 
Chhattisgarh  and  Odisha  and  announced  a  new  brutal  offensive  in  these  two  states  to  contain  ‘Left  Wing 
Extremism (LWE)’. In the guise of his oft-repeated two-pronged mantra of ‘development and police action’, the 
HM promised full support of the centre for these states in their cruel offensive and egged them on to go ahead in 
full  swing.  Naveen  Patnaik,  the  blood-thirsty  CM  of  Odisha  whose  hands  are already  stained  with  the  blood  of 
hundreds of people of Odisha offered as human sacrifices for this ‘God of development’ right from Kalinga Nagar 
to Niyamgiri is now asking for helicopters to bomb the hapless adivasis. Raman Singh who would perhaps go down 
in history as the saffron fascist who sounded the death knell for one of the most ancient inhabitants in the world in 
Bastar, tried to cover up his growing alarm at the increasing heroic armed resistance of the people in his state with 
high-sounding rhetoric on how to go about decimating Maoists. A few days back in the first week of June (within a  
week  of    another  meeting  with  the  chief  ministers  of  'Maoist  affected'  states  led  by  the  PM  and  HM)  an 
announcement had already been made by the AP and Odisha governments that a three-month long big offensive is 
ready to be launched on Andhra-Odisha Border region (AOB) to decimate the Maoists there. They announced that 
they would use modern technology and new methods and tactics of attacking utilizing ‘water, air and land’. They 
said paratroopers may also be used. And now the whole country knows that the army had already been deployed in 
Chhattisgarh under the pretext of ‘training’. 

This  announcement  comes  within  days  of  the  announcement  of  SAIL to  privatize  Raoghat  mines in  Bastar 
(Chhattisgarh). This comes within days of the stiff resistance of the Odisha people against the land grabbing of 
POSCO for ‘the biggest foreign direct investment in India’ (read ‘one of the biggest attempts in history to grab the 
natural resources in India’). This also comes within days of a series of attacks by our PLGA (People’s Liberation 
Guerilla Army) on the mercenary forces of the central and state governments in Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra parts 
which constitute DK. The ruling classes concentrating on the borders of the states where the Maoist movement is 
strong and expanding so that there won’t be any boundaries to their exploitation; so that he they could expand their 
loot unbridled. (For example, between Odisha and Jharkhand; between West Bengal and Jharkhand; Chhattisgarh 
and Mahararashtra; CG-AP-MR etc. previously) The relation between the cause and effect is obvious for all to see. 
The actual reality is that this announcement comes in the backdrop of firm rejection by the people of India 
from  North  to  South,  from  East  to  West  and  particularly  in  Central  India  of  the  ‘development  model’  of  the 
comprador ruling classes. The growing resistance to almost every country-selling and plundering ‘development’ 
project  in  throughout  the  country  like  in  Bihar-Jharkhand,  Odisha,  Chhattisgarh,  Andhra  Pradesh,  Maharashtra, 
West  Bengal,  Uttar  Pradesh,  Uttarakhand,  North-East  etc  is  such  a  glaring  fact  that  only  those  wearing  the 
visionless glasses of ‘development’ would refuse to recognize them. Only those wearing the sound-proof ear-plugs 
of ‘police action’ would refuse to hear the slogans of ‘Jal-Jungle-Zameen Hamara Hai’ and ‘NO to this lopsided 
development’ renting the airs.  

Every genuine patriotic citizen of this country would indeed be proud of these bravest resistances - violent and 
non-violent, militant and peaceful, armed and unarmed - offered by the poorest of the poor to save this country 
from the vultures of MNCs and big comprador bourgeoisie and be humbled by the sacrifices they are making for a 
life of dignity not only for their children but for every citizen of this country. But the ruling classes of India are 
feeling the opposite. They are angered, alarmed, feeling cornered and filled to the brim with hatred towards these 
resistances because these movements are hindering the implementation of the ‘promises’ these minions made to 
their  imperialist masters and to the members of their class to hoard all the riches of this country for peanuts. Their 
masters  are  breathing  down  their  necks  to  ‘show  results’  for  all  the  kickbacks  they  have  been  gorging  till  their 
stomachs burst for paving ‘the path of development.’ So they are going on launching new offensives in a desperate 
attempt to crush the resistances. 

The first thing to realize is that we should not be fooled by their utter lies that these offensives are launched 
only for crushing the Maoists. We have to realize that these offensives are launched to crush the peasants, adivasis 

and workers; the women, children, men and elderly; the democrats, the patriots and the revolutionaries of these 
regions or in one word all those citizens of this country who have the right over the resources of this country. So, 
we  must  fight  back  these  offensives  as  one  person  and  in  one  voice  to  defeat  their  conspiracies  of  selling  our 
beloved country to the imperialists.  

The  questions  to  be  asked  are  –  who  gave  the  right  to  these  governments  to  implement  the  ‘development 
model’ which has been absolutely rejected by the very people in whose name this is done? What right do these 
governments have to spend the hard-earned money of the people of this country to kill its own citizens in police 
actions and military offensives? What right do these governments have to offer as cannon fodder the lives of lakhs 
of armed forces in a war which is not fought for their interests or any betterment of their lives but for the interests 
of  the  imperialists,  comprador  bureaucratic  bourgeoisie  and  the  feudals?  Most  importantly  what  right  do  these 
governments have to perpetrate massacres, burning, loots, rapes, fake encounters, lock-up deaths etc on the people 
fighting for their livelihood and very existence? 

To keep up the sagging morale of the armed forces who are facing one attack after another in the Maoist areas, 
particularly in Chhattisgarh recently, the HM said that the forces were facing the Maoists bravely and had gunned 
down as many as 78 extremists in 125 encounters this year. We want to bring to the attention of the people of this 
country and the world that these figures do not convey the truth and we must realize that it is actually hundreds of 
unarmed  people  (who  may  be  sympathizers  or  activists  of  the  revolutionary  movement  or  not)  who  have  been 
killed in cold blood in fake encounters and massacres of the central and state governments. ‘Maoists’ is just the 
alibi they are using to crush the genuine people’s struggles including the ones led by Maoists and not just the ones 
led by the Maoists.  

The Andhra Pradesh government has been patted on the back in every meeting of the gangster chief ministers 
and high-way robber DGPs for crushing the Maoist movement in the state effectively. It took a blood-bath of about 
four decades in an unprecedented series of fascist offensives both on revolutionaries and the people, particularly on 
the  Telangana  people  for  this  to  be  ‘achieved’.  And  now  every  state  government  is  urged  to  follow  this  fascist 
model  of  AP.  The  AP  greyhounds  do  not  bother  about  state  boundaries  and  enter  unchecked  into  Odisha  and 
Chhattisgarh to carry on attacks on the Maoists and the adivasi hamlets on the borders. And the Special Intelligence 
Bureau (APSIB) is present behind every major arrest and every fake encounter of Maoist leaders in all the states in 
the country.  So now the three month long offensive in AOB to be implemented with the coordination of the AP 
and Odisha governments with the full support of central government may go down as one of the bloodiest in the 
history of this country if we do not offer the stiffest resistance to stop it. And the new offensive on Odisha and 
Chhattisgarh which are already notorious for Salwa Judums, Santi Senas and all kinds of atrocities by the security 
forces  deployed  there  would  also  be  most  cruel  as  these  states  have  been  the  theatre for  the  bravest  armed  and 
unarmed resistances against pro-imperialist policeis of the governments in this country. The central government has 
now zeroed down on these two states and included the AP borders region with these two states. It wants to finish 
off this vast region of resistance first and go on to other regions. This doesn’t mean there would be respite in other 
areas such as a Jharkhand or a West Bengal. The war on those people would continue severely. It is just that the 
concentration would be more on this region in this phase of the country-wide ‘War on People’. 

The people of the world and our country have stood with the fighting people of India in their struggle for life 
and existence and their support is very crucial in the face  of these new fascist offensives  planned  by the ruling 
classes. So we appeal to all the genuine democratic forces in our country and in the world to expose the conspiracy 
of  the  Indian  ruling  classes  and  fight  back  this  War  on  the  People  of  India  in  every  possible  manner.  Build 
movements across the country and the world to stop the deployment of army in the movement areas and to stop the 
economic, political, military and psychological offensives. 

The  CC  of  CPI  (Maoist)  calls  upon  the  people  of  Chhattisgarh-Odisha  border,  AP-Odisha  border  and 
Chhattisgarh-AP border to fight back this latest fascist offensive unitedly. The entire Party and PLGA forces must 
fight back the enemy offensive in all spheres and by intensifying armed resistance involving the vast masses of this 
region. 
  Stop the new fascist offensive on CG-Odisha, Odisha-AP and CG-AP borders immediately! 
  Stop Operation Green Hunt immediately! 
  Stop land grab for POSCO and Raoghat railway line and mines! 
  Condemn the brutal state repression on people agitating against POSCO project! 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

 

