COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

25-9- 2014 

Unite, Fight Back and Defeat “OGH – Third Phase” 

Of the Fascist Modi Government 

The Sangh Parivar sponsored, Modi led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government that came to power 
by  criticising several  of  UPA’s  policies  is  not  only  aggressively  pursuing  all the pro-imperialist  and pro-corporate 
policies  of  UPA-1  and  2,  but  is  also  surpassing  them,  vying  for  the  post  of  ‘best  comprador  ever’  from  the 
imperialists.  It  is  taking  up  aggressive  moves  to  sell-out  the  country  shamelessly  in  the  name  of  developing  it  by 
bringing  in  as  much  FDI  as  possible  (the  goal  being  100%)  into  several  key  sectors  including  defence,  railways, 
insurance, banking, media and into those sectors that are still untouched directly due to resistance of the people and 
contradictions within the ruling classes. Pro-capitalist (or anti-worker) amendments to labour laws, hike in passenger 
and freight fares in railways, price hikes of daily commodities, petrol, diesel hikes and electricity cuts, transferring 
seven  Telangana  mandals  to  Andhra  Pradesh  against  the  will  of  the  people,  speeding  up  construction  of  the 
destructive  Polavaram  project  as  a  national  project,  naked  projection  of  Hindu  chauvinism,  saffronisation  of 
education, attacks on dalits and targeting of Muslims in the name of ‘communal riots’ are just a few of its anti-people 
measures.  These  fascists  amended  several  laws  concerning  economic,  political,  social,  cultural  and  environmental 
fields that preserved the rights of the people and the country at least to some extent and threw several laws into the 
dust bin. They passed several anti-people and treacherous bills during the first session of the parliament. They did all 
this  with  their  so-called  brute  majority  and  declared  that  they  would  do  whatever  they  wish.  Some  people  have 
euphemistically termed this government UPA-3; the continuity of the anti-people measures was too obvious to miss.  
But Modi and Co. do make a difference. Otherwise the imperialists and the Indian ruling classes would not 
have spent thousands of crores of rupees to bring them into power at this juncture. The agenda hasn’t changed. But the 
pace has reached an unprecedented haste. The imperialists need to overcome their economic crisis and the comprador 
ruling classes need to collaborate more with them. For that they need to loot the natural wealth, markets and labour 
power of countries like India, for that they need to exploit the working masses more, for that they need to establish 
more control and for that they need to crush the resistance of the people to their so-called development projects. For 
that they need to wipe out the Maoists who are ‘the biggest threat’ to their loot of this country, who are in the and 
leading  the  fight  against  them  and  building  a  new  political  power  of  the  people  and  an  alternative  model  of 
development  with  the  aim  of  building  our  beloved  country  as  a  genuine  independent,  sovereign,  self-reliant  and 
federal democratic republic. The difference that No.1 traitors and fascists Modi and Co. could make would be in the 
scale of aggressiveness in pursuing these policies, the intensification of brutality that would be perpetrated on those 
who oppose them in any manner, in the overt acceleration of the saffron agenda and the speeding up of the sell-out of 
the country – all in the name of building a ‘powerful India’ and maintaining internal security and peace.  

And this is all the more true in case of Operation Green Hunt (OGH), which is nothing but a war waged by the 
Indian ruling classes and its state on its own people. This brutal multi-pronged countrywide offensive on people’s 
various resistances, particularly targeting the Maoist movement, has been raging unabated, since its launch in mid-
2009 by the UPA-2 government till date. The preparations for this OGH (War on People)-Third Phase are going on at 
a  rapid  pace  led  by  the  fascist  Modi-Rajnath  Singh-Arun  Jaitley-Venkaiah  Naidu-Sushma  Swaraj-Amit  Shah 
combine,  with  all  the  Chief  Ministers,  DGPs  of  the  ‘Maoist-affected’  States,  top  officials  of  Army,  Air  Force, 
paramilitary and police playing a hyper-active role. Evidence of this is galore and glaring from the very first day of 
the NDA government. 

All the Chief Ministers (CMs) of the States where Maoist movement is present made a beeline to the Prime 
Minister  (PM)  not  only  for  funds  for  their  States  from  the  Centre,  but  also  for  reiterating  their  demands  for  more 
 

1

 

powers, funds, weapons, forces, vehicles and other paraphernalia for their forces and the entire executive in the name 
of suppressing Maoist movement. The Centre willingly obliged and promised more in a series of meetings conducted 
to deal with all kinds of ‘terrorism’, mainly Maoism. New governments formed after the recent assembly elections 
(2013 and 2014) in Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal have all 
announced plans to modernise their police forces which mean equipping them with more lethal weapons and gadgets 
that  would  more  ‘efficiently’  wage  war  on  people  and  terrorise  and  kill  them.  The  ‘promises’  to  Chhattisgarh  are 
representative. Chandrababu Naidu, the CM of AP went a step ahead and started his rule by killing three Maoists in a 
fake encounter on the very first day. 

The bloodthirsty home minister Rajnath Singh announced that an integrated and comprehensive strategy to root 
out the Maoist movement in the country would be soon finalised. On June 11, 2014 after a detailed review of the 
‘Left-wing  extremism  (LWE)’  situation  in  Chhattisgarh  with  State  Chief  Minister  Raman  Singh,  Union  Home 
Minister Rajnath Singh promised around 10,000 additional paramilitary troops(10 battalions) within 3, 4 months, even 
while 37 battalions of CRPF, BSF, ITBP and SSB are already present. He also promised to send 2 technical battalions 
with nearly 2000 multi-skilled, engineering and technical personnel. Two more choppers would be inducted into the 
counter-‘LWE’ grid in Chhattisgarh. The helicopters are for ‘troop deployment or sending reinforcements when State 
forces plan to attack Maoists or ‘an encounter is on’. The special focus of the meeting was on Bastar region. The CM 
also  sought  improved  technology  for  IED  detection,  augmented  UAV  deployment,  air  mobility  for  operations  and 
secure and encrypted communication.  

The meeting was attended by Minister of State for Home Kiren Rijiju, Union home secretary Anil Goswami, 
paramilitary  chiefs,  and  senior  officials  of  the  Planning  Commission,  Ministry  of  Environment  and  Forests  and 
Department of Telecom. If anybody is wondering what these bodies were doing at a meeting on LWE, the answer is 
here.  Complaining  that  ‘abysmal  25%  telecom  coverage  in  Bastar  was  affecting  intelligence  collection  and  timely 
response by the Central forces’, the Chhattisgarh government sought to increase in tele-connectivity and density. They 
Central  authorities  even  promised  to  ‘do  what  is  best  possible’  ‘to  tweak  forest  clearance  norms  to  exempt 
government projects’ as requested by the State government. The nearly 2,000 multi-skilled personnel with technical 
knowledge  (technical  battalions)  are  ‘for  carrying  out development  work  in  Maoist-hit  areas’  as  the  CM  lamented 
about ‘shortage of contractors.’ Collectors and SPs would now monitor this work using these battalions. Paramilitary 
battalions have already been deployed on a huge scale for the Raoghat and several other mines, building dams, roads, 
bridges  and  Raoghat  railway  line  that  not  only  aims  to  transfer  the  iron  ore  to  the  big  comprador  companies  and 
MNCs  but  is  also  ecologically  highly  destructive.  All  these  forces  would  serve  ‘multi-purposes’  -  to  suppress  the 
masses,  attack  the  Maoists,  to  reinforce  the  camps  of  government  force,  to  provide  protection  to  so-called 
development which actually means building infrastructure to transfer the mining riches, and constructing several steel 
and other plants in the heartland of Bastar.  

With BJP in power both at the Centre and the State the ‘war on people’ would be carried on more ruthlessly as 
a more centralised, coordinated, country-wide offensive. There would now be more coordination between Central and 
State governments, between State governments, between Central and State forces, intelligence agencies and police 
force and between police and executive. 

In a high level meeting conducted by Rajnath Singh with Air Force, police and top officials of Chhattisgarh, 
Odisha, Bihar and Jharkhand on June 27, the Home Minister praised to the skies the Grey Hounds of AP and urged 
the State governments to train and restructure their Special Forces (like STF in Chhattisgarh, SOG in Odisha, C-60 in 
Maharashtra,  Counter-Insurgency  Force  in  Jharkhand,  Thunderbolts  in  Keralam)  and  build  infrastructure  for  these 
forces. The efforts are on. Their numbers would be augmented and their intelligence wings would also be expanded. 

Taking a leaf from erstwhile AP, a SP level OSD has now been appointed in all districts and the OSD was 
given all powers to conduct attacks on Maoists. The Grey Hounds model means that they take intelligence inputs from 
police headquarters and directly go for offensives. Rs. 150 crores were released for building 75 attack-proof police 
stations in ‘naxal-affected’ districts of Chhattisgarh. Additional funds were released for Special Infrastructure Scheme 
(for building bunkers, toilet bunkers and morcha points for the government forces).  

On August 20, 2014, the Union Cabinet approved the extension of mobile telephonic services to 2,199 locations 
affected by ‘LWE’ in the States of Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, 
Odisha,  Telangana,  Uttar  Pradesh  and  Paschim  Banga.  The  BSNL  has  already  installed  towers  at  363  of  these 
locations. The project implementation cost is approximately Rs. 35.68 billion.  

According to the intensification of the ‘war on people’, Bastar Range would be divided into four parts as part of 
the ‘counter-LWE grid system’ with one camp established for every five kms. As part of this grid, ‘crucial areas’ 
 

2

 

(strong areas of Maoist activity) would be identified to form network, conduct attacks and wipe out the Maoists. This 
would be done along Chhattisgarh’s borders with neighbouring states. This type of concentration would be done in all 
tri  and  quadric  junctions  of  various  States  in  the  country.  Already  there  are  120  battalions  of  paramilitary  forces 
stationed  in  nine  States.  After  Rajnath  Singh  was  sworn  in,  he  planned  to  send  27  battalions  to  be  additionally 
deployed in nine States. 

Prices for the heads of the Maoist leadership right from the Central Committee/Politburo to the village level 
leaders was increased, almost five times, to several crores of rupees, by the Central and various State governments. 
This is nothing but a counter- revolutionary measure that further fascises the State, encourages false encounters and 
mercenary  killings  and  creates  heinous  selfish  and  criminal  values  in  the  society.  Killing  leaders  and  activists  or 
putting them in jail was announced as the two-pronged policy to decimate revolutionary forces, make the movement 
headless and to restrict or weaken the movement areas. 

On the other hand, the compensation for the counter-revolutionaries who are punished by the people and for 
being  diehard  informers  or  coverts  has  been  increased  hugely  (almost  four-five  times)  along  with  all  kinds  of 
rehabilitation  packages.  Terrorising  activists  of  mass  organisations  and  drives  to  make  them  and  Maoist  cadre 
surrender reached high-pitch with promises of freedom from cases and high rewards. The undercover agenda is to turn 
them into counter-revolutionaries and traitors who could inflict damages to the movement.   

A  six  months  campaign  by  joint  Central  and  State  forces  was  announced  for  all  Maoist  areas,  starting  with 
Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand. Both these States witnessed maximum resistance of People’s Liberation Guerilla Army 
(PLGA)  and  the  people  to  the  corporate  ventures.  They  announced  that  the  focus  of  their  offensive  would  be 
Chhattisgarh as it is one of the main strong areas of Maoist movement and at the centre of almost all the movement 
areas (AP, Telangana, Jharkhand, Odisha, Maharashtra and UP) and as BJP is in power both at the Centre and the 
State. The main focus in the third phase of OGH would be on the Maad areas in Bastar. Another feature of this phase 
would be engagement of huge numbers of forces during operations in all the main areas.  

The state is on the one hand destroying the Revolutionary People’s Committees (RPC) that are enabling the 
people execute their new democratic power and striving to make them self-reliant. On the other hand it is flooding the 
people of movement areas with Civic Action Programs (CAPs) increasingly led by paramilitary and state forces, so-
called reforms and countless schemes that make the people dependent on the government forever. Neither their basic 
needs are solved through this nor do they become self-reliant. They would be further ruined and thrown away while 
the fascist corporate and MNCs raj will reign.  

100 ‘commandogs’ (commando dogs!) are being trained to be deployed along with each paramilitary battalion 
in Chhattisgarh – one dog at present and four later to each. Hundreds of retired military personnel of infantry are 
being deployed  in  Chhattisgarh  since 2 years.  This came  to  light  when  two of  them  were  annihilated  in March  in 
Sukma  in  a  counter-offensive  of  the  PLGA  forces.  Raman  Singh  is  demanding  that  they  be  given  permission  to 
appoint  retired  military  personnel  up  to  Brigadier  rank.  The  Air  Force  is  shifting  its  UAV  operational  base  from 
Hyderabad to Durg so that it can do quick surveillance, send intelligence inputs to the forces and attack the Maoists 
immediately. Air strips are being prepared in several new places. Several trees are being cut off and forests cleared for 
building camps and other infrastructure for the more than one lakh forces deployed in Bastar Range causing enormous 
damage to ecology too. The already insufficient school and health care facilities supposedly set up for the people are 
being used by these forces in spite of Supreme Court judgment to vacate them, thus depriving the people of even those 
meagre facilities.  

The  ‘usual’  encounters  and  fake  encounters  (of  both  revolutionaries  and  common  people)  are on  with  not  a 
single day passing in the movement areas without cordon and search & combing operations, areas dominations, loot, 
destruction, mayhem, tortures and atrocities on people by the government forces. Attacks, political and physical, on 
any kind of opposition, trampling of civil rights, ban on CPI (Maoist) and revolutionary workers’, peasants’, students’ 
and  women’s  and  children’s  organisations,  threats  and  attacks  on  revolutionary  and  democratic  organisations  and 
severe repression in various forms on political prisoners incarcerated in prisons all over the country are continuing 
unabated. A large number of Nazi type (modern) jails are under construction.  

Home Minister Rajnath Singh is openly baying for the blood of Maoists like bloodhounds; issuing threats of 
‘zero tolerance to violence’ (read more fake encounters, arrests and tortures) while saying that he is ‘ready to talk with 
the Maoists if they give up violence’.  He is saying this after he declared like a feudal medieval lord that he would as 
happy as conducting a marriage if the security forces penetrate into the forests and kill the ‘terrorists’! Here ‘terrorists’ 
mean Maoists as he is planning to change the name of ‘Left-Wing Extremism’ to ‘Left-Wing Terrorism’. The huge 
number of troops, weapons, vehicles, military equipment and gadgets (not to mention the UAVs and the helicopters) 
 

3

 

of  government  forces  deployed  in  the  ‘Maoist  areas’  are  perpetrating  endless  violence  on  the  people  there.  The 
violence of these forces can never be compared with the counter-violence put up by the CPI (Maoist) and the PLGA 
and the people led by it either in volume or quality. But the psychological warfare of the ruling classes is day in and 
day  out  drumming  into  the  people’s  mind  that  ‘Maoists  are  violent  and  anti-development’  while  the  ‘government 
seeks peace’. The psy-war targeting the CPI (Maoist) reached unimaginable proportions with corporate media leading 
it and the active participation of all the civil, police and military officials and all departments of the executive and 
judiciary in this foul exercise. The degenerated surrendered persons are also pushed to the frontlines to carry on this 
vicious war with all kinds of lies and fabrications.    

The  specific  feature  of  OGH  under  Modi  regime  is  that  all  the  Hindu  communal  fascist  Sangh  Parivar 
constituents would participate in it at various levels and in various spheres. The National Executive Council of ABVP 
giving a call to its rank and file to ensure that ‘there are naxal free campuses’ during its meet in Mangaluru in May is 
an indicator.    
Beloved People of our country! 

Whatever we have mentioned above is just the tip of the iceberg of one of the most treacherous, anti-people, 
heinous, criminal and brutal offensives launched in political, economic, social, cultural, judicial, environmental and all 
spheres of our life and the country in the name of maintaining internal security for crushing dissent and wiping out the 
Maoists. We reiterate that Maoists and all other fighting forces are none other than the vanguard and organisations of 
the most oppressed people of our country and are comprised of none other than workers, peasants, students, youth, 
employees, intellectuals, middle class, dalits, adivasis, minorities and women who build the wealth of this country 
with their sweat and blood. They have chosen the path of struggle as they have been deprived of their Jal, Jungle, 
Zameen, Izzat and Adhikar and as their country is being enmeshed more and more in neo-colonial ties by the Indian 
ruling classes with the prodding of the imperialists. The ‘War on People’ is aimed at ending all types of this resistance  
We are calling upon all the revolutionary masses in our movement areas to unite more determinedly under the 

PLGA to resist this round of fascist offensive launched as part of OGH-third phase.  

The CPI (Maoist) and the PLGA, RPCs, the revolutionary mass organisations and the revolutionary massed led 
by it vow to defeat this round of fascist offensive of the Modi led NDA government too as they had defeated several 
previous  counter-revolutionary  campaigns.  This  could  be  done  only  by  waging  war  of  self-defense  utilising  every 
single  opportunity  and  mobilising  and  uniting  all  the  fighting  forces  (revolutionary,  democratic,  patriotic)  and  the 
people vastly in this just people’s war, now directed against this fascist and treacherous Modi government.  

In  the  past  dictators  like  Mussolinis  and  Hitlers  had  similarly  waged  unjust  wars,  and  heaped  countless 
atrocities  and  brutalities  on  people  and  countries.  But  ultimately  their  mighty  armies  were  defeated,  their  empires 
crumbled and they fell when people rose in fury. People had always fought against such fascists in the world and our 
country and they would do so now too. The more the people realise the real face of these fascists, the more unitedly 
they come together to fight them, the quicker would be their fall. The day when these paper tigers would be shred into 
pieces is not as far as they would like to think.  

We appeal to all the organisations, forces, individuals and people who suffer from and oppose the Brahminical 
Hindu fascist, anti-people and anti-country regressive Modi government to unite and come forward to resist and defeat 
it. We appeal to one and all to build up solidarity with the fighting people both in our country and abroad.  

 

 

 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, CPI (Maoist) 

4

 

