 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

March 24, 2014 

 

Boycott the sham parliament & assembly elections! 
Make the New Democratic Revolution successful! 

The building of an Indian people’s democratic federal republic based on genuine 

democracy and self-reliance is the only alternative! 

 
The elections for the 16th Loksabha and for the assemblies of Telangana, Seemandhra, Odisha, Sikkim 
and Arunachal Pradesh are to be held from April 7 to May 12, 2014. The exploiting ruling classes of our country 
are readying to impose another huge financial burden on the people by spending thousands of crores of rupees on 
this. On this occasion the major parliamentary parties Congress and BJP are vying extremely with each other for 
power and are tying to deceive the people one more time by claiming that only they would develop our country. 
Defections from top to bottom from the opportunistic alliances of the UPA led by Congress and the NDA led by 
the BJP to other parties and vice versa had begun long before and they are assuming rapidity as the elections 
approached.  

Recently the Third Front came to the fore with much fanfare with eleven parties. As everybody expected, 
it  is  still  immersed  in  fist  fights  regarding  sharing  of  seats.  The  agreement  between  the  Left  Front  and  the 
AIADMK in the Third Front became invalid even before the ink had dried due to differences in sharing seats. 
The left parties including CPI (M) had not yet recovered from the insulting defeat they had suffered in the West 
Bengal elections. Parties like the SP, BSP, DMK, AIADMK, Biju Janata Dal, Janata Dal (U), Trinamool, AGP, 
TDP, TRS, YSRCP etc are fearing defeat to join either the UPA or the NDA and so have either joined the Third 
Front or going it alone with so-called slogans of social justice, emancipation of Dalits and Bahujans and regional 
development etc. Both the Third Front parties and those parties contesting on their own are following a ‘wait and 
see’ policy to join whichever alliance comes to power after the election results. As Lok Jansakti Dal joined the 
NDA as it felt defeat was certain if it remains in UPA, the RJD is continuing in the UPA to somehow keep its 
lantern burning. The politicians belonging to various parties who came to the fore overnight with new flags and 
new agendas after leaving their parties fearing defeat due to people’s wrath or because they did not get a seat in 
their parties are flinging as much mud as possible over each other in this fight for seats. As they had come to 
power leaving all morals and rules aside with the sole aim of power through money – money through power and 
again power through money and had exploited, oppressed and tortured the people without respite and lost the 
confidence of the people, they are resorting to such blatant opportunist methods having lost any hope of winning 
in these elections.  

The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) entered the electoral arena with the aim of benefiting from submerging the 
people in illusions one more time. It is trying to catch the attention of the people with revolutionary rhetoric 
sheltered  in  ideological  eclecticism  consisting  of  Gandhian  ‘Ahimsa’  and  ‘Swaraj’  and  ‘socialist’  politics  of 
Jayaprakash Narain and its NGO ‘direct participatory democracy’ stands. 

Though elections have been held several times and several governments had changed in the past 65 years 
of ‘independent’ rule, it is a fact that even to this day the basic needs of the people like food, clothing, shelter, 
education and health care remained out of reach. The oppressed masses who constitute 95% of the population are 
confronting poverty, illiteracy. Unemployment, price rises, diseases, starvation deaths, corruption etc on a daily 
basis. 77% of the population is living on less than 20 rupees per day. On the other hand the big bourgeoisie and 
the  big  landlords  are  enjoying  enormous  amounts  of  wealth.  Hundred  corporations  belonging  to  vultures  like 
Ambani, Tata, Birla, Mittal, Jindal etc account for 25% of the GDP of our country. The chasm between the rich 

and  the  poor  increased  beyond  imagination.  Corruption  and  scams  increased  in  leaps  and  bounds.  The  laws 
formulated to hamper these social differences and to prevent them had never been used on the moneyed classes. 
As a result, social unrest is swelling. The Hindutva Sangh Parivar religious chauvinist oppression on the religious 
minorities and the Hindutva Brahminical upper caste oppression on the Dalits in our country have increased. The 
repression on national liberation struggles like Kashmir, Asom and Manipur is increasing day by day. As a result 
of the long drawn struggles of the Telangana people for decades together the parliament had to inevitably give its 
approval  for  the  formation  of  a  separate  state  for  Telangana.  However,  they  are  still  suppressing  cruelly 
aspirations  for  separate  statehoods  for  Bodoland,  Gorkhaland  etc.  The  Adivasis  are  continuously  denied  their 
rights  over  Jal-Jungle-Zameen-Adhikar.  The  women  are  getting  crushed  under  imperialist  and  feudal  vicious 
culture.  

As the UPA government led by Congress is rapidly implementing the second phase of economic reforms 
in its five year rule as a continuation of the Liberalization, Privatization and Globalization (LPG) policies due to 
the  pressure  of  the  imperialists  and  the  big  capitalists  of  our  country  who  are  bogged  down  in  the  world 
economic crisis, the conditions worsened in all the sectors in our country. It signed countless MoUs with MNCs 
and big corporations of our country and opened the doors widely for indiscriminate exploitation by handing over 
the natural riches of our country to them. Blatantly violating the 5th Schedule, PESA etc of the constitution in 
Adivasi areas it is holding gram sabhas at the point of the gun in several areas in our country with peasantry and 
the Adivasis, forcefully taking their consent for land acquisition and is implementing policies that would displace 
them  on  a  gigantic  scale.  Due  to  the  bankrupt  policies  of  this  government,  the  industrial  production  in  our 
country suffered and lakhs of workers were thrown on the roads. Work burden on workers increased. Their real 
wages plunged. The number of unorganized workers outside the purview of labor laws increased.  It took up 
policies that would hand over retail trade to the imperialist companies. It gradually handed over the agriculture 
sector  to  the  corporations  and  pushed  agriculture  into  severe  crisis.  Increase  in  production  costs,  lack  of 
government support in the form of loans etc and lack of minimum support prices led to large scale suicides of 
farmers. The lives of the people became intolerable with the skyrocketing of daily consumer goods with the time 
to time increase in petrol and diesel prices. The privatization of education and health sector turned them into a 
rarity  for  the  common  people.  Corruption  reached  the  skies  and  with  great  scams  like  2G  spectrum, 
Commonwealth Games, Coal gate etc the various ruling class politicians, cliques, government-military higher 
ups gulped down lakhs of crores of rupees of people’s exchequer. These brazen bandits and traitors stashed away 
billions of dollars in Swiss banks.  

The schemes taken up by the UPA government and hyped to the skies as the dream of Indira Gandhi’s 
‘Garibi  Hatao’  realized  by  Sonia  Gandhi  have  all  turned  ridiculous  with  reeking  corruption.  In  fact,  the 
yesteryear slogan of land reforms disappeared completely. Due to its ecology-damaging policies natural disasters 
like in Uttarakhand, untimely rains and cyclones are occurring and people are suffering heavy losses. Its newly 
legislated  acts  relating  to  ‘land  acquisition’,  ‘food  security’  and  ‘Nirbhaya’  are  aimed  at  either  serving  the 
interests of the imperialists and the exploiting ruling classes or as an eye-wash.  

The UPA government depended on military, paramilitary, special police and commando forces and on 
intelligence agencies like IB, NIA and SIB to suppress the masses who are rebelling against their anti-people 
policies and to consolidate its rule and carrying on offensives in fascist methods. It is curbing civil rights and 
even  the  right  to  live.  The  enemy  forces  are  carrying  on  massacres  of  hundreds  of  Adivasis,  Dalits,  other 
oppressed masses revolutionary activists and in revolutionary movement areas led by our party. As part of carpet 
security  all  the  movement  areas  in  the  various  states  have  been  turned  into  military  camps  of  enemy  forces. 
Thousands of innocent people, revolutionary activists and leaders were put in jails. On the one hand they are 
shouting that ‘the Maoist guerillas who are resorting to violence in the forests do not have any ideology’ and on 
the other they are trying to control the intellectuals by stating that ‘the Maoist ideologues in the cities who are 
continuously stoking the Maoist ideology are more dangerous than the guerillas.’ They are trying to isolate the 
progressive  intellectuals,  writers,  youth  and  the  students  from  the  revolutionary  movement  and  stand  them  in 
opposition to it. The BJP, left front and other state governments are also collaborating with the UPA government 
in  this.  The  BJP  had  supported  the  UPA  government  in  the  past  ten  years  on  all  the  major  policies  it 
implemented. The only difference being where they sat – whether in ruling or in opposition. All their accusations 
and  counter-accusations  were  done  with  the  intention  of  deceiving  the  people.  There  is  not  much  difference 
between the central and state governments too in this matter  despite any party being in power. Similarly this 
suppression  is  not  confined  only  to  the  Maoist  movement  areas.  The  anti-POSCO,  anti-nuclear  Kudamkulam 
struggles are the fresh examples of this. The hegemony of the US imperialists in the economic, polity, military 
and  cultural  spheres  and  the  intervention  of  its  intelligence  agency  FBI  increased  during  UPA  rule.  The 
Wikileaks revelations made it clear that nearly one lakh US soldiers and officers are staying clandestinely in our 

country  and  are  conveying  all  kinds  of  support  and  help  directly  and  indirectly  in  imposing  fascism  on  the 
people.  

The Congress that was in power continuously for ten years followed pro-imperialist, pro-CBB and pro-
big landlord policies and was responsible for the agonizing living conditions of the people and the disastrous 
economy of our country and for the massacres of thousands of activists of various democratic and revolutionary 
movements  and  people,  persecution  of  religious  minorities  in  the  name  of  ‘terrorists.’  It  won  the  dubious 
distinction of being the originator of the biggest and highest number of corruption scams in the parliamentary 
history of our country. As a result it won the severe hatred of the people. To escape this and hoodwink the people 
the Congress is bringing to the fore its main slogan of ‘Bharat Nirman’ pointing towards the ‘development’ it 
achieved in its ten-year rule and towards the anti-corruption, land acquisition, food security and Nirbhaya acts 
and welfare schemes that it formulated. The Congress has been in power at the centre and in most of the states 
for the maximum time after 1947. It was mainly responsible by being in power for such a long period of time for 
the  anti-people  policies  that  were  formulated  and  implemented.  The  massacres  of  religious  minorities, 
particularly  the  massacre  of  Sikhs  in  1984  took  place  under  its  rule.  Though  Sangh  Parivar  was  directly 
responsible for the destruction of Babri Masjid it was the Congress that was behind the high drama from the 
centre. It was mainly responsible for suppressing the just national liberation struggles of the Kashmir and the 
present North East by massacring tens of thousand of youth through its military brute force. It implemented all 
these anti-people policies by taking the help of other parliamentary parties when in power and also by colluding 
with the ruling alliances when not in power. Who else would be mainly responsible than the Congress for the 
insufferable  conditions  of  the  workers,  peasants,  petty  bourgeois  sections,  oppressed  nationalities,  Dalits, 
Adivasis,  religious  minorities,  women,  small  and  medium  capitalists  in  our  country?  The  people  are  not  so 
gullible as to believe its ‘Bharat Nirman’, so-called welfare schemes, deceptive anti-corruption pose 

BJP’s main attack is on the corrupt rule of the Congress. It is clear that it does not have any basically different 
policies than Congress on any of the main issues confronting the people and the country and has the same corrupt, 
treacherous and dictatorial policies in any sphere. With the directive of the RSS, BJP announced the Hindu bigot and 
mass murderer Narendra Modi as its prime ministerial candidate. It is hiding its Hindu chauvinist agenda behind the 
‘Gujarat Vikas’ model and is concentrating its entire machinery around Modi to capture power at the centre one more 
time. ‘Gujarat Vikas’ model means terrorizing the Muslim and Christian minorities, seizing their properties, chasing 
them away from their abodes or making them servile through massacres of Muslim religious minorities and subjecting 
them to innumerable atrocities along with atrocities on Christian religious minorities; making the entire state as the 
hub for the investments of MNCs, big bourgeoisie and opening doors to their endless exploitation and oppression. The 
Sangh Parivar and the BJP are aiming to establish this Hitlerite model in the guise of ‘Vikas’ in the entire country by 
coming to power in these elections. Congress came to power the previous two terms and won the severe wrath of the 
people. So the ruling classes and the US imperialists are openly supporting the candidature of Modi for the PM post as 
he would implement their agenda ruthlessly. Accordingly the corporate media is propagating Modi on a huge scale. Its 
attempt to win in the Delhi elections by bringing a religious divide through religious riots in Muzaffarnagar indicates 
only  its  fascist  face.  Rajnath  Singh’s  statement  a  few  days  before  the  election  dates  were  announced  that  he  was 
apologizing to the Muslims ‘if at any place any wrong was done to them’ is nothing but a ploy to hide the massacre of 
Muslims  carried  on  by  Modi  in  Gujarat  and  gain  their  votes.  But  how  would  the  Muslim  and  Christian  religious 
minorities  forget  the  massacres,  discrimination,  suppression  and  chauvinism  that  they  suffered  in  the  hands  of  the 
Sangh  Parivar  right  from  1947  to  the  recent  Muzaffarnagar  killings?  The  pogrom  and  persecution  of  religious 
minorities in Gujarat under Modi met with unprecedented opposition and protest not only in Gujarat but all over our 
country.  Even if they come to power, the Hindu fascists will have to face the countrywide active resistance of the 
Muslim and Christian minorities, revolutionary and democratic forces. This would be the foremost task of these forces 
then.  

The AAP that was born and brought up with a NGO background and on imperialist and NRI funds and 
support,  is  not  going  into  the  roots  of  this  system  and  into  the  basic  problems  of  the  people  and  is  resorting 
Gandhian  feats  for  solving  people’s  problems.  They  do  not  have  any  solution  for  the  basic  problems  of  the 
oppressed classes, people and sections that are being suppressed under exploitation and oppression. It is serving 
as a safety valve to divert the erupting people’s anger into peaceful and parliamentary solutions and trying to 
cash in on it. 

The actual issues of the people never come up for discussion in the parliament and the assemblies. They 
are under the control of the imperialists, CBB and the big landlords. Where is the place for democracy in this 
system where votes could be bought with money, liquor, religious and casteist sentiments? It is ridiculous to call 
this a democracy when criminals, bandits and notoriously corrupt politicians win in elections. In fact, when we 
look  into  history  we  find  that  people’s  problems  have  always  been  solved  through  people’s  struggles,  class 
struggles and PPW and not through parliamentary forums. 

As  elections  are  being  conducted  like  a  farce  each  time,  the  Election  Commission  of  India  vowed  to 
strengthen  democracy  during  these  elections  and  is  trying  to  bring  in  several  reforms  along  with  including 
guidelines according to the Supreme Court order. As part of strengthening democracy, the SC had issued orders 
to give the voters the right to ‘reject.’ As a result, the NOTA button was introduced in the EVMs for the first time 
during  the  assembly  elections  in  five  states  in  2013.  Now  during  these  Loksabha  elections  this  is  being 
introduced  all  over  the  country.  In  fact,  this  NOTA  right  suppresses  the  ‘right  to  recall’  the  elected 
representatives that the people should rightfully have. If they really intend to give the ‘right to reject’, then why 
are they deploying lakhs of government armed forces in areas where our party had given the call to boycott the 
polls in the name of conducting ‘free and fair’ elections and carrying on attacks, search operations, arrests, fake 
encounters and massacres? 

The great Marxist teacher Lenin stated in his ‘State and Revolution – “Elections are held to decide once 
every few years which member of the ruling class is to repress and crush the people through parliament—such is 
the real essence of bourgeois parliamentarism, not only in parliamentary-constitutional monarchies, but also in 
the most democratic republics.” This is more applicable to our semi-colonial, semi-feudal country that claims 
itself to be the ‘biggest democracy in the world.’ That is why, none of the oppressed masses believe that their 
lives would change or that there would be a fundamental change in this system through these elections. In all the 
elections  held  our  country  so  far,  considerable  number  of  voters  are  distancing  themselves  from  polling.  The 
stronger parties occupy the polling booths with their goon force and conduct rigging. Even those who vote are 
not doing so with the belief that these elections would benefit them. They are voting just for local needs or other 
pressures or lures such as caste, religion, regionalism, money, liquor, goondaism etc. There is no alternative for 
the people in this sham parliamentary system. 

All the major parties coming to the fore in the elections are subservient to the imperialists and represent 
the Indian exploiting ruling classes. All these parties are anti-people, treacherous corrupt, oppressive, reactionary 
and fascist in nature. Serving the interests of imperialism, CBB and the big landlord classes, keeping intact the 
Indian semi-colonial semi-feudal system and crushing all democratic and revolutionary movements is the aim of 
these parties. They are coming together to suppress our party, the CPI (Maoist) that is coming to the fore as an 
alternative to this, the NDR led by it and the embryonic new organs of political power that represent the Indian 
people’s  democratic  federal  republic  based  on  genuine  democracy  and  self-reliance.  Though  these  comprador 
parties loll in the pig-sty of the parliament for power and engage in dog-fights with each other for their share in 
the  loot,  when  it  comes  to  crushing  the  revolutionary  movement  by  labeling  it  the  ‘gravest  threat  to  internal 
security’ of our country they are all unanimous. They are resorting to a severe multi-pronged offensive according 
to the US dictated LIC strategy and tactics. Their deceptive proposals for Peace Talks and reform schemes are 
aimed at diverting the people and the democrats and to carry on a further heavy offensive on the revolutionary 
movement. The countrywide multi-pronged offensive carried on in the name War on People - OGH since mid-
2009 by the central government by colluding with BJP and along with various state governments is a part of this. 
They are trying without success through repression to preserve this rotten exploiting system. But in a backdrop 
where the revolutionary conditions are maturing day by day, they are doomed to be swept away by the people. 

The present exploitative system cannot be transformed with elections. The basic problems of the people 
would  not  be  solved.  Even  their  basic  needs  would  not  be  fulfilled.  All  the  electoral  parties  are  dead  against 
genuine democracy, self-reliance and sovereignty of our country. None of them is morally qualified to ask our 
people to vote for them. That is why our party is giving a call to the entire people of India to boycott these sham 
parliamentary and assembly elections and to march forward in the path of PPW for the victory of the NDR that is 
waged  with agrarian  revolution  as  the  axis  on  the  basis  of  ‘land  to  the  tiller’  for  building  an  Indian  people’s 
democratic federal republic. This new democratic state will be the people’s democratic dictatorship exercised by 
the united front comprising the proletariat, peasantry, petty-bourgeoisie and the national bourgeoisie class under 
the  leadership  of  the  proletariat  based  upon  the  worker-peasant  alliance  and  liberate  our  country  from  the 
clutches of the imperialists, the CBB and the big landlords.  

  

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, CPI (Maoist) 

 

