COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

June 20, 2011 

 

Red Homage to Pattipati Venkateswarlu, 

a founder leader of the civil liberties movement in Andhra Pradesh! 
On  June  11,  2011  Pattipati  Venkateswarlu,  a  people’s  lawyer  and  founder-secretary  of  the  Andhra 
Pradesh Civil Liberties Committee (APCLC) breathed his last in Hyderabad. With his death the oppressed 
people of India, particularly the people of Andhra Pradesh have lost one of their well-wishers, a people’s 
lawyer and a civil rights leaders who had relentlessly fought for their rights. The CC, CPI (Maoist) is paying 
red homage to Pattipati and is sending its deep condolences to his family, friends, relatives and colleagues in 
the civil rights movement.  

Pattipati  was  born  in  Tanguturu  of  Prakasam  district  in  1934.  He  was  one  of  those  several  mass 
organization leaders who came forward to work for the rights of the oppressed masses and fighting people in 
our country in the wake of Naxalbari and particularly in AP during the Srikakulam armed struggle. With the 
notorious  fake  encounters  which  were  intensified  during  the  Vengala  Rao  fascist  regime  to  suppress  the 
Srikakulam  struggle  and  the  innumerable  atrocities,  arrests  etc  of  revolutionaries  and  innocent  people 
perpetrated  by  the  government  mercenary  police  and  paramilitary  forces,  the  need  for  a  civil  rights 
movement was felt  more than ever in the 70s. APCLC was formed in 1973 and Pattipati became its first 
secretary while the legendary poet Sri  Sri was its first president. Both  of them had toured the length and 
breadth of AP to build up a strong civil liberties movement and their names became synonymous with this 
movement  during  this  period.  Pattipati  was  known  for  his  fiery  speeches  which  exposed  the  cruelest  and 
fascist repressive face of the state. He strove like a one-man army to build up the units of APCLC in all the 
districts  to  strengthen  the  organization.    Between  1970  and  1975  it  was  to  him  that  the  victims  of  state 
repression turned to, both as a lawyer and as a firebrand civil rights leader who passionately fought for them. 
His  home  in  Isamiya  Bazaar  was  one  of  the  few  places  in  Hyderabad  where  the  activists  of  mass 
organizations, victims of state repression, people on whom false cases were framed, revolutionary writers, 
civil  rights  activists  etc  congregated  almost  on  a  daily  basis  sharing  the  meagre  food,  shelter  and 
contemporary revolutionary thoughts with him.   

Pattipati would always be remembered for his memorable role in fighting for the annulment of the death 
sentences of comrades Bhumaiah and Kista Goud, the revolutionary peasant movement activists (pronounced 
in 1974) and for turning it into a country-wide issue. He was instrumental in involving leaders from various 
political parties in this campaign which included Jaya Prakash Narayan, Chandra Rajeswara Rao, Bhupesh 
Gupta,  Vajpayee  and  George  Fernandes.  A  committee  was  built  up  with  this  exclusive  demand  and  he 
coordinated  this  from  Hyderabad.  His  efforts  in  building  solidarity  for  this  demand  internationally  merit 
special mention. More than 300 intellectuals from all over the world (including Jean Paul Sartre and Tariq 
Ali) demonstrated in various countries like France and US in support of this demand. He argued their case 
and brought a stay when the state tried to hang them the first time. He would always be remembered by the 
movements which are being built the world over for a total ban on death sentences.  

When emergency was declared on the midnight of June 25-26 in 1975, Pattipati was the first political 
activist and civil rights leader to be arrested in AP. During the time he was in jail his family had to undergo 
many  trials  and  tribulations  as  he  was  the  sole  breadwinner.  As  Pattipati  continued  making  phone  calls, 
writing letters and sending telegrams even from jail to coordinate civil rights work the government brought a 
special  G.O.  banning  such  things.  Between  1970  and  1977  as  a  lawyer  he  saved  the  lives  of  many 
revolutionary leaders and hundreds of activists whenever they were illegally arrested and were in the danger 
of being ‘encountered’ by the state. After the emergency Pattipati continued as a lawyer and  campaigned 
hard for including the ‘Right to Work’ in the fundamental rights till his last breath. He remained a people’s 
lawyer till the end.  

Though Pattipati was not active in the civil rights movement after the lifting of emergency, he continued 
to sympathize with the revolutionary movement and believed in Marxism. The Central Committee of CPI 
(Maoist) pays red homage to Pattipati for his role in building the civil rights movement in AP and his role as 
a people’s lawyer during one of the darkest periods of repression in the state between 1970 and 1977. Our 
party  sees  the  struggle  for  democratic  rights  of  the  oppressed  people  by  comrades  like  Pattipati  and  civil 
rights  organizations  as  an  integral  part  of  the  overall  fight  against  feudalism,  comprador  bureaucratic 
capitalism  and  imperialism  for  a  new  democratic  society  where  all  rights  of  the  oppressed  people  are 
guaranteed.  At  a  time  when  an  unprecedented  country-wide  multi-pronged  offensive  in  the  name  of 
Operation Green Hunt has been unleashed in the form of ‘War on People’ by the fascist Indian ruling classes 
and every single right won by the people and civil rights movements through years of struggles are being 
curbed, it is necessary to remember the services rendered by civil rights leaders like Pattipati who fought for 
these rights. At a time when there is a need for the civil rights movement in the country to become active 
more  than  ever,  it  is  necessary  to  propagate  the  struggles  and  the  services  rendered  by  organizations  and 
individuals  as  part  of it  which  went into creating the  present  improved  and  greater  democratic  awareness 
about the inalienable rights of the people. The CC is appealing to his family, friends, colleagues in the civil 
rights movement and people’s lawyers to propagate and emulate the services done by him for the oppressed 
masses  of  this  country  so  that  the  younger  generation  is  inspired  to  work  for  the  rights  of  the  people  as 
inheritors of the struggle legacy. 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

