      COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

      CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

 

Press Release 

 

16 June 2017 

Hail the growing wave of peasant’s agitations in the country! 

Extend full support to the country’s peasants fighting for their just demands! 

Build a firm unity of all the people’s movements with the ongoing peasant movement! 
Only armed agrarian revolution can fully resolve the burning problems of the peasants! 

The path of Naxalbari is the only path of liberation for the Indian peasantry! 

Boldly raise the slogan of land to the tiller and all power to the people! 

 
As  we  celebrate  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  glorious  armed  agrarian  revolutionary 
uprising of the peasants of Naxalbari in Bengal’s Darjeeling district which changed the country’s 
history forever, the peasants are once again rising up to seek a solution to their acute problems. 
Starting  in Maharashtra on 1 June, the agitation  of the peasants has spread to parts of Gujarat, 
Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, during which six agitating peasants were shot dead by the police 
in indiscriminate firing. Other repressive measures such as imposition of curfew and prohibitory 
orders, mass arrests, use of tear-gas and beating up, foisting of false cases, closing down internet 
services, etc., are being widely used by the central and state governments to scatter the gathering 
storm of this latest wave of peasant movement. Before this, agitations by the peasants of Tamil 
Nadu, Punjab and other states had fallen in deaf ears. Attempts by these governments to silence 
the  voice  of  the  peasants  through  brute  force  accompanied  by  announcing  some  deceptive 
measures  will  prove  to  be  futile  in  addressing  the  burning  problems  of  the  country’s  peasant 
masses.  The  Central  Committee  of  our  Party  condemns  in  strongest  terms  the  killing  of  six 
peasants by the MP Police in Mandsaur district on 6 June and other forms of fascist repression on 
the peasant agitators and demands the punishment of the guilty police and civil officials and the 
vigilante  gangs  of  the  Sangh  Parivar.  Our  Party  extends  its  wholehearted  support  to  the  just 
struggle of the peasants in various parts of the country and demands that the governments fulfil 
all their demands without delay. We call upon all classes and sections of the people to strengthen 
this movement either by directly participating in it or by standing in solidarity with it.  

It  is no secret that apart from Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, the peasants of states 
like  Chhattisgarh,  Jharkhand,  Bihar,  Odisha,  West  Bengal,  Uttar  Pradesh,  Punjab,  Haryana, 
Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, etc. too are in dire straights. The 
landless and poor peasants who constitute the vast majority of the peasantry are suffering from 
landlessness and bear the most severe burden of semi-feudal exploitation and oppression on their 
backs. Coupled with this, the tightening noose of the pro-imperialist policies of successive central 
and  state  governments  irrespective  of  the  party  in  power  has  made  their  condition  even  more 
precarious.  Not  only  the  poor  peasants,  but  even  the  middle  and  rich  peasants  are  finding  it 
difficult to compete, sustain and survive in a market-oriented economy that is controlled by big 
multinational corporations and their domestic collaborators closely connected to the imperialist 
world  market.  A  vast  majority  of  them  are  forced  to  reduce  their  consumption  to  the  barest 
minimum and to struggle against utter ruin. 

But the exploitation and  oppression  of the Indian peasant masses to serve the  needs of 
imperialism and its domestic props is nothing new. Ever since the country became subjugated by 
colonialism,  the  peasants  have  gone  through  the  harrowing  experience  of  destruction  of  their 
economy, pauperisation, hunger, famine and death. They bore the burden of colonialism and their 
local  props  –  the  big  landlords  and  comprador  big  capitalists  –  on  their  backs  for  over  two 
centuries. To throw off these chains of subjugation, they also rose in a series of peasant rebellions 
with  arms  and  traditional  weapons.  They  were  the  main  force  in  the  war  of  independence  in 
1857. But every time, they were crushed with extreme brutality. They fought militantly during 

 

1 

the  anti-colonial  movement  with  the  aspiration  of  a  better  life,  but  the  Congress  leadership 
betrayed them. They fought in the Telangana armed struggle, in Punnapra-Vayalar and during the 
Tebhaga movement, but they were again betrayed,  this time by the  leadership  of the reformist 
CPI.  The  so-called  ‘independence’  and  the  subsequent  so-called  land  reforms  or  agricultural 
policies  of  the  ruling  classes  failed  to  address  the  needs  of  the  vast  peasant  masses.  All  the 
parliamentary  parties  that  have  come  to  power  at  the  centre  or  the  states  from  Nehru-led 
Congress onwards down to the present Modi government have made tall promises to the peasants 
but betrayed them after capturing government power. The reformist social movements led by the 
likes  of  Vinoba  Bhabe,  Jaiprakash  Narayan,  Ram  Manohar  Lohia,  etc.  too  proved  to  be  utter 
failures in showing the way out for the peasantry.  

So,  the  condition  of  the  peasantry  that  gave  rise  to  Naxalbari  fifty  years  back  has 
basically  remained  unchanged,  and  indeed,  has  become  far  worse  due  to  increased  imperialist 
stranglehold  over  the  Indian  economy,  politics  and  society.  Particularly  since  the  early  1990s, 
when  the  Indian  rulers  began  opening  up  all  sectors  of  the  economy  for  unbridled  imperialist 
exploitation by capitulating to the diktats of the World Bank, IMF and WTO, the crisis besetting 
the  large  majority  of  the  Indian  peasantry  have  multiplied.  The  adverse  affects  of  the  Green 
Revolution  which  was  introduced  to  counter  the  red  revolution  have  also  begun  to  make 
themselves  felt  more  strongly  by  this  time  even  in  the  regions  of  relatively  more  advanced 
agriculture. Landlessness on one hand and the crisis of poor, middle and rich peasant economies 
on the other resulting from the pro-imperialist policies of the government has contributed to the 
spate  of  farmer’s  suicides  that  began  in  the  cash-crop  regions  of  AP  and  Maharashtra  in  the 
1990s. This has not only continued but has spread to all corners of the country in the last two 
decades, demonstrating the seriousness of the agrarian crisis.  

The problem of monopoly control over agricultural land by big feudal landowners, big 
corporations and the state and the stranglehold of usurers and moneylenders has been accentuated 
by the growing monopoly control of the rural market by foreign and domestic big corporations 
selling  seeds,  fertilisers  and  other  inputs  as  well  as  buying  the  agricultural  output.  Sporadic 
agitations and movements by the peasants have continued in different parts of the country against 
this,  particularly  in  those  regions  where  agricultural  production  has  become  more  closely 
integrated to the market. In addition, struggles against displacement, which is essentially related 
to the land question, have intensified in the last two decades as peasants fought against attempts 
by the government and private companies at forcible acquisition of agricultural and forest land. 
Peasants  from  Narmada  Valley  in  Gujarat  to  Kalinganagar  and  Niyamgiri  of  Odisha,  from 
Singur, Nandigram and Lalgarh of Bengal to Surjagarh of Maharashtra, all over the country the 
peasants have been fighting militantly against the government with the slogan ‘We will give life 
but  not  land’  to  defend  their  jal-jangal-zameen-izzat-adhikar  and  forced  it  to  withdraw  many 
anti-peasant industrial and infrastructural projects. Like in Jharkhand, they have been fighting to 
defend the provisions of CNTA and SPTA or implementation of Constitutional provisions like 
PESA, the Fifth and Sixth Schedules in Maharashtra and some other states. In AP-Telangana, the 
peasants are fighting against destructive projects like Polavaram dam while in the Western Ghats 
of  Kerala  they  are  opposing  displacement  in  the  name  of  ‘Biosphere  Reserves’,  etc.  In 
Chhattisgarh and other states, they are fighting for higher MSP and remunerative price for forest 
produce. In this way, conditions have been maturing for a countrywide peasant movement. 

The  present  wave  of  struggles  started  with  the  peasants  of  Maharashtra  going  on  an 
indefinite strike starting from 1 June demanding the writing-off of their bank loans similar to the 
decision  of  the  UP  government.  They  are  also  raising  their  long-pending  demands  like 
remunerative  prices  for  their  produce,  interest-free  loans,  free  or  subsidised  inputs  like  water, 
electricity, fertilisers, etc., implementation of the recommendations of Swaminathan Commission 
(which Modi promised before the last parliamentary elections but his government made a volte-
face in a recent affidavit in the Supreme Court claiming that it cannot be implemented), and so 
on.  Since  the  beginning  of  the  movement,  the  peasants  of  Maharashtra  refused  to  sell  their 
products, closed down procurement centres and agricultural markets, blocked roads, threw their 
produce like milk and vegetables in protest, and carried out militant demonstrations. It is the first 

 

2 

strike called by peasants in a long period in the state and even the country. Though a section of 
the  leadership  agreed  to  withdraw  the  strike  after  discussions  with  BJP-led  Maharashtra 
government,  another  section  has  continued  the  agitation.  The  movement  rapidly  spread  to  the 
Gujarat,  Rajasthan  and  Maharashtra  with  similar  demands.  The  assurances  given  by  the  Modi 
government  or  the  state  governments,  the  political  dramas  enacted  by  the  likes  of  MP  Chief 
Minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan by sitting  on indefinite fast and shedding crocodile’s tears for 
the peasants have failed to fully satisfy the agitators. It is unlikely that the ongoing movement, 
which  is  the  largest  and  the  most  widespread  since  the  introduction  of  the  policies  of 
Liberalisation-Privatisation-Globalisation  in  the  country  a  quarter  century  back,  will  die  down 
completely until the fundamental causes behind the peasant’s unrest are resolved. 

It  is  true  that  unlike  Naxalbari,  the  ongoing  peasant  movement  lacks  a  proletarian 
leadership,  a  unified  organisation,  a  revolutionary  programme  or  the  appropriate  strategy  and 
tactics to accomplish such a programme. Thus, the movement  inevitably remains sporadic and 
fragmented, confined to partial or economic demands and limited to forms of struggle laid out by 
its  present  leadership.  Nevertheless,  the  seriousness  of  the  agrarian  crisis  affecting  over  two-
thirds of the country’s people who subsist on agriculture makes the ongoing peasant movement 
an event of immense political significance. No one who is concerned about the country’s future 
and  desires  the  country’s  liberation  from  the  yoke  of  imperialism,  feudalism  and  comprador 
bureaucratic  capitalism  can  ignore  this  stirring  of  the  vast  peasant  masses  in  the  countryside. 
They are fighting to be heard, and the rulers are mistaken if they think that their voices can be 
suppressed through bullets or a few dole-outs.  

History  has  shown  over  and  over  again  that  in  an  agrarian  country,  the  peasantry  is 
capable of challenging and overturning any ruling power detrimental to its interests if it has the 
correct  leadership  and  the  correct  strategy.  Their  life  experience  and  failure  of  the  peaceful 
agitations  are  showing  the  peasants  that  there  can  be  no  permanent  solution  to  their  problems 
within  the  existing  system.  It  is  only  by  following  the  path  of  armed  agrarian  revolutionary 
struggle  opened  up  by  Naxalbari  to  complete  the  national  and  democratic  revolution  that  the 
country’s peasantry can overthrow the three mountains of imperialism, feudalism and comprador 
bureaucratic  capitalism  and  resolve  their  basic  problems.  While  fighting  for  their  immediate 
economic  demands,  therefore,  efforts  should  be  made  to  co-ordinate  and  integrate  the  peasant 
movement with the ongoing Protracted People’s War based on worker-peasant alliance and the 
unity  of  the  four  oppressed  classes  (workers,  peasants,  urban  middle  and  petty  bourgeoisie) 
within it. 

 Similarly,  the  unity  of  the  peasant  movement  with  the  ongoing  movements  of  all 
oppressed classes and social sections – be it the workers, the middle classes, small and medium-
scale  entrepreneurs  and  traders,  the  self-employed  and  the  unemployed,  Dalits,  Adivasis, 
religious minorities, oppressed nationalities, women, students and teachers, intellectuals, artists, 
advocates,  journalists  and  all  other  working  people,  is  the  need  of  the  hour.  This  unity  is 
necessary  to  wage  a  successful  struggle  against  the  country’s  rulers  and  their  most  pernicious 
political representative, the Brahmanical Hindutva-fascist BJP governments. The CC of our Party 
once again extends full support to the agitating peasants and demands that the central and state 
governments  fulfil  all  their  demands,  waive  all  agricultural  loans  and  implement  the 
recommendations  of  Swaminathan  Commission  without  further  delay.  We  call  upon  all  the 
revolutionary and democratic forces of the country to come out in strong support of the peasant 
movement and build up a mighty storm of countrywide united struggle of all oppressed people 
against the Modi-led NDA government. 
   

 
 

(Abhay) 

 

3 

Spokesperson 

Central Committee 

CPI(Maoist) 

