COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

June 22, 2011 

Hail the heroic resistance of the anti-POSCO agitators against a project 

which not only grabs their land but also the future of their children! 
People of Odisha have the right to decide what kind of projects they need, 

not comprador despotic rulers like Naveen Patnaik or 
Sonia-Manmohan-Jairam-Chidambaram combine! 

Build widespread agitations in support of anti-POSCO agitation all over India! 
It has been one week since the people of India has been witnessing one of the firmest, staunchest resistances in the 
history of modern India against an imperialist MNC project in the form of anti-POSCO agitation in Jagatsinghpur district 
of Odisha. CPI (Maoist) hails the people of Odisha who are determined to stop the much-touted 52,000 crore ‘biggest 
foreign direct investment’ in India and declares its full support and solidarity for them.  

The central government hastily cleared the POSCO project on 15 May 2007 and Manmohan himself had given full 
assurance  to  the  South  Korean  government  that  he  would  do  everything  for  building  the  project  in  the  backdrop  of 
people’s rage erupting in severe opposition to it. The MOEF and the Odisha government have avoided compliance to the 
requirements under the Forest Rights Act and the MOEF guidelines issued in August 2009. In fact this is the ground for 
the  Ministry’s  issuing  stop  work  order  on  5th  August  2010.  The  state  government  has  been  repeatedly  denying  the 
existence of tribals in the proposed project area whereas subsequent visit and fact finding by the Saxena committee and 
the Meena Gupta committee has proved beyond doubt that there are other traditionally forest dwellers in the proposed 
areas depending traditionally on the forests for their livelihood, that sufficient documentary evidence is available which 
shows  the  existence  of  forest  rights  and  that  the  FRA  is  not  implemented  by  the  state  government  in  the  area.  The 
Central government the state government of Odisha disrespected the resolution of more than 65 % of the villagers who 
participated in both the Palli Sabhas of Dhinkia and Govindpur which unequivocally rejected the proposal for diversion 
of land. The government authorities deliberately suppressed facts and declared in the government’s submission to the 
MOEF that such resolutions were fake! There are number of such instances where the government is suppressing the 
facts  and  figures  and  lying  through  the  teeth.  Based  on  the  Meena  Gupta  committee’s  report  the  Forest  Advisory 
Committee (FAC) has recommended withdrawal of forest clearance. But in violation of all this and making a complete 
U-turn, environmental clearance was given by Mr. Jairam Ramesh on May 2, 2011 and this proved to be the last straw. 
The state government immediately deployed the police in June to grab the land. 

This whole period saw severe opposition from the people to any kind of land acquisition for the 12-million-tonne-
capacity steel project, against mining lease for its Khandadhar iron ore reserve in Sundargarh district and the company’s 
private port near the proposed steel plant about 12 km from the Paradip port. The fact is that both the central and state 
governments conspired for this and the statements by Jairam that environmental clearance doesn’t mean that land should 
be acquired forcefully or Congress rushing to Govindpur supposedly to support the agitation are nothing but a big hoax. 
Jairam is advising the Odisha government to acquire land ‘democratically’. Going by recent evidence, his ‘democracy’ 
looks like it includes lying and kickbacks from MNCs to keep shut. The only forms of democracy the people (mostly 
Adivasis) opposing such projects could see are fake encounters, tortures and incarceration for years together in jails !  

Union  Home  Secretary  GK  Pillai  in  a  recent  interview  asked  the  people  to  check  the  website  of  the  Planning 
Commission and see the photos there to know how rapidly ‘development’ is progressing in the form of roads, anganwadi 
and school buildings coming up in backward (particularly ‘Maoist’) areas. He said ‘Photos speak for themselves’. One 
wonders if the Pillai and his ilk have seen the photos of rows and rows of children, women and elderly persons lying on 
their land in Govindpur area of Jagatsinghpur district under a hot sun or in pouring rains to save it from being grabbed by 
the MNC shark POSCO with the muscle power of the Naveen Patnaik’s fascist ‘licensed killers’. Do these photos speak 
anything?  

Why  are  the  thousands  and  thousands  of  anti-POSCO  agitators  fighting  a  life  and  death  struggle  not  to  allow 
POSCO’s entry? Why is the number of people who agitate against the governments’ policies swelling with each attempt 
by the comprador rulers to sell this country’s resources to neo-colonialists? Do the numbers speak anything? 

Why  is  that  there  seems  to  be  no  end  to  these  agitations  involving  a  sea  of  masses  in  Singur,  Nandigram, 
Kalinganagar, Lalgarh, Narayanapatna, Bhatta Parsaul, Srikakulam, Bastar, Lohardagga and scores of other villages and 
towns in almost every state in this country? Does this long list of militant agitations of the recent past speak anything? 

Do the sacrifices and people thronging to the funerals of mass leaders and agitators (from Tapasi Malik of Singur to 
Tabrez of Jaitapur, from the 13 adivasis in Kalinganagar to the peasants of Sompeta and Kakarapalli) who fought and 

laid down their lives in such agitations speak anything? Why are thousands of more people taking the place of these 
fallen heroes with silent determination waving the flag of ‘Jal, Jungle, Zameen Hamara Hai?’  

For  those  who  care  to  listen  –  the  message  is  clear.  The  overwhelming  majority  of  this  country’s  population  is 
rejecting the profit-centric pro-imperialist development model and embracing the people-centric pro-people development 
model. The message from the ruling classes is also brutally clear. Whatever may be the ‘cost’ the people of India may 
have to pay – the comprador ruling classes with the strong support and guidance of the imperialists would continue with 
their plunder and pillage. This ‘cost’ would include not only loss of land, water, air, seas, ports, natural resources, 
forests,  ecology,  rare  flora  and  fauna,  ancient  civilizations,  properties,  limbs  and  not  the  least  lives  in  the 
‘material’ sense but would also include loss of self-respect, sovereignty, independence, freedom, dignity and pride 
which are inalienable for our existence as human beings.  

The people of Jagatsinghpur are asking a simple question - So why should we lose all these things and moreover 
who are you decide that we lose these things? They are stating an obvious truth – it is the people who have the right to 
decide what they need. They are posing a straight challenge to the ruling classes – face the fury of the people, we are not 
the ones to surrender.  They are declaring a principled fact for the world to hear – the people of India refuse to be pushed 
into a slave-like existence. 

We are afraid that sometimes even photos always do not speak for themselves. For example, the photos of school 
buildings (in ‘Maoist areas’) do not show the security forces which would be occupying them as soon as they are ready 
for it. But agitations which are being carried on for years together by lakhs of people putting everything at their 
stake including their lives do speak something. They speak something which is the most important thing to be 
spoken or heard in this country at this point of time and one which would decide its future. They are speaking the 
same truth which was spoken by the countless peasant and adivasi struggles (mainly armed but also unarmed) which 
were  waged  against  the  British  colonial  rulers  in  the  19th  and  20th  centuries,  a  truth  which  seeks  to  end  all  kinds  of 
colonial/neo-colonial exploitation and oppression. The British tried to close their eyes and ears to this din of truth opting 
instead to suppress them using brute force. The Indian ruling classes are tracing their steps and they are bound to trace 
their  steps  to  their  own  graveyards  too  if  they  continue  in  their  ‘unjust,  brutal  wars  on  people’  in  the  name  of 
development  just  like  their  imperialist  masters.  Whether  it  is  direct  armed  suppression  by  deploying  police  and 
paramilitary forces in Moaist areas (and now the army too) in the name of Operation Green Hunt or by deploying police 
and paramilitary forces in places like a Bhatta Parsaul or a Govindpur all are for brutal suppression of genuine people’s 
struggles.  The  killing  of  more  than  twenty-five  many  anti-mining  activists  in  fake  encounters  by  Naveen  Patnaik 
government since December 2010 and the recent meeting by P. Chidambaram with Naveen Patnaik and Raman Singh 
for  anti-Maoist  operations  to  be  carried  on  in  Odisha  and  Chhattisgarh  in  June  point  out  how  the  central  and  state 
governments are planning to suppress the people’s agitations.  

The anti-POSCO agitation along with many other struggles being waged against land grabbing and loot of natural 
resources of our country has the potential to decide the fate of the many other foreign investments coming unchecked 
into our country. The CC, CPI (Maoist) exhorts the people of Odisha to go ahead firmly with stead fast determination in 
their struggle and calls upon the people of India to build solidarity struggles in support of this brave people. While it is 
necessary for the people of Jagatsinghpur to take the support of every political and civil party or group which is coming 
to them in solidarity, they should also be alert to the ploys of some of them, particularly that of parliamentary parties to 
divert  their  struggle  into  various  kinds  of  compromises.  It  should  not  be  forgotten  that  almost  all  the  parliamentary 
parties have been following or supporting such pro-imperialist projects wherever they have been in power or have been 
sharing power or were giving tacit support even when they were in opposition.  

It is not only necessary to go to Jagatsinghpur in support of anti-POSCO agitation but also to take up various forms 
of supportive propaganda and agitational forms in every state in their support. CPI (Maoist) is calling upon the people of 
India and the world to express the widest possible solidarity to this courageous struggle. The need of the hour is for all 
such  struggles  to  broaden  into  a  coalition  of  anti-imperialist  struggles  which  would  not  only  fight  for  scrapping  of 
projects  like  POSCO  but  would  also  fight  for  kicking  off  all  kinds  of  imperialist  control  and  exploitation  from  our 
country.  
  Stop land acquisition for POSCO project immediately! 
  Withdraw  all  police  and  paramilitary  forces  from  Jagatsinghpur  district  and  stop  all  kinds  of 

intimidating tactics to cow down the people! 

  Scrap all country-selling MoUs signed with MNCs for looting the natural resources of our country which 

rightfully belong to the people and only to the people! 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

