 

       COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

 

Press Release 

 

2 December 2018 

Observe Protest Week between 25 and 31 January 2019                                                                 
against the ‘Samadhan’ counter-revolutionary offensive! 

Make successful the daylong Bharat Bandh on 31 January 2019! 

 

 

Unite to fight and defeat the Brahmanical Hindu-fascist forces                                                          

by using all means and forms of struggle! 

 
Modi  government  had  announced  the  launching  of  ‘Samadhan’  counter-revolutionary  plan  in  a 
meeting  chaired  by  Union  Home  Minister  Rajnath  Singh  on  8  May  last  year  in  the  presence  of  Chief 
Ministers, top bureaucrats, police, paramilitary and intelligence officers of the ‘Maoist-affected’ states of the 
country.  This  plan  was  launched  in  the  wake  of  a  number  of  counter-offensive  actions  carried  out  by  the 
PLGA with the participation of the masses, particularly after the Burkapal attack of 24 April in Sukma district 
of Chhattisgarh that year against Operation Green Hunt (OGH).  

The  announcement  of  ‘Samadhan’  marked  the  ignominious  end  of  OGH  that  was  launched  in  the 
August 2009 by the Congress-led UPA government and the beginning of a new and more aggressive counter-
revolutionary campaign under the present dispensation of BJP-led NDA government. Be it the failed OGH or 
the  ongoing  ‘Samadhan’  plan,  both  are  conducted  by  India’s  feudal-comprador  ruling  classes  under  the 
guidance  of  the  imperialists  –  particularly  US  imperialism  –  with  the  aim  of  completely  wiping  out  the 
revolutionary movement in the country. OGH, which was conducted in three phases, failed due to the united 
resistance of the guerrilla army, revolutionary people’s committees, revolutionary mass organisations and the 
revolutionary  masses  led  by  CPI(Maoist)  with  the  support  of  the  country’s  democratic  forces  and  the 
solidarity  of  the  international  proletarian,  democratic  and  people’s  forces.  The  failure  of  OGH  is  a  great 
victory for the united people’s resistance against the reactionary ruling classes. 

Failing to uproot the Maoist movement through OGH even after more than eight years of cruel war on 
people,  the  Brahmanical  Hindu-fascist  forces  led  by  Modi-Shah-Bhagwat  ruling  clique  has  been  running 
‘Samadhan’ campaign for the last one and a half years in a fascist manner. It is being conducted not only in 
the rural areas under our Guerrilla Zones and Red Resistance Areas but also in the urban areas under the garb 
of crushing ‘urban Naxals’. While OGH was an undeclared war on people, ‘Samadhan’ is a declared war not 
only against the Maoist revolutionary movement but also against all the democratic, progressive and patriotic 
movements, organisations and individuals representing the exploited and oppressed people of the country.  

‘Samadhan’ offensive is in continuation of the campaigns and operations that have been launched by 
the Indian ruling classes on the country’s revolutionary movement, be it Operation Manthan in the 1980, Jan 
Jagran Abhiyan 1 (1991-92) and 2 (1997-98), Salwa Judum (2005-2009), Sendra, etc. The revolutionary camp 
also had to confront and defeat state-sponsored terrorist gangs like Ranveer Sena, Shanti Committee, Harmad 
Bahini,  Bhairab  Bahini,  TPC,  JPC,  PLFI,  etc.  in  the  course  of  sustaining  and  advancing  the  revolutionary 
movement.  Among  the  past  counter-revolutionary  operations,  OGH  and  ‘Samadhan’  have  been  long-term 
campaigns with the direct participation of the state, while others were short-term state-sponsored operations in 
which ruling-class elements such as feudal forces, reactionaries, bad gentry, etc. were kept at the forefront. If 
we  look  at  the  history  of  these  counter-revolutionary  campaigns,  it  becomes  apparent  that  their  duration  is 
becoming more prolonged and the method of their execution more aggressive, cruel and fascist.  

The  last  one  and  a  half  year  of  ‘Samadhan’  offensive  has  shown  that  it  is  the  most  far-reaching, 
cruellest and most aggressive of all campaigns which aims at eliminating the Maoist and all militant people’s 
movements by the year 2022. Within the overall rubric of ‘Samadhan’, the central and state governments are 
conducting fascist counter-guerrilla operations like ‘Prahar’-1, 2, 3 and 4, ‘Operation Monsoon’, etc. targeting 
the revolutionary forces. As a part of ‘Samadhan’, the mercenary government forces are carrying out genocide 
through massacres like Kalleda, Pujari Kanker, Aipeta, Kasanur-Tumirgunda, Timmem, Nulkatong up to the 
recent  Sakiler  killings.  All  kinds  of  fascist  attacks  including  fake  encounters,  large-scale  arrests,  forcible 

detention, razing down of houses, mass rape, destruction and loot of people’s property are being carried out in 
an aggressive manner. With this, they are spreading a reign of white terror in large swathes of the country 
where the Maoist and other militant people’s movements are active.  

To aid this campaign, the government is increasing the deployment of its armed forces including the 
air  force  for  anti-Maoist  operations,  upgrading  weapons  and  other  war  material  for  its  forces,  using  latest 
techniques of communication, surveillance, intelligence gathering, counter-revolutionary propaganda, etc. in 
order to accomplish the objectives of ‘Samadhan’ in the next four-five years. Along with armed repression in 
the rural areas, it is launching an offensive targeting the revolutionary and democratic forces in urban areas in 
the  name  of  curbing  ‘urban  Naxals’,  and  have  already  arrested  or  sentenced  several  well-known  social 
activists, public intellectuals, academics, lawyers, journalists, students and others criticising the government’s 
war on people. Even unarmed, peaceful and legal struggles of the masses like peasants’ struggles, Patthalgadi, 
anti-displacement struggles, anti-mining movements, struggles for the implementation of the Fifth Schedule, 
etc. are not being tolerated and persecuted with armed might of the state.  
 
We  must  locate  the  latest  ruling-class  offensive  on  the  people’s  movements  in  the  name  of 
‘Samadhan’ as an integral part of the all-round Brahmanical Hindu-fascist assault on all classes, sections and 
people  of  the  country  and  in  pursuance  of  the  Hindutva  agenda  of  transforming  the  country  into  a  ‘Hindu 
Rashtra’ by 2022 under the signboard of ‘New India’. Fascisation of the state and the society is the method the 
Indian ruling classes backed by the imperialists have chosen to overcome the grave economic and political 
crises besetting them as well as the capitalist world system at present.  

The ruling classes throughout the world are resorting to fascism and depending on the fascist forces to 
crush  the  growing  disaffection  and  resistance  among  the  masses  against  their  anti-people  policies.  The 
regressive Hindutva forces led by Modi-Shah-Bhagawat clique ruling the country too are a part of this. To 
divert the attention of the masses from the real and burning issues faced by the vast majority of the people like 
poverty,  hunger,  unemployment,  lack  of  basic  facilities  like  medicines,  education,  drinking  and  irrigation 
water, shelter, skyrocketing price rise, agrarian crisis, atrocities on Dalits, Adivasis, Muslims and women, etc., 
these forces are bringing to the fore irrelevant and contentious issues like Ram temple, triple talaq, etc. They 
are  presenting  Muslims,  ‘Islamic  terrorists’,  Maoists,  Pakistan,  etc.  as  threats  to  the  country.  Whipping  up 
rabid  ultra-nationalism,  pseudo-patriotism,  warmongering  and  communal  passion,  the  saffron-terrorists  are 
trying  to  secure  their  hold  over  state  power  and  crush  all  forms  of  opposition  including  parliamentary 
opposition.  In  this  way,  they  are  trying  to  further  strengthen  and  consolidate  the  dictatorship  of  the  ruling 
classes and imperialism over the country and its people. 

It is the demand of our times that all the revolutionary, democratic, secular, progressive and patriotic 
forces of the country and all sections of the oppressed masses must come together today to squarely take on 
the  challenge  posed  by  the  Brahmanical  Hindu-fascist  forces  and  their  governments.  We  must  unite  and 
resolutely  fight  back  the  Hindutva  offensive  ideologically,  politically,  militarily  and  culturally  and  in  all 
forms, including ‘Samadhan’ and ‘New India’! We must resist and defeat the saffron fascists on all fronts by 
intensifying  the  anti-imperialist,  anti-feudal  and  anti-fascist  people’s  struggles  throughout  the  country.  It  is 
with this objective that our Party is calling upon the entire revolutionary-democratic camp and the vast masses 
of the country to successfully observe a week of protest against ‘Samadhan’ offensive of the ruling classes and 
the Hindutva ruling-clique from 25 to 31 January 2019 and to observe Bharat Bandh on 31 January 2019. We 
call  upon  the  rank  and  file  of  the  Party,  PLGA,  revolutionary  mass  organisations  and  organs  of  people’s 
democratic  power  to  take  up  various  programmes  by  involving  the  masses  to  make  successful  the  Protest 
Week and the day-long Bandh. Let us unite to resolutely resist and smash the ‘Samadhan’ assault just as the 
united people had done with Jan Jagaran, Salwa Judum, Sendra, OGH and other fascist ruling-class offensives 
in the past! 

 
 
 
 

(Abhay) 

Spokesperson 

Central Committee 

CPI(Maoist) 

