COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 
DANDAKARANYA SPECIAL ZONAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release 

June 7, 2011 

OPPOSE THE RAOGHAT RAILWAY LINE AND THE MINING PROJECT 

WHICH WOULD DE‐RAIL THE VERY EXISTENCE OF BASTARIYA PEOPLE! 
CLAIM OF SAVING BHILAI STEEL PLANT IS NOTHING BUT TRICKERY! 

ENSURING THE PLUNDER OF BASTAR’S WEALTH 
BY MULTI‐NATIONAL COMPANIES IS REALITY!! 

The moment when the process of deploying the Army in Bastar is just underway, the Steel Authority of 
India Limited (SAIL), one of the biggest Public Sector Units of India, has declared that the Raoghat mines 
would be privatized. These two acts not just coincided, but there was a conspiratorial coordination between 
them.  Raoghat  hills  are  located  just  25  kilometers  away  from  Narayanpur  (in  Maad  region),  a  district 
headquarter town, where the Raman Singh government of Chhattisgarh has given permission to the Army to 
acquire 750 square kilometers (i.e. 185,250+ acres) of land. Now so many notorious MNCs will rush into 
this area to rob the iron ore which is known for its best quality. From one side, the Army and from other side, 
the corporate companies are trying to gulp down the whole Maad region which is the motherland of Maria 
and Gond adivasis, the primitive tribal communities of Bastar. 

In  2006,  before  the  Raoghat  project  is  commenced,  some  accusations  were  made  against  the 
management of BSP that it had illicitly leased out some of the deposits of Raoghat mines to Tata and NECO 
companies.  People  believed  strongly  that  the  BSP  management  was  acting  as  paw  in  the  hands  of  big 
business houses such as Tata, Essar, Jindal, NECO etc. But then it had cleverly managed it and stated that 
there was no such thing. But lately the chairperson of the SAIL, Chandrashekhar Verma himself has declared 
that they are going to privatize Raoghat mines and global tenders would be invited for this. (Source: Hindi 
daily Dainik Bhaskar, May 24, 2011). With this, now the game of hide-and-seek is over! Intentions of the 
exploitative  governments  are  very  clear!  With  the  neo-liberal  policies  dictated  by  the  imperialist  masters 
getting implemented so openly, the MNCs would capture not just Raoghat mines; they would even buy the 
BSP or buy the SAIL itself. The recent examples of POSCO, Vedanta etc. of other states also clearly indicate 
this trend. 

It’s believed that Raoghat hills are having 7.4 billion tonnes of iron ore which is known for finest quality 
with 62 percent Fe grade. BSP is supposed to excavate 511 million tonnes of iron ore. Construction of Dalli-
Raoghat-Jagdalpur railway line is underway for this purpose. Government has already started grabbing the 
lands forcefully from the peasants between Dalli and Raoghat. But it’s facing stiff resistance from the local 
people. 

This project in fact is an old one. In 1992, government was forced to give up implementing this project 
due  to  massive  protests  of  people.  In  Antagarh,  ten  thousand  adivasis  had  taken  a  massive  procession  to 
register their strong opposition to the proposed mining project. But the state had responded with repressive 
methods as always happens. A police camp was set up on the top of these hills. That camp is still present 
there. Our Party has been actively supporting this just struggle. 

Local people are opposing this project because 3,278 hectares of forests would completely be destroyed. 
Apart from this, large portions of adjoining forests would also be destroyed. River Mendhki and so many 
other streams flowing through the region would get polluted. The farming will be destroyed so much that it is 
difficult  to  quantify.  Local  people  see  these  mountains  as  their  cultural  centers  and  ritual  faith.  After  the 
opening up of the mines these will be buried for ever. Many environmentalists believe that environment and 
monsoon from the perspective of Bastar, Raoghat Mountains are extremely important. With Raoghat mining 
project the existence of 23 villages will immediately be endangered. Further, 13 villages of adivasis might be 
uprooted in Chargaon area, next to this mine proposed by a private company of NECO Jaiswaals. (And now 
if you add the proposed massive acquisition of land by the Army - bloated 750 square kilometers - you can't 
imagine that the existence of how many villages is going to disappear!) 

On the issue of where to setup township for the proposed mines, an ugly tussle is going on amongst the 
business  classes  of  Narayanpur  and  Antagarh.  These  selfish  people  do  not  worry  at  all  about  how  many 

villages will be destroyed, how many thousands of tribals will be displaced, how much forest will be cut, 
how many rivers will be polluted and to what extent the tribal culture will be destroyed, when the mining 
work is started in this region. Overall, they don't bother about the oncoming destruction in this region. They 
are  supporting  the  government's  false  claims  of  'Bastar  development'  because  they  think  that  their  own 
business will grow with this at the price of whatsoever. 

Government still makes the argument in support of railway line and mine that the digging up of Raoghat 
mines is necessary as the mines of Dalli Rajhara which are supplying the raw material to the Bhilai steel 
plant are going to end up.  It's making dubious propaganda that if the mining will not start in Raoghat, BSP 
could be stopped due to the scarcity of raw material, threatening the future of the thousands of BSP workers. 
Thus,  such  an  environment  is  created  that  anybody  dares  to  oppose  Raoghat  mine  will  immediately  be 
labeled as 'anti-development'. In fact, in the guise of this promotion, the government and administration have 
put a veil over many realities. 

Dalli town today is in a position of almost desolation only because of the wrong policies of the BSP, 
particularly of indiscriminate mechanization. All rivers and streams of this area have been badly polluted. In 
Dalli  and  several  surrounding  villages,  as  red  dirt  coming  of  mines  and  roads  turned  on  to  the  fields  of 
farming, and the farming has been fully destroyed. In Dalli where 16 thousand workers used to work earlier, 
today the number has decreased drastically to 1200. Can the businessmen of Narayanpur and Antagarh and 
the contractors sitting in Raipur and Jagdalpur give the guarantee that after 20-25 years this region will not 
become another Dalli? 

If the government is really worried that the 'BSP will be closed if it won't get raw materials supply', then 
why doesn't it stop selling iron ore of Bailadilla mines to the multinational companies of Japan, China and 
Korea? In fact, many sponge iron factories in Raipur and Bhilai have closed due to lack of iron ore supplies. 
They appealed to the government several times for supply of raw material from Bailadilla for them and to 
stop  selling  the  iron  ore  to  foreign  companies.  Doesn't  this  prove  that  the  interests  of  big  and  foreign 
capitalists are paramount for the spineless rulers of our country? Isn't the government's "concern" about the 
future of BSP workers just a pose? Isn't this just a ploy being adopted to deal with the opposition putting up 
against proposed the Raoghat mine? 

We urge all the workers, employees and other people who are concerned with the future of the BSP, that 
they should recognize who actually is a threat to the BSP. In 1960s, when the Bhilai steel plant was founded, 
the  annual  production  was  1.5  million  tonnes  and  the  number  of  workers  was  95  thousand.  Today,  the 
production has been increased to 4.5 million tonnes, but the number of workers is reduced to less than 37 
thousand.  Contracting,  mechanization  and  partial  privatization  process  are  in  full  swing  in  BSP.  Many 
facilities for workers have been taken back. New recruitment and compassionate appointment is closed. BSP 
is planning to increase the production to 7.5 million tonnes by 2012-13, taking up further modernization and 
expansion. This means even more layoffs and 'retirements' of workers will take place. And even there is a 
talk of selling out of BSP to Tatas, Mittals or Jindals! BALCO experience is before us. Overall, the policies 
of imperialist globalization which have been implemented by governments are responsible for this situation. 
So, you must fight against the anti-worker and pro-capitalist policies of the governments to protect the BSP. 
You should not fell prey to the designs of the ruling classes to inflict destruction to the Jal-Jungle-Zameen 
by  opening  mines  in  another  area.  You  should  fight  against  this  too.  Entire  people  of  Dandakaranya  will 
support your struggles. 

The Special Zonal Committee of the Communist Party of India (Maoist) calls upon all the workers and 
farmers of Chhattisgarh and democratic and patriotic forces of our country to demand the closure of Raoghat 
project;  to  register  their  protest  to  mechanization,  contracting  and  all  other  anti-worker  policies  being 
implemented in Bhilai steel plant and other industries; to demand to stop selling the high quality iron ore to 
the foreign companies from Bailadilla; to lend support to the people of Dandakaranya who are fighting for 
the right over their Jal-Jungle-Zameen; and to oppose the Army deployment in Bastar to suppress their just 
struggles. 

 
 

 
(Gudsa Usendi) 
Spokesperson 
Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee 
CPI (Maoist) 

