COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

Central Committee 

Press Release
 

September 26, 2017 

 

Stop military attacks on Rohingya Muslims-part of Burma immediately 

and shift them safely to their resident areas ! 

 
Communist  Party  of  India  (Maoist)  stands  hand  in  hand  with  those  all  over  the  world  condemning  the  Burmese 
military attacks on Rohingya Muslims and supporting them for the past one month and fights for their rights. 
Dear  Rohingya  Muslims,  you  are  not  alone.  Our Party  sees  you  as  a  part  of  the  nations  across  the world  wanting 
liberation. It understands that this is the time to stand in support of the just struggle of the Rohingya Muslim people 
against the oppressive policies of the diehard Boudh preachers in collaboration with the Burmese Army and appeals 
to  the  people  of  the  country,  especially  activists,  intellectuals,  secularists,  religious  minorities,  student  and 
employees fighting on the nationality question to support the Rohingya Muslims. 
Arakan became part of Burma at the time of transfer of power from the British colonialists in 1948. The discussions 
to merge it with East Pakistan in its border ended at that point. The provision of the representation of the minority 
people of Burma in the administrative system of the country that Aung San provided during the British time ended 
with his murder in 1947. As a result nearly twenty lakh Rohingya Muslim people living in the Western state of Arakan 
are  living  in  a  miserable  condition  without  even  the  citizenship  of  the  country.  After  the  formation  of  military 
government  of  General  Ne  Win  in  1962,  Army  started  cruelly  torturing  the  Muslim  minority  people  under  the 
influence of the Buddhist religion. Humiliation, harassment and torture in the name of racial discrimination towards 
the Rohingya Muslims that they are non-Burmese, non-Buddhists, black Bangladeshis, foreigners and that they are 
dangerous to the sanctity of Buddhism intensified. They are being attacked since 1970. 
In  1982  a  new  law  of  citizenship  was  brought  in  Burma.  With  this  the  identity  of  135  ethnic  groups  including 
Rohingya  Muslims  who  have  been  living  in  the  country  for  generations  became  null  and  there  was  no  identity, 
assurance or security to their lives. The new law brought forth many bans on the ethnic groups. These groups had to 
seek permission from the government to each and every thing like to leave their village, to repair their masjids, to 
marry and even to have children. If unmarried women become pregnant, they have to leave the country or go for an 
abortion in rough methods prepared to die. Many women died out of abortion due to poverty, unclean atmosphere 
and lack of medical help. In 1989 Arakan became Rakhine and Burma became Myanmar. In 1991 there was second 
military  operation  with  the  name  of Pi  Thaya  –  Operation  Clean  and  Beautiful  Nation  –  on the  Rohingya  Muslims 
living in desperate conditions in Rakhine. The Rohingya Muslim people faced un-describable misery in each military 
attack. Their houses were destroyed, lands seized and properties were grabbed. The Burmese soldiers indulged in 
mass rapes on women. They cut the tongues of the men. They burnt people alive. Thus the fascists of the country 
where  Buddha  was  the  god  created  fear  and  destruction  among  the  people.  The  vigilante  gangs  of  the  area 
participated together with the soldiers in all these actions and declared the essence of peace and non-violence of 
Buddha. 
According to the local law that came into implementation in Rakhine area in 1994, the pairs prepared to have two 
children  obtained  permission  to  marry.  The  rulers  conspired  to  control  the  population  of  the  Rohingya  Muslim 
people through many such laws and bans like a slow poison. This and the military attacks and massacres made their 
lives horrible. People had to flee to the neighboring Bangladesh in thousands as refugees. Arakan Rohingya Salvation 
Army-ARSA  came  into  existence  for  the  survival  of  this  nationality,  for  self-respect  and  right  to  live.  It  is  making 
armed resistance against the Burmese fascist armies. 
In 2016 April, National League for Democracy (NLD) party came to power and Aung San Suu Kyi, known to the world 
as the symbol of democracy and human rights became the President of the country. She was rewarded with Nobel 
Peace prize too. But since she came to power the attacks on Rohingya Muslims intensified. ARSA attacked the border 
guard  post  on  25th  August  2016  and  wiped  out  nine  soldiers  in  the  name  of  which  there  was  a  rise  in  Burmese 
military  attacks.  The  vigilante  gangs  too  indulged  in  attacks.  Hundreds  of  houses  of  Muslim  people  were  burnt. 

 

1 

Hundreds  of  people  lost  their  lives  in  the  massacres  of  the  army.  There  were  indiscriminate  mass  atrocities  on 
women.  The  soldiers  fired  on  children  too  and  took  their  lives.  Thousands  of  people  had  to  seek  asylum  in 
Bangladesh. The champion of peace and democracy Suu Kyi was silent on all this and encouraged the massacre, thus 
exposing the actual face of the Nobel prizes. 
The  difficulties  of  the  refugees  in  Bangladesh  are  beyond  description.  Five  lakh  Rohingya  Muslims  entered 
Bangladesh in phases as refugees. The lives of people in the Ladi camp in Kaks bazaar in East Bangladesh reveals the 
anti-people policies of the exploitive classes. They have to travel through the Naïfs River and reach Kaks bazaar on 
the  border  on  a  hilly  way.  They  suffer  from  hunger,  diseases,  lack  of  medicine  and  other  such  things.  Pregnant 
women face much more difficulties. When they finally reach Bangladesh the government is inhuman towards them. 
According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), there are only twenty thousand refugees 
in Bangladesh revealing the desperate condition of the lives of lakhs of people. All the governments simply trample 
the laws of the United Nations in 1948 regarding punishment for the crime of massacres. In Burma the government 
is rehabilitating the Rohingya Muslims in areas like Thengarchar known for floods.  It  is treating them like  modern 
slaves and is exploiting their labor in many modern construction works. The women are forced into prostitution by 
the army. We must condemn such inhuman actions. 
The  government  and  the  army  in  Myanmar  are  coming  in  the  way  of  the  organisations  giving  any  help  to  the 
Rohingya Muslims. It is making the people suffer from hunger. It is also coming in the way of help from UN. It is also 
not allowing the fact finding organisations and journalists to see the fascist actions implemented on the people for 
generations. When the  UN sent  a woman to Myanmar  in January  2017, Boudh preacher Asin Viratu  viciously  said 
that  a  prostitute  is  visiting  their  country.  Such  person  needs  to  be  put  in  the  infamous  list  of  terrorists.  The  ex-
General Secretary of UN Kofi Annan visited last year. He expressed deep sympathy towards the people and severely 
condemned the military actions. 
Our  Party  severely  condemns  the  ill  attitude  of  the  Indian  rulers  towards  the  Rohingya  Muslim  people.  The 
Brahmanical Hindu fascist forces in power are dealing in a different way from the earlier governments and are not 
against the military rule. Since the Rohingya people are Muslims, they are branded to be helping terrorism and are 
rejected  shelter.  This  shows  their saffron terrorism.  Their  phobia  towards  Islam  is  revealed  in  their  discrimination 
towards  the  four  thousand  Rohingya  Muslim  people  in  the  country.  The  reliable  agent  of  imperialists,  especially 
American imperialists, Modi and his Company took up the flagship program of ‘Make in India’. He has vulture’s eye 
on the fuel and natural gas resources of Myanmar and only wants to sell military equipment to that country. Modi 
sees China that is militarising the Indian Ocean as its competitor. This reveals that his blabber about universal family 
is nothing but  to deceive the  people.  We  have  to condemn the attitude of the  ruling classes of North West Asian 
countries that see the problem of the Rohingya Muslims as internal. 
Dear people and democrats! 
It  is  good that  many  have  come  forward  in  solidarity  to the  Rohingya  Muslim people.  Our Party  appeals  that  this 
should not stop here and one must support every action that relieves the people of this misery and also to take up a 
countrywide campaign to provide all kinds of help to them. Support the victimized people economically and morally. 
Hail the right to live and all the civil and democratic rights of the people of this nationality. Raise voice that Rohingya 
Muslims are not foreigners and that they are Burmese people. 
 
 

 

 

Abhay 
Spokesperson 
Central Committee 

 

2 

