A call to the people to fight back the new form of salva judum and the supportive  

organization of greenhunt, salva judum-2 

 

 

 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

DANDAKARANYA SPECIAL ZONAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

May 6th, 2015 

 

The  son  of  Mahendra  Karma  who  died  in  the  Jeeramghati  ambush  in  the  hands  of 
PLGA,  Chavindra  karma  and  one  of  the  gang  leaders  of  first  salva  judum  and  goonda 
Chaitram Attami and others announced on the 5th of May that they would start salva judum-
2 for ‘peace’ and ‘development’ of Bastar and also formed 'Vikas Sangharsh Samiti'. This 
salva  judum-2  is  nothing  but  a  hindutva  fascist  BJP  government  sponsored  murderous 
goonda gangster organization formed by the Congress Karma family and the goondas of 
BJP  and  anti  people  elements.  In  fact  it  is  a  new  form  of  salva  judum  and  a  supportive 
organisation  to  greenhunt.  The  first  jan  jagaran,  salva  judum,  greenhunt  and  now  salva 
judum-2, all these abhiyans are actually campaigns to repress the people. The salva judum-
2 in the name of peace and development is to sell off the natural property of the state to the 
domestic and foreign capitalists. It is for eliminating the blossoming people’s power, the 
revolutionary  people’s  government,  the  janathana  sarkar  that  is  working  for  self-reliance 
and  genuine  development  of  the  people  of  Dandakaranya.  It  is  to  intensify  the  fascist 
military and organised repressive campaign on the masses of the state.  

The  heroic  masses  of  Bastar  have  been  fighting  back  many  kinds  of  repressive 
campaigns with bravery, in the history of the revolutionary movement in the past 35 years. 
Similarly they would defeat the salva judum-2 also. The revolutionary movement and the 
people’s war would avenge the present jan jagaran as like it did to mahendra karma and the 
other goondas of salva judum.  

Our party calls upon the struggling masses of Dandakaranya to give a strong resistance 
to  the  present  salva  judum-2  with  the  experience  and  lessons  from  the  first  jan  jagaran 
abhiyan and the salva judum. We appeal to the masses of Bastar, mainly the adivasis to 
become alert towards the anti repressive campaign on the people that would displace them 
from their jal jungle and zameen and also to put a vigil on those who become part of it. 
This campaign is a big danger to the adivasi and non adivasi people of Bastar. So we appeal 
to  the  adivasi,  the  non  adivasi    social  organisations,  sarva  adivasi  samaj,  and  the  sarva 
samaj  not  only  to  stay  away  from  this  anti  people  campaign  but  also  to  stand  in  strong 
opposition to it.  

In terms of the ruling exploitative classes, peace means silently bearing the violence, 
loot, atrocities, exploitation and repression on the people. Development means destruction, 
total destruction of the people. For the governments, development means the development 

of  domestic  and  foreign  industrial  corporations,  the  development  of  landlords,  the 
development of leaders and bureacrats. Development means in their sense, mega industries, 
big  projects,  big  dams,  special  economic  zones,  industrial  corridors,  atomic  projects,  air 
defense, military hub, military training school, light studded roads, super highways, 5 star 
hotels,  sky  scrappers,  mobile  towers,  corporate  banks,  police  stations  and  camps  and 
nothing else. Development means displacement of the people. Our party understands that 
actual development is food, clothing, water, shelter, land, education, health, employment, 
irrigation and other such basic amenities to the majority of the people of the country.  

The  bitter  experience  of  the  first  jan  jagaran  of  1990-`91,  the  second  jan  jagaran 
abhiyan of 1997-`98, the military, organised salva judum that was initiated in 2005 June 
and went on for four years, the countrywide fascist military repressive campaign operation 
greenhunt that started in 2009, the present campaign involves uncountable atrocities on the 
people, murders, massacres, fake encounters, encounters, sexual atrocities on women, loot, 
burning  of  houses,  fake  arrests,  putting  people  in  jail,  long  and  life  imprisonments, 
destruction of hundreds of villages, forcing people into concentration camps in the name of 
relief camps. In fact they are nothing but strategic hamlets. Migration of more than a lakh 
of people from Bastar to Telangana and Orissa out of terror and fear, tens of thousands of 
people becoming homeless and forced to take shelter in the forest and other such things are 
not only known to the people of Bastar, but also to the people of the country and the world. 
Thousands of adivasi youth were forced to become SPOs out of fear, terror and greed. This 
is nothing but making them pluck the eyes with their own fingers. It should be noted that 
first salva judum too was propagated to be a peace campaign.  

Strong  people’s  movement  and  people’s  war  gave  a  stiff  resistance  to  all  these 
campaigns and would continue to resist. Progressive and democratic intellectuals, writers, 
teachers, lawyers, media persons raised their voice against the fascist military, organised 
repression campaign salva judum and came on to the roads. They took up a legal fight. It 
became  inevitable  for  the  government  to  stop  salva  judum.  Under  the  leadership  of  the 
party, PLGA, janathana sarkars, mass organisations and the masses are making uncountable 
sacrifices  to  resist  the  present  greenhunt  operation.  The  proletariat  organisations,  maoist 
parties  and  organisations,  human  rights  organisations,  intellectuals,  progressive  and 
democratic people and media of the country and over the world are coming forward in an 
unprecedented  manner  to  protest  the  fascist  repressive  campaign  and  in  support  to  the 
people’s war in India.  

We  appeal  to  the  progressive,  democratic  intellectuals,  writers,  teachers,  lawyers, 
media persons, human rights organisations of the country and the world to come on to the 
roads in protest to the anti people, fascist organised campaign, raise their voice and come 
forward to protect the jal jungle and zameen, the natural resources, environment and the 
survival and identity of the adivasis. SPOs who joined the government forces out of fear or 
greed, did anti people activities for a while and later realising their mistake surrendered to 
the  people.  They  asked  excuse  for  their  mistakes  and  are  living  among  the  people.  Our 
party appeals to and gives an opportunity to those persons who out of their weakness and 
out  of  greed  and  pressure,  stood  against  the  people’s  movement,  to  come  and  meet  the 
people, admit their mistakes, ask excuse and live a normal and happy life.  

Our party calls upon the PLGA to bring the anti people persons, enemies of the people 

and renegades in front of the people’s court and take up necessary action.   

 

 

 

(Gudsa Usendi) 

               

Spokesperson, 

Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee,  
CPI (Maoist). 

 

 

