COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release
 

June 11, 2013 

See through the conspiracy of the ruling classes to launch bigger 

offensives on the people using the 25 May attack as a pretext 

Unite, Fight back and Defeat the ‘War on People’ 

The  gangster  community  that  made  Indian  Parliament  its  lair  is  in  panic.  Terrified.  Aflutter.  Seething. 
Fuming. Up in arms. Baying for blood. Baring its fangs. Spitting poison. After all the May 25 Jeeramghati attack 
struck down one of their best trusted lieutenants in field. Quite Understandable. 

Actually speaking, the scamster-gangster bunch does not care much for Mahendra Karma’s death because 
they knew that this was something waiting to happen even when they were carrying on mayhem and murder under 
Salwa Judum (SJ) which they all had contributed to create or let pester like senators watching gladiatorial contests 
in  amphi-theaters, with Karma  as  SJ’s  public  face  and  with  the  support  of  fascist  central  and  state  mercenary 
armed forces.  They  are  frightened  more  because  in  this  country  where  every  kind  of  exploitation,  oppression, 
suppression, corruption and scam is carried on almost unchallenged, as the order of the day and shamelessly under 
public  gaze,  the  fact  that  somebody  ‘out  there’  can  bring  these  fascist  scamster-gangsters  to  book  and  deliver 
justice is not so easy to stomach.  It is like finding oneself completely naked and vulnerable with all robes of Z 
plus  securities  and  paraphernalia  of  security  suddenly  vanishing  into  thin  air  with  the  fury  of  the  suppressed 
masses breathing down their necks. Highly explicable. A strong reason to be upset.  

Who knows who will be next? More chillingly, what would be in store if people completely vexed with the 
increasingly  unbearable  treacherous,  undemocratic,  slavish  and  wicked  anti-people  deeds  of  the  pet-dog 
politicians  choose  to  consider  this  as  an  option  to  vent  their  ire  to  put  an  end  to  their  habitual  comprador 
performance?  Even  worse,  what  if  they  consider  doing  away  with  the  whole  bunch  by  overthrowing  the 
parliamentary system as the Maoists vouch to and call upon the people to follow? Very worrying indeed. 

And for once it is better that they be. They better understand that not every politician can get away with the 
kind of neo-fascist suppression  of the poorest of the poor of this country that was perpetrated in the name of a 
Salwa Judum, a Sendra, a Shanti Yatra, a Shanti Sena, a Harmad Bahini, a Bhairav Bahini, a TPC or an Operation 
Green Hunt, can get away with selling the riches of our country one by one as a daily routine at breakfast, lunch 
and dinner to fill the insatiable black-hole belly of the imperialist beast, can get away with turning every word that 
gives  meaning  to  our  existence  as  human  beings  like  freedom,  independence,  sovereignty,  self-reliance  and 
democracy meaningless. They better realize for the umpteenth time (counting all such instances since the days of 
a Spartacus) that a people crushed so cruelly can never take everything lying down forever. For once it is better 
that they be alarmed. 

Karma, a medieval type land lord, architect of SJ, looter, sadist, rapist and enemy of his own tribe; most of 
his security men, cannon fodder but undoubtedly deployed to aid in his mayhem and massacre; some SJ leaders; 
and some top Congress leaders were wiped out in the 25 May incident. Unfortunately a few others who got caught 
in the initial firing also died in spite of our sincere efforts to minimize the casualties once the main targets were 
caught and Comrade Gudsa Usendi, the Spokesperson of our Party’s DK unit had already tendered apology for it. 
The list of brutalities perpetrated by Karma and his ilk could fill many a volume. Though not all, many of them 
have been documented in detail by the CPI (Maoist), revolutionary and democratic mass organizations, civil and 
human rights organizations, democrats, journalists and concerned citizens for all those who want to see. There is 
no  purpose to the  various conspiracy theories  doing their rounds in the  media about the reasons for this attack 
other than diverting the people’s attention from the truth. An unabashed conspiracy by the corporate media to hide 
the truth about the brutality  of the SJ and  the role  of the Indian  Army, big  corporate houses,  central and state 
governments, the Congress and BJP parties and slaughterers like Karma in its creation and  developing it into a 
man-eating monster. Such is its impatience to get rid of the Maoists that it did not even take into account that SJ 
was termed illegal by their own highest institution the Supreme Court. And all of them including Jairam Ramesh 
have once again repeated the  most  nonsensical and exhausted argument  of ‘sandwich theory’ that  Adivasis are 
being crushed between the armed forces on one side and the Maoists on the other. If they really believe in this 
then why don’t they demand first that the armed forces deployed in lakhs by the central and state governments be 
immediately withdrawn when they are agreeing that they suppress Adivasis? Their lies fly in their face with the 
fact  that  the  overwhelming  majority  of  Maoists  are  Adivasis  in  the  strong  areas  of  the  movement.  Our  Party 

 

1 

reiterates that we never work against the interests of the people. It is solely the ruling classes and their forces that 
suppress the people and our Party fights it back. 

Let all the people’s enemies face the truth – the plain simple naked truth. Our Party and the PLGA defend 
the right of the people to defend themselves from oppressors and looters and on May 25 our brave PLGA guerillas 
led the people from the front to eliminate one of the arch enemies of the revolutionary people of India, particularly 
Dandakaranya  people  and  more  particularly  Bastar  people  and  some  other  people’s  enemies  as  part  of  their 
broader resistance to big landlords and corporate exploitation and loot. And we take this occasion to deafeningly 
declare one more time that our PLGA would continue defending the people and their right to defend themselves 
and  would  lead  them  from  the  front  as  long  as  government  forces,  state-sponsored  vigilante  gangs  and  class 
enemies continue their ‘War on People’. For, the oppressed have nothing without the People’s Army.  

This is as much as the 25 May incident is concerned. But what we really want to draw the attention of the 
people to is the perplexing way in which democracy comes up for discussion only when such attacks happen. Isn’t 
it too much of an oddity that it becomes the rarest of the rarest available commodity in the market square of the 
Parliament  and  is  up  for  sale  only  when  the  toiling  masses  do  a  Bhagat  Singh  in some  remote  corners  of  our 
country?  In fact,  we are also  weary of the  manner in  which  we Maoists also  make  headlines  only  during such 
incidents.  So  for  a  change,  why  don’t  we  look  at  what  is  happening  as  a  routine  in  our  daily  lives  to  make 
democracy or Maoism a topic of everyday relevance? 

True to its social  fascist  character the CPI (M) politburo  demanded “firm action” to  put an  end  to “these 
Maoists depredations” and urged “all democratic forces to fight the politics of violence by the Maoists” and all the 
major  political  parties  from  Congress  and  BJP  to  SP  and  JD  (U)  went  over  the  top  in  condemning  this  attack 
without speaking a single word about the actual reasons behind it. Corporate media was at its lying best and bayed 
for the blood of the Maoists more than any other so-called democratic institutions, bootlicking scoundrel that it is. 
The meeting on internal security with the Chief Ministers and the later all-party meeting both held in the aftermath 
of  the  25  May  incident  described  it  as  a  "direct  attack  on  democracy  and  freedom".  The  CMs  unanimously 
declared  –  “We  strongly  disagree  with  the  ideology  of  the  Maoists.  They  want  to  overthrow  parliamentary 
democracy  and  Constitution  of  India  through  violent  means...  this  must  be  resisted  with  all  our  might.”  They 
resolved “to use all legitimate means at their disposal” to counter the activities of the CPI (Maoist) and barked that 
they would not tolerate it or compromise about it. 

"We appeal to the youth of the affected states to give up violence and pursue their goals through legitimate 
and democratic means. We assure them that we are sensitive to their concerns and will make every effort to bring 
them into the mainstream of social and political life," the resolution added. The same feeling was expressed at the 
all-party meeting.  

Democracy? Freedom? Whose and what for? Better ask the women who were raped/gang raped and/or killed 
and the children who have been witnessing and are even victims of atrocities/massacres that are being committed 
by vigilante  gangs like SJ and armed  forces on their families and villages  what these hollow words  mean. The 
only  democracy  we  see  is  democracy  for  the  looters  to  hand  over  the  riches  of  our  country  for  peanuts  to  the 
imperialists and crave for their share in the remains. The only freedom we see is that of the armed forces to loot, 
destruct,  rape,  massacre  and  forcefully  displace  the  oppressed  masses  for  the  interests  of  the  imperialists, 
comprador bureaucratic bourgeoisie (CBB) and the big land lords. The Indian Parliament is one of the most rotten 
institutions in the  world that allows and facilitates all this in the  name  of ‘democracy and  freedom’.  So what’s 
wrong  in  wanting  to  or  calling  upon  to  overthrow  an  institution  that  led  the  people  of  our  country  since  six 
decades into a dark tunnel with no egress leaving no option but to destroy it? Have you not taught in schools that 
democracy is by the people, for the people and of the people? Then do the people not have a right to reject it or 
even overthrow it when it exists and works exactly to harm their interests? Leave aside attacks like a Tadimetla or 
a Jeeramghati.  They are tactics and an inevitable part of people’s resistance when lakhs  of forces get deployed 
with huge gear of modern weapons to repress them as mentioned above. Don’t reduce our political line and praxis 
to such attacks. CPI (Maoist) is a political party with a clear cut scientific ideology - Marxism-Leninism-Maoism, 
political line and political programme that would lead to the establishment of genuine democracy for the people of 
our country. Whoever wants to talk or write anything about Maoists better go through it first before labeling us 
with various names like terrorists, left wing extremists etc.  

Briefly, it states - India is a semi-colonial semi-feudal country; the targets of our revolution are imperialism, 
the comprador bureaucratic capitalism and feudalism exploiting and oppressing the people of our country and are 
to  be  overthrown  through  New  Democratic  Revolution  (NDR)  to  establish  a  People’s  Democratic  Federal 
Republic. Contradiction between feudalism and broad masses is the principal contradiction at present. During the 
process  of  resolving  this  contradiction  through  the  armed  agrarian  revolution,  which  is  the  axis  of  the  new 
democratic revolution, that is, protracted  people’s war, the resolution of other contradictions will be facilitated. 
The  semi-colonial  semi-feudal  character  of  Indian  society  determines  that  the  Indian  revolution  would  have  to 
pass  through  two  stages.  The  task  of  first  stage  is  to  change  the  semi  –colonial,  semi  -feudal  society  into  an 
independent new democratic society through the resolution of the two fundamental contradictions of the present 

 

2 

Indian  society,  i.e.  the  contradiction  of  the  Indian  people  with  imperialism  and  the  contradiction  of  the  broad 
masses with feudalism. Again, in its continuity, the task of second stage is to establish the socialist system and 
continuing the revolution advancing towards communism on the world scale. This new democratic state will be 
the  people’s  democratic  dictatorship  exercised  by  the  united  front  comprising  the  proletariat,  peasantry,  petty-
bourgeoisie  and  the  national  bourgeoisie  class  under  the  leadership  of  the  proletariat  based  upon  the  worker-
peasant  alliance.  The  state  will  guarantee  real  democracy  for  the  vast  majority  of  the  people  while  exercising 
dictatorship  over  the  tiny  minority  of  the  exploiters.  This  new  democratic  revolution  will  bring  national 
independence  uprooting  the  imperialist  slavery,  exploitation  and  control,  and  will  establish  the  people’s 
democracy uprooting the feudal autocracy.  

Workers, peasants and urban poor who form the overwhelming majority of the population in our country are 
living in utter poverty as victims of hunger, disease, inhuman feudal-imperialist exploitation and oppression and 
they would be liberated from all these through NDR. It uproots the Brahminical feudal hierarchical inhuman caste 
system  that  kept  crores  of  Dalits  and  other  oppressed  castes  in  suppression  since  centuries  and  the  feudal  and 
imperialist patriarchal social system that had been exploiting and oppressing half of the population i.e., women. It 
destroys  the  Hindu  chauvinist  domination  that  had  been  oppressing  the  religious  minorities  in  our  country 
particularly on Muslims and Christians. Vast majority of the Adivasis have long been deprived of their land and 
other  traditional  means  of  livelihood  without  providing  any  alternative  and  have  been  the  major  victims  of 
‘development’  and  ‘displacement’.  They  would  live  a  life  of  dignity,  freedom  and  self-reliance  in  a  new 
democratic  society.    Present  day  India  is  a  prison-house  of  nationalities.  The  New  Democratic  state  would 
unequivocally recognize the right to self-determination of the nationalities including the right to secession and the 
New  Democratic  India  would  be  formed  only  with  those  states  that  voluntarily  stay  within  it.  The  rotten, 
decaying, antidemocratic, anti-people, obnoxious semi-colonial and semi-feudal culture that is dominating all the 
spheres of our life would be destroyed. Hatred for labour, patriarchy, superstition, autocracy, imperialist slavery, 
national  chauvinism,  communalism,  casteism,  blind  greed,  self-centredness,  consumerist  culture,  and  perverted 
sex-centered ideology and culture would be ended. Feudal culture which is primarily the Brahminical caste-based 
culture of engrained superiority would be extinguished.  

This state will try its best to peacefully and fairly settle border, water and other disputes with neighbouring 
countries and  will  develop  friendly relations  with them. This state  will  never exert any  expansionist behaviour 
with  the  neighbouring  countries.  This  People’s  Democratic  State  will  establish  unity  with  the  international 
proletariat and the oppressed nations of the world; opposes imperialist war and aggression, bullying, subversion 
and  interference  etc.  It  will  support  and  help  by  all  means  the  revolutionary  struggles  and  revolutionary  war, 
especially the ongoing struggles  under the leadership of various Maoist revolutionary forces against capitalism, 
imperialism and reaction the world over.  

A succinct 25-point programme of the People’s Democratic Federal Republic or New Democratic State is 
clearly laid down in the Party Programme of CPI (Maoist) for anybody who cares to go through it. Let any debates 
on Maoists center on it.     

The ruling classes are appealing to the youth to give up violence and pursue their goals through legitimate 
and democratic means. Fair enough? Isn’t it common sense that even to use ‘legitimate and democratic means’ 
you  need  some  semblance  of  democracy  at  least?  The  workers  organizations/trade  unions,  the  peasant  and 
agricultural  laborer  organizations,  the  women’s  organizations,  cultural  organizations,  student  and  youth 
organizations  and  even  children’s  organizations  are  banned.  Voices  of  writers,  cultural  artistes,  democrats, 
intellectuals and their organizations are stifled. Fundamental rights get curbed on a daily basis. Draconian laws are 
promulgated or updated in the footsteps of the colonialists with unfailing regularity in step with the intensifying 
repressive  measures.  Courts  side  with  the  big  scamster-gangsters,  treacherous  politicians,  smugglers  and 
criminals, while political and social activists and innocent people are thrown into jails, maimed with tortures and 
put  to  death.  This  is  what  the  youth  of  our  beloved  country  with  huge  potential  to  develop  our  country  into  a 
genuine independent sovereign prosperous democratic state is going through. The lakhs of youth that have been 
murdered in cold-blood by the Indian security forces in Kashmir, North-East and in the vast rural tracts of Andhra 
Pradesh,  Dandakaranya,  Bihar-Jharkhand, Odisha, West  Bengal, Maharashtra, UP, Karnataka, Assam, MP  and 
other areas of revolutionary movement is the cream of present day India with independent creative thinking and 
productivity that is forming/joining democratic, national liberation and revolutionary organizations and parties to 
give a better shape to the future of our  beloved country. The glaring fact is that youth have taken up arms as a 
historic task of the oppressed masses to shape their future with their own hands relying on their own strength and 
their own people only after decades of recurring and frustrating failure of the Indian State to respond to their usage 
of ‘legitimate and democratic means’ to gain their genuine demands and rights. Appealing to them to give up arms 
for ‘legitimate and democratic means’ is not only putting things upside down but also a cruel joke. Youth have not 
taken  up  guns  because  they  fancy  them  or  in  an  atmosphere  where  there  was  no  dearth  of  legitimate  and 
democratic  means  or  because  they  don’t  value  democracy.  It  is  quite  the  opposite.  They  are  taking  up  guns 

 

3 

because they want genuine democracy. Our NDR promises exactly that, which is the exact opposite of the present 
pseudo one. 

The government that did not even mention basic concerns of the people like land, education, health etc in the 
CMs  meet  and  the  all-party  meet  is  now  announcing  training  programmes  to  train  thousands  of  youth  and 
particularly the Adivasis and women and is promising employment to at least half the trainees. This comes under 
the ‘development’ package (the other being the ‘repression’ package, the package of death and destitution with 
which the youth are more familiar in reality). You pull away the land from under their feet, displace them from 
their centuries old abodes, isolate them from their traditional means of living in forests and lands and then give 
just a few thousands of them training that does not really make them self-reliant, with false promises of jobs for 
even lesser number of people. What a convoluted concept of development! Low paid jobs for a tiny section even 
if  provided  would  not be  enough to  fulfill the basic  minimum  needs  of a family. With access to all traditional 
means  of  subsistence  that  were  available  while  living  in  a  forest  cut  off  and  the  devaluation  of  the  rupee,  the 
situation  turns  even  worse.  The  audacity  with  which  the  ruling  classes  declare  that  ‘they  are  sensitive  to  the 
concerns  of  the  youth’  baffles.  As  all  these  are  sham  concerns  the  galloping  rate  of  unemployment  and 
underemployment  becomes  the  ground  reality.  If  they  are  really  sensitive  then  why  are  PESA,  5th  and  6th 
Schedules and FRA that the Indian Parliament had itself passed and are ‘serious concerns of the youth’ not being 
implemented? One must realize that all this is done as part of the psychological warfare against the Maoist Party 
to wean the youth away from it. 

While the PM said government was willing to talk to all ‘extremist groups’ within the ambit of Constitution 
at the CMs meet, Home secretary RK Singh said there was no space for talks with Maoists after May 25 incident! 
So  much for who decides such  policies. However, our  party had already several times in the  past categorically 
stated  our  stand  on  going  to  talks  with  the  government.  We  just  want  to  draw  the  attention  of  the  people  and 
democrats who are advocating talks with the government or seize fire to the backdrop of such offers to judge for 
themselves  the  sincerity  behind  such  offers  -  not  a  single  day  passes  without  some  operation by  armed  forces 
being carried on in the Maoist movement areas to kill, destruct, torture and rape and several of our top leaders are 
languishing in jails in inhumane conditions since many years denied even basic amenities and bails. 

Coming  to  the  present  context,  the  Indian  ruling  classes  have  already  been  making  unprecedented 
preparations for another big offensive to finish off the Maoists but are now trying to use the 25 May incident as 
the pretext for it. The upcoming elections are another strong reason behind this intensification and expansion of 
OGH.  And  it  is  by  now  a  well  documented  and  well  established  fact  that  all  this  is  being  done  to  forcefully 
implement the various MoUs for mining and other ‘development’ projects in Adivasi areas. We appeal to one and 
all to see through the ploy and don’t fall into the trap of thinking that incidents like May 25 are leading to more 
repression.  In fact,  massacres  like in Edesmeta  on May  17 where  eight  Adivasis including three children  were 
killed by armed forces, just preceding it are part of the already intensified ‘War on People’. Along with massacres, 
the  new  offensive  would  mainly  include  air  attacks,  i.e.  direct  involvement  of  multiple  units  of  helicopters  of 
Indian Air Force and  Unmanned  Air Vehicles-Drones too.  The Defence Minister said that Army  would  not be 
deployed but the fact is that the covert role of the Army has already increased manifold before and also after the 
May 25 attack. The preparations are on war footing like invading another country. The people of Edesmeta after 
the May 17 massacre put it poignantly – ‘they want to finish us Adivasis off’.  

On  this  occasion,  we  once  again  appeal  to  the  people  who  are  fleeing  from  their  villages  after  fascist 
massacres like Sarkinguda, Edesmeta etc fearing complete extinction not to do so and to stand united under the 
leadership of Krantikari Janatana Sarkars to fight back the Indian state’s offensive. The Party and PLGA vouch to 
defend you and your rights with our lives.  

We appeal to the workers, peasants, students, youth, intelligentsia, democrats, women, Dalits, Adivasis and 
people of oppressed nationalities and religious minorities and all the organizations of these classes, communities 
and  sections  i.e.,  the  vast  masses  of  our  country  to  see  through  the  evil  designs  of  the  ruling  classes,  the  arch 
lackeys of imperialists, particularly US imperialists that are once again uniting for another big offensive as part of 
the more cruel-inhumane-fascist War on People. Unite together as a mighty struggling force in an unprecedented 
and broadest possible manner to fight against it and to defeat the unjust war of suppression. Only by doing so we 
can  march  towards  ending  the  ever  threatening  danger  of  the  menace  of  state  terrorism  and  achieving  genuine 
democracy and real freedom and also save our youth – the most valuable treasure for the future of our country.  

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, CPI (Maoist) 
 

 

4 

