 

 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

 

Press Release 

 

Demand a stop to the war-mongering, chauvinism and aggression by the 

expansionist Hindu-fascist Modi regime against Pakistan!  

Oppose state terror against the Kashmiri people!  

Support the just struggle of the Kashmiri nation for Azadi! 

2 October 2016 

The pre-dawn attack of 18 September on an Indian Army base at Uri in Jammu and 

Kashmir left 17 army jawans dead and at least 20 injured, two of whom died later. This is the 
single biggest loss suffered by the Indian Army in Kashmir in the recent years. Following this, a 
relentless anti-Pakistan jingoistic chorus was drummed-up by all ruling-class parties led by the 
Hindutva fascist BJP/Sangh Parivar as an expression of virulent Indian expansionism. 
Opposition parties vied with one another to look more ‘nationalist’ than the rest in making anti-
Pakistan statements and demanding ‘decisive action’. Allegations against Modi government for 
its purported failure to take “tough action” and “teach Pakistan a lesson” from the opposition and 
the corporate media came thick and fast. Modi government and the RSS, however, needed no 
prompting to unleash a barrage of tirade targeting Pakistan in the wake of the Uri attack, terming 
it a “sponsor of terrorism”, “a terrorist state”, “epicentre of global terrorism” and what not.  

Amidst the growing cacophony of big-nation chauvinism by the Indian ruling classes and 

a similar jingoistic response by the rulers of Pakistan, an Indian Army spokesperson (DGMO, 
J&K) declared in a press conference in New Delhi that the Army successfully carried out 
“surgical strike” across the Line of Control (LoC) on 28 September. It claimed to have destroyed 
“terror infrastructure” such as “terrorist launch-pads” and gunned down several “terrorists”. Only 
a few days before this, the army had made the questionable claim of shooting down around ten 
‘terrorists’ who were allegedly trying to cross the LoC, but could furnished no evidence to back 
up its claim. In case of the so-called ‘surgical strike’ too, serious questions have been raised 
about the veracity of the claim from various quarters domestically and internationally. Journalists 
who have visited the LoC on PoK side and talked to the local residents could not find any 
evidence of any ‘surgical strike’ by the Indian armed forces. The pressure on the Indian 
government is now growing to furnish credible evidence of it – a demand it has stubbornly 
refused so far. 

Indeed, the manner in which the government went about advertising the ‘surgical strike’ 

and later stonewalled the call for concrete evidence provide enough grounds to question the 
claim. This ‘surgical strike’ has much similarity with the modus-operandi of the Modi 
government after the Indian Army suffered a large number of casualties in an attack SS 
Khaplang-led NSCN in Manipur last year. Then too, it publicly claimed that the Army had 
carried out a strike inside Myanmar in ‘hot pursuit’ of Naga guerrillas and killed several of them, 
a claim which remains unsubstantiated and was firmly rebutted by that organisation and the 
Myanmar government. The recent claim of ‘surgical strike’ too appears to be motivated more by 
political reasons than military requirements. It is mainly aimed at assuaging the domestic 
Hindutva constituency of BJP/Sangh Parivar and put the opposition parties on the defensive. But 

 

1 

 

the very act of making such claims amply demonstrates that while remaining extremely touchy 
about the “unity and integrity” of “Bharat Mata”, Modi government has no compunctions in 
violating the sovereignty and territorial integrity of other countries and nations including our 
neighbours, if it is in the interest of the ruling classes and their imperialist masters, particularly 
US imperialism. In fact, aggression and military intervention against our neighbours has always 
been the policy of the expansionist Indian rulers and remains an integral part of the Brahmanical 
Hindu fascist agenda of establishing an integrated ‘Hindu Rashtra’ in South Asia. BJP 
spokespersons have announced in the past that the party is committed to establish ‘Akhand 
Bharat’ through peaceful means. It is this expansionist policy of the Indian ruling classes that is 
responsible for pushing the country into the brink of the present crisis. 

But even if the question whether or not the ‘surgical strike’ actually took place is set 

aside, it can be said with some certainly that the decision to make this claim publicly was taken 
by Modi government with the objective of salvaging its tattered image after the bankruptcy of its 
Kashmir policy got thoroughly exposed domestically and internationally. Unable to respond to 
the ongoing historic and unprecedented mass upsurge of Kashmir in any other way than by 
military force (which has taken the lives of nearly a hundred Kashmiris and injured more than 
20,000 so far), Modi government desperately needed a pretext to divert the world’s attention 
from the atrocities committed by the Indian occupation forces in Kashmir. The government 
wanted to change its image of the perpetrator of state terrorism in Kashmir to a victim of “state-
sponsored cross-border terrorism”. It has found such a pretext In the Uri attack,. 

On the other hand, it was looking for an opportunity to channelise the growing discontent 

of the masses of the country harmlessly towards a foreign ‘enemy’. The Sangh Parvar and BJP 
have been working in a planned manner since the last parliamentary elections to win over the 
Backward Castes and the Dalits to its side in order to consolidate its social base and to minimise 
the resistance to its reactionary anti-people steps. Using the state machinery, Modi-led BJP has 
introduced several programmes for workers, peasants, BCs, Dalits, Adivasis, women and the 
poorest of the poor with much fanfare. But ‘Modinomics’ has utterly failed to assuage the 
growing social crises and the resulting discontent. It has completely failed to bring any ‘acche 
din’ to the vast majority of the country’s people. ‘Acche din’ has remained the privilege of only 
the imperialists and a miniscule minority of the populace – big capitalists, big landlords, ruling-
class politicians, top bureaucrats and government functionaries, etc. During more than two years 
of rule, Modi government has proved its utter inability to resolve any of the burning economic, 
political and social issues of the masses and to address their discontent. This discontent is getting 
expressed through various mass movements by workers, peasants, BCs, Dalits, Adivasis, 
students, employees, religious minorities and oppressed nationalities, etc., among which the 
present upsurge in Kashmir is the most militant and extensive one.  

Another factor behind the aggressive posturing of the Modi government towards Pakistan 

is the upcoming assembly elections. Most important for BJP is the UP elections, followed by 
states like Punjab and Gujarat where the fate of its governments/alliance-governments are at 
stake. The stakes have become even higher after its abject failure in the recently concluded 
assembly elections in Bengal, Keralam, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry (it could achieve a 
consolation win only in Asom mainly due to the 15 years of Congress misrule). BJP/Sangh 
Parivar is therefore desperately drumming up anti-Pakistan pseudo-nationalist rhetoric to serve 
its own vested interests before the elections.  

Modi government has thus used the Uri attack mainly to serve these objectives. Its 

response to Uri attack along with its diplomatic efforts to ‘isolate’ Pakistan internationally is in 

 

2 

 

conformity with the same integrated policy of the Indian ruling classes – national oppression 
towards Kashmir and expansionism towards the neighbouring countries. Though this policy has 
been pursued by each and every government since 1947, it has found a more vicious, cruel and 
brazen expression during the present NDA government at the hands of Brahmanical Hindu 
fascist BJP. Not surprisingly, all the parliamentary parties including the revisionist CPI(M) and 
CPI are speaking in a voice similar to BJP and are standing behind the communal fascist Modi-
Amit Shah-Mohan Bhagavat-Rajnath-Parikkar gang, as they all represent the same Indian ruling-
class interests.  

Not remaining content with the claim of ‘surgical strike’, Modi government has followed 
it up with a virulent chorus of big nation-chauvinism and is trying to build up war hysteria in the 
country. It has created an atmosphere of war by deploying additional army and paramilitary 
forces at the border, beginning cross-border firing and bombardment, ordering the residents of 
the international border to vacate their homes, issuing ‘high alert’ in the bordering states and 
acting on dubious claims of the ‘sighting’ of ‘terrorists’ in Mumbai, etc. It has scuttled the 
SAARC summit by putting pressure on a number of South Asian countries, threatened to 
downgrade the economic and diplomatic ties and to abrogate the long-standing water-sharing 
treaty with Pakistan, and are taking similar other steps. At the same time, Modi government has 
intensified diplomatic efforts to gain international support for its occupation and repression in 
Kashmir, for its aggression towards Pakistan in the name of ‘global war on terror’ and for 
‘isolating’ it internationally by primarily lobbying with the US government. 

The Pakistani government led by Nawaz Sharif, on the other hand, has stepped up its 

anti-India rhetoric and jingoism mainly as a response to the prevailing domestic situation in that 
country. The Pakistani ruling classes are facing mass anger due to the deepening economic-
political crises and intensifying social contradictions in the country. The pro-imperialist 
economic and strategic policies pursued by Nawaz Sharif government, the ongoing military 
operations against national minorities and Islamic forces, its reluctance in supporting the 
Kashmir liberation movement in the past, etc., are resulting in serious unrest among the masses 
of Pakistan. In this backdrop, the main ruling-class parties of the country which hardly come 
together on any issue, have got united to give India a “fitting reply” and are urging the masses to 
unite behind the government. Pakistan has also heightened its military preparedness and is using 
national-chauvinist language to build up a war atmosphere.  

While Pakistani rulers are highlighting the Kashmir issue, pledging all support to it and 
are raising India’s oppressive role in international platforms, the Indian rulers, in a bid to outdo 
their opponent, have started to raise the issue of Balochistan’s national liberation movement. 
Ruling classes of each country are claiming their support for the national liberation movements 
of the opponent, while at the same time subjugating the oppressed nationalities and crushing the 
just national liberation movements within their own boundaries. This clearly shows the 
opportunism and bankruptcy of the ruling classes of both the countries. They are raising the issue 
of national oppression and right to self-determination of oppressed nationalities only to serve 
their own class interests and of the imperialist powers and not out of true solidarity with the 
struggling nations and peoples. The ruling classes of Pakistan or India are not, and can never be, 
the genuine, trusted and reliable allies of the people of Kashmir or Balochistan in their fight for 
national liberation. 

At the root of this stand-off between the ruling classes of India and Pakistan over 

Kashmir lies the clash of their economic and strategic interests. As compradors to imperialism, 
they also represent the interests of different imperialist powers backing them. The US, Britain 

 

3 

 

and EU have much at stake economically and militarily in both the South Asian countries. India 
is an extremely important market for US imperialism particularly at a time when it is reeling 
under a severe economic and financial crisis. So is the necessity to open up the Indian economy 
further for unrestrained neo-colonial plunder and exploitation by strengthening its stranglehold 
over India. Moreover, it considers India as an important outpost to contain the growing influence 
of its rivals Russia and China in Asia and China in Asia-Pacific region, particularly when 
Pakistan’s economic-diplomatic-military ties with China and Russia is deepening.  

In the context of the growing worldwide imperialist contention between the US and its 

allies on the one hand and Russia, China and Iran on the other (manifesting most glaringly at 
present in the contention for Syria and Ukraine), the US wants India to be firmly on its side. 
Russia’s close relations with some former Soviet republics of Central Asia and China’s growing 
economic ties with them is another cause of concern for the US. The Indian government is also 
an important US ally in its ‘global war on terror’. The US and its imperialist allies are therefore 
encouraging and utilising the big-power ambition of the Indian ruling classes and satisfying it to 
a limited extent to ensure closer integration of the Indian economy with the imperialist world 
market. 

At the same time, however, the US also wants Pakistan to be with it for defending its 
economic and strategic interests in South, Central and West Asia, for its Afghan War and to 
counter Russia and China. Hence, it is not likely that the US and its allies will concede to Indian 
government’s demand of isolating Pakistan internationally and stopping the economic, 
diplomatic and military ‘aid/assistance’ to it. Indian government’s efforts to isolate Pakistan 
internationally to make it yield and compel it to stop supporting the Kashmir movement will not 
work. The strategic support of the imperialist powers to their Indian and Pakistan compradors 
will remain relatively unaltered in the short term, though the extent and level of this support may 
undergo some tactical shifts according to the changes in the international politics and balance of 
forces. Since behind the clash of interests between the comprador rulers of the two countries lie 
the contention between the imperialist powers, the tension and mutual acrimony between the two 
countries will continue and may even intensify with the intensification of the fundamental 
contradictions of the world.  

Given this context, it is quite clear that till the time the Indian ruling classes persist in 

suppressing the birthright of the Kashmiri people, continue their communal fascist policies 
towards the Muslims and maintain their interference in the internal affairs of the South Asian 
countries, particularly Pakistan, it is not possible for them to stop attacks like Uri. Nor is it 
possible for the Pakistani ruling classes to stop the oppressed peoples and nations from carrying 
out militant resistance against subjugation and oppression. As long as the comprador ruling 
classes of the two countries continue to yield to the strategic and economic interests of 
imperialism, they will never be able to restrain the people from rebellion, armed or unarmed. 

The CC, CPI(Maoist) appeals to the people of India to see through the national-chauvinist 
machinations of the Indian ruling classes being articulated through the Modi government and the 
parliamentary parties against Pakistan. The people of India and Pakistan have nothing to gain 
from a military escalation or war between the two countries, but have much to lose due to it. The 
huge financial burden of large-scale military mobilization at the border will have to be borne by 
the people of the two countries depending on the intensity and extent of this deployment. We 
therefore call upon the people to oppose any kind of expansionist intervention by the Indian 
government against PoK and Pakistan, be it through ‘surgical strikes’, military aggression and 
economic or diplomatic means. The CC reiterates its unequivocal support to the Kashmiri 

 

4 

 

people’s right to self-determination including secession from India and urges the people of India 
to resolutely defend this right of the fighting Kashmiri people. Let us declare to the people of 
Kashmir, “You are not alone!” Oppose the Indian occupation of Kashmir and continued state 
terrorism by the Indian armed forces! Support the struggle of the Kashmiri nation for Azadi! 
Demand a stop to the war-mongering, chauvinism and aggression against Pakistan by the Indian 
government led by the Hindutva fascists to further Indian expansionism! Demand a stop to the 
threats and intimidation of Pakistani artists and citizens in India! ‘No’ to any type of war with 
Pakistan! 
 

 
 

(Abhay) 

Spokesperson 

Central Committee 

CPI(Maoist) 

5 

 

 

 

