 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

March 25, 2014 

 

Tongpal Ambush is the Consequence of White Terrorism of the Indian state 

In the name of Operation Green Hunt – ‘War on the People’ 

 
On March 11 in a valiant attack by our People’s Liberation Guerilla Army (PLGA) commanders and red 
fighters on the joint forces of paramilitary and district police on the Jagdalpur-Konta NH-221 near Tongpal of 
Sukma district in Chhattisgarh, 11 CRPF jawans belonging to the 80th Battalion and four district policemen died. 
Our guerillas seized 19 weapons (six AK-47s, two SLRs, seven Insas rifles, three grenade launchers, one LMG), 
ammunitions and other military equipment. The Tongpal ambush is part of the tactical counter-offensives carried 
on by the PLGA all over the country under the leadership of our party in self-defence against the white terrorism 
of the Indian state in the name of Operation Green Hunt (OGH)– The War on People. The Central Committee 
sends its revolutionary greetings to the PLGA forces for making this ambush successful. 

While this incident enthused a lot the oppressed masses of our country who are being crushed under the 
iron heels of the mercenary paramilitary and police forces, the exploiting governments and their lackeys were 
shaken to the core once again. The central and state governments, the Congress and the BJP condemned this 
attack. The  Congress gave a call for state bandh stating that  this was the failure of the state government and 
demanding Raman Singh’s resignation. The Home Minister Sushil Kumar Shinde, Chief Minister Raman Singh 
and the higher police officials immediately rushed to the spot to keep up the morale of their mercenary forces and 
shed  crocodile  tears  while  stating  that  this  was  a  cowardly  act  of  the  Naxals,  that  the  Naxalites  had  in  fact 
weakened, their documents prove this and they had resorted to this horrific act to cover their weakness. Shinde 
proved his counter-revolutionary character by stating that they would take revenge for this terrorist act of the 
Naxals. And he is the Home Minister of India – ‘the biggest democracy in the world!’ 

To cover up the War on People carried on in the name of OGH, the central and state governments are 
accusing us of being terrorists. Who are actually the terrorists? If we had really weakened why are more than four 
lakh  central  and  state  armed  forces  deployed  in the  revolutionary  movement  areas  and  why  do  they  carry  on 
nonstop combings and attacks, harass, arrest, put in jails, murder, rape, kill in fake encounters and massacre the 
people  without  respite?  Why  were  165  companies  of  paramilitary  forces  deployed  during  the  Chhattisgarh 
assembly polls in an unprecedented manner? The central and state exploiting ruling classes that are carrying on 
incessant offensives on the people of our country by fascizing the state machinery are the real terrorists. The 
plans for these offensives are made under the direct supervision of the FBI, the intelligence agency of the US 
imperialists  sitting  in  Delhi.  The  aim  of  these  offensives  in  to  completely  wipe  out  our  party,  the  protracted 
people’s war led by it, the Revolutionary People’s Committees (Revolutionary People’s governments) formed on 
the basis of genuine democracy and self-reliance and developing as an alternative to the exploiting Indian state. 
In the name of ‘gravest threat to the internal security’ of the country and in accordance with the US dictated LIC 
strategy  and  tactics,  they  are  resorting  to  a  severe  multi-pronged  offensive.  Their  deceptive  Peace  Talks 
proposals and reform schemes are intended to divert the people and the democrats and to carry on further heavy 
offensive  on  the  revolutionary  movement.  In  the  backdrop  where  revolutionary  conditions  are  increasingly 
maturing,  it  is  the  conspiracy  of  the  ruling  classes  to  preserve  this  exploitative  system  by  making  the  people 
leaderless through decimation of the leadership of the progressive revolutionary forces. 

As part of this, in the movement areas of Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Bengal, 
Andhra  Pradesh,  Karnataka,  Tamil  Nadu  and  Asom  hundreds  of  Adivasis,  other  oppressed  people  and  the 
revolutionary activists. In these offensives, just in the past one year more than 150 revolutionaries and common 
people were massacred by the mercenary armed forces. The movement areas were turned into military camps. 

Thousands of innocent people, revolutionary activists and leaders were incarcerated in prisons. In Gadchiroli of 
Maharashtra,  Govindgaon,  Bhatpar,  Sindesur  and  Medri  massacres  and  even  before  that  blood  has  dried  the 
attacks at Pendodvaya and Indur, the recent Bethkati massacre in Gondia district, the Lakarbandha massacre in 
Jharkhand and other attacks, the Puvvar, Maraiguda, Odnar, Edesmetta, Burgum, Badakakiler and Nelnar attacks 
in Dandakaranya, the Silakota, Munguluvalasa attacks in Odisha are the prominent among these. In Govindgoan 
when our comrades were returning after conducting a meeting at night, the police lay in wait and killed six of our 
comrades including a DVCM comrade Sankar, killed  five persons including three villagers in an attack from rear 
in Bhatpar and killed seven persons including three villager who brought food in Sindesur. In Medri, the Medri 
villagers are the eye witnesses for the massacre of six women comrades. It came to light in the media too. After 
the  murders,  the  notorious  C-60  commandos  did  not  leave  even  the  dead  bodies  of  the  women  comrades, 
captured in mobiles their obscene behavior with them and are selling that in weekly markets. In Lakarbandha 
(Jharkhand) the CoBRA commandos and the reactionary TPC goons murdered ten persons including comrade 
Prasant in a one-sided attack targeting our party leadership. In the Puvvar incident, 4000 greyhounds, CoBRA, 
CRPF and CAF forces surrounded our 26 member PLGA force and brutally murdered important leadership from 
SZCM comrade Sudhakar to the AC level leadership. At Maraiguda two persons including a District Committee 
member comrade Naresh were shot dead. In Odnar, two villagers were called to the police station, killed in a fake 
encounter and buried without even giving the bodies to their relatives. In Edesmetta, they attacked villagers who 
were celebrating a festival and massacred eight persons including three children. Near Burgum, they attacked a 
small PLGA team and killed two women comrades. One among them was caught with injuries and killed in cold 
blood. Similarly in Kuvvem three militia comrades, three in Badekakilaer and three in Nelnar were murdered. 
While 13 village militia comrades were massacred in Silakota of Odisha, comrade Madhav in Machkhand area 
and comrades Manganna and Mahender in Munguluvalasa were caught and killed in fake encounters. There are 
several more were caught in separate incidents and murdered.  

On the one other hand, the the ruling classes criticize that ‘the Maoists who resort to violence in forests 
do not have any ideology’ and have extended the OGH to urban areas by stating that ‘the Maoist ideologues in 
the  cities  who  are    continuously  stoking  the  Maoist  ideology  are  more  dangerous  than  the  guerillas.’  The 
intellectuals  who  express  support  to  the  democratic,  revolutionary  and  national  liberation  movements  are 
somehow or the other being booked under conspiracy cases such as UAPA and put in jails. Since last year they 
took another step forward and murdered the beloved leader of the oppressed masses of Andhra Pradesh comrade 
Ganti Prasadam through black gangs and the leader of the Telangana movement comrade Akula Bhumaiah in an 
accident. It has become commonplace to make threatening phone calls to several activists and intellectuals who 
are active in anti-state movements and open revolutionary activities. 

To suppress the people who rebel against their anti-people policies and to consolidate their power they 
are depending on military, paramilitary, special police and commando forces and on intelligence organizations 
like the IB, NIA and SIB and carrying on fascist offensives. The civil rights and even the right to live are getting 
curbed. 

Is this not direct violence by the Indian state on the 90% oppressed masses, sections and nationalities for 
the sake of handful of exploiters? It would become clear that every year lakhs of people are dying in this violence 
if data are collected. What the PLGA is carrying on under the leadership of our party against the white terror of 
the Indian state machinery is only counter-violence and revolutionary violence. Anybody who knows even a little 
about history would understand that oppressed nations and the people had followed only this path anywhere in 
the world when civil rights evaporated. 

On  this  occasion,  our  party  is  appealing  to  worker-peasant  and  other  oppressed  masses,  democrats, 
students,  youth,  intellectuals,  patriotic  forces,  well-wishers  of  Adivasis,  environmentalists,  poets,  writers  and 
artistes  to  agitate  against  the  white  terror,  particularly  the  violence  perpetrated  by  the  central  and  state 
governments as part of the War on the People – OGH.  

 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, CPI (Maoist) 

 

