COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

September 05, 2013 

War-monger Obama! Your dirty hands off Syria! 

The right to decide the future of Syria lies with and only 
with the Syrian people, not with imperialists or any one else! 

Oppose strongly the neo-Nazi US led imperialist 

aggression on Syria! 

 
The imperialists led by the neo-Nazi US have tightened their dragnet around Syria and are 
just waiting to make the strike. Just as the Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) were touted as the 
'reason' for the strike on Iraq, use of chemical weapons (poisonous gas) is being shown by the neo-
fascist US as the 'reason' for the strike on Syria. The US is claiming that there was evidence that 
chemical weapons were used by the Bashar al-Assad government on the people of Syria leading to 
the death of more than 1400 Syrian people and with deadly consequences for several more. A UN 
team of inspectors had gone to Syria to probe the allegations but even before their report could be 
submitted  (which  is  supposed  to  take  at  least  three  more  weeks),  Obama  is  already  making 
preparations for a war.  

Obama went to the extent of saying that it is not his prestige at stake but that of the US and 
its Congress if they do not attack Syria! Indeed! The prestige of world No.1 mass murderer would 
be at stake if his record of killing maximum number of civilians in aerial strikes is not kept up. 
Even before the UN investigating team had returned, US secretary of state John Kerry has been 
howling that they have all evidence that chemical weapons were used and that it was the Assad’s 
government that had used them. So in the eyes of the US imperialists all those countries and world 
people who asked for ample proof are just fools and the imperial master need not answer them! 
Note that preparations always include gathering enough 'lies' to hoodwink the world people about 
the 'necessity' of such a strike.   

The US Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs had given authorization for limited attack on 
Syria to the President for a period of two months and this can be extended to another month subject 
to some conditions. It said that ground troops should not be sent. It is obvious that this ‘limited’ 
attack will in no way be ‘limited’ and would only end after strategically breaking the backbone of 
the  Bashar’s  regime  and  everything  on  the  ground  is  ravaged,  leading  to  innumerable  deaths  of 
civilians and unimaginable damage to property and livelihood of the people. The US imperialists 
want  to  paralyze  the  Assad  government  by  destroying  its  strategic/key  military  and  economic 
installations  and  want  to  bring  to  power  those  forces  that  would  serve  their  interests  in  Syria, 
similar  to  what  they  had  done  in  Libya.  Damascus  is  one  of  the  world’s  oldest  continuously 
inhabited cities and now Obama is hell bent on destroying it with aerial bombing just as Bush had 
done irreparable damage to one of the world’s oldest civilizations’ heritage in Iraq.  

Russia is severely opposing any such move and is seeking ample proof from the US for the 
claims.  Putin  cautiously  stated  that  if  it  is  proved  beyond  doubt  that  Assad’s  government  had 
indeed used the chemical weapons, then any attack on Syria should have UN authorization. But if 
Obama attacks without UN authorization, he termed it would be illegal. He warned that any small 
missile hitting the nuclear facility in Damascus could lead to a nuclear emergency and the radiation 
could affect a large area and a large civilian population for generations to come. He also cautioned 
that it would exacerbate the world financial crisis they are mired in. China has been stating that any 
decision should be taken after the results of the UN probe are declared and only under the aegis of 
the UN. Germany is also taking this stand - as yet. With the state of the art war vessels of US that 
can fire long distance missiles from sea to land moving close to Syria and a spy vessel of Russia 
also entering the Mediterranean, the situation is highly tensed up in the entire West Asia and the 
world. 

David Cameroon sought the vote in the British Parliament for participating in the strike on 
Syria  along  with  the  US.  He  did  not  get  it  but  his  ambition  to  attack  Syria  would  not  wane  is 
anybody’s guess. UN authorization or any other pretext can change this at any time. France under 
the neo-fascist Francois Holland declared that in-spite of the rejection in the British Parliament to 
wage a war it was ready to participate in the strike to punish the regime of Bashar al-Assad. Even 
the reason for the British opposition rejecting the proposal was because there was no ample proof 
that Assad's government has used the gas, i.e., proof to legitimize the aggression and to rally its 
allies. It is the same story with the Democrats and Republicans in the US. The ruling and opposition 
parties (monopoly capitalists and their marionette) in imperialist countries never have any major 
dispute about their ‘right to strike' any country. There is never any discussion about the fact that it 
is only the people of a country who have the right to decide its future and not any other countries or 
forces.  And  as  always  these  imperialist  heads  of  state  are  ignoring  huge  outpouring  of  public 
opinion  and  opposition  against  wars  of  aggression  in  their  countries  and  the  world  and  are 
aggressively pursuing their agenda.  

The UN, as is its wont, is striving to provide the fig leaves of excuses for the destruction of 
Syria. Its list of complicity since its inception in all imperialist wars of aggression is long. Its veil of 
impartiality has long been torn and tattered revealing its servility to the imperialists, particularly to 
the  US.  This  institution  is  supposed  to  ensure  the  implementation  of  five  principles  in  relations 
between  countries  having  different  social  systems-mutual  respect  for  territorial  integrity  and 
sovereignty;  mutual  non-aggression;  non-interference  in  each  other  internal  affairs;  equality  and 
mutual benefit; and peaceful co-existence. It is supposed to safeguard human rights, prevent wars 
of aggression and solve disputes among nations using diplomatic and other means. Even according 
to  the  rules  and  norms  which  the  countries  of  the  world  including  the  imperialist  countries 
formulated after the Second World War to avoid world wars, to settle regional disputes or local 
wars and which are supposed to be implemented by the UN, all kinds of diplomatic and political 
parleys/measures should be followed to solve such heinous crimes as usage of chemical weapons. 
But this international body that was primarily formed to ensure world peace is doing almost nothing 
to  stop  the  aggression,  except  giving  toothless  statements  that  political  and  diplomatic  means 
should be used to solve ‘the Syria crisis’ and beseeching that Obama have UN authorization for the 
attack.  The  shamelessness  with  which  Obama  is  pushing  his  agenda  of  aggression  is  making  it 
difficult even for the Ji Huzoor UN to justify it in this brazen form!  

Ironically the US is celebrating the 50th anniversary of the 'I have a dream' speech of Martin 
Luther King Jr even while it’s Nobel ‘Peace’ Prize winning President, the blood-thirsty murderer 
and  destroyer  of  humans  and  civilizations  is  raucously  barking  that  Syria  should  be  attacked.  If 
Obama  has  not  achieved  anything  else  -  at  least  he  has  proven  beyond  doubt  that  having  an 
African-American in the White House in itself cannot fulfill the 'dreams' of the oppressed peoples 
including those of the Blacks. The proposed strike on Syria should be another eye-opener for this 

 

2

fact.  Obama  is  pursuing  the  imperialist  world  hegemonic  agenda  of  the  US  ruling  classes  with 
equal  if  not  far  more  fervor  and  vigor  as  some  other  'white'  Presidents  before  him  who  had 
destroyed  oppressed  nations  and  butchered  millions  of  oppressed  people  on  the  globe  and  razed 
countless cities and villages to the ground during their terms. The US ruling classes definitely find 
him more 'useful' than a ‘white’ man - to deceive the people though only for a while. 

The US has been framing charges one after another since 1986 and particularly after the 
9/11  attack  on  its  twin  towers  that  Syria  too  posed  a  threat  to  global  security  as  it  supported 
‘terrorist’ groups, thus continuously targeting it in one manner or the other. Syria has become a 
play ground for the imperialist powers for the last two and half years. There has been a movement 
that was raging demanding the ouster of Assad. There have been innumerable armed confrontations 
between  the  ‘rebel’  forces  and  the  government  forces  resulting  in  loss  of  lakhs  of  lives  and 
destruction of property on a huge scale and migration of millions. The imperialists led by the US 
and their puppet regimes in Arab world have been diplomatically and politically manipulating and 
financially, militarily and technically aiding, hugely arming, training and guiding the opposition in 
various forms. They made it more than clear that they want Assad to go and their puppets to take 
over Syria. Russia and China have been supporting the Assad government consistently till date and 
have opposed any kind of armed imperialist intervention or attack on Syria. The corporate media 
had also to grudgingly concede that Assad too has considerable support among the Syrians. This is 
one of the reasons for not attacking Syria apart from crucial support to Assad from Russia, China, 
Lebanon and Iran though they very much wanted to as they had done in Libya. In fact, it has been 
reported recently that Assad's forces have gained an upper hand over the rebels in their strong hold 
areas which is well one of the reasons for this haste to attack Syria.  

Our Party, the CPI (Maoist) has always maintained that it is only the people of a country 
who have the right to retain or overthrow a particular regime in their country. It is for the people of 
Syria to decide whether they want Assad to be in power or not. They have every right to rebel and 
carve their own future. But due to the unwarranted intervention of the imperialists in the internal 
affairs in Syria the future of the country has already been facing a great danger and perhaps it will 
not lay in the hands of the Syrians for a long time to come.  

The  recent  phenomena  in  the  Arab  countries  like  Egypt  after  the  Arab  Spring  indicate 
exactly how puppet regimes are sought to be installed by the imperialists, particularly US. Morsi, 
though a compromising force was unceremoniously ousted as he opposed certain US interventions 
in  their  foreign  relations  and  was  put  in  jail  by  the  military.  Massacres  of  people  protesting  the 
military  regime  are  taking  place  on  a  daily  basis.  The  mighty  mass  upsurge  and  the  formal 
democratic process that brought Morsi to power, whatever may have been its flaws, was trampled 
under the iron boots of the military backed by the US and forces of the former president. In almost 
all  countries  that  had  ousted  their  old  dictatorial  rulers  during  the  Arab  Spring,  pro-imperialist 
puppets  or  compromising  forces  took  over,  notwithstanding  the  democratic  aspirations  of  the 
people.  This  should  serve  as  a  revelation  for  any  forces  that  seek  to  challenge  and  change  the 
dictatorial  regimes  in  their  countries.  They  should  never  play  into  the  hands  of  the  imperialists. 
That would result in one dictator replacing another if not a worst one and the replacement would 
definitely be subservient to the imperialists. Any forces that seek genuine democracy and oppose 
autocratic regimes should do so independently and basing on their own strength by mobilizing the 
masses and the support of the world people. They should not collaborate with the imperialists. If 
not the people would again be forced to fight the subservient forces of imperialism that would take 
over – as it is now happening in Egypt or elsewhere in the world. 

After  Second  World  War  until  the victory  of  national  liberation  war  of  the  Vietnam,  the 
main  pretext  for  the  US  wars  of  aggression  was  curtailing  'spread  of  communism'.  With  the 
disintegration of Soviet Union its oft-used excuse is 'violation of human rights' or ‘terrorism’ or 

 

3

both. Sometimes it is veiled as 'restoration of democracy' or 'granting of freedom'. But always the 
real reason was/is the pursuit for world hegemony. This has also been the reason behind the various 
wars of aggression either by France, Britain or the former Super Power USSR.  

The usage of chemical weapons which is cited as the reason for the attack was countered 
very  strongly  by  the  Assad  government  which  claimed  that  it  was  the  rebels  who  had  used  it. 
Nobody would support the usage of chemical weapons either by the government or the rebels. If the 
allegation that the rebels have used them is true then without any doubt, it is the imperialists who 
had supplied the poisonous gas Sarin to them. As it has been more than two years and Assad is not 
being defeated the most plausible explanation for the use of Sarin can be that the US imperialists 
had supplied it to its agents in Syria for usage so that it can use it as an immediate excuse to attack 
it. If one remembers that Obama had warned Syria not to cross the ‘red line’ of using chemical 
weapons, one can easily connect that they would exactly use that ‘red line’ as the excuse.  

But what is baffling is the way in which the US imperialists are crying 'foul'! As everyone 
knows  it  is  the  US  imperialists  who  have  the  dubious  record  of  using  extremely  destructive 
chemical weapons (napalm, Agent Orange, white phosphorus to name a few) whether in Vietnam, 
Iraq or elsewhere. The terrible chemical warfare of 1915 to 1918 led the League of Nations to adopt 
the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which banned the use of chemical and biological weapons. Although 
the  United  States  had  proposed  and  helped  to  draft  the  treaty,  the  Senate  declined  in  1926  to 
approve its ratification. In 1970 the treaty was resubmitted to the Senate, which approved it only 
four years later. Such is the double standards that had been typical of the US in all matters relating 
to arms control till date! Till now the US and other major imperialist powers are not ready to ban all 
types of WMDs like cluster bombs, chemical, biological and nuclear, etc weapons. So, why they 
are talking about Syria? This could only be with vested interests so as to use more lethal WMD on 
Syria or anywhere in the world. 

It is the war-mongering imperialists who are developing chemical weapons either directly or 
clandestinely  and  selling  it  to  their  lackeys  or  dictators  of  the  backward  countries  for  usage  on 
common people and on their foe countries or supplying them to the counterrevolutionary forces to 
change  regimes.  Apart  from  using  WMD  on  common  people  indiscriminately,  the  imperialists, 
particularly the US and Israel did not hesitate to use chemical and biological weapons in attempts to 
assassinate heads of countries or organizations that did not follow their diktats. If at all anybody is 
firstly  to  stand  trial  for  the  destruction  caused  by  chemical  and  biological  weapons  in  the  entire 
world  it  is  the  US  imperialists  and  the  whole  gang  of  imperialist  thugs  that  are  led  by  it  or  in 
connivance with it.  

It is obvious that the US, Britain, France-Israel combine and Turkey want a puppet regime 
in power in Syria to further their geo-political interests in West Asia due to its strategic location 
apart from having their hands on the natural resources of Syria, mainly oil. It would also pave way 
for it to penetrate the central Asian countries that were once part of USSR/CIS in order to control 
oil and other rich resources in those countries. This would pose a big challenge to the increasing 
Russian clout and of China and help to establish the hegemony of its junior partner - Israel in West 
Asia further. Israel had been occupying Golan Heights in Syria since the Six-Day war of 1967 and 
permanently entrenched itself since 1973 Arab-Israeli War. It wants to retain it, while Syria that 
had been betrayed in the Camp David Accords has been demanding the unconditional surrender of 
the Golan Heights. 

Syria has been consistent in its opposition to US-Israel imperialist interventions and designs 
in West Asia. Syria has also supported the Palestinian cause with regularity. Hezbollah (Lebanon) 
support to Assad and the Palestinian cause and its bitter opposition to Israel is another thorn which 
the imperialists want to numb with this attack. Likewise this attack would once again pose a greater 
threat  to  the  unyielding  Iran  which  is  also  very  consistent  in  its  opposition  to  the  US-Israel 

 

4

hegemonic interests in the region and is at present bitterly opposing any attempt to attack Syria – 
two birds at one shot. 

The amount of destruction caused in a particular region either during the First or the Second 
World War is less compared to the amount of devastation that is being caused due to imperialist 
wars of aggression or proxy wars that were instigated and supported by the rival imperialist blocks 
after  the  Second  World  War.  The  strategy  of  using  long-range  missiles  from  far  away  seas  and 
aerial  bombing  from  high  altitudes  is  destroying  everything  on  the  ground  -  both  human  and 
material in the targeted areas. The indiscriminate and callous usage of drones on a daily basis has 
wreaked far more havoc on civilians than at any time in history. These wars of aggression are not 
only destroying the invaluable heritage of past civilizations, the lives of the present generations but 
also the future of several more generations to come. The damage is in several instances irreparable. 
The  neo-Hitler  Obama  is  shedding  crocodile  tears  that  innocent  women,  children  and 
civilians  were  killed  in  Syria  due  to  poisonous  gas  and  they  cannot  tolerate  it.  The  killing  of 
innocents of course is not tolerable. But is it not simple logic that the same applies to the countless 
innocent women, children and civilians being killed in regular US drone attacks in Pakistan, Yemen 
and Afghanistan etc? And what about the lakhs of innocent persons killed in an Iraq, Afghanistan 
or  a  Palestine  since  decades  even  if  we  leave  all  the  previous  atrocities  perpetrated  by  the 
imperialists  in  innumerable  backward  countries  during  colonial  times  and  after?  Why  is  there 
always a conspiratorial silence on these?  

It  is  a  cruel  joke  that  the  US  which  has  such  huge  stocks  of  weapons  including  nuclear 
weapons that can destroy the entire earth several times over (and it has not even hesitated to use 
them  wherever  and  whenever  it  wanted  to)  had  attacked  Iraq  on  the  pretext  that  it  had  WMD. 
Another incongruity is that the US which has detonated the atom bomb on Hiroshima and Nagasaki 
in Japan is crying hoarse about possible development of nuclear weapons by Iran. The imperialists 
did not even bother to show any semblance of such 'reasons' for the attack on Libya and murder of 
Gaddafi. It is to be noted that WMD had never been found in Iraq; even though Iran has every right 
to  manufacture  nuclear  weapons,  still  its  government  is  repeatedly  clarifying  that  they  have  no 
intention of manufacturing nuclear weapons; and the Syrian government is still strongly denying 
that it had used chemical weapons. 

One is reminded of the ingenious folk tale where the lamb is destined to be devoured by the 
wolf irrespective of whether it drinks water upstream or downstream. Being born a lamb is reason 
enough to be devoured. And being resource-rich or just being located in a strategic geographical 
position is enough to be occupied. It is nothing but classic imperialist hunger for world hegemony 
tinged with wolf-like jungle justice. The people of the world should realize that all the pretexts of 
human rights violations thrown at our face as justifications for wars of aggression by the neo-Nazis 
are  nothing  but  humbug  to  cover  up  the  imperialists'  insatiable  hunger  for  resources  and  blatant 
quest for world hegemony. 

The world capitalist system is bogged down in an all-encompassing financial crisis. Wars of 
aggression are also being resorted to apart from bailouts and increasing ruthless loot of resources 
from the resource-rich ‘backward’ countries of the world. But all such attempts to overcome the 
crisis  are  just  pushing  the  system  even  deeper  into  it.  The  imperialists  are  thinking  they  are 
amassing  wealth  but  what  they  are  actually  piling  up  is  the  hatred  and  anger  of  the  oppressed 
masses of the world in abundance with their every act of aggression and loot. These fools did not 
learn any lesson from history that wars of aggression would eventually lead to their overthrow. The 
war of aggression on Syria would never help them overcome the long running neck-deep economic 
and political crises, but will only bog them in deeper crises. This is already evident all over the 
world with prices of oil skyrocketing and markets turning highly volatile, not to mention the rapid 

 

5

devaluation of currencies in several backward countries including our own rupee that is having a 
free fall.  
President Bashar al-Assad of Syria declared that they would fight back tooth and nail any 
imperialist  aggression  on  their  country.  Syrian  foreign  minister  declared  defiantly  that  they  are 
fully prepared to fight back the imperialist aggression and would not step back until they defeat the 
aggressors and even if it leads to a Third World War. Syrian government has also been repeatedly 
appealing to the UN to oppose the US military strike and settle the crisis peacefully. The people of 
Syria are defiant and are preparing themselves to fight back the onslaught to their death.  

Though Assad had declared that they would oppose any kind of imperialist aggression this 
would be successful only when it is be done by mobilizing the people and relying on them. It is 
equally  true  that  no  regimes  can  mobilize  the  people  or  gain  their  support  against  imperialist 
aggression unless people enjoy democracy. Hafez al-Assad, Bashar’s father and former President of 
Syria had sent troops to Iraq in 1991 participating in the imperialist aggression. Syria had troops in 
Lebanon till as late as 2005 and has been accused by the Lebanese of interference in their internal 
affairs. The fact that no country has the right to interfere or send troops to other countries for its 
own interests or bending to imperialist pressures should be realized by rulers of backward countries 
in this context once again. Only a staunch uncompromising opposition to imperialist intervention 
and aggression in any country and their own countries could win the support of their own people 
and the people of the world in their opposition to the imperialists.    

 Indian government stated that they should wait till the UN inspectors declare the results of 
their probe before any decision for the attack is taken. And it really does not have any objection to 
the  attack  on  Syria  if  there  is  a  UN  authorization.  The  fact  is  Indian  State  does  not  want  to 
antagonize either the US or Russia and so it conveniently perched itself on the fence ready to jump 
either  way.  It  did  not  unambiguously  oppose  any  kind  of  military  intervention  in  Syria  with  or 
without the authorization of UN by any aggressor country or a set of felon countries. By not taking 
up the unequivocal demand that all attempts to attack Syria be stopped, it is actually helping the 
imperialists in their conspiracy to crush Syria. Given its rank servility to the imperialists or fence-
sitting in several previous occasions when wars of aggression were waged by them, this is not in 
any way surprising, only utterly disgusting and outraging.  

CC, CPI (Maoist) condemns in unequivocal terms any attempts by the US led imperialists 
to attack Syria and demands an immediate stop of all such preparations. It extends its support and 
solidarity  to  all  kinds  of  resistance  by  the  Syrian  people  against  imperialist  intervention  and 
proposed war of aggression. It sees their resistance as part of the entire range of various kinds of 
resistances  the  oppressed  peoples  and  nations  of  the  world  are  putting  up  against  all  kinds  of 
imperialist  intervention,  aggression  and  control.  It  firmly  states  that  it  is  the  duty  of  every 
democratic person in the world to unequivocally oppose and condemn the proposed strike on Syria 
led by the US. 

Anti-imperialist forces all over the world are voicing their protests against the impending 
US  attack  on  Syria  and  pouring  out  into  streets  demanding  a  stop  to  all  such  attempts.  Our  CC 
welcomes all such protests and lends its voice of support to all such anti-imperialist forces. Our 
party is calling upon its entire ranks to join hands with all the forces that oppose the war on Syria 
and to turn it into a broad based and militant movement against all kinds of imperialist wars of 
aggression and intervention. Our CC appeals to all the anti-imperialist forces and organizations and 
proletarian parties of our country and the world to condemn the blatant attempts of the imperialists 
led by the US to attack Syria. It is necessary to build international support to the resistance of the 
Syrian  people  against  this  war  of  aggression.  The  resistance  to  the  imperialists  in  their  own 
countries would play a crucial role in defeating their evil designs of occupying and looting other 
countries. Our CC upholds the opposition to the war in Syria that is outpouring into streets in the 

 

6

US and other imperialist countries. It particularly appeals to the people of the US, France, other 
imperialist countries, Turkey and puppet regimes in West Asia like Qatar and Saudi Arabia that are 
preparing  to  participate  in  the  attack  on  Syria,  to  oppose  their  governments'  attempts  to  destroy 
Syria  and  strengthen  the  united  fight  of  the  world  oppressed  nations  and  peoples  against 
imperialism.  

The war of aggression on Syria could well prove to be the proverbial straw on the camel's 
back  for  the  US  imperialism  which  is  already  bogged  down  in  Iraq  and  Afghanistan.  But  the 
monster of imperialism with feet of clay would never collapse on its own despite its innumerable 
vulnerabilities. It requires a blow from all the oppressed peoples of the world for it to be wiped out 
from the face of the earth. If the imperialists dare to attack Syria, the brave resistance of the proud 
people of Syria with a glorious history of resistance to imperialist interventions and the support of 
the world people to their resistance would drive one of the final nails into the coffin of imperialism. 
The  material  conditions  to  form  a  broad  anti-imperialist  front  against  arm-twisting, 
intervention,  control,  exploitation,  oppression  and  wars  of  aggression  by  imperialists  on  the 
oppressed nations and peoples of the world are maturing fast. Only such a broad-based, militant and 
all-encompassing  anti-imperialist  front  would  be  able  to  fight  imperialist  domination  and 
intervention in social, economic, cultural and other spheres and all wars of aggression. This would 
finally pave the way for its overthrow. We will be able to achieve genuine democracy, progress and 
world peace only through such united fight to overthrow imperialism and all kinds of reactionaries.  
Since the past century the imperialists have been resorting to fascism and war to overcome 
their  financial  crises  and  people  have  been  resorting  to  resistance  and  revolution  to  oppose  and 
defeat  them.  The  material  conditions  are  turning  more  and  more  favorable  for  revolution  in  the 
world  and  our  party  calls  upon  the  people  of  our  country  and  the  world  to  make  successful 
revolutions. Only through revolutionary revolutions we can put an end to all imperialist and unjust 
wars and ensure world peace.   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

      

 

(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, CPI (Maoist) 

7

