COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

                                                                               October 31, 2010 

 

OPPOSE FIRMLY BARACK OBAMA'S VISIT TO INDIA, 

WHO IS THE GANG LEADER OF US IMPERIALISM, 

THE NO. 1 ENEMY OF THE WORLD PEOPLE! 

RAISE THE SLOGAN IN ONE VOICE 'OBAMA! GO BACK!!' 

LOUDLY THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY!! 

 
US President Barack Obama will be coming to our country on November 6. The comprador rulers of 
India  are  busy  laying  red  carpet  to  welcome  him  and  trying  to  beautify  Mumbai  and  Delhi.  This  is  a 
great  insult  to  democracy-loving,  peace-loving  and  patriotic  people  of  our  country.  US  imperialism, 
which  has  been  plundering  the  poor  countries  across  the  world,  suppressing  the  oppressed 
nationalities,  pushing  the  notorious  thugs  and  dictators  into  the  power,  bullying  those  countries  who 
wouldn't cooperate, looting oil, minerals and all other natural wealth and sources and for this going to 
any extent, is the no. 1 enemy of world people. Its leader Barack Obama is such a person whom the 
entire  humanity  must  hate.  As  his  predecessor  George  Bush  had  accumulated  the  hate  across  the 
globe, US imperialist masters brought Barack Obama in a plan that people could be deceived with his 
skin color. Though Obama was so much rhetorical opposing the policies of Bush, after entering into the 
White House, all the policies and decisions taken by him till this day are nothing but continuation of the 
Bush administration. In fact the difference between George Bush and Barack Obama lies just in their 
color and in the name their representative parties. There is no difference between them in exploiting 
and suppressing the world people, oppressed nationalities, countries and working class of the US. It's 
an irrefutable fact that this black color President was selected by the most notorious white masters of 
US monopolistic corporations. 

The  US  imperialists  are  killing  innocent  people  everyday  in  Afghanistan  and  western  Pakistan  by 
indiscriminate  bombing  and  drone  attacks.  The  massacres  are  still  going  on  endless  in  Iraq.  Obama 
has  proved  him  self  a  warmonger  by  sending  30  thousand  more  US  troops  to  Afghanistan.  The  US 
imperialism, which has stood upon the huge mountains of most destructive arms which could smash 
this globe at least for ten times,  has been instigating wars and doing wars itself so as to keep away its 
war industry getting caught in crisis which constitutes a huge share in its economy. On the other hand, 
it's  been  issuing  threats  to  Iran  and  North  Korea  in  the  pretext  that  they  were  acquiring  nuclear 
capabilities. Now it's targeting Yemen alleging that it had become a hub for Al Qaeda. 'War on terror', 
initiated by George Bush after 9/11 attacks, is now being continued without any letting by Democratic 
Barack Obama with indiscriminate attacks in the name of dealing with Al Qaeda, Talibans and so-called 
Islamic  terrorists.  Obama  did  not  try  to  stop  or  condemn  the  inhuman  attacks  of  Israeli  Zionists  on 
Gaza, which had become a hell on the ground, and the conspired assassinations of notorious Mosad. 
Thus Obama holds responsibility for the death of hundreds of Palestine people.  

A  significant  phenomenon  that  has  come  to  the  fore  in  Obama's  rule,  is  that  the  US  intelligence 
agency  FBI  provokes  the  innocent  American  Muslims,  particularly  the  American  youths  of  Pakistani 
origin, for attacks and then by covert operations it arrests them with all evidences and propagates its 
victory in a big way. Thus it's has been able to keep the insecurity feeling alive among the masses of 
America  and  to  divert  huge  amounts  of  people's  money  into  its  'war  on  terror'.  By  this,  the  Obama 
administration is creating endless waves of hopelessness and despair among the Muslim community in 
America in particular and among entire toiling masses of the US on the whole. 

Today, the US economy is caught in a quagmire of severe economic crisis. Present crisis which was 
initially  ignited  as  a  sub-prime  crisis,  now  has  taken  such  a  severe  form  that  was  never  seen  after 
1930s. Unemployment rate in US is 10% now which is unprecedented. But Obama has been pouring 
hundreds of billions of dollars of money collected from tax-paying people into the huge bellies of greedy 
monopolistic corporate lords by pushing American people, particularly working class and middle class 
people into the state of agony. He cut so many schemes meant for the welfare of the people. Despite all 

these  steps,  as  there  is  no  ray  of  hope  of  getting  out  of  this  cyclone  of  crisis,  he's  been  trying  to 
intensify the plunder of resources from backward and poor nations so as to revitalize his economy. Now 
Obama along with the host of rapacious corporate bosses is not going to come here to enjoy the beauty 
of Mumbai or Delhi. They're going to visit our country only to push more capital here and to sign many 
more agreements which would plunder our country's wealth further more. Thus, they are eager to plan 
to push their burden of their crisis onto the shoulders of India even more. They are coming here only to 
give suggestions to suppress the Maoist movement which is the biggest obstacle in robbing away the 
resources of this country indiscriminately, along with all other people's movements, with more barbarity. 
 During UPA-I, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh ignoring stiff opposition from the people, had civilian 
nuclear  deal  with  the  US  passed  proving  himself  a  trustworthy  servant  of  the  US  imperialists.  The 
Nuclear Liability Bill which has been passed by the Parliament recently is nothing but a continuation of 
this  servility.  Regarding  the  Bhopal  gas  leak  accident  which  led  to  gruesome  death  of  thousands  of 
people and disaster for hundreds of thousands of people in Bhopal, the wounds in the hearts and minds 
of  the  people  of  India  continue  to  pain  till  this  day.  And  now  the  UPA  government  has  in  a  most 
shameless  manner  dared  to  prepare  this  Bill  enabling  many  more  'Bhopals'  to  make  their  way  and 
ensuring even if such holocausts take place, the foreign capitalists responsible for those would be set 
free with far less 'liability' (just like Warren Anderson and Dow Chemicals were set free). While BJP has 
helped  UPA  government  in  passing  this  Bill,  the  parliamentary  Left  parties  who  call  themselves 
Communists,  have  once  again  proved  their  compromising  nature  by  not  opposing  this  traitorous  Bill 
firmly and not initiating people's movement against this. Manmohan Singh worked hard to ensure this 
Bill passed before the arrival of Obama. 

Indian government is acting as a tool in the hands of the US in its geo-political strategy of encircling 
China which has been rising recently as a new player in the arena of international capitalism. The US is 
one hand keeping both India and Pakistan of this region in its firm grip and on the other hand, ensuring 
the  enmity  between  these  countries  sustained.  It's  been  selling  arms  to  both  of  these  countries  and 
plundering  the  markets  of  both  countries.  It's  been  implementing  its  strategy  of  global  hegemony  by 
tightening the grip over this region on the whole. Indian ruling classes are not at all dissenting and thus 
supporting the regular bombings and drone attacks of the US on Afghanistan and western Pakistan. In 
response to this, US is supporting India's policies of intervention and plunder in south Asia region. Now, 
the Obama's visit and the warm welcome being offered by these comprador rulers and other opposition 
parties are an integral part of this collusion. 

Instead  of  opposing  Obama's  visit  firmly,  the  parliamentary  Left  parties  are  so  showing  their 
eagerness and glad to listen this warmonger. They are cheating the people by saying Obama is not 
Bush. They are trying to hide the fact that the difference between these two would be equivalent only to 
the difference between a monster and a beast. BJP is singing the welcome tunes along with Congress 
showing to its comprador nature as well. 

Dear people of India! Democrats!! Welcoming Obama means nothing but a betrayal to the values of 
sovereignty,  freedom,  independence,  self-reliance,  peace,  justice  and  democracy.  Inviting  Obama  to 
our beloved country means showing servility to its warmongering, invasive, exploitative and hegemonic 
policies.  That's  why  the  Central  Committee  of  the  Communist  Party  of  India  (Maoist)  is  calling  upon 
entire  people,  revolutionary  and  democratic  organizations  and  all  patriotic  forces  of  India  to  register 
your protest in various forms and to raise the slogan 'OBAMA! GO BACK!!' loudly in one voice. On this 
occasion through distributing leaflets, posters and banners and conducting meetings and seminars, we 
also  call  upon  the  people  to  register  your  protest  to  Obama's  visit  to  India  and  to  oppose  the  UPA 
government and other bankrupt parliamentary parties who're ridiculing the sovereignty of our country by 
bowing their heads before the US imperialists.  

 

 
 (Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

(This statement has been translated from Telugu original) 

 

