COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

4 May, 2011 

War-monger, butcher and blood-thirsty Obama and not Osama 

is the No.1 global terrorist threatening world peace! 

US imperialism and not Al Qaeda is the gravest global threat 

not only to the entire oppressed nations and people of the world 

but also to the US citizens! 

Condemn the brutal murder of Osama Bin Laden 
in a covert operation by the global gendarme CIA! 

 
On  May  2,  the  US  imperialists  murdered  Osama  Bin  Laden,  the  leader  of  Al  Qaeda  by  attacking  with 
helicopters  the  building  where  he  was  staying  in  Abbottabad  in  Pakistan.  US  overstepped  the  sovereignty  of 
Pakistan  by  directly  conducting  this  operation  without  even  informing  the  Pakistan  government  about  it.  They 
jammed  the  radars  of  Pakistan,  entered  its  skies  with  four  helicopters  and  attacked  the  building  and  finished  the 
operation  'with  surgical  precision'.  One  woman  and  two  men  in  the  building  were  also  killed  and  it  is  said  that 
Osama's wife was also injured in the attack. Their child seems to have escaped death only by chance in this forty 
minute  operation.  The  Obama  administration  was  callous  beyond  words  even  towards  the  dead  body  of  Osama. 
They did not hand over the body to his family members but threw it into the Arabian Sea! This was done to rub salt 
into the wounds as they very well know how insulting and outraging it would be to the muslims all over the world.  
As  soon  as  Obama  gleefully  announced  the  death  of  the  Al  Qaeda  leader,  the  fascists-in-arms  of  US 
government – the heads of imperialist countries and their minion rulers in the third world scrambled to describe this 
as a great victory  in the global War on Terror. The  comprador Indian ruling classes jumped at the  chance to take 
potshots at Pakistan for sheltering such a 'dangerous man' on its soil. Not a word of condemnation about the one-
sided attack on a SAARC nation conducted without any regard to its sovereignty. Not a question about what the US 
war-machinery was doing on the soil of the sub-continent in the first place. The response of the Indian compradors 
is  not  really  surprising  given  their  record  of  overt  and  covert  support  to  most  of  the  aggressive  wars  and 
interventions  of  imperialists  (particularly  that  of US  and  NATO)  in  the  third  world  violating  their  sovereignty  in 
umpteen number of ways and given their own servility to the US imperialists. 

The arm-twisting and coercing of Pakistan government by the US 'to get its cooperation' in its so-called war on 
terror ever since the NATO attack on Afghanistan in 2001 has been increasing with each passing day and Pakistan 
has become a extended backyard of US in this war. This operation is just the most glaring instance of the rampage 
of the belligerent bully as this is but in continuation of the numerous unchallenged interventions by it in Pakistan, 
especially in the past decade. The kowtowing of the Pakistan's comprador rulers is so complete that even after such 
an  offensive  action,  the  Pakistan  government  is  not  even  unequivocally  condemning  the  attack  done  leaving  to 
wind all international norms. It was only after widespread agitations all over Pakistan pushed it to the corner did it 
whimper inaudibly that this  attack  was illegal and carried on without its  knowledge. The  Master says  'So what,  I 
won't  apologize'  and  the  servant  shuts  his  mouth.  Again  not  really  surprising  when  we  look  at  its  record  of  tail-
wagging total submission to the US imperialists. No.1 global terrorist Obama day in and day out bombs Pakistani 
tribal (Pashtun) areas and kills hundreds of Pakistani citizens (mostly women and children) in the countless drone 
attacks. Scores of trigger-happy future Raymond Davises roam impudently in the streets of Pakistan baying for the 
blood  of  ordinary  Pakistani  citizens.  But  the  shameless,  spineless  Pakistani  ruling  classes  are  jostling  to  lay  red 
carpets soaked with the blood of Pakistanis for this murderous 'Nobel Peace prize winner.'  

Ever since the 9/11 attacks allegedly conducted by Al Qaeda under the leadership of Osama Bin Laden, the US 
imperialists under the leadership of the then president George W. Bush have launched a vicious anti-Muslim tirade 
all  over  the  globe  and  launched  occupation  wars  against  Afghanistan  and  Iraq.  Millions  of  ordinary  people  have 
died or were crippled in these unjust wars not to speak of the appalling horrors faced by women and children. In the 

 

name of War on Terror, Muslims all over the world were targeted and subjected to innumerable horrors. Al Qaeda 
was  shown  as  the  face  of  this  'terrorism'  and  Osama  was  portrayed  as  the  number  one  enemy  of  the  US  and  the 
world and given a larger-than-life image. Al Qaeda was inflated as the monster behind every terrorist attack in an 
attempt to justify all kinds of atrocities on Muslims. A man-hunt was launched for Osama and other leaders of Al 
Qaeda  and  billions  of  dollars  were  spent  on  the  so-called  War  on  Terror.  Puppet  regimes  were  installed  in 
Afghanistan and Iraq and Pakistan almost resembles a colony now. The juggernaut of War on Terror continues to 
run amok among the Muslim populations crushing millions under its feet.  

It  has  been  proven  many  times  in  history  that  killing  one  leader  can  never  end  an  organization  without 
eliminating  the  root  causes,  which  are  imperialist  super  exploitation,  oppression,  intervention  and  insult  in  this 
case,  which  gave  birth  to  it  in  the  first  place.  The  deep  anger  and  frustration  of  the  Muslim  people  against  the 
imperialists, particularly the US imperialists and Zionist Israel is finding expression in many ways and Al Qaeda is 
one of them. The upsurges in the Arab World are another expression of this fury - both against their despotic rulers 
and  against  imperialism.  Some  of  the  methods  employed  by  organizations  like  Al  Qaeda  in  their  fight  against 
imperialism are harming the ordinary citizens and deserve to be condemned when lives of innocents are lost. But 
we should not take them out of context and see them as the acts of some mindless people who 'just hate America' as 
the  US  government  wants  its  citizens  to  believe.  If  there  were  no  imperialist  interventions  and  wars  of 
occupation then there  would be no Al Qaeda. If there  were no  slaughterers  like Bushes and Obamas there 
would be no Osamas.  

CPI (Maoist) calls upon the people of the world to condemn the brutal murder of Osama Bin Laden by the US 
imperialists.  It  demands  that  all  kinds  of  attacks  on  Muslims  in  the  name  of  'War  on  Terror'  be  stopped 
immediately. 

CPI  (Maoist)  firmly  reiterates  that  Marxism-Leninism-Maoism  is  the  only  ideology  that  can  end  all 
kinds  of  exploitation  and  oppression  in  the  world.  Only  under  the  leadership  of  the  proletariat  and  its 
communist  party  can  the  oppressed  nations  and  peoples  crushed  under  tyrants,  bourgeois  dictatorships 
going by the name of 'democracies' and imperialism achieve their complete liberation. Any number of acts 
of  Al  Qaeda  or  any  other  organization  like  Al  Qaeda  cannot  win  them  freedom  or  sovereignty  from  the 
occupation  and  intervention  of  imperialists.  The  upsurges  in  the  Arab  World  including  the  struggle  of  
Palestinian  people  and  the  unrelenting  fight  and  sacrifices  of  their  organizations  would  go nowhere  unless 
they  get  consolidated  into  People's  Wars  against  imperialism,  feudalism  and  comprador  bureaucratic 
capitalism in their countries. 

CPI  (Maoist)  calls  upon  all  the  oppressed  nations  and  peoples  of  the  world  to  unitedly  fight  back  the 
imperialists,  particularly  the  US  imperialists,  who  unjustly  launched  the  so-called  War  on  Terror  targeting  the 
Muslim populations all over the world. We appeal to the US citizens to realize that it is the brutal imperialist 
policies followed by their rulers in third world countries that are endangering the lives of US citizens and not 
so-called  terrorists;  that  it  is  the  capitalist  economic  system  which  is  leading  to  financial  crises  again  and 
again affecting their well-being or rendering them unemployed and not immigrants. We appeal to the people 
of US to raise their voice and fight our common enemy on his home turf.  Supporting the just struggles of the 
people  oppressed  by  the  rulers  of  your  country  would  also  pave  the  path  for  your  own  liberation.  We 
sincerely  hope  that  the  struggles  of  the  working  class  and  people  in  imperialist  countries,  including  US, 
against monopoly capital and that of the oppressed nations and peoples of the third world would unite and 
turn into a mighty storm which would ultimately destroy our common enemy. 

CPI (Maoist) particularly calls upon the people of South-Asia to raise their voices against the brutality of the 
NATO forces led by the US in Afghanistan  and Pakistan and demand their  withdrawal  immediately. Support the 
struggles of Pakistani people against the attacks of US imperialists on their soil and their struggle for freedom from 
imperialist coercion and intervention.   

Let  us  realize  that  US  imperialism  is  the  No.1  enemy  of  the  world  people  threatening  world  peace, 
sovereignty  of  the  third  world  countries  and  their  progress.  Let  us  fight  back  the  imperialists  and  their 
compradors in our countries for a life free of exploitation and oppression, for a life to be lived with dignity 
and raised heads. 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

 

