COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

Central Committee 

Press Release
 

 

December 10, 2017 

Let us stand firm with the struggling people of Palestine ! 

 

There is no peace for the Arab people in the Far East for the past 70 years. After the Second World 

War America is the only criminal that ignited unrest in this area. This is a strategic one of the destructions it 
created after the Second World War. America blasted nuclear bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki and killed 
lakhs of people and thus stood as the first frightful terrorist in the world. It created Israel with Jews in the 
Far East. This action has been destroying the integrity of the Arab people for the past seven decades, 
creating splits among them and is being used to fulfill its interests. 

US imperialism has been taking up unilateral aggressive war measures for its world hegemony and 
to gain profits in a constant manner. In the beginning of the 21st century it made war on Afghanistan and 
Iraq with its armies and with the NATO armies that it created and indulged in heavy destruction. But war 
flames continue to blaze even now. None can forget that the terrorist US imperialism is the mightiest 
criminal in the world. 

Since the second decade of this century in continuation to Afghanistan and Iraq it created war 

flames in the name of removing dictators in the Arab countries in West Asia and North Africa. In the name 
of ‘change of rule’ it took chance of the contradictions between the opposite groups among the ruling 
classes and took up war measures to establish its puppet government. Those countries still suffer from 
these war measures. It is clear that US imperialism is the reason for terrorist groups in the name of 
Nationalism. The destructive war in Syria even now is the reflection of the contradictions among the 
imperialist countries. The problem of refugees that unprecedentedly came forth is their creation. Its 
strategy for world hegemony is to fulfill its economic and political interests anywhere in the world in the 
name of establishing democracy. All the people are resisting the same in various levels. 

Since he came to power last year in the elections the president of US Donald Trump has given way 
to many controversies. He is again and again bringing out his diehard anti-Islam character. He rejected US 
VISAS to the people of Muslim countries, he rejected refugees into the US. He refreshed the splits between 
the Arab people and did many such things in the past one year. Recently he made a chauvinistic statement 
identifying Jerusalem as the capital city of Israel. This once again raised the flames. Israel was trying to 
establish Tel Aviv as the capital by seizing the vast areas between the Arab countries and so it was very 
happy with the recent statement of the US. But the whole world including United Nations condemned this 
action. The declaration of Trump that broke the aspirations of the people of Palestine to make Palestine a 
totally independent country once more gives way to war mongering actions of Israel in this area. Our Party 
appeals to the people of the country to condemn this measure and stand with the people of the world to 
highlight the aspirations of the people of Palestine. 

We have to outright condemn the attitude of India towards the statement of the US.  The 

Brahmanical communal forces in power in our country are supporting the policies of the US and are 

strengthening its friendly ties with Israel for which the recent visit of Prime Minister Modi is one example. 
All the agreements that the PM of India made with Israel including defense and security, mortgage the 
sovereignty of the country and nothing else. Immediately after US declared Jerusalem as the capital of 
Israel, India did not condemn it like the other countries. This only shows its anti-Islam nature. Our Party 
appeals to the people of India to condemn the same and to stand in support of the Arab people. They must 
expose the measure of Trump that ignited another crusade and the attitudes of the saffron terrorists that 
are in support to him. 

 

 

 

Abhay 
Spokesperson 
Central Committee 
Communist Party of India (Maoist) 

