because of their insatiable greed in scrambling for world markets, sources of
raw materials and fields for investment, and because of their struggle to re-
divide the world start world wars. Hence, so long as imperialism exists in the
world, the source and possibility of war will remain. He laid bare the myth of
democracy and showed  how  “politically imperialism is always a striving
towards violence and reaction.”

Lenin asserted that imperialism is monopolistic, parasitic or decaying,
moribund capitalism, that it is the highest and final stage in the development
of capitalism and therefore is the eve of the proletarian revolution.

Another major contribution of Lenin was regarding the smashing of the
State structure of the exploiting classes and the establishment of the dictatorship
of the proletariat. He explained how the State is an instrument of oppression
of one class by another and how the exploitative State can be smashed only by
means  of  revolutionary  violence.  Lenin  repeatedly  pointed  out  that  the
proletarian revolution must smash the bourgeois state machine and replace it
with the dictatorship of the proletariat.

Drawing lessons from the experiences of the Paris Commune and the
Russian Revolution, he discovered that the Soviet form of government was
the best form of the dictatorship of the proletariat; defined the dictatorship of
the proletariat as a special form of the class alliance between the proletariat,
and  the  exploited  masses  of  the  non-proletarian  classes,  particularly  the
peasantry, under the leadership of the working class; and explained how the
dictatorship of the proletariat is the highest type of democracy, the form of
proletarian democracy, which expresses the interests of the majority of the
masses. Lenin pointed out that the dictatorship of the proletariat is a persistent
struggle - bloody and bloodless, violent and peaceful, military and economic,
educational and administrative - against the forces and traditions of the old
society,  that  it  means  all-round  dictatorship  over  the  bourgeoisie.  The
importance of the dictatorship of the proletariat in Lenin’s thinking could be
gauged from his famous observation: “Only he is a Marxist who extends the
recognition of the class struggle to the recognition of the dictatorship of
the proletariat.”

Lenin also warned of the danger of the restoration of capitalism if the
working class does not completely transform the small commodity production.
Lenin  said:  “small  production  engenders  capitalism  and  the  bourgeoisie
continuously, daily, hourly, spontaneously, and on a mass scale.” That is why

16

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

HOLD HIGH THE BRIGHT
HOLD HIGH THE BRIGHT
HOLD HIGH THE BRIGHT
HOLD HIGH THE BRIGHT
HOLD HIGH THE BRIGHT

RED BANNER OF
RED BANNER OF
RED BANNER OF
RED BANNER OF
RED BANNER OF
MARXISM-LENINISM-MA
MARXISM-LENINISM-MA
MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISMOISMOISMOISMOISM
MARXISM-LENINISM-MA
MARXISM-LENINISM-MA

Central Committee (P)

CPI(Maoist)

materialist philosophy, the most important achievements of science from the
time of Engels down to his own time, as well as of subjecting to comprehensive
criticism the anti-materialistic trends among Marxists. In particular, his criticism
on empirio-criticism which came to the fore as a revisionist trend in philosophy
is of fundamental importance. From then on until today it has served as Marxist
critique of the modern bourgeois philosophical trends. He considered the attack
on Marxism in name of “New” philosophical trends based on modern scientific
discoveries as a manifestation of the class struggle in the philosophical front.
He proved that all the “New” philosophical theories were no different from
the old subjective idealism of Berkeley and Hume. Lenin thus defeated most
ably this attack on Marxism in the philosophical front. In this process he
creatively developed Marxist philosophy.

Lenin  developed  Marxist  theory  of  reflection  in  a  creative  way.  He
explained on the basis of modern scientific discoveries that matter has the
property of being reflected and consciousness is the highest form of reflection
of matter in the brain.

The theory of reflection of matter developed by Lenin, the definition he
gave to matter further strengthened the foundations of Marxist philosophical
materialism,  making  them  impregnable  to  any  attacks  from  any  form  of
idealism. The revolutionary dialectics was further carried ahead by Lenin who
particularly made a deep study of contradictions. He called contradiction “the
essence of dialectics” and stated that ‘the division of the One and the knowledge
of its contradictory parts is the essence of dialectics.” He further asserted,
“In brief, dialectics can be defined as the doctrine of the unity of opposites”.
Lenin made some of his greatest contributions to political economy. While
Marx and Engels revealed the various aspects of capitalism when it was at the
stage of free-competition and pointed out its tendencies and future direction,
it  was  not  possible  for  them  to  analyse  imperialism,  the  highest  stage  of
capitalism which was yet to be unfolded. Lenin further developed the Marxist
political  economy  and  analysed  the  economic  and  political  essences  of
imperialism.

In his brilliant analysis of imperialism, which is a great contribution to
the  theory  of  Marxism,  comrade  Lenin  scientifically  explained  the
transformation of capitalism from the pre-monopoly stage to monopoly stage
and how this highest stage of capitalism bred war and revolution. He pointed
out that imperialist war is a continuation of imperialist politics. The imperialists

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

15

Marx and enriched the latter’s writings, simplifying and elaborating them where
necessary.  Engels  also  made  great  contributions  to  philosophy,  political
economy and scientific socialism after the death of Marx. He defended Marx
and  led  the  ideological  struggle  against  the  opportunism  in  the  Second
International in the initial years of its existence. Thus the contributions of
Engels are an inseparable part of the theory of Marxism.

The revolutionary standpoint, political theory, the dialectical method and
the all-embracing world view developed by Marx i.e., doctrine of Marx, came
to  be  called  Marxism,  and  represents  the  first  great  milestone  in  the
development of the scientific ideology of the proletariat.
Lenin and Leninism

Lenin, following Marx and Engels, was a great revolutionary teacher of
the proletariat, the working people and the oppressed nations of the whole
world. Under the historical conditions of the epoch of imperialism and in the
flames  of  the  proletarian  socialist  revolution,  Lenin  inherited,  resolutely
defended, scientifically applied and creatively developed the revolutionary
teachings  of  Marx  and  Engels.  Leninism  is  Marxism  of  the  epoch  of
imperialism and proletarian revolution.

He creatively applied the basic tenets of Marxism to the concrete practice
of the Russian revolution and to the World Proletarian Revolution in the early
phase of the imperialist era. Comrade Stalin summed up Leninism as: “Marxism
in the era of imperialism and proletarian revolution.”

Stalin mentioned two causes for the specific features of Leninism. “...
firstly, to the fact that Leninism emerged from the proletarian revolution, the
imprint of which it cannot but bear; secondly, to the fact that it grew and
became strong in clashes with the opportunism of the Second International.”
Com. Lenin made great contributions to enrich all the three component
parts of Marxism and elevated our understanding of the proletarian Party,
revolutionary violence, the State, the dictatorship of the proletariat, imperialism,
the peasant question, the women’s question, the national question, world war,
and tactics of the proletariat in the class struggle to a higher stage of conception.
The theoretical writings of Com. Lenin deal with almost every subject applying
the dialectical method of Marx.

Lenin undertook the very serious task of generalizing, on the basis of

14

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

FOREWFOREWFOREWFOREWFOREWORDORDORDORDORD

The present draft document has been finalized by Joint CC of
the erstwhile CPI (ML)[PW] and the MCCI in September 2004 after
extensive  discussions.  Five  draft  documents  were  prepared  after
intense discussions in a series of bilateral meetings held between the
high-level delegations of the two erstwhile parties between February
2003 and September 2004. The Joint CC meeting deeply studied
these  five  draft  documents,  freely  exchanged  the  rich  experiences
acquired  through  the  revolutionary  practice  during  the  past  three
decades and more, and arrived at a common understanding on several
vexed questions confronting the Indian revolution in the backdrop of
the international developments.

The present document – Hold High the Brigtht Red Banner
of Marxism-Leninism-Maoism – is the synthesis of all the positive
points in the documents of the two erstwhile parties, as well as their
experiences in the course of waging the people’s war, fighting against
revisionism, and right and left opportunist trends in the Indian and
international  communist  movement,  and  building  a  stable  and
consistent revolutionary movement in various parts of our country.
We are placing the present document before the entire rank and
file  of  our  new  Unified  Party  for  immediate  guidance  and
implementation. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that
this  is  a  draft  for  the  forthcoming  Congress  of  the  Unified  Party.
Hence, it has to be enriched further by the participation of all the
Party members and suggesting amendments where necessary. Thus
it should become an effective weapon in the hands of the Party for
solving  the  fundamental  problems  of  the  Indian  revolution  and  to
advance  it  towards  victory.

21-9-2004

Central Committee (P)

Communist Party of India (Maoist)

by his infamous theory of the “iron law of wages”.

Marx criticized the opportunist Gotha Programme that was adopted by
the new Party formed in Germany by the merger of the revolutionary Left led
by Liebknecht and Bebel with the opportunist Lassalle who believed in the
democratization  of  the  state  through  universal  suffrage  or  so-called  state
socialism and collaborated with Bismarck.

 Marx developed the theory of the dictatorship of the proletariat as a
form of rule of the proletariat and as a method of overthrowing the rule of
capital by force. Marx and Engels explained the birth, development and the
withering away of the State in the course of development of human society
from  the  slave-owning  society  to  communism.  They  explained  that  “the
executive of the modern state is but a committee for managing the common
affairs of the whole bourgeoisie”.(The Communist Manifesto).

The  most  important  principle  derived  from  the  experience  of  the
Commune, according to Marx, is that ‘the working class cannot simply lay
hold of the ready-made state machinery, and use it for its own purposes.’ In
other words, the proletariat should use revolutionary means to seize state power,
smash the military bureaucratic machine of the bourgeoisie and establish the
dictatorship of the proletariat to replace the dictatorship of the bourgeoisie.
Dictatorship of the proletariat is a key concept in Marxist political theory.
Marx proved that “the class struggle necessarily leads to the dictatorship of
the proletariat; that this dictatorship itself constitutes the transition to the
abolition of all classes and to a classless society.” (Letter to Wedemeyer,
March, 1852) Marx and Engels thus exposed and defeated all petty bourgeois,
utopian theories of socialism that rejected class struggle and the dictatorship
of the proletariat and firmly established the principles of scientific socialism.
It is through the development of the theory and tactics of the proletariat
in the pre-monopoly stage of capitalism and the resolute struggle waged by
Marx, against the various opportunist trends hostile to the interests of the
proletariat, that Marxism got established as the first stage in the development
of the proletarian ideology. And the Marxist methodology has been adopted
in understanding and developing almost all subjects ranging from natural
sciences to the strategy and tactics of revolution.

  The great contributions of Marx and Engels are inseparable. It was in
close collaboration with Engels that Marx developed his theory. Engels assisted

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

13

Basing on the above understanding Marx and Engels recognised that the
proletariat has emerged as the most revolutionary social class and a motive
force for social development; that the proletariat, in the course of liberating
itself from wage slavery, will also liberate the entire society from all class
exploitation and oppression and advance towards a classless society. They
realized that, in order to liberate itself by overthrowing capitalism the proletariat
should develop its own class ideology, that it should transform from the position
of class-in-itself to a class-for-itself, and that it should form its own advanced
organization-the Party of the proletariat.

They  proved  that  the  contradiction  between  productive  forces  and
relations of production in class society manifests itself as a class contradiction
and it is this class struggle, which serves as the driving force of society. Hence
they described the history of class society as a history of a class struggle. The
Communist Manifesto, an immortal work of Marx and Engels which appeared
over 150 years ago, remains the international proletariat’s guide even to this
day.

The  birth  of  Marxism  belongs  to  the  period  of  one  of  the  greatest
transformations  in  human  history  and  the  establishment  of  the  global
domination of a few Western capitalist regimes. It was in the period of stormy
revolutions  of  the  bourgeois-democratic  epoch  and  nascent  proletarian-
revolutionary movements from 1848 to the Paris Commune of 1871, and a
relatively peaceful period of preparation of the proletarian revolutions after
the fall of the Commune to the turn of the century that Marxism became
established through the correct analysis provided by Marx and Engels into the
great events of the period like the Paris Commune. Marx and Engels played a
major role in establishing and guiding the Communist Parties and the First
International and gave the workers of various nations an internationalist outlook
and camaraderie through their clarion call : “Workers of the world Unite!”
Marxism  developed  into  an  ideological  weapon  in  the  hands  of  the
proletariat by defeating the various petty-bourgeois trends like the Anarchist
trend of Proudhon, Bakunin and the like who rejected the need for the political
struggle of the working class, rejected the need for a Party of the proletariat
and rejected the dictatorship of the proletariat; the Blanquist trend that relied
exclusively on conspiratorial methods; and the opportunist trend of Lassalle,
who proposed a system of government-subsidised co-operatives, which would
gradually replace capitalism, and opposed even trade union struggles and strikes

INTRODUCTION

During the uproarious decade of 60s that shook the entire world, the
genuine communist revolutionaries in India too began their struggle against
the  entrenched  revisionists  inspired  by  Marxism-Leninism-Mao  Tse-tung
Thought. The Great Debate, initiated and carried out by the then CPC led by
Mao Tse-tung against modern revisionism in the International Communist
Movement, clearly marked this new beginning in the Communist Movement
in India.

It  is  in  this  context  that  many  genuine  and  staunch  communist
revolutionary forces along with many outstanding and front-ranking leaders
like comrades CM and KC started emerging on the scene in the fight against
revisionism. This fight was reflected in the 7th Congress of the CPM held in
1964  in  the  form  of  two  diametrically  opposite  roads-the  road  of
parliamentarism and the road of protracted people’s war.

Thereafter, the earth-shaking events of the GPCR further surcharged the
political atmosphere in India. The clarion call of the great Naxalbari movement
led by Com. CM proved to be a “Spring Thunder over India” as graphically
described  by  CPC.  It  greatly  unmasked  the  ugly  face  of  the  revisionist
leadership of the CPI, CPI (M) brand. The powerful slogans like “China’s
Path is Our Path” and “Mao Tsetung Thought is Our Thought” spread to
the four corners of India and even other parts of the Sub-Continent. Naxalbari
thus  marked  a  qualitative  rupture  with  age-old  revisionism  in  the  Indian
communist movement and firmly established the universal truth of MLM
Thought in India. From then on, MLM-Thought had become a demarcating
line  between  revisionists  and  genuine  revolutionaries  in  India.  Thus
“Naxalbari path, the only path” became an ever-resounding slogan. This
movement  further  inspired  and  attracted  a  completely  new  generation  of
revolutionary communist forces from among the masses of workers, peasants,
students,  youth,  women  and  intellectuals  towards  the  ideology  of  MLM
Thought.

The tumultuous events of the 60s starting with the Great Debate and
culminating in the GPCR brought forth a new polarisation among the ML
forces all over the globe. New Marxist-Leninist parties began to emerge by
taking MLM Thought as their guiding ideology.

12

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

5

Although later the revolutionary movement suffered a setback for the
time being, the bright red banner of MLM Thought and the flames of Naxalbari
continue to shine in various parts of the country. In fact the seeds of MLM
Thought were sown very deep in the Indian landscape.

The history of the emergence and development of our two Parties is
inseparably linked with this stormy period. During the last 30 years and more
of history we not only continue to uphold the shining red banner of MLM
Thought, but also continue to apply it in our revolutionary practice in the
concrete conditions of India. During this practice we have forged and developed
a revolutionary line by analyzing and synthesizing the positive and negative
experiences of our movements no doubt on the basis of MLM Thought. In
this light we have achieved many remarkable successes in continuing and
developing  the  protracted  people’s  war  through  developing  agrarian
revolutionary guerilla struggle in the countryside by mobilizing and relying
on the peasant masses, especially the poor and landless peasants. We continued
this  struggle  by  resisting  the  continuous  severe  repression  and  many
suppression campaigns unleashed by the reactionary ruling classes. We have
succeeded in developing several guerilla zones and guerrilla army-the PLGA-
directed towards establishing full-fledged PLA and Base Areas in the vast
countryside of Andhra, Jharkhand, Bihar, Dandakaranya and the adjoining
parts of these states. This protracted people’s war led by our two Parties is
directed towards completing the New Democratic Revolution through the
strategy of encircling the cities from the countryside. The content of this
revolution is agrarian revolution.

 During the course of this protracted people’s war and fighting against
various “Left” and Right Opportunist tendencies that emerged from within or
outside apart from the revisionism of CPI and CPI (M), we have learnt that
any  attempt  to  belittle  the  importance  of  MLM  Thought  and  its  concrete
application to the concrete conditions will prove to be very disastrous. All
these tendencies undermined the Maoist conception that in all the backward
countries dominated by imperialism and feudalism the objective condition
for initiating and developing protracted people’s war from the very beginning
are already mature. In the very light of our bitter experience of the last 30
years achieved at the cost of heavy bloodshed along with the experiences of
the International Communist Movement, our understanding regarding our
ideology has deepened further.
6

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

producers through the market.

In his monumental work, Das Capital, he expounded the labour theory
of value and showed how surplus value extracted from the worker is the specific
form of exploitation under capitalism, which takes the form of profit, the
source of the wealth of the capitalist class. He showed that exploitation takes
place in the capitalist mode of production behind the façade of free and equal
exchange. Marx refuted the erroneous views of the Classical economists that
exploitation arises from unequal exchange of labour for the wage. Based on
this  analysis  and  the  law  of  contradiction  Marx  discovered  the  basic
contradiction in capitalist society. As Com. Mao explained:

“When Marx applied this law to the study of the economic structure of
capitalist society, he discovered that the basic contradiction of this society is
the contradiction between the social character of production and the private
character of ownership. This contradiction manifests itself in the contradiction
between the organized character of production in individual enterprises and
the anarchic character of production in society as a whole. In terms of class
relations, it manifests itself in the contradiction between the bourgeoisie and
the proletariat.” (On Contradiction)

Marx explained capitalist crises also as another manifestation of this

fundamental contradiction of capitalism.

Com. Lenin expounded the Marxist understanding regarding the capitalist
crisis, while refuting the Sismodian view, that crisis manifests “precisely in
the conditions of production. To put it more briefly, the former (Sismondian)
explains crises, by underconsumption (Unterkonsumption ), the latter (Marxist)
by  the  anarchy  of  production.”  (The  characterization  of  Economic
Romanticism)

Explaining how the capitalists try to resolve the crisis, The Communist

Manifesto puts it lucidly:

“The conditions of bourgeois society are too narrow to comprise the
wealth created by them. And how does the bourgeoisie get over these crises?
On the one hand, by enforced destruction of a mass of productive forces; on
the  other,  by  the  conquest  of  new  markets,  and  by  the  more  thorough
exploitation of the old ones. That is to say,, by paving the way for extensive
and more destructive crisis, and thereby diminishing the means whereby crises
are prevented.”

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

11

Marx gave to philosophy the revolutionary task of changing the world.
This is expressed in the famous statement made by Marx in his Theses on
Feuerbach: “The philosophers have only interpreted the world, our task is
to change it”.

  Marx and Engels defined matter as material reality existing objectively
and  that  it  gets  reflected  in  human  consciousness.  Marxist  philosophical
materialism  thus  resolved  the  fundamental  question  in  philosophy-  that
concerning the relation of thinking and being ...spirit to nature.

They also proved most scientifically the second aspect in the fundamental
question in philosophy, viz, can human consciousness properly reflect objective
reality?  Marxist  theory  of  knowledge  totally  rejected  agnosticism  and
skepticism, asserted that nothing in the world remains forever as a “thing-in-
itself” or unknowable. Marxist theory of knowledge asserted that social practice
is the source of knowledge. Completely rejecting rationalist and empiricist
trends, it also stated that social practice is the measure of truth.

Marx synthesized the knowledge gained by humankind over the centuries
and,  basing  himself  mainly  on  all  that  was  rational  in  German  classical
philosophy, English classical political economy and French revolutionary and
socialist doctrines, Marx discovered the Materialist Conception of History.
He defined the human essence as the ensemble of social relations.

In the field of political economy, Marx’s greatest contribution is the

analysis of Capital.

As explained by Lenin and cited by Com. Mao in his ‘On Contradiction’,
“In  his  Capital,  Marx  first  analyses  the  simplest,  most  ordinary  and
fundamental, most common and everyday relation of bourgeois (commodity)
society,  a  relation  encountered  billions  of  times,  viz.  the  exchange  of
commodities. In this very simple phenomenon (in this “cell” of bourgeois
society)  analysis  reveals  all  the  contradictions  (or  the  germs  of  all  the
contradictions) of modern society. The subsequent exposition shows us the
development (both growth and movement) of these contradictions and of this
society in the [summation] of its individual parts, from its beginning to its
end.”

Thus where the bourgeois economists saw a relation between things (the
exchange of one commodity for another) Marx revealed a relation between
people. The exchange of commodities expresses the tie between individual

It is in this overall context, when the modern revisionists and those
claiming to be followers of Mao Thought have been undermining the universal
significance and application of Mao’s contributions and thereby refusing to
accept it as a higher stage of Marxism-Leninism that our unified Party is
bringing out this document. As the focus of this document is on Maoism, the
basic tenets of Marxism and Leninism are dealt here briefly as introduction to
show the Marxist-Leninist foundations. Comrade Mao Tse-tung not only firmly
based on this foundation but also inherited, defended and developed it to a
new, third and qualitatively higher stage. Hence MLM is the continuity of
thought of our great Marxist teachers, and is also an integrated whole. Though
in our understanding there is no distinction between MLM Thought and MLM
and  no  Chinese  Wall  can  separate  the  two,  we  have  adopted  Marxism-
Leninism-Maoism as a new, third and qualitatively higher stage because it is
more scientific and appropriate.

It should be borne in mind that the present document is an outline of the
guiding principles of MLM. Taking this into consideration, we have to refer
to the classical writings of Marx, Engels, Lenin, Stalin and Mao Tse-tung and
creatively apply them to the concrete practice of the Indian revolution to solve
the multifarious problems of our revolution.

As Com. Lenin said, “The role of vanguard fighter can be fulfilled only
by a party that is guided by the most advanced theory.” And this most advanced
theory is the theory of Marxism-Leninism-Maoism. Hence our Party declares
firmly to the workers, peasants and all the toiling and oppressed people of our
country (as well as to the international proletariat and the oppressed masses
of the world) that our guiding ideology is Marxism-Leninism-Maoism.
Stages in the Development of the Proletarian Ideology
“Marxism  is  not  a  lifeless  dogma,  not  a  completed,  ready-made,
immutable doctrine, but a living guide to action” said Com. Lenin, and it is
“bound to reflect the astonishingly abrupt change in the conditions of social
life.”

It is precisely because Marxism is a living science, and not a lifeless
dogma, has living connection with, and serves practice, that it undergoes
continuous development and gets enriched in the course of development of
the class struggle, the struggle for production and scientific experiment. The

10

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

7

Theory, Ideology or science of Marxism-Leninism-Maoism is the synthesis of
the experiences of class struggle in all spheres and in all countries over the
last 150 years. It is a comprehensive whole of philosophy, political economy
and scientific socialism or class struggle of the proletariat.

MLM has been forged and expounded by the most brilliant leaders of
the international proletariat-Marx, Engels, Lenin, Stalin and Mao Tse tung-in
the crucible of class struggle and the ideological struggle against bourgeois
ideology and its various manifestations in the form of revisionism and various
other alien class tendencies in the past 150 years. It is an invincible weapon in
the hands of the international proletariat and other oppressed and exploited
masses to understand and transform this world by carrying out the revolution.
It  is  a  living  and  scientific  ideology  which  has  constantly  developed  and
enriched  during  the  course  of  revolutionary  practice  in  the  International
Communist Movement.

Marxism, the scientific theory developed by Marx and Engels, laid the
foundation of the new science and became firmly established by the last decade
of  the  19th  century  after  defeating  all  the  bourgeois,  petty-bourgeois  and
opportunist trends in the International Communist Movement in a bitter struggle
lasting for almost half-a-century. Marxism is the first stage in the development
of the scientific ideology of the proletariat.

The second great leap in the science of Marxism took place in the initial
decades of the 20th century under conditions of monopoly capitalism, which
took the form of imperialism. It was in the course of creatively applying the
basic tenets of Marxism to the concrete practice of the Russian Revolution
and the World Proletarian Revolution and in the course of the ideological-
political struggle against revisionists like Bernstein, Kautsky and dogmatic
Marxists like Plekhanov, that Com. Lenin defended, enriched and developed
Marxism to a new and higher stage of proletarian science. Thus Marxism-
Leninism represented the second stage in the development of the scientific
ideology of the proletariat.

The third great leap in the development of the proletarian science was
brought forth by Com. Mao by applying the basic tenets of Marxism-Leninism
to the concrete practice of the Chinese Revolution and the World Proletarian
Revolution  and  in  the  course  of  the  resolute  struggle  against  modern
revisionism  led  by  Khrushchov  &  Co.  He  firmly  defended,  enriched  and
developed the science of Marxism-Leninism to a new and higher stage by

8

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

making significant contributions to the three component parts of Marxism-
Leninism.  Thus  Marxism-Leninism-Maoism  marks  the  third  stage  in  the
development of the scientific ideology of the proletariat.

A correct scientific understanding of the development of the ideology of
the proletariat over the last 150 years is very essential in order to grasp the
significance of Marxism-Leninism-Maoism as a qualitatively higher stage of
Marxism-Leninism.

Marx and Marxism

Pointing out the objective conditions that gave birth to the science of

Marxism Com. Mao states :

“For a very long period in history, men were necessarily confined to a
one-sided understanding of history of society because, for one thing, the bias
of the exploiting classes always distorted history and, for another, the small
scale  of  production  limited  men’s  outlook.  It  was  not  until  the  modern
proletariat emerged along with immense forces of production (large-scale
industry)  that  man  was  able  to  acquire  a  comprehensive  historical
understanding of the development of society and turn this knowledge into
science, the science of Marxism.” (Mao - On Practice, Selected Works, Vol
I, page 206)

And Com.Stalin succinctly sums up the essence of Marxism thus:
“Marxism is the science of the laws governing the development of nature
and society, the science of the revolution of the oppressed and exploited masses,
the science of the victory of socialism in all countries, the science of building
a communist society.”

Karl Marx, along with his close comrade-in-arms, Frederick Engels,
developed the philosophy of dialectical materialism as a method and outlook;
applied  the  dialectical  method  to  discover  the  laws  of  motion  of  social
development or the materialist conception of history; developed the science
of political economy which discovered the laws of motion of capitalism with
its  inherent  class  contradictions  and  the  doctrine  of  surplus  value-the
cornerstone  of  Marx’s  economic  theory-which  uncovered  the  source  of
exploitation; developed the theory of scientific socialism based on the doctrine
of the class struggle; and outlined the principles governing the tactics of the
class struggle of the proletariat.
MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

9

and shift all the blame on others. In developing the mass line Mao Tsetung
continued to stress that communist should set an example in learning from the
masses and relying on them.
On Democratic Centralism

Mao’s  dialectical  presentation  of  the  understanding  of  democratic
centralism was a significant contribution to the Marxist theory of organisational
principles. He stressed on creating ‘a political situation in which we have
both centralism and democracy, both discipline and freedom, both unity of
will and personal ease of mind and liveliness’ both inside and outside the
Party and said that “Otherwise it will be impossible to arouse the enthusiasm
of the masses. We cannot overcome difficulties without democracy. Of course,
its  even  more  impossible  to  do  so  without  centralism.  But  if  there’s  no
democracy there won’t be any centralism.”

“Without democracy there can’t be correct centralism because centralism
can’t be established when people have divergent views and don’t have unity
of  understanding.  What  is  meant  by  centralism?  First,  there  must  be
concentration  of  correct  ideas.  Unity  of  understanding,  of  policy,  plan,
command and action is attained on the basis of concentrating correct ideas.
This is unity through centralism. But if all those concerned are still not clear
about the problems, if their opinions are still unexpressed or their anger is
still not vented, how can you achieve this unity through centralism? Without
democracy, it is impossible to sum up experience correctly. Without democracy,
without ideas coming from the masses, it is impossible to formulate good
lines, principles, policies or methods.”

Mao  also  explained  the  dialectical  relationship  between  democratic

centralism and dictatorship of the proletariat:

“Without democratic centralism, the dictatorship of the proletariat cannot
be consolidated. Without broad democracy for the people, it is impossible for
the dictatorship of the proletariat to be consolidated of for political power to
be  stable.  Without  democracy,  without  arousing  the  masses  and  without
supervision by the masses, it is impossible to exercise effective dictatorship
over the reactionaries and bad elements or to remould them effectively.”

He warned that if the DOP is not consolidated based on democratic
centralism it is impossible to establish a socialist economy and then China
will turn into a bourgeois state and the DOP will turn into a dictatorship of the

32

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

Lenin considered that the dictatorship of the proletariat is essential to check
the rise of the new bourgeoisie. Moreover, basing on the law of the uneven
economic  and  political  development  of  capitalism,  Lenin  came  to  the
conclusion that, because capitalism developed extremely unevenly in different
countries, socialism would achieve victory first in one or several countries
but could not achieve victory simultaneously in all countries. Therefore, in
spite of the victory of socialism in one or several countries, other capitalist
countries still exist, and this gives rise to imperialist subversive activities against
the socialist states. Hence the struggle will be protracted. This was very lucidly
brought out by the CPC in its famous June 14 Letter of 1963:

“After the October Revolution, Lenin pointed out a number of times

that:

  a. The overthrown exploiters always try in a thousand and one ways to

recover the “paradise” they have been deprived of.

    b.  New  elements  of  capitalism  are  constantly  and  spontaneously

generated in the petty-bourgeois atmosphere.

  c. Political degenerates and new bourgeois elements may emerge in
the ranks of the working class and among government functionaries as a
result of bourgeois influence and the pervasive, corrupting atmosphere of the
petty bourgeoisie.

  d. The external conditions for the continuance of class struggle within
a  socialist  country  are  encirclement  by  international  capitalism,  the
imperialists’ threat of armed intervention and their subversive activities to
accomplish peaceful disintegration. “

. This thesis of Lenin that the struggle between socialism and capitalism
will embrace a whole historical epoch is a tremendous contribution to the
theory of building socialism and communism.

Lenin made a path-breaking leap in the concept and practice of Party
building, which is a great addition to the arsenal of Marxism. Lenin considered
it  of  prime  importance  for  the  proletariat  to  establish  its  own  genuinely
revolutionary political party, which completely breaks with opportunism, that
is, a Communist Party, if the proletarian revolution is to be carried through,
and  the  dictatorship  of  the  proletariat  established  and  consolidated.  He
brilliantly  summed  up  the  need  for  the  party  in  the  famous  phrase  “The
Proletariat, in its struggle for power, has no weapon other than organization”.
MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM
17

He postulated that the Party is the highest form of class organization that
directs all other forms of organization of the masses, that the dictatorship of
the proletariat can be realized only through the proletarian Party, and that the
Party should consist of a stable nucleus of professional revolutionaries with
an extensive network of Party membership. This political party must identify
itself with the masses and attach great importance to their creative initiative in
the making of history; it must closely rely on the masses in revolution as well
as in building Socialism and Communism.

The Leninist understanding on the national question is qualitatively of a
higher level. He fought both the chauvinism of the oppressor nation and the
narrow nationalism of the oppressed nation and laid out a correct policy for
the Party of the proletariat on the national question i.e. complete equality of
rights for all nations; the right of nations to self-determination, including the
right of secession, and the amalgamation of all nations. He showed how the
national and colonial question is a component part of the general question of
the world proletarian revolution and how it can be resolved only by the complete
elimination of imperialism worldwide. According to the National and Colonial
Thesis of Com. Lenin, the proletarian revolutionary movements in the capitalist
countries should ally themselves with the national liberation movements in
the colonies and dependent countries; this alliance can smash the alliance of
the imperialists with the feudal and comprador reactionary forces in the colonies
all dependent countries, and will therefore inevitably put a final end to the
imperialist system throughout the world.

Lenin creatively developed the ideas of Marx and Engels on an alliance
of the working class and the peasantry into an integral doctrine. Refuting the
line of the Mensheviks like Plekhanov who argued that the proletariat should
only play the role of extreme left opposition and leave the leadership role of
the bourgeois democratic revolution in Russia to the bourgeoisie and that the
peasantry  should  be  left  under  the  latter’s  tutelage,  Lenin  formulated  the
strategic plans for both the stages of revolution in Russia as: “The proletariat
must carry the democratic revolution to the completion, allying to itself the
mass of the peasantry in order to crush the autocracy’s resistance by force
and paralyse the bourgeoisie’s instability. The proletariat must accomplish
the Socialist revolution, allying to itself the masses of the semi-proletarian
elements of the population, so as to crush the bourgeoisie’s resistance by
force and paralyse the instability of the peasantry and the petty-bourgeoisie.”

regarding the Communist Party who emphatically stated that “ if there is to be
revolution there must be a revolutionary party.” The party must be armed
with the scientific ideology of MLM, it must be built on revolutionary style
and should be well disciplined, using the method of criticism and self- criticism
and closely linked with while relying vast masses of the People. Apart from
fighting against bourgeoisie ideology and various shades of revisionism Com.
Mao developed the profound understanding of how to develop and preserve
and enhance the proletarian character of the party through waging active and
relentless struggle against the influence of the bourgeoisie tendencies inside
the party ranks at all levels.

Com.  Mao  taught  that  the  communist  party  plays  the  primary  and
vanguard role in all matters before, during and often the revolution in leading
the  proletariat  and  the  masses  in  the  historic  struggle  leading  toward
communism. He developed the profound understanding of how to develop
and preserve the proletarian character of the party through waging an active
and serious struggle against bourgeois and petti-bourgeois tendencies in the
party ranks at all levels. In addition to the ideological remoulding of the party
members  the  weapon  of  criticism  and  self-criticism  should  be  used  for
strengthening the party organisation and increasing its fighting capacity. In
opposing  subjectivism  and  sectarianism  and  other  alien  class  tendencies
communist must firstly “learn from past mistakes to avoid future ones,” and
secondly “cure the sickness to save the patient”, this is the only correct and
effective method. He also set a new example to constantly rectify the party in
order  to  proletarianise  the  Party  and  safeguard  the  political  line  through
initiating rectification campaigns from time to time. He also warned against
subjectivism, arbitrariness and vulgarisation of criticism and emphasised that
during this process statements should be based on facts and criticism should
stress the political side.

Com. Mao highlighted the importance of integration of the leadership
with the masses. Thereby he emphasised that they should be bold in unleashing
their initiative and creativity. For this they should set an example in “simple
living and hard work”. Both commandism and the attitude of dispensing favours
have to be fought. Communists must be modest and prudent and guard against
arrogance and impetuosity; they must be imbued with the spirit of self-criticism
and have the courage of correcting the mistakes and shortcomings in their
work. They must not cover up their errors and claim the credit for themselves

18

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

31

class and the people), but above all between the Party’s leading bodies and
the masses within the Party (between the cadres and the rank and the file); in
other words there must be a correct organisational line. There fore, just as in
each period of the Party’s history Comrade Mao Tse-tung has laid down a
political line representing the interests of the masses, so he has laid down an
organisational line serving the political line and maintaining ties with the
masses both inside and outside the Party.”
Three Magic Weapons

The “Three Magic Weapons”-the party, army and the united front-is
another new thesis developed by Com. Mao. The deeper understanding and
masterful use of these weapons by the party of the proletariat can and will
guarantee  the  advancement  of  revolution  towards  victory.  It  is  extremely
necessary to understand and grasp not only the significance of each weapon
taken  by  itself  but  it  is  more  important  to  understand  and  master  their
interrelationship in theory and, more importantly, in concrete practice. In this
regard Com. Mao remarkably concluded : “Our eighteen years experience
show that the UF and armed struggle are the two basic weapons for defeating
the enemy. The UF is a UF for carrying on armed struggle, and party is the
heroic warrior wielding the two weapons, the UF and the Armed Struggle to
storm and shatter the enemy’s positions. That is how they are related to each
other.” (Mao, “Introducing the Communist” Vol. II, Page 295)

This is the essence of Com. Mao’s theory in understanding and correctly
handling  the  two  weapons,  UF  and  Armed  Struggle,  by  the  Party  of  the
Proletariat.

Apart  from  the  three  magic  weapons  Com.  Mao  also  developed  an
important guideline in understanding and developing the relationship of other
forms of organization and struggles. He said that “....war is the main form of
struggle and the army is the main form of organization. Other forms such as
mass organizations and mass struggles are also extremely important and
indeed indispensable and in no circumstances to be overlooked, but their
purpose is to serve the war.” This is the most correct criterion in judging the
performance of all other forms of organization and forms of struggles.
Communist Party

Com. Mao further developed the vanguard role of the Leninist concept

Analysing the international and the internal conditions in Russia in the
era of imperialism Lenin thus developed a completely new theory of two stages
of revolution-bourgeois democratic and proletarian socialist-both of which
are indivisible and should be led by the proletariat.

Leninism developed through relentless fight against the various shades
of opportunists such as the Bernstenian revisionists, Narodniks, Economists,
Mensheviks, Legal Marxists, Liquidators, Kautskyites, Trotskyites, etc. Lenin
drew up the tactics by taking Marxism as not a dogma but a guide to action.
The amazing clarity of the tactical slogans and the astounding boldness of the
revolutionary  plans  of  Lenin  won  over  all  the  Left  forces  in  the  Second
International and the revolutionary masses to the side of the Bolsheviks.

Lenin considered revisionists as agents of imperialism hiding among the
ranks of the working class movement and said: “…the fight against imperialism
is a sham and humbug unless it is inseparably bound up with the fight against
opportunism.”

With the collapse of the Second International during the First World
War due to the betrayal by most of the Social-Democratic Parties that pursued
a national chauvinist policy of “Defence of the Fatherland”,  Com.  Lenin
formed the Third International immediately following the War and made it a
powerful  instrument  of  the  international  proletariat  in  its  fight  against
imperialism.

While Marxism is the doctrine of the era of relative peaceful development
of  capitalism  and  Leninism  is  the  doctrine  of  the  era  of  imperialism  and
proletarian revolution.

Describing the conditions under which Leninism arose, Com.Stalin said:
“Leninism grew up and took shape under the conditions of imperialism, when
the contradictions of  capitalism  had  reached  an  extreme point,  when  the
proletarian revolution had become an immediate practical question, when
the old period of preparation of the working class for revolution had come up
and passed over to a new period, that of direct assault on capitalism”. And
that “Leninism is the theory and tactics of the proletarian revolution in general,
the theory and tactics of the dictatorship of the proletariat in particular.”

Lenin’s  teachings  on  imperialism,  on  proletarian  revolution  and  the
dictatorship  of  the  proletariat,  on  war  and  peace,  and  on  the  building  of
socialism and communism still retain their full vitality. The science of Marxism

30

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

19

thus took a qualitative leap into the second and higher stage of Marxism-
Leninism in the course of the proletarian revolution and the struggle against
the  opportunists  of  the  Second  international  in  the  imperialist  stage  of
capitalism.

Stalin’s Defence of Marxism-Leninism
Stalin’s  contribution  is  part  and  parcel  of  Leninism.  Based  on  the
theoretical foundations of Com. Lenin he further enriched and played a leading
role in construction of socialism in the USSR, the world’s first ever socialist
country.

Com. Stalin, the comrade-in-arms of Lenin, creatively applied, defended
and developed Marxism-Leninism in some fields. He led the International
Communist Movement, in the three decades after the death of Com.Lenin. He
played a glorious role in defeating the Hitler fascism during the 2nd World
War.

Stalin defended and developed Marxism-Leninism in the fight against
various kinds of opportunism, against the enemies of Leninism, the Trotskyites,
Zinovievites, Bukharinites, and other bourgeois agents.

Stalin made an indelible contribution to the international communist
movement through a number of theoretical writings such as those on the
Nationality question, Economic Problems of Socialism in the USSR, History
of the CPSU(B), on linguistics, etc and is known for the most lucid, popular
and simplified presentation of the works of Lenin such as “The Foundations
of Leninism” making them easier to grasp by the Marxist-Leninists all over
the world.

Mao and Maoism

Combining  the  Chinese  Revolution  and  the  international  proletarian
revolution  with  the  universal  truth  of  Marxism-Leninism,  Com.Mao  has
protected, inherited and developed Marxism-Leninism to a new and higher
stage  in  the  field  of  philosophy,  political  economy,  military  science  and
scientific socialism. Com.Mao has further developed the Marxist-Leninist
strategy  and  tactics.  Protracted  people’s  war  was  developed  through
revolutionary struggle and was for long 28 years in colonial, semi-colonial,
semi-feudal China-in a situation totally different from the capitalist Europe.

thereby facilitating the advance of the regular people’s army and the guerilla
units. Com.Mao taught that Party should always command the gun and the
gun must never be allowed to command the Party.

Com. Mao also profoundly chalked out the three distinct but interlinked
stages that the revolutionary war would generally traverse through. These are
the stage of strategic defensive, the stage of strategic stalemate or strategic
equilibrium and finally the stage of strategic offensive. The duration of these
stages will vary according to varying conditions of a country. Com. Mao
forcefully stated that “It is imperative that we arouse interest in the study of
military theory and direct the attention of the whole membership to the study
of military matters.” In this context of developing and applying the military
line, the military writings of Mao Tse-tung are a guide to action. These must
be  studied  and  grasped  for  continuously  deepening  and  advancing  the
revolutionary protracted people’s war to higher and higher stages.
Mass Line

Com. Mao further developed the concept regarding the revolutionary
mass line based on his famous dictum that “the people and the people alone
are the motive force in making world history.” He explained the basic method
of leadership by showing how correct ideas are formed in the leadership by
taking the ideas of the masses and concentrating them, and again going to the
masses, persevering in the ideas and carrying them through.. He stated that
“take  the  ideas  of  the  masses  (scattered  and  unsystematic  ideas),  and
concentrate them (through study, turn them into concentrated and systematic
ideas) then go to the masses and propagate and explain these ideas until the
masses embrace them as their own, hold fast to them and translate them into
action and test the correctness of these ideas in such action.”

Such is the essence of Mao’s mass line.
The 1945 CPC ‘Resolution on Certain Questions in the History of Our
Party’, lucidly summed up Com.Mao’s conception of mass line inside and
outside the Party:

“As Comrade Mao Tse-tung says, the correct line should be ‘from the
masses, to the masses’. To ensure that the line really comes from the masses
and particular that it really goes back to the masses, there must be close ties
not only between the Party and the masses outside the Party (between the

20

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

29

Comrade Mao systematically and comprehensively formulated the basic
principles of building up the Red Army and of the Red Army’s strategy and
tactics during the course of China’s Revolutionary war, or in short, the laws
that govern the people’s war. The basic strategic and tactical principles of the
Red  Army  were  derived  from  the  principal  characteristics  of  China’s
revolutionary war These basic principles, together with other military theories,
constitute the military line of the CPC represented by Com. Mao.

The principles and theories comprising the military line have enriched
the military science and have become a guide for directing the war, particularly
in colonial, semi-feudal. semi-colonial countries as the experiences of the
people’s wars and national liberation struggles in several countries since the
Second World War amply demonstrate.

One of the greatest contributions of Com.Mao to military science lies
precisely in his interpreting guerilla warfare on a strategic level. Formerly,
guerilla  warfare  was  only  considered  as  a  tactical  problem.  He  said  that
throughout the period of war, guerrilla warfare and mobile warfare of a guerilla
character are the chief forms of fighting. The strategic role of guerilla warfare
is two-fold, to support regular warfare and to transform itself into regular
warfare. While guerilla warfare is basic, he stressed that “the outcome of the
war depends mainly on regular warfare, especially in its mobile form”, and
that “these two forms of warfare will afford full play to the art of directing the
war and to the active role of man”. Which form of warfare-guerilla, mobile,
positional-will assume the main form at a particular phase of the protracted
people’s war depends on the concrete conditions. But in all conditions the
basic principle will remain “You fight your way and we’ll fight ours: We fight
when  we  can  win  and  we  retreat  when  we  cannot.”  In  the  same  way  he
categorically stated that “ all the guiding principles of military apparatus
grow out of one basic principle, ‘to preserve oneself and destroy the enemy’”.
All technical principles and all principles concerning tactics, campaigns and
strategy represent application of this basic principle.

One of the most important contributions of Mao is the involvement of
the broad masses in the people’s war. He showed that it is the people, not
weapons that are decisive in carrying out the people’s war. The development
of the people’s militia as the local fighting force with the slogan of “Every
citizen a soldier” spread the guerilla warfare in depth and breadth throughout
China. Guerilla warfare acquired a mass character behind the enemy lines

His theory of the New Democracy is also a unique contribution to the arsenal
of Marxism-Leninism.

After the successful completion of the great Chinese Revolution in 1949
he made some of his most brilliant contributions through the process of leading
a  worldwide  struggle  against  Khrushchov  revisionism  as  well  as  modern
revisionism which is popularly known as The Great Debate in the history of
the International Communist Movement and thereafter by making continuous
contributions to the treasury of Marxism-Leninism, he initiated and led the
earth-shaking GPCR which marked a historical turning point in the history of
International Communist Movement. During this period he developed the
theory of continuing the revolution under the dictatorship of the proletariat to
prevent the restoration of capitalism thereby consolidating and strengthening
the socialist system and the dictatorship of the proletariat with the very purpose
of advancing it towards communism on a world scale. On the whole, Com.
Mao developed  the  science of Marxism-Leninism to  its  third, higher  and
qualitatively new stage.

 Marxist philosophy: Mao Tse-tung made invaluable contributions in
greatly  developing  the  proletarian  philosophy  of  dialectical  materialism
including the theory of knowledge. Through his penetrating study of society
and human thought and particularly fighting against the dogmatists and made
a conceptual leap in understanding and developing the law of contradiction.
He pointed out that law of contradiction, the unity and struggle of opposites,
is the fundamental law of motion governing nature and society including the
human thought. He expounded that the unity and identity in all things and
processes is temporary and relative, while the struggle between opposites is
constant and absolute which marks “breaks in continuity” and new leaps. He
further explained this conceptual leap in identifying the relationship between
the particularity of contradiction and the universality of contradiction. He
said that in given condition, opposite in a contradiction possesses identity,
and consequently can coexist in a single entity and can transform themselves
into each other. This is the particularity and relativity of contradiction. But the
struggle of opposites is ceaseless, it goes on both when the opposites are
coexisting and when they are transforming themselves into each other, and
this struggle becomes especially visible when the opposites are transforming
themselves  into  one  another  -  this  is  universality  and  absoluteness  of
contradiction. In this context he further said that in analysing the particularity

28

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

21

of contradictions we must give attention to the distinction between the principal
contradiction and the non-principal contradiction and to the distinction between
the principal aspect and the non-principal aspect of a contradiction, while in
studying and analysing the universality of contradiction and the struggle of
opposites in contradiction, we must give attention to the distinction between
the different forms of struggle. That is why he stressed that “the study of the
various states of unevenness in contradictions, of the principal and the non-
principal contradictions and of the principal and the non-principal aspects of
a contradiction constitutes an essential method by which a revolutionary
political Party correctly determines its strategic and tactical policies both in
political and in military affairs.”

(Mao - ‘On Contradiction’ Selected Readings, Page 117)
How we must study every great system of the forms of motion of matter,
Com. Mao said, “It is necessary not only to study the particular contradiction
and the essence determined thereby of every great system of the forms of
motion of matter, but also study the particular contradiction and the essence
of each process in the long course of development of each form of motion of
matter . In every form of motion, each process of development which is real
(and not imaginary) is qualitatively different. Our study must emphasise and
start from this point.” (On Contradiction).

How to solve the qualitatively different contradictions Com.Mao taught
us, “qualitatively different contradictions can only be resolved by qualitatively
different methods.” ( Ibid.). How to study a long process he advised us to
remember the following guideline: “ the process is marked by stages. If people
do not pay attention to the stages in the process of development of a thing,
they cannot deal with its contradictions properly.”

Regarding  the  interrelationship  between  class  struggle  and  the
development of ideology, Com. Mao said, “The three basic constituents of
Marxism  are  scientific  socialism,  philosophy  and  political  economy.  The
foundation is social science, class struggle. There is a struggle between the
proletariat and the bourgeoisie. Marx and others saw this. Utopian Socialists
are always trying to persuade the bourgeoisie to be charitable. This won’t
work. It is necessary to rely on the class struggle of the proletariat…….it is
only starting from this view-point that Marxism appeared. The foundation is
class struggle.” (Talks on the Question of Philosophy, Mao, 1964)

Mao developed a qualitatively new theory of protracted people’s war. Before
the Chinese Revolution the path of armed insurrection, generally known as
the soviet model of revolution, was considered as the general path for the
seizure of power by the working class. But great Mao Tsetung solved the
question of successful completion of the revolution in the colonial, semi-
colonial and semi-feudal countries. He solved this question by waging a bitter
struggle against various right, dogmatist and “left” deviations and learning
from mistakes in the course of advancing the Chinese revolution. With the
victorious completion of this revolution the truth that has come out is marked
with internationalist significance. This truth is revolution in colonial, semi-
colonial and semi-feudal countries can be victorious generally by following
the path and the principles underlying the strategy and tactics of the Chinese
Revolution. According to this path the countryside will remain the main centre
of the revolution and armed agrarian revolution will be the key in the creation
of the unending flow of armed revolutionary forces from the mass of the
peasantry, which will lead towards establishing the invincible people’s army.
The protracted people’s war will advance towards victory by liberating the
vast areas of the countryside first and then encircling and finally capturing the
cities.

During this revolution Com. Mao put forth immense importance to the
building  of  a  staunch  and  heroic  people’s  army  and  establishment  of  the
liberated  base  areas  firstly  in  the  strategic  areas  of  the  countryside.  The
emergence  of  the  base  areas  will  contribute  to  enhance  and  expedite  the
revolutionary high tide throughout the country and this lays the basis for
building up new base areas. Moreover, the task of carrying out the revolutionary
transformations in the base areas, by mobilising and relying on the masses
themselves, will help in further strengthening these base areas politically,
economically as well as culturally, which will definitely help in achieving
new victories in the protracted people’s war.
Military Line

Com. Mao developed a most comprehensive military line of the proletariat
of a new type in the history of the international communist movement. He
developed this line by comprehending the laws of war developed in the previous
history  and  particularly  by  basing  on  the  Marxist-Leninist  understanding
regarding the revolutionary warfare.

22

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

27

weapons; and the revolutionary mass line.

Com. Mao’s revolutionary line emerged by creatively and masterfully
applying the science of Marxism-Leninism to the concrete practice of the
Chinese  Revolution. During  the  long  and complex course of the Chinese
Revolution he developed a qualitatively new theory regarding the nature and
the path of the revolution for the colonial, semi-colonial and semi-feudal
countries; developed the strategic and tactical principles of people’s war and
enriched the military science; and developed the mass line and class line and
thereby  developed  the  new  theory  of  continuing  the  revolution  under  the
dictatorship of the proletariat..
New Democratic Revolution

According to the new theory developed by Com. Mao that the revolution
in the semi-colonial, semi-feudal, countries will generally pass through two
different or distinct but inseparably interlinked stages. The first stage will be
the New Democratic Stage, which will uninterruptedly pass over to the socialist
stage directed towards communism. This is because these countries have not
gone through the bourgeois democratic revolution and hence are oppressed
by both imperialism and feudalism. by Basing on the Leninist thesis with
regard to the Russian revolution Mao developed the theory of two stages to a
qualitatively new level. Thus he explained that the democratic revolution in
China  is  not  the  old  type  of  bourgeois  revolution  but  a  new  democratic
revolution and that it had the two-fold task of overthrowing feudalism on the
one hand, which determined the democratic character, and of overthrowing
imperialism, which determined the national character of the revolution. The
NDR  will  remain  directed  against  imperialism,  feudalism  and  comprador
bureaucratic bourgeoisie. Agrarian revolution will be the axis of this revolution.
The proletariat and its party will play the leading role in this revolution. He
analysed that the bourgeoisie is divided into two sections-the comprador big
bourgeoisie and the national bourgeoisie. While the former is the target of the
revolution the latter is a vacillating ally in the democratic stage of the revolution.
It is this penetrating analysis that made it possible for the CPC to forge a
powerful united front of all the classes that stood opposed to imperialism and
feudalism based on worker-peasant alliance and led by the working class.
Path of Protracted People’s War

In order to victoriously carry out the new democratic revolution Com.

Mao  also  developed  the  dialectical  understanding  regarding  the
relationship between productive forces and relations of production, theory
and practice, economic base and superstructure, matter and consciousness,
and so on. He raised the understanding to a qualitatively higher level by pointing
out that although productive forces, practice, matter, economic base, etc. are
the principal aspects in the above contradictions, in certain conditions, aspects
such as relations of production, theory, superstructure and consciousness can
become the principal and play a decisive role.

Thus Mao stressed the profound truth that matter can be transformed
into consciousness and then consciousness back into matter, thereby further
developing the understanding of the conscious, dynamic role of man in every
field of human activity.

Mao Tse-tung masterfully applied this understanding in analysing the
relationship between theory and practice, he stressed that practice is both the
sole source and ultimate criterion of truth and emphasising the leap from theory
to revolutionary practice. He elaborating this understanding in developing the
theory of knowledge :

“Discover the truth through practice, and again through practice verify
and develop the truth. Start from perceptual knowledge and actively develop
it into rational knowledge; then start from rational knowledge and actively
guide revolutionary practice to change both the subjective and the objective
world. Practice, knowledge, again practice and again knowledge. This form
repeats itself in endless cycles, and with each cycle the content of practice
and knowledge rises to a higher level. Such is the whole of the dialectical-
materialist theory of knowledge, and such is the dialectical-materialistic theory
of the unity of knowing and doing.”

(Mao, On Practice, Selected Reading, page 81-82)
During the GPCR Mao Tse-tung gave utmost importance to the study
and popularising the philosophy of the proletariat and thereby coined the term
that “Philosophy is no mystery” and hence to take philosophy to the masses in
their million he developed the new concept of  “one divides into two”  in
opposing the revisionist thesis of “Two combine into one”. This became the
most popular version of the law of the unity and struggle of opposites which
marked a new development in philosophy.

26

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

23

Political Economy :

In the realm of the political economy of Socialism, Com.Mao Tse-tung
made tremendous advances, particularly analyzing the concrete laws of motion
governing the Socialist Construction by undertaking deep and critical analysis
of the then ‘Soviet Economics’ and by taking lessons from the positive and
negative experiences of socialist construction in Soviet Russia. During this
penetrating analysis he defended and highlighted the positive achievements
of the socialist construction while at the same time criticised some of its
negative aspects. On the basis of this analysis including the analysis of the
Chinese experience itself, com. Mao developed a new conception thereby
making a major breakthrough in this field. In his masterful writing “Ten Major
Relationships” Com.Mao underlined and developed new concepts for building
Socialism, such as “take agriculture as the foundation and industry as the
leading  factor”.  He  emphasized  the  contradictory  and  dynamic  role  of
production and its interaction with the political and ideological superstructure
of the society. Mao recognized that although the ownership of the whole people
will coexist with the ownership of the collective for a fairly long period of
time, the latter can also prove to be a hurdle for the further and full development
of the productive forces. That is why he stressed that there should be constant
interaction between the system of socialist ownership with the other aspects
of the relations  of production,  that  is  the relations between the people in
production including the system of distribution. In this context he emphasized
the fact that since the law of value and the “bourgeois right” still continue to
operate  (although  restricted)  in  the  Socialist  society,  it  is  therefore  the
correctness  of  the  ideological  and  political  line  that  decides  whether  the
proletariat actually owns the means of production. It is in this background
that Com.Mao warned time and again that if the revisionists succeeded in
capturing the political power it would be easy for them to rig up the capitalist
system. He thereby enriched and developed the Marxist political economy by
profoundly  criticizing  and  waging  a  life  and  death  struggle  against  the
revisionist theory of the productive forces represented by Liu Shao-chi &Co
in China and Khrushchov in Russia. He concluded that the superstructure and
consciousness can transform the base and, by placing politics in command in
every field, productive forces can be constantly developed.

With this higher stage of conception and understanding of the laws of
socialist construction Com.Mao formulated some important guidelines in the
form of slogans such as “Grasp Revolution, Promote Production”, “Never

Forget Class Struggle” and “Take Class Struggle as the Key Link” in carrying
out production in the correct direction. Refuting the revisionist theory of “Only
Expert”, com. Mao enunciated an important guideline by emphasizing the
interrelationship between expertise and revolutionary politics or “Red and
Expert”.

Another  great  contribution  of  Com.  Mao  is  the  new  conception  of
bureaucrat capital, which is comprador in nature and is tied to imperialism
and feudalism. He explained how, during their twenty-year rule, the four big
families, Chiang, Soong, Kung and Chen, have piled up enormous fortunes
and  monopolized  the  economic  lifelines  of  the  whole  country;  how  this
monopoly capital, combined with state power, has become state-monopoly
capitalism. He stated: “This monopoly capitalism, closely tied up with foreign
imperialism, the domestic landlord class and the old-type rich peasants, has
become comprador, feudal, state-monopoly capitalism. Such is the economic
base of Chiang Kai-shek’s reactionary regime. This state-monopoly capitalism
oppresses  not  only  the  workers  and  peasants  but  also  the  urban  petty
bourgeoisie, and it injures the middle bourgeoisie. This capital is popularly
known in China as bureaucrat-capital. This capitalist class, known as the
bureaucrat-capitalist class, is the big bourgeoisie of China.” He said that
besides doing away with the special privileges of imperialism in China, the
task of the new-democratic revolution at home is to abolish exploitation and
oppression by the landlord class and by the bureaucrat-capitalist class (the big
bourgeoisie), change the comprador, feudal relations of production and unfetter
the productive forces.

Com. Mao’s analysis of the degeneration of the Socialist economy of
the Soviet Union into a capitalist economy, the process of development of
state monopoly capital in the Soviet Union and the transformation of the latter
into a social-imperialist country and then into a superpower has also enriched
our understanding of the bureaucratized capitalist states i.e. in States where
capitalism is restored.
Development of a Maoist Revolutionary Line

The principal elements of Com. Mao’s revolutionary line are the political
line of carrying out the New Democratic Revolution under the leadership of
the working class which will pass over to the Socialist stage; the military line
with the protracted people’s war as its essence; the organizational line that
consists of the basic principles underlying the construction of the three magic

24

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

25

historical and international significance of Mao Thought, it will be more correct
and appropriate to use the terminology Maoism in lieu of Mao Thought in
order to draw a clear line of demarcation with them

Lenin put forth the dividing line that “Only he is a Marxist who extends
the recognition of the class struggle to the recognition of the dictatorship of
the proletariat.” But today this dividing line has become more sharpened.
Today only he is a Marxist-Leninist who extends the recognition of class
struggle not only to the recognition of the dictatorship of the proletariat but
also  to  the  recognition  of  the  existence  of  classes  and  antagonistic  class
contradictions, to the recognition of the existence of the bourgeoisie in the
party and of continuing the revolution under the dictatorship of the proletariat
throughout the period of socialism up until communism.

Today the world situation is passing through a period of unprecedented
turmoil. People in their millions are increasingly drawn into the struggle against
imperialism, particularly the US imperialism and all reactionary forces serving
imperialism. All the genuine Maoist forces throughout the world and in India
are duty bound to spread our ideology of MLM among the struggling masses.
Protracted people’s war, presently in the form of guerrilla war, is powerfully
going on and developing in India, under the leadership of our two Maoist
parties. Armed with the ideological weapon of Marxism-Leninism-Maoism,
we are confident that we can further deepen and advance the protracted people’s
war on the soil of India by applying our ideology to the concrete conditions in
India and the contemporary world. And that we can victoriously complete the
New Democratic Revolution and successfully build Socialism, prevent the
restoration of Capitalism, and advance to Communism under the guidance of
MLM. It is only by assimilating the substance of the ideology of MLM and
creatively  applying  it  to  the  solution  of  the  practical  problems  of  the
revolutionary movement under the varying conditions of the class struggle,
only by applying it to the all-important task of forging of a strong proletarian
Party, a mighty People’s Liberation Army and the Revolutionary United Front,
and achieving great leaps in our people’s war, that we can spread MLM more
vigorously to the four corners of India and also at the international level. It is
also in this process of creative application of MLM and synthesis of our
revolutionary experiences that we can further enrich the proletarian science.

!"!

bourgeoisie and into a reactionary fascist dictatorship.
People’s Army

The importance of the people’s army in the seizure of political power is
captured in the well-known statement of Mao, “Without a people’s army the
people have nothing.” He further stated that “the people’s army is an armed
body for carrying out the political tasks.” For this is it highly necessary to
comprehend that the people’s army can accomplish its historic tasks only by
earnestly and firmly following the great teachings of Com. Mao. He showed
that besides fighting to destroy the enemy while preserving its own strength it
should shoulder such political tasks of doing propaganda among the masses,
mobilising the masses along with organising and arming them and helping
them in establishing their revolutionary political power thereby setting up and
developing the party also. Com.Mao said without these objectives fighting
looses and the red army looses the significance of its existence.
The Revolutionary United Front

The building of the united front of the four anti-imperialist, anti-feudal
classes-the working class, the peasantry, the petty bourgeoisie and the national
bourgeoisie- on the basis of the worker-peasant alliance, is another major
breakthrough in the Marxist-Leninist understanding on the united front. Com.
Mao laid down the basic tactical principles of the united front to be pursued
by the proletariat. These were: to isolate, and destroy the main targets of the
revolution-the imperialists, the feudal forces and the comprador bureaucratic
capitalists by mobilising and organising the broad masses and uniting with all
classes, parties, organizations and individuals that were willing to oppose
feudalism and imperialism; to maintain the hegemony of the working class
over the united front; to maintain the independence and initiative in the hands
of the working class and to rely on its own efforts in all conditions; and that
the united front should serve the armed struggle. Such a UF should be built up
through armed struggle and for carrying forward the armed struggle. The party
of the proletariat should play a vanguard role in this united front. The national
bourgeoisie will take part in the revolution against imperialism and feudalism
at certain times and to a certain extent. Hence the correct and incorrect handling
of relationship with the national bourgeoisie will be another hallmark for the
party of the proletariat.

40

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

33

On the Women Question

Com. Mao gave utmost attention to the women question. He developed
many new ideas in understanding and mobilising the women. He said that
women along with men are not only subjected to three systems of authority
(i.e., political authority, clan authority and religious authority) but in addition
to that women are also dominated by men (the authority of the husband).
These  four  authorities  are  the  product  of  the  decadent  feudal-patriarchal
ideology and system. These are the thick ropes binding the people, particularly
the peasants. Hence to overthrow the feudal-patriarchal ideology mobilisation
of the women in the revolutionary war is a must. “Women represent half of
the sky”. Without unleashing the fury of women as a mighty force of revolution,
victory in the revolution is impossible. That equality between men and women
can be realised only in the course of revolutionary war and “in the process of
the socialist transformation of society as a whole.”

However, taking into consideration the deeply ingrained ideology of
patriarchy  in  backward  semi-feudal,  semi-colonial  countries,  Com.  Mao
warned that the final solution of the women’s question will require a fairly
long period of time after the establishment of Socialism. Hence, he stressed
on the need to continue the class struggle in the superstructure to eradicate the
old reactionary feudal and bourgeois ideas, culture, customs and habits related
to patriarchy and male domination.
On Art and Culture

  Com.  Mao’s  contribution  to  the  field  of  culture  and  art  are  a  new
development. He forcefully refuted the idea of art for art’s sake. He said all
literature and art belong to definite classes and are geared to definite political
lines. There is no such thing as art for art’s sake. He emphatically declared
“all our literature and art are for the masses of the people.” He put forth a
completely new line. He said that our literary and art workers must “move
their feet over to the side of the workers, peasants and soldiers, to the side of
the proletariat.” He also called upon them that they should go “into the thick
of practical struggles and through the process of studying Marxism and society.”
He further asserted, “an army without culture is a dull - wetted army, and a
dull-wetted army cannot defeat the enemy.” How to develop a socialist culture,
Com. Mao in a unique way said, “Letting a hundred flowers blossom and a
hundred schools of thought contend is the policy for promoting the progress
of the arts and sciences and a flourishing socialist culture in our land.”

proletariat. Not only that, MLM is the all-powerful weapon, by which we can
combat and defeat bourgeois ideology and all brands of revisionism, including
that which may don the garb of Maoism.

Marxism arose as a science of the laws of motion of nature, society and
human  thought,  a  science  of  revolution  at  a  moment  in  history  when  the
proletariat made its appearance as a revolutionary class capable of shaping
the destiny of the society including its own destiny. Marxism is the ideology
of the proletariat that was further synthesized and developed to new and higher
stages. From Marxism it developed into Marxism-Leninism. Thereafter, it
further  developed  into  Marxism-Leninism-Maoism.  It  is  not  a  science
pertaining to a particular field of knowledge but a science representing a whole
comprehensive philosophical system, political economy, scientific socialism,
and  the  strategy  and  tactics  of  the  proletariat  in  comprehending  and
transforming the world through revolution.

The CPC led by Com. Mao made historic and comprehensive analysis
of the development of Mao Thought (now Maoism), through its 9th Congress,
held in 1969. It summed up Mao Tse-tung Thought as a completely new and
higher  stage  of  Marxism-Leninism.  Thus  Mao  Tse-tung  Thought,  whose
historic significance began to be recognized by the Marxist-Leninist forces
worldwide ever since The Great Debate, became established as a qualitatively
higher stage in the development of the proletarian ideology by the time of the
9th Congress of the CPC. Maoism is not just the sum total of Mao’s great
contributions. It is the most comprehensive and all-round development of the
science  of  Marxism-Leninism  that  had  taken  shape  in  the  period  of  the
tremendous changes and great upheavals that had occurred in the world since
the time of Com. Lenin, namely, the emergence of the Socialist camp following
WW II; the upsurge of the national liberation struggles throughout the world
leading  to  a  new  phase  of  neo-colonial  control  and  exploitation;  and  the
restoration of capitalism in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe with the
usurpation of power by the modern revisionist Khrushchov clique. Marxism-
Leninism-Maoism is an integrated whole. Maoism is Marxism-Leninism of
the present-day. To negate Maoism is to negate Marxism-Leninism itself.

In  our  understanding,  there  has  never  been  a  Chinese  wall  between
Marxism-Leninism-Mao Thought and MLM. Yet the term Maoism is a more
precise and scientific explanation for Mao’s contribution. In addition since
modern revisionism is belittling Mao Thought and negating or denying the

34

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

39

this, “natural eye is not enough, we must have the aid of the telescope and the
microscope. Marxist method is our telescope and microscope in political and
military matters.” For this one must diligently study the works of Marx, Engels,
Lenin, Stalin and Mao Tse-tung and take active part in actual struggle and
work hard to remould one’s world outlook. That is the way one can constantly
raise the ability to distinguish genuine from sham Maoism and differentiate
between correct and wrong lines and views. The concentrated expression of
this  understanding  is  that  for  constantly  going  on  remoulding  the  world
outlook., “Fight Self, Repudiate Revisionism” and the “Revolutionary spirit
of daring to go against the tide”, are extremely necessary.

Second is it represented a higher leap in defending and strengthening
dictatorship of the proletariat. It also represented the most extensive and deep
going exercise of the proletarian democracy in the world history, that too,
under the dictatorship of the proletariat.

The capitalist restoration following the 1976 counter-revolutionary coup
d’etat led by Teng-Hua revisionists in no way negates the historic lessons of
the  GPCR  rather  it  confirms  Mao’s  teachings  that  classes  and  class
contradiction remain operative in the entire socialist society and the need to
continue the revolution under the dictatorship of the proletariat. No doubt, if
the working people of the world want to defeat the bourgeoisie fully then the
task to continue the revolution continuously will be the inevitable condition.
Com.Mao,  through  the  process  of  integrating  the  truth  of  Marxism-
Leninism with the concrete practice of the Chinese Revolution, developed
this science to its higher and new qualitative stage. His theory of GPCR, which
is meant for preventing the restoration of capitalism and consolidating and
strengthening of Socialism, is the outcome of higher and qualitatively new
synthesis  and  has  no  parallel  in  the  history  of  class  struggle  under  the
dictatorship of the proletariat.

So, it can be said that the GPCR is not only tremendous and higher
contribution of Mao to the theory of Scientific Socialism, rather it is a theory
of historic importance to prevent restoration of capitalism and advance the
socialist society towards communism on a world scale.
Marxism-Leninism-Maoism is an Integrated Whole

Marxism-Leninism-Maoism  is  an  integrated  whole  today.  Marxism-
Leninism-Maoism is the most advanced and scientific ideology of the world

This is the only way to bring forth a revolutionary and socialist culture

in the finest sense.
On Imperialism and the National Question

Basing on Lenin’s theses on the national and colonial question Mao
developed the concept of national liberation struggles in the colonies and
semi-colonies particularly in the conditions prevailing after WW II, analysed
the neo-colonial forms and methods of rule adopted by imperialism in the
post WW II period, and explained how the struggles of the oppressed nations
and people in the countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America - the storm
centres of world revolution - are dealing blows against imperialism shaking
the very foundations of imperialist rule. He stressed on the importance of
forging a united front of the national liberation struggles in the semi-colonial,
semi-feudal countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America on the one hand and
the proletarian revolutionary movements in the capitalist countries on the other
in order to defeat imperialism and hasten the victory of the world revolution.
He pointed out that no nation, however big and powerful, can subject a weak
and small nation and said that even a superpower like the US is a paper tiger
and the nuclear bomb is also a paper tiger. Explaining how we should look at
imperialism and all reactionaries from the strategic and tactical points of view,
Com. Mao said:

 “Imperialism and all reactionaries have a dual nature-they are real tigers
and paper tigers at the same time. Hence, imperialism and all reactionaries
looked at in essence from a long-term point of view, from a strategic point of
view, must be seen for what they are-paper tigers. On this we should build our
strategic thinking. On the other hand, they are also living tigers, iron tigers,
real tigers which can devour people. On this we should build our tactical
thinking.”
The Great Debate and Ideological struggle against modern revisionism
After the demise of great Stalin, the agent of imperialists and the die-
hard revisionist Khrushchev through the 20th Congress of the CPSU held in
1956, brought forth his pernicious theory like ‘peaceful transformation to
socialism’,  ‘peaceful  competition’,  and  ‘peaceful  co-existence’.  All  these
theories are diametrically opposite to the theory of Marxism-Leninism and
through these harmful theories Khrushchev left no stone unturned to make a
split and loss to the international communist movement. In the same way,

38

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

35

Khrushchev revisionism tried to divert the world proletarian movement by
denying the existence of imperialism and by showing the danger of ‘atom
bomb’ and ‘war’ in the situation developed after the 2nd World War. Com.
Mao fought relentlessly and resolutely against Khrushchev revisionism and
defended and advanced the ICM with a correct Marxist-Leninist orientation
by drawing a clear line of demarcation with those die-hard revisionists. As a
part and parcel of the struggle against revisionism Com. Mao resolutely fought
against Tito, the agent of imperialism and against the recognised revisionists
like Togliotte and Thorez and through these struggles against revisionism he
defended and developed Marxism-Leninism and formulated a new and general
line for the international communist movement.

Mao Tsetung led the international struggle against modern revisionism
through initiating the Great Debate. During this great struggle he not only
defended  Marxism-Leninism  but  also  developed  it  in  some  aspects.  This
struggle was focussed on all the major questions particularly on the dictatorship
of the proletariat. He set forth a new general line for the international communist
movement, which paved the way for the genuine Marxist - Leninist forces for
struggling against and revolting from revisionism thereby advanced towards
forging and building new ML parties based on ML principles all over the
globe.

During this period Mao Tsetung has to wage repeated two line struggles
against the revisionist headquarters within the CPC also. Actually, this process
of analysis and struggle against modern revisionism including the repeated
two-line struggle in the CPC begins in the new form with the 20th Congress
of the then CPSU. Thereafter this process go deepening and getting sharp and
sharp in the subsequent period. It culminated during the GPCR.

Mao Tsetung initiated and led the historic GPCR. The GPCR represented
the culmination of the great struggle against Modern Revisionism including
repeated two-line struggles in the CPC. During the initial period of this struggle
Com. Mao, while keeping the edge of his struggle against Revisionism, also
analysed some of the questions related with the history of the International
Communist Movement. In this context, he analysed the role of Com. Stalin.
While doing so, he principally defended and highlighted the great achievements
of Com. Stalin while at the same time summed up some of his errors in the
“Second Comment” of the CPC “On the Question of Stalin”.

 GPCR and the theory of continuing revolution

Mao Tsetung initiated and led the historic GPCR which proved to be a
earth-shaking event in the history of the international communist movement.
It represented a new and qualitative leap forward in defending and exercising
the dictatorship of the proletariat. It was directed mainly against the capitalist
roaders who emerged from within the socialist society itself. Their chieftains
were especially concentrated in the leadership of the Party. During the GPCR
Mao Tsetung’s historic and powerful new slogan “It is right to rebel” and
“Bombard the Headquarters” resounded throughout China and proved to be
a clarion call against the capitalist roaders. This helped in rousing millions of
people and from below. Actually this mass mobilisation of the proletarian
masses set forth a new record.

Fighting against the headquarters of the capitalist roaders led by Liu
Shao-chi,  Com.  Mao  Tse-tung  had  already  reasserted  that  the  principal
contradiction in socialist China continues to remain between the proletariat
and the bourgeoisie and thereby laid down the tasks for carrying on the class
struggle against the bourgeois class through to the end. The high point of this
class struggle reached during the GPCR. In this great struggle masses in their
million  led  by  Mao  himself  deeply  uprooted  the  soil  which  engendered
capitalism, that is , the bourgeois right and the three major differences still
existing  in  the  socialist  society.  This  great  revolution  not  only  helped  in
deepening  the  class  consciousness  in  China  but  also  greatly  helped  in
sharpening the struggle against revisionism in various communist parties at
the international level. Two outstanding achievements of the GPCR marked
its historic importance.

One is that it developed a completely new method in the arsenal of MLM
to  prevent  the  restoration  of  capitalism.  That  method  is  continuing  the
revolution thereby to prevent the restoration of capitalism. With this purpose
it concentrated on remoulding the world outlook. The class struggle and the
two-line struggle are extremely complex. When one tendency covers another
many comrades often fail to note it. This great teaching of Com. Mao was
vindicated immediately after the Cultural Revolution against the capitalist
roaders in the case of Lin Piao. While being in the forefront during the GPCR
Lin Piao actually proved himself later to be a conspirator in the guise of Mao
Thought who had tried to bring forth a revisionist line. But, according to
dialectical materialist point of view, all objective things are knowable. But for

36

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

MARXISM-LENINISM-MAOISM

37

