Hail the heroic martyrdom of our beloved  

comrades Patel Sudhakar Reddy and Venkatayya! 

Let us pledge to fulfill their dreams with redoubled determination!! 

Dear Comrades! 

 

On May 23 our Party and the Indian revolution had suffered another  major and irreparable loss. On that 
fateful day, at about 10.30 am, comrade Patel Sudhakar Reddy alias Suryam alias Vikas, who is a member of the 
central  committee  of  our  Party,  and  another  district-level  comrade  Venkatayya  alias  Prasanna,  were  arrested  by 
the  SIB  goons  of  Andhra  Pradesh,  were  brutally  tortured  and  murdered  in  the  early  hours  of  24th.  They  were 
arrested from Nashik city in Maharashtra.  The dead bodies of our two comrades  were  thrown in  the forest near 
Lavvala  in  Tadwai  mandal  of  Warangal  district  and  the  usual  story  of  an  encounter  was  floated.  The  Chief 
Minister who was in Delhi repeated this concocted police story without an iota of shame. The police claimed that 
one  AK-47  rifle  and  a  9mm  pistol  were  recovered  from  the  dead  along  with  three  kit  bags.  As  part  of  the 
psychological warfare of the enemy, a statement was issued in the name of our Party spokesperson comrade Azad, 
that  comrade  Vikas  had  indeed  gone  to  Warangal  on  some  work  to  mislead  the  people.  Later  our  CC  issued  a 
statement disowning the statement given in the name of Azad and exposing the SIB’s psychological war.  

Our CC issued a call to the entire Party and people to observe bharat bandh on June 12 to protest against the cold-
blooded  murder  of  our  beloved  comrades.  A  petition  was  filed  in  the  High  Court  by  the  Andhra  Pradesh  Civil 
Liberties Committee for conducting a re-postmortem on the body of the martyrs and upon the Court’s order it was 
carried out on May 26 on the body of comrade Vikas. The manner in which it was conducted was condemned by 
the  civil  rights  organisations  and  others  as  it  was  done  secretly  without  allowing  comrade  Sudhakar  Reddy’s 
brother or others inside when the autopsy was being conducted. Comrade Varavara Rao said that he would file a 
case against the Warangal police chief Sajjanar for contempt of court as they did not allow the family members of 
the deceased at the time of re-postmortem. Various political parties condemned the murder describing it as a fake 
encounter and demanded a judicial enquiry.  Maoist prisoners  in  the Cherlapalli jail in Hyderabad and Warangal 
central  jail  went  on  a  hunger  strike,  protesting  against  the  encounter  of  Sudhakara  Reddy.  They  demanded  that 
fake encounters be immediately stopped. 

However,  neither  the  openly  lawless  goonda  ruling  AP,  YS  Reddy,  nor  the  neo-Nazi  criminals  hidden 
behind  a  certain  degree  of  sophistication  and  gentle  appearances  ruling  at  the  Centre—Manmohan  Singh  and 
Chidambaram—bothered about fake encounter killings. All they want is the elimination of the Maoist leadership 
at any cost. These unconstitutional criminal acts are not carried out by some police officials at the district or even 
state level. They are planned and executed under the direct guidance and direction of the top political leadership—
YS Reddy in AP and Manmohan  Singh-Chidambaram at the Centre.  Comrades Vikas  and Prasanna  are the first 
victims  of  the  fascist  repression  unleashed  by  the  newly  re-elected  blood-thirsty  government  of  YS  Reddy  in 
Andhra Pradesh and the Congress-led UPA government in the Centre.  

The facts regarding the incident are as follows:   

Comrade  Vikas  went  to  meet  comrade  Prasanna  at  about  10  on  May  23rd  morning  in  Nashik  city.  He 
informed another comrade with whom he was staying at that time that he would attend the appointment and return 
within one hour. He called up after half-an-hour and informed that he would see for the contact at 11 am also and 

 

1 

return by 11.30. And that was the last to hear from him. He, along with comrade Prasanna, were abducted from 
the  appointment  place  in  Nashik,  airlifted  to  Warangal  which  is  more  than  1000  km  away,  tortured  them 
throughout  the  night  and  murdered  in  the  early  hours  and  their  bodies  were  thrown  in  Lavvala  forest  in 
Eturnagaram  of  Warangal  district.  In  less  than  18  hours  the  SIB  had  abducted,  tortured  and  murdered  the 
comrades and threw their bodies  at a place  more than 1000kms away. Such is  the sophistication of the  criminal 
lawless gang in AP called SIB which never had any accountability whatsoever whether under the TDP regime of 
Chandrababu Naidu or the Congress regime of YS Reddy.   

Patel Sudhakar Reddy, also popularly known as Suryam in the revolutionary camp in Andhra Pradesh and 
as Vikas in the CC and the newly formed Party after the merger of CPI(ML)[PW] and MCCI in September 2004, 
has  become  one  of  the  established  leaders  of  the  Indian  revolution  and  a  member  of  the  central  committee  of 
CPI(Maoist)  after  a  long  illustrious  revolutionary  career.  He  began  his  revolutionary  life  as  a  student  activist  in 
the early 1980s when he was studying his bachelor’s course in Gadwal town in Mahboobnagar district. Later he 
did his Master’s degree  in Osmania University in Hyderabad and joined the movement as a full-time organizer. 
He made significant contributions to the Maoist Party and the Indian revolution. 

Comrade Suryam, hailing from  Kurthiravula Cheruvu in Mahbbobnagar district in south Telengana, is  a 
senior leader of the CPI(Maoist) who began his revolutionary life as a student leader of Radical Students Union in 
early ‘80s. Responding to the call of the Party to build a zone of armed agrarian revolutionary struggle in North 
Telangana  and  Dandakaranya  with  the  goal  of  transforming  them  into  base  areas,  he  went  to  Eturnagaram-
Mahadevpur forest in North Telengana in 1983 and worked as a commander of the guerrilla squad. Later he was 
transferred to Gadchiroli district where he worked until 1988. He was shifted to the work of purchasing arms for 
equipping  the  speedily  growing  armed  guerrilla  squads.  He  played  a  crucial  role  in  supplying  arms  to  the  Party 
but  was  arrested  in  1992  in  Bangalore  based  on  a  tip-off  from  an  arrested  person.  He  remained  an  exemplary 
communist leader in jail where he spent almost seven years. He was released in 1998 and was taken into the AP 
state  committee  in  the  state  Plenum  held  in  1999.  He  served  as  its  secretariat  member  from  2001  to  mid-2003 
when he was transferred to other work allotted by the CC. He played a prominent role in building the movement 
in Dandakaranya in its initial years and later in the state of Andhra Pradesh. He was taken into the CC in 2005 and 
as a member of the CC he made significant contribution in formulating the central policies and plans.   

Comrade Venakatayya hails from Cheryala mandal in Warangal district and was actively involved in the 
student  movement  in  AP  for  almost  a  decade  and  served  as  a  leader  of  the  All  India  Revolutionary  Student 
Federation in AP. He was shifted to technical work in 2004 and has been working in the technical field since then.  

The contribution of comrades Suryam and Prasanna to the Indian revolution will never be forgotten by the 
Party,  the  PLGA  and  people.  They  will  continue  the  struggle  for  the  liberation  of  the  country  with  redoubled 
vigour  and  hatred  for  the  exploiters  and  traitors  who  rule  the  country.  The  reactionary  rulers  of  India,  with  the 
active assistance of the imperialists, vainly hope to suppress the Indian revolution by eliminating the central and 
state leadership of the CPI(Maoist).  By this,  they think they  can deprive the oppressed people of leadership and 
suppress their struggle for land, livelihood and liberation. But this conspiracy of the reactionary rulers will remain 
a mere day-dream. Thousands upon thousands of worthy revolutionary successors will step into the shoes of these 
beloved leaders turning the dreams of the reactionary rulers into nightmares.  

Martyrdom  of  com  Vikas  is  an  irreparable  loss  to  the  Indian  revolution  and  the  Party.  He  was  an 
exemplary  model  to  be  emulated  by  all  revolutionaries.  Even  in  the  midst  of  severe  enemy  repression  he 
maintained  a  calm  posture  and  instilled  immense  confidence  in  other  cadres.  He  had  also  contributed  much  in 
studying  the  enemy  tactics.  Both  Vikas  and  Prasanna  were  known  for  their  sincerity  and  dedication,  their  deep 
commitment  to  the  cause  of  the  oppressed  people,  and  militant  fighting  nature.  Even  in  the  severest  hardships 
comrade  Suryam  never  showed  any  tension  which  gave  immense  confidence  to  the  cadres  around  him.  In  one 
incident when he was working in Nallamala forest region, the enemy suddenly came near the camp and there was 

 

2 

tension inside the comrades present in the camp. But seeing com Suryam who just sat coolly others regained their 
cool and waited. Com Suryam sent instructions to the defence batch asking them to put up fight if attacked and to 
continue firing until everyone else had retreated.  

But in the middle of 2003 CC decided to shift him from AP to central work.  

The martyrdom of these comrades is a great loss to the Indian revolution. The CC, CPI(Maoist), pays its 
red  revolutionary  homage  to  comrade  Sudhakar  Reddy  and  Venkatayya  and  vows  to  fulfill  their  revolutionary 
dreams  of  a  classless  society.  The  people  of  India,  particularly  the  people  of  AP,  will  never  forget  the  great 
service these comrades  had rendered to the  Indian revolution. The Party  will certainly avenge the martyrdom of 
these  comrades  by  intensifying  and  expanding  the  ongoing  people’s  war,  establish  base  areas  in  the  vast 
countryside of the country, transform the PLGA into PLA and advance the Indian revolution to its final victory 

 The  CC,  CPI(Maoist),  pays  its  red  revolutionary  homage  to  our  beloved  leaders—comrade  Sudhakar 
Reddy  and  Venkatayya—and  vows  to  fulfill  their  revolutionary  dreams  for  a  classless  society.    Let  us  intensify 
and  expand  the  ongoing  people’s  war,  establish  base  areas  in  the  vast  countryside  of  the  country,  transform  the 
PLGA into PLA and advance the Indian revolution to its final victory.  

The  role  of  leadership  is  very  crucial  in  any  revolution.  All  successful  revolutions  in  history  had  taken 
great  care  in  preserving  the  leadership  and  ensuring  continuity  of  leadership.  Without  such  a  continuity  of 
leadership it is impossible to advance the revolutionary war and achieve final victory. Hence the enemy also has 
been trying desperately by all means at his disposal to eliminate the Party leadership at all levels, particularly the 
central and state leadership. Enormous funds have been allotted for the purpose of eliminating the leadership and 
a vast intelligence network has been set up. 

Let us take proper lessons from the serious losses suffered by our Party in the recent period, specifically 
the  period  after  the  Party  Congress,  strictly  avoid  repetition  of  the  mistakes  and  strive  hard  to  come  out  of  our 
weaknesses,  preserve  and  accumulate  our  subjective  forces,  be  ever  vigilant  against  the  conspiracies  and 
machinations of the enemy, be ever ready for any kind of sacrifice, and march ahead to achieve bigger victories. 

 

 

 

3 

