COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

                                                                               August 30, 2010 

Press Release 

 

 

Hail the Historic 6th Anniversary of the Party Formation Day! 

Defeat the fascist Operation Green Hunt!! 

Come together for a united struggle  against the loot of our country!!! 
 
Call of the Polit Bureau of CPI (Maoist) on the occasion of the 6th anniversary of the party to be 

celebrated with revolutionary enthusiasm and great fervor from September 21 to 27, 2010 

 
 
Our beloved comrades and people!  

On  the  6th  anniversary  of  our  party  formation  day  on  September  21,  2010,  our  PB  extends 
hearty  revolutionary  greetings  to  the  Party,  PLGA,  Revolutionary  people's  committees  and 
comrades  of  all  mass  organizations  and  to  the  revolutionary  people  who  are  advancing  the 
people's war by fearlessly fighting back Operation Green Hunt, the countrywide massive counter-
revolutionary  military  offensive  of  the  enemy,  who  is  bent  upon  annihilating  our  party.  On  this 
fervent occasion our PB also congratulates the comrades in the jails who are bravely facing the 
enemy.  

Our PB humbly pays homage to the more than 10,000 great martyrs, 1500 of them after the 
unified party was formed in 2004, and 300 in one year, who sacrificed their invaluable lives for the 
success of the New Democratic Revolution in India and for the achievement of the greatest cause 
of  human  kind,  i.e.  socialism  and  communism.  The  fact  that  a  majority  of  these  martyrs  are 
common people, revolutionary mass organizations' members and militia member shows how the 
vast masses of India are thronging into the revolution.  

Since  we  celebrated  our  party  formation  day  last  year,  the  war  between  revolution  and 
counter-revolution in our country has intensified further. There have been many significant changes 
of  strategic  importance  in  this  period  which  would  affect  the  Indian  revolution  for  a  long  time  to 
come. It is necessary to look into our strengths and weaknesses, the favourable and unfavourable 
conditions  for  the  revolution  on  this  occasion  and  place  before  the  people  and  the  ranks  of  the 
party. 

Firstly  -  starting  from  May  2009  to  July  2010,  eight  topmost  comrades  including  PBM  and 
beloved leader Azad and ten state level comrades had either been caught and killed by the enemy 
or  had  been  put  behind  bars.  Many  leadership  comrades  from  district level  to  lower  ranks  were 
either  arrested  or  killed.  These  losses  had  all  affected  our  party  and  movement  seriously. 
Particularly,  losing  comrade  Azad  who  had  been  fulfilling  key  responsibilities  in  the  highest 
committee and had been rendering multi-faceted services most efficiently in many fields is a great 
loss. 

The  formation  of  the  new  party  in  2004  placed  before  the  people  of  our  country  enriched 
political,  organizational,  military  lines,  a  strong  party,  a  strong  leadership,  a  people’s  army,  the 
PLGA and a vast mass base and struggle areas. This created very favourable conditions for the 
advancement of the revolution. Fearing all these favorable conditions, the enemy sought to crush 
our  party  and  all  the  losses  in  2005  and  2006  occurred  due  to  this  conspiracy.  Yet,  the  Unity 
Congress - 9th congress had strengthened the unity of the party and the party leadership and laid 
down a thorough plan for the advancement of the revolution. Though Andhra Pradesh movement 
and North Chhattisgarh movement suffered setback and though we suffered heavy losses in North 
Odisha, the successes won filled the revolutionary camp with self-confidence. 

 

1

The successful completion of the Unity Congress and the later successes worried the enemy 
camp  to  no  end  and  so  the  enemy  had  intensified  war  on  people  at  an  unprecedented  level  to 
annihilate the party leadership. These losses which occurred since 2009 May are larger in number 
and  more  serious  in  nature  than  before.  However,  serious  they  may  be,  in  the  past  45  years, 
revolutionary movement had been giving birth to new leadership constantly and it will do so again. 
As long as masses need a revolution, they give birth to its leaders too. 

Secondly - UPA-2 had launched the fascist 'Operation Green Hunt' (OGH) as a concrete form 
of  the  multi-pronged  offensive  strategy.  Of  all  the  offensive  strategies  formulated  by  the  Indian 
ruling classes to crush the revolutionary movement in India, the one which started from mid-2009 
(and  continuing)  is  unprecedented,  country-wide,  most  severe,  deceptive,  centralized  and 
protracted  one  till  date.  The  military  suppression  campaign  is  concentrated  on  our  strong  rural 
areas and guerilla zones, especially Dandakaranya, Jharkhand-Bihar, Lalgarh and bordering areas 
of  Jharkhand-Odisha,  Andhra-Odisha  and  Telangana-Chhattisgarh.  This  'War  on  People'  has 
intensified  social  contradictions.  No  other  suppression  campaign  had  earned  the  wrath  and 
resistance of people as much as the OGH in the past 45 areas. 

Thirdly  -  after  UPA  came  to  power  for  second  time,  there  was  a  qualitative  change  in 
implementing  the  counter-insurgency  theories  which  are  restructuring  or  influencing  the  state 
machinery,  Indian  constitution,  judiciary,  legislating  bodies,  administrative  bodies,  politics, 
economy, culture, media and so on. This is inspired and led by the 'War on Terror' waged by the 
imperialists  under  the  leadership  of  US  imperialists.  This  will  lead  our  country  to  a  disastrous 
situation. The more they try to wage this brutal war, the more protest and resistance they would 
encounter from the vast masses. Such resistance is clearly seen all over the country. 

2

Due to the struggles waged by us in all the fields and due to the immense sacrifices of 
our  most  revered  and  beloved  three  hundred  martyrs  in  the  past  one  year  we  have  won 
significant successes. They are: 
1. 

The  successful  attacks  in  Singanamadugu,  Mukaram  (Tadimetla)  and  Kongera  of 
Chhattisgarh; Laheri in Maharashtra; Sankrel and Silda in Bengal; Gumla, Vishnupur and 
Latehar  in  Jharkhand;  Sono,  government  toll  plaza  (Gaya)  and  Tandwa  bazaar  in  Bihar; 
Potakal and Baipharguda in Odisha, particularly the historical Mukram (Tadimetla) attack 
had  broken  down  the  initiative  of  the  enemy  and  increased  that  of  the  guerilla  forces. 
These attacks had armed the PLGA with more weapons and new experiences in guerilla 
war. Tadimetla experience is of the highest level of all these. If not for this active resistance 
of  our  forces  and  people,  the  enemy  would  have  found  more  ground  to  obliterate  our 
movement.  These  great  experiences  would  definitely  help  us  in  fighting  back  the  enemy 
forces employed for a bigger attack. It was nothing else but the active support of the people 
which served as the foundation for all these successes. 
The struggles of Kalinganagar, Singur and Nandigram shook the ruling classes and later 
Lalgarh and Narayanpatna struggles had burst forth on an extensive and higher scale than 
these struggles. These were led by our party against revisionism or right opportunism and 
were  waged  against  the  enemy  classes,  imperialists  and  the  state.  We  had  not  seen  a 
deluge of such vast, militant, long drawn mass uprisings in the past 25 years. The lessons 
of these revolutionary mass uprisings for the development of people's war in our country 
are invaluable. 
Lalgarh armed peasant movement which had erupted, spread and consolidated in a period 
when the enemy had deployed forces on a large scale and was attempting to crush the 
peasant  uprising,  is  very  significant  and  earned  a  special  place  in  the  annals  of  Indian 
armed agrarian revolutionary struggle history. 
Vast masses under our party's leadership have successfully thwarted the attempts of the 
MNCs  and  CBB  corporations  to  loot  the  natural  resources  in  Eastern  and  Central  India. 
Our  PB  sends  revolutionary  greetings  to  all  the  people,  revolutionary,  democratic, 
progressive and patriotic organizations and individuals who stood firmly in these struggles 
and promises that our party would stand in the forefront in these struggles.  
Our  party  had  conducted  ideological  and  political  propaganda  war  against  the  enemy's 
psychological  war,  under  the  leadership  of  Comrade  Azad.  If  our  entire  party  had  not 
fought along with Com. Azad at various levels, the people's war would not have won this 
much credit. His services in this field are most significant and paramount. Let us continue 
the struggle in this field with Com. Azad's inspiration. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

 

Along  with  these  five  main  successes,  in  some  states,  we  had  expanded  to  new  areas, 
consolidated party, PLGA, politically and militarily, consolidated the existing Revolutionary People’s 
Committees/Janatana Sarkars and expanded them in newer areas. All these successes had won 
us  the  support  of  many  revolutionary  forces,  intellectuals,  democrats,  progressive  and  patriotic 
forces. 
 
Comrades! 

Our  losses  had  been  very  severe.  Unless  each  committee  from  the  CC  to  the  lower 
committees and the entire party strives very hard to build up new forces in a planned manner on a 
wide  scale  and  continues  the  rectification  campaign  effectively  we  will  not  be  able  to  fulfill  the 
losses incurred, particularly that of Com. Azad and other leadership comrades at central and state 
level. 

Only when we understand the real reasons behind the losses, we can prevent them and only 
then we can strengthen the party as an impregnable fort to the enemy. To identify the real reasons 
we have to take lessons from the experiences of our party and Maoist parties of other countries.  

We have to expand and intensify the self-defensive war waged under the party's leadership by 
PLGA,  people  and  by  uniting  with  all  struggling  forces  of  our  country  and  other  countries.  If  we 
firmly rely on the masses and make use of our PLGA properly in the war, we would definitely be 
able to defeat Green Hunt.  

Let  us  prepare  ourselves  to  wage  people's  war  with  utmost  courage  and  determination. 
Celebrate the 6th anniversary of our party formation day with brimming revolutionary enthusiasm 
and zeal. Let us propagate widely the successes won even amidst severe repression in the past 
one year. 
 
Our beloved comrades and people of India! 

The CPI (Maoist) is issuing a call to all the people of our country to unify under the leadership 
of the party and rise against the feudal and comprador rulers who are selling our country to the 
imperialists.  We  cannot  liberate  our  country  from  the  clutches  of  these  predators  without  a 
revolutionary party. The party calls upon all the resistance struggles against the loot of our country 
to  come  together  which  would  lead  to  a  broad  united  front.  The  fight  for  land  to  the  tiller, 
democratic  power  to  the  people  and  basic  needs  and  against  SEZs,  displacement,  corporate 
mining, plunder of our natural resources, price rise, corruption and all such burning problems have 
to be carried out in an united manner. We can win only through our unified strength. As our fight 
intensifies,  the  state  onslaught  on  all  the  democratic  and  revolutionary  struggles  would  also 
intensify. Let us prepare ourselves for this. Jan Jagrans, Salwa Judums, Sendras and Green Hunts 
can  never  break  a  determined  people  or  their  revolutionary  party.  Final  Victory  belongs  to  the 
people. 

 
(cid:145)  Let us consolidate our party as an impregnable fortress and avoid huge losses to 

(cid:145)  Hail  and  follow  the  exemplary  model  battle  of  Tadimetla  to  defeat  'Operation 

leadership and ranks ! 

Green Hunt' ! 

(cid:145)  Let us unite with and bring together all resistance movements paving the way for a 

countrywide strong United Front ! 

(cid:145)  Let  us  hail  and  follow  the  exemplary  model  of  Comrade  Azad  in  effectively 

fighting back the enemy's psychological warfare ! 

(cid:145)  Let us extend to vast areas to fulfill the multi-faceted tasks of People's War! 

 
For Polit Bureau, 

 

3

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committe, 
CPI (Maoist) 

