Communist Party of India (Maoist)

Central Committee

Press Statement

Date : 22 March 2013
Hail the Filipino Revolution Advancing in the Path of Victory with

the Immediate Task of  Achieving Strategic Stalemate !

Extend Strong Support to Filipino Revolution and Filipino People !

Oppose and Condemn Oplan Bayanihan !

Observe Solidarity Week to Filipino Revolution from April 22 to 28, 2013
It is now crystal clear to the world people as well as the people of India that a barbaric military campaign
i.e., ‘Oplan Bayanihan’ is being carried out by the American puppet Benigno Aquino regime in a bid to
destroy the on-going revolution with the immediate and central slogan achieving strategic stalemate under the
leadership of the Communist Party of Philippines.

Philippines is in South East Asia spread in a land of three lakh square kilometers with a population of nine
and a half crores. The freedom-loving Filipino people have a glorious history and heroic long tradition of
revolutionary struggles and sacrifices against the colonial rule and particularly against the American imperialism.
This is a semi-colonial, semi-feudal country having a rich cultural heredity. The country of Philippines is rich
with enough variable kinds of resources for self-reliance. The crores of toiling masses are a strong foundation
to the country to develop as a sovereign, free, democratic country. The workers and peasants of the country
are the main source in bringing the exploitation and suppression of the imperialists and their comprador ruling
classes to an end and achieve a genuine democracy and progress in the society.

The National Democratic Revolution was initiated in Philippines from 1896. But in early 1930s, the
Communist Party of Philippines (CPP) emerged from the anti-feudal struggles. After traversing through a zig-
zag course, and after defeating the revisionists in the party, it was only in the 2nd half of 1960s the CPP was
able to take up a correct path of the revolution in the backdrop of a great upheaval in the international arena
against US imperialists under the leadership of Mao-CPC and genuine revolutionary and democratic forces.
From that time the New Democratic Revolution (NDR) of Philippines again began to advance with a new
spirit. With the help of people's army, i.e., New People’s Army (NPA) and National Democratic Front
(NDF), the NDR began to advance by gaining more and more successes through massive mass participation.
At present, CPP is the most trusted and popular Party of the people of Philippines which is leading all the
struggles of all oppressed classes and social sections against US imperialism, feudalism and comprador capitalism
to advance the national democratic revolution to its successful completion.

As the crisis in the semi-colonial, semi-feudal system is increasing, the people of all strata have begun to

rally more and more under the red banner of CPP.

Getting afraid by seeing the popularity of the present on-going NDR, and by feeling the danger to their
exploitative system the Benigno Acquino government unleashed and carried out one after another suppressive
campaigns under various names. ‘Oplan Bayanihan’ is the latest form of all-out multi-pronged suppressive
campaign let loose by the US imperialist lackey Benigno government. ‘Oplan Bayanihan’ campaign is the
most cruel, barbaric and all-out military campaign which is being conducted in a fascist way by the reactionary
US puppet regime.

But, the Filipino people, under the leadership of CPP and with the help of NPA and NDF are fighting
bravely and militantly and even by sacrificing their lives in every corner of country against this barbaric ‘Oplan
Bayanihan’, thus standing on a point of inspiration and enthusiasm to the working class and oppresed nationalities
and people across the world.

Under such circumstances, the Central Committee of CPI (Maoist) in its 2012 August Meet decided to
observe solidarity week from April 22 to 28, 2013 in support of Philippine revolution and called upon the
people, rank and file of the Party as well as all the progressive, democratic and revolutionary forces of India
to strongly oppose and condemn vehemently the barbaric military campaign i.e., ‘Oplan Bayanihan’.

Today the movement is fighting with great and high objectives. Presently it is advancing from the stage of
strategic defensive to the stage of strategic stalemate. It now has …. Guerilla fronts. It is working with the task
of increasing them to ….by 2015. the 42nd anniversary of NPA held in 2011 decided to seize twenty five
weapons from the enemy in the coming five years and hand them to the ….companies to be formed. It is
giving strong blows to the enemy through the tactical counter offensive and stands as a point of enthusiasm and
inspiration to the oppressed masses over the world and mainly the people’s armed forces. Despite the kidnapping,
atrocities, house burnings, loot and banning of revolutionary organizations, the people and the NPA and NDA
that are in support of the people are fighting under the leadership of CPP. Let us all extend support to them.
Let us voice to them that they are not alone. Let us send our solidarity message to them.

All of us demand to stop the Benigno government-led ‘war on people’ with immediate effect ! Demand
the lifting of all the American military bases in Philippines ! Demand the unconditional and immediate release of
all political prisoners in the Philippine jails ! Extend solidarity and support to the heroic Filipino revolution
going on against the fascist rule of Benigno Acquino serving the interests of the imperialists, especially the
American imperialists, comprador big bourgeoisie and the big feudal classes !

CPI(Maoist) and all the revolutionary masses of the country are extending their strong support and
revolutionary solidarity to all of you. Both parties are waging the revolutionary wars in India and Philippines
with enormous sacrifices to achieve their immediate and ultimate goals. We promise that we would continue
the revolutionary war with indomitable determination, not hesitating to any kind of sacrifices in order to make
success the New Democratic Revolution. We also pledge to be a strong co-combatant to the Filipino
revolutionary movement as an inseparable part of world socialist revolution. We would thus contribute our bit,
with proletarian internationalism to serve the world proletarian revolution and stand firmly in support of the
success of NDR in Philippines. The great people of Philippines, CPP and NPA are invincible. The working
class and oppressed nationalities and people of the world are with you. Advance ! Ultimately victory would
be yours ! Defeat would be to the US imperialists and their Philippine lackeys !

* Oppose ‘Oplan Bayanihan’ !
* Extend strong support and solidarity to the NDR of Philippines!
* Long Live Communist Party of Philippines !
* Long Live Marxism-Leninism-Maoism !
* Long Live Proletarian Internationalism !
* Down with Imperialism and their lackeys !

(Abhay)

Spokesperson,

Central Committee,

Communist Party of India (Maoist)

