Globalisation of production, by reducing the industries in the backward,
oppressed countries to the status of mere parts of the global factories has led
to unprecedented crisis in these economies which will worsen as the crisis in
the world economy intensifies further.

Moreover,  globalisation  has  led  to  the  massive  flows  of  short-term
speculative  capital  (portfolio  capital)  into  the  oppressed  countries.  As  a
consequence, these economies have become most vulnerable to every crisis
in the world economy. They are at the mercy of the whims and needs of
speculative capital. Any sudden withdrawal of foreign funds can even lead to
the  collapse  of  economies  as  illustrated  recently  by  Indonesia,  Malaysia,
Thailand, Singapore and South Korea and earlier by Mexico, Argentina and
other Latin American countries. The crisis has affected the greater part of the
globe due to the close integration of the various individual economies. The
crisis  in  the  economies  of  the  so-called  Asian  Tigers  and  the  Newly
Industrialising Economies (NIEs) has exposed the myth of the miracle growth
spread by the World Bank-IMF-WTO combine. It has shown that even the
fastest-growing economy may collapse any moment if its growth is based on
the prescriptions of IMF-World Bank.

Presently,  the  so-called  growth  in  the  world  economy  is  actually
speculation-driven and does not correspond at all to the real economy. Of the
four factors that seemed to buoy up the world capitalist economy, three—the
high-tech and dotcom, the stock market, and the dollar build-up—have already
taken a nosedive in the three years since 2000 and the real estate bubble is
about to burst anytime. In fact, the bankruptcies that had come on the crest of
the high-tech internet boom of the 1990s are mind-boggling—ITV Digital,
World Crossing, Enron and now WorldCom, and so on, with the last two
companies losing $70 bln and $90 bln respectively. Profitability is still 40%
below its peak in 1997. The latest figures show that profits, as a share of
income, have been falling in every year since 1997. There is little sign of any
recovery in business investment. And the surge in the spending by the US
government is only due to its “homeland security” and its so-called “War on
Terror”.

Overcapacity plagues virtually every capitalist country and even some of
the countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America such as China, India, South
Korea, Brazil, Mexico, and so on. Hence intense competition is even driving
the prices of some of the commodities down leading to deflationary conditions.
Excess capacity is particularly severe in computer chips, steel, cars, textiles,

16

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

UTION
UTION
POLITICAL RESOL
POLITICAL RESOL
UTION
POLITICAL RESOLUTION
UTION
POLITICAL RESOL
POLITICAL RESOL

Central Committee (P)

CPI(Maoist)

the shortest possible time; and

3) The need to ensure re-payment of the debts incurred by the oppressed
countries to the transnational banks and the imperialist governments,
required that a world without borders be created for the free flow of
capital, goods, services and labour across all countries without any
restrictions whatsoever on the part of the countries of Asia, Africa
and Latin America. This is the meaning of globalisation, liberalisation
and privatisation. And it is in order to achieve this objective that
structural adjustment programmes were brought forth and began to
be imposed on many countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America
after the mid-1980s and even more countries during the 1990s. At the
same time, the imperialist countries resort to protectionism through
tariffs on the commodities from the Third World countries along with
massive subsidies to their own products thus exposing their double
standards.

The extent of globalisation of production and capital accumulation can
be seen from the rapidly growing intra-firm trade, sales by foreign affiliates of
TNCs, etc.

The American, European and Japanese TNCs and MNCs require the
complete removal of investment and trade restrictions among countries and
regions.  To  enhance  the  profitability  of  these  global  corporations  and  to
facilitate  their  entry  into  the  cheap  wage  areas  of  Asia,  Africa  and  Latin
America, the World Bank and its sister agencies launched massive programmes
for developing infrastructure such as roads, railways, Tele-communication,
power generation, etc. The policies of the governments of these countries are
being changed to suit the new requirements of international capital.

Dictated by the needs of global accumulation, regulatory mechanisms in
the form of the WTO are established to guarantee free spatial mobility of all
forms of capital-money, productive and commodity capital. While the focus
prior to the Uruguay round of GATT (1986-95) was on reducing restrictions
on the mobility of commodity capital, it shifted to the creation of an un-fettered
and un-regulated network for investment and realisation of capital following
the  Uruguay  round  and  the  formation  of  the  WTO.  Thus  trade-related
investment measures (TRIMS), trade related intellectual property (TRIPS),
general  agreement  on  trade  in  services  (GATS),  etc.  are  forced  upon  the
oppressed countries to ensure free mobility of commodity capital, money
capital and productive and speculative capital into all sectors.

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

15

in the heroic national liberation war of the Vietnamese and other Indo-Chinese
people and the emergence of the erstwhile soviet social imperialism as a rival
superpower for the redivision of the world.

Thus the annual growth rate of the US dropped to 2.6%, that of Western
Europe to 2.2% and of Japan to 3.9% between 1973-89, from 4%, 4.7% and
9.6% respectively during the preceding period of expansion. Long-term decline
in the average rate of profit in all imperialist countries, mass unemployment
and inflation (or rather stagflation as the historically new post World War-II
phenomenon was being called), and excess capacity in industries marked the
capitalist economies in the period after 1973.

Thus overall, the crisis in the world capitalist system is permanent and
absolute while the recovery is temporary and relative. Such is the nature of
the general crisis of capitalism that encompasses the entire world.

6. The severe crisis in the world capitalist system since the mid-1970s
arose out of falling rates of profit, over-production and excess capacity due to
global recession and intense competition among the various TNCs and MNCs
in a near-stagnant world market.

It drove international capital to re-structure the world economy and to
seek  unproductive  and  speculative  spheres  of  capital  investment.  The
Keynesian  solution  to  the  capitalist  crises  and  the  so-called  welfare-state
economics failed miserably in solving the inherent crisis and contradictions
of the capitalist system. The neo-liberal economics or monetarist theory became
the  catchword  of  international  capital  since  the  mid-1970s.  Later,  a  new
offensive  on  the  world  people  through  globalisation,  privatisation  and
liberalisation was brought forth after the mid-80s as the solution to the crisis.
The  spectacular  advances  made  in  information  technology  due  to  the
development of satellite communications has made it possible for the flow of
capital  across  national  borders  in  seconds  as  well  as  for  subdividing  the
production  processes  into  several  small  operations  spread  across  several
countries but controlled from a single centre.

Thus the three factors, namely:
1) The need to relocate production to cheap wage areas by the giant TNCs
and MNCs thereby also leading to the reduction of the wages in the
capitalist countries;

2) The need to shift imperialist short-term speculative capital freely from
one corner of the globe to another in search of maximum returns in

14

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

FOREWFOREWFOREWFOREWFOREWORDORDORDORDORD

The present draft document has been finalized by Joint CC of
the erstwhile CPI (ML)[PW] and the MCCI in September 2004 after
extensive  discussions.  Five  draft  documents  were  prepared  after
intense discussions in a series of bilateral meetings held between the
high-level delegations of the two erstwhile parties between February
2003 and September 2004. The Joint CC meeting deeply studied
these  five  draft  documents,  freely  exchanged  the  rich  experiences
acquired  through  the  revolutionary  practice  during  the  past  three
decades and more, and arrived at a common understanding on several
vexed questions confronting the Indian revolution in the backdrop of
the international developments.

The  present  document  –  Political  Resolution  –  is  the
synthesis  of  all  the  positive  points  in  the  documents  of  the  two
erstwhile  parties,  as  well  as  their  experiences  in  the  course  of
waging  the  people’s  war,  fighting  against  revisionism,  and  right
and  left  opportunist  trends  in  the  Indian  and  international
communist  movement,  and  building  a  stable  and  consistent
revolutionary  movement  in  various  parts  of  our  country.

We  are  placing  the  present  document  before  the  entire  rank
and  file  of  our  new  Unified  Party  for  immediate  guidance  and
implementation. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that
this  is  a  draft  for  the  forthcoming  Congress  of  the  Unified  Party.
Hence, it has to be enriched further by the participation of all the
Party members and suggesting amendments where necessary. Thus
it should become an effective weapon in the hands of the Party for
solving  the  fundamental  problems  of  the  Indian  revolution  and  to
advance  it  towards  victory.

21-9-2004

Central Committee (P)

Communist Party of India (Maoist)

and Albania, particularly the restoration of capitalism in Russia, and
the  derailment  and  betrayal  of  the  Communist  movement  by  the
revisionist leadership of the communist parties.

• Open  betrayal  of  the  anti-imperialist  movements  and  national
liberation struggles by the comprador bourgeoisie and feudal classes
subservient  to  imperialism  in  several  colonial  and  semi-colonial
countries.

• Defeat of the revolutionary struggles in capitalist countries as a result
of the betrayal by the revisionist leaderships of the various communist
parties.
Emergence of the US imperialists as the most powerful imperialist
country at the cost of the adversaries as well as allied imperialist
countries.

•

This long post-war expansion of the world economy was based on a

number of special factors such as :

(a) The rebuilding of the war-ravaged economies of West Europe and
Japan  by  the  US-led  imperialism  to  erect  as  a  bulwark  against
socialism.

(b) Major regional wars in Korea and Indo-China and scores of local
wars  which  generated  a  continuous  demand  for  arms  and  other
industrial goods and machinery from the imperialists.

(c) The emergence of peace-time permanent arms economies.
(d) The expansion of new markets in the Third World through the export
of imperialist finance capital and also to reorient the semi-feudal
relations to some extent in various countries.

(e) Rapid development of technology both in old industries and creation

of new industries that led to rapid increase in productivity.

(f) And, the most important of all, state intervention in the economies
both as buyer and consumer and enormous credit expansion in all
sectors.

But all these had reached a saturation point by the early 1970s and the
myth of an uninterrupted expansion of the world economy was shattered as it
entered into a long period of stagnation from 1973. This crisis emerged on the
surface in the backdrop of the devastating defeat suffered by the US imperialists

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

13

with the existing relations of production thus took on an explosive form ever
since the advent of imperialism leading to fascism, world wars, and social
revolutions. These will continue until the final victory of the World Socialist
Revolution.

The general crisis of capitalism went through two phases.
The first stage of the General Crisis of capitalism began with the First
World War and lasted till 1923. The weakening of the various imperialist
powers  as  a  result  of  the  war  had  created  an  intense  revolutionary  crisis
throughout the world. This was effectively utilised only in Russia. But the
failure of the working class in other countries to seize power due to the betrayal
by the Social Democrats led to a temporary stabilisation in the world capitalist
system from 1923 to 1929. But even the economic expansion of this six year
period was accompanied by under-utilisation in spite of absolute increase in
industrial output. The stabilisation and boom were only temporary and they
soon got bogged down into a more serious crisis in 1929 that could only be
resolved through fascism and war.

The second stage of the general crisis of capitalism began with the Second
World War and continued for a few years afterwards, due to the massive
devastation of the economies of the major imperialist powers (barring the
USA) during the war. East Europe, China, North Vietnam and North Korea
became  liberated  from  the  yoke  of  capital  and  a  powerful  socialist  camp
emerged  which  became  an  effective  lever  for  advancing  world  socialist
revolution. As pointed out by Comrade Stalin, the disintegration of the single,
all-embracing world market was the most important economic sequel of the
Second World War.

By the mid-1950s all the major imperialist powers overcame the problem
of the shortages and stabilised themselves with the help of US imperialism,
which  emerged  as  the  undisputed  leader  of  the  imperialist  camp.  After
surpassing the pre-war levels of output by the mid-50s their economies began
to expand rapidly for nearly two decades before plunging into the economic
crisis of 1973. The second stage of the general crisis thus ended by the mid-
1950s.

The following political events led to the partial stabilisation of world

capitalism in the mid-1950s.

• Restoration of capitalism in all socialist countries excluding China

International Situation

UNSTABLE WORLD ORDER

1. The current world scene, particularly after the September 11 incidents
of 2001, is marked by great disorder, turbulence, and instability, the like of
which had been rarely witnessed ever since the days of World War ll. No
country in the world remains unaffected by the ever-increasing crisis of the
world capitalist system-the worst since the end of the World War. The US
imperialists,  in  particular,  by  unleashing  a  series  of  wars  of  aggression,
transformed the entire world into a powder keg. The stepped up brutal offensive
of  the  US  imperialists  worldwide  against  oppressed  nations,  people  and
countries in the name of fighting terrorism in the wake of 9/11 attacks, has
generated a powerful backlash in various forms. Thus a new situation has
emerged where instability and turmoil have further deepened in various regions
of the world.

The collapse of the Soviet superpower and the complete integration of
the erstwhile bureaucratised capitalist states of East Europe and the Soviet
Union into the world capitalist system during the 1990s have not mitigated
the crisis of world capitalism but, on the contrary, has only aggravated it further.
The crisis in Russia, East Europe and other Republics of the former
Soviet Union has been continuing unabated for the past decade and more.
The US economy, despite the short recovery during the second half of the
1990s, is in doldrums. The European Union, which has emerged economically
as a real challenge to the US as a result of the closer integration of the member-
states and the formation of a single market and a common currency, is unable
to come out of the chronic recession. The downswing of the Japanese economy
is continuing unchecked since the mid-1990s.

The  so-called  Newly-Industrialising  Economies  [NIEs]  or  the  Asian
Tigers, and the crisis in Argentina, Mexico, Venezuela and other countries of
Latin America is dragging the entire world into chaos and instability.

2. This deepening crisis in the world capitalist system is the underlying
basis for the chaos, turmoil and instability that have become the characteristic
features of the contemporary world situation. The crisis has further sharpened

12

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

5

all the fundamental contradictions in the present-day world, which, in turn,
are leading to greater disorder and instability.

While on the one hand, the contradiction between imperialism and the
oppressed nations and people is acting as the principal contradiction in the
present-day world, on the other hand, the contradiction between the bourgeoisie
and the proletariat in the capitalist countries and the contradictions among the
various  imperialist  countries  on  the  other  have  intensified  and  sharpened
further.

The superpower rivalry, collusion and contention for redivision of the
world  market  and  for  world  hegemony-the  hallmark  of  world  politics
throughout the 1970s and 1980s-has been replaced by rivalry, collusion and
contention among the various imperialist powers since the beginning of the
1990s. As none of the imperialist powers is still in a position to fill the vacuum
created with the exit of the Soviet superpower, the US imperialism remains
the sole superpower and the biggest threat to the world people.

The crisis has led to the mad scramble among the imperialist powers for
the capture of markets, sources of raw materials and strategic areas, i.e. in the
economic, political and military spheres. Hence as a result of it, several regions
in the world have become transformed into bones of contention between the
various imperialist powers, At the present juncture, the oil-rich Middle East
has become the focus of the inter-imperialist contradictions as well as the
contradiction between imperialism and the oppressed nations and people, since
capture of oil reserves is an important pre-requisite for establishing world
hegemony.

Starting with the first US-led war of aggression against Iraq in 1991,
Afghanistan in 2001 to the occupation of Iraq in April 2003, the decade-long
huge military build-up by the US in the countries of the Gulf, the threats of
invasion of Syria and Iran; the blank cheque by the US imperialists to the
Israeli  Zionist  expansionists  in  their  acts  of  genocide  of  the  Palestinian
population, apart from the brutal aggression and occupation of Afghanistan,
had transformed the Middle East into a powder keg and a bone of contention
among  the  imperialist  powers.  Afghanistan  is  carved  up  into  territories
controlled by rival factions which are backed by imperialist powers like the
US and Russia and used other countries such as Iran, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia,
etc. The entire South Asia has become a vast arena of fierce struggle for markets
by all major imperialist powers.

In Iraq we see a classical anti-colonial war of national liberation by the
Iraqi nation and people. The brave masses of Iraq, fired with fierce nationalism
and anti-imperialism, are dealing deadly blows at the US-British White racist
colonizers turning the situation into a nightmare for the colonizers. Caught in
the quagmire of Iraq the US imperialists are finding it extremely difficult to
undertake their long-cherished aim of invading Iran, Syria and North Korea.
The brutal invasion of Iraq and the heroic resistance of the Iraqi people that is
pinning down the mightiest army and the most sophisticated high-tech military
arsenal  ever  heard  of  in  human  history,  is  becoming  a  catalyst  for  the
unprecedented eruption of popular struggles not only in the Middle East but
also throughout the world.

Massive anti-war mobilizations have been rocking the entire world with
millions of people thronging the cities in all countries that had far surpassed
the  mass  mobilizations  that  marked  the  world  scene  during  the  days  of
American invasion of Vietnam. So are massive mobilizations increasing against
the globalization offensive of the imperialist marauders.

These  world-historic  events  vindicate  comrade  Mao’s  observation
regarding the irresistible historic trend of the present-day world that “Countries
want independence, nations want liberation and people want revolution”

THE INTENSIFICATION OF THE
GENERAL CRISIS OF CAPITALISM
5. With the advent of imperialism, the crisis of capitalism took the form
of General crisis and ripened the objective condition for social revolution.
The characteristic feature of the general crisis of capitalism in the era of
imperialism is that capitalism as a whole is bogged down in a state of under-
utilisation of capacity and permanent mass unemployment and inflation. The
continuous massive destruction of productive forces through world wars and
proxy wars, through under-utilisation of productive capacities of millions upon
millions of people and the destruction of surplus commodities, even as millions
of people languish in destitution; are all features of imperialism.

The general crisis of capitalism brought forth all the contradictions in
the  society  to  a  bursting  point-that  between  capital  and  labour,  between
imperialism and the oppressed nations, and between the various imperialist
powers and monopoly capitalist groups. The conflict of the productive forces

6

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

11

countries all over the world. It would be a terrible disaster for the US ruling
classes and spell an end to the American dominance.

American imperialism considers its military might as a trump card that
can be used to prevail over other rivals in the struggle for resources. It has
embarked on military adventures in classical colonial style where necessary
as in Afghanistan and Iraq going unilaterally even without the fig-leaf of the
UN. Thus the desperate and ferocious drive of American imperialism to restore
and extend its position for world dominance is leading to an explosive situation
in the contemporary world.

 Vast areas of Asia, Africa and Latin America are continuing as the storm-
centres of world revolution. The people’s wars in Nepal, India, Philippines,
Peru  and  Turkey  are  advancing  in  spite  of  the  active  intervention  by  the
imperialists and a brutal offensive by the reactionary ruling classes of those
countries.

The national liberation struggles are raging fiercely, dealing severe blows
to imperialism and its lackeys. The struggles of the Palestinians, had entered
a new phase beginning with their second intifada in spite of the compromising
stance of Yasser Arafat and his shameless cringing before the US imperialists
through infamous agreements such as the ‘road map’ that surrenders the long-
standing aspirations of the broad masses of the Palestinians. Thousands upon
thousands of Palestinian youth have taken up arms to resist the fascist attacks
of the Zionist Israeli state that is acting as a surrogate of the US imperialists in
West Asia.

The  national  liberation  movement  of  the  Kashmiris  is  continuing
undeterred, bravely confronting the vastly superior mercenary armed forces
of India. Although over 60,000 Kashmiri youth had been massacred by the
Indian armed forces in the past 14 years and the entire state is converted into
a vast concentration camp, it remains a powder keg.

The struggle of the Chechens in Russia, despite the most brutal war of
suppression unleashed by the Great Russian chauvinist state, that saw the
decimation of thousands of people and terrible destruction of their territory,
continues in its onward march towards liberation from the Russian imperialist
oppression. The Arab masses and the masses in the entire Islamic world as
well as other world people, are particularly seething with anger at the most
brutal aggression and occupation of Iraq.

This is also clearly witnessed in North Africa where the struggle between
France and US imperialism that has few interests in the African continent are
locked up in a bitter battle for control. This has led to wars in the Central
Lakes region in Africa-in the former Zaire, in Congo-Brazzaville, in Sudan
etc. Using Uganda as a pawn the US had gained important positions in Rwanda,
Burundi  and  Zaire  sidelining  France.  In  Sudan,  a  combined  campaign  is
unleashed by the US-backed countries of Uganda, Rwanda and Ethiopia to
oust the Islamic government in the North by supporting the guerrillas in the
South. The war between the French and American oil companies with the
backing of their respective governments and their local allies led to thousands
of deaths in Congo-Brazzaville in 1997 revealing the insatiable greed of the
imperialist sharks and their mad scramble for natural resources.

The  ongoing  trade  wars,  the  emerging  trade  blocs  and  the  intense
competition for the economic resources and political control over the countries
of Asia, Africa and Latin America indicate the intensifying inter-imperialist
contradictions  and  the  inevitable  direction  of  the  rivalry  towards  the
development of their respective military strengths, formation of military blocs
and towards an imperialist war for the scramble for the redivision of markets
and world hegemony. This is clearly evident in the massive war preparations
of  the  various  imperialist  powers,  particularly  the  US.  Moreover,  the
establishment of new military bases by the US imperialists in Afghanistan
and Pakistan is a potential threat and hence is a cause of serious concern for
the people of all the South Asian countries, particularly the people of India
and Nepal including the Marxist-Leninist-Maoist forces.

All this incontrovertibly proves today that so long as imperialism exists,
the source and possibility of war exists. As pointed out by comrade Mao in
his famous statement of May 20, 1970:

“The danger of a New World War exists and the people of all countries

must get prepared. But revolution is the main trend in the world today.”

3. Although US imperialism is getting weakened as a result of the ever-
deepening crisis in its economy, the intensified competition from the rival
imperialist powers, and the world-wide resistance of the oppressed people,
nations and countries, it is trying desperately to establish its hegemony over
the world by using its tremendous military superiority and its grip in various
fields. Since the beginning of the 1990s the US imperialism has become the
biggest exploiter and oppressor of the world people, the biggest supporter of

10

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

7

counter-revolution and reaction the world over, and the No.1 enemy of the
world  people.  It  has  been  using  the  United  Nations  as  its  tool  for  world
domination and is facing opposition from an increasing number of countries
including even  its  erstwhile  allies  in  Europe.  Through  its  despicable  and
predatory acts, the US imperialism stands isolated from the world people as
never before. It is the arch-enemy of the people’s revolutions in all countries.
Faced  with  intense  socio-economic  crisis  at  home  and  acute  inter-
imperialist contradictions with other imperialist powers, the US ruling classes
had drawn up the strategy of establishing undisputed hegemony, after the
collapse  of  the  Soviet  superpower  while  further  hastening  its  realization,
particularly after 9/11. Its new role as the sole superpower was played out for
the first time in 1991in the first war of aggression against Iraq. The commonality
of interests between the various imperialist powers in looting Iraqi oil, in
suppressing the defiant regime in Iraq, and the inability of the other powers to
take any other course of action in the given circumstances owing to their
economic and military weaknesses, witnessed the unity of all the imperialist
powers in the first US-led aggression against Iraq. The various imperialist
powers are also united in their Globalisation offensive, as opening up the
markets of the Third World countries remains the common goal of all. However,
today the US imperialists are not in a position to accommodate the interests of
other imperialist powers as was done in the phase of superpower rivalry. With
the formation, consolidation and expansion of the EU as a formidable economic
competitor to the US, the contradiction between them became more acute
during  the  1990s.  The  strategy  of  the  US  is  to  gradually  snuff  out  the
competition from other imperialist powers and establish its hegemony over
the world market. Hence the US imperialists decided to go unilaterally in
their wars for domination and sole control of the strategic regions and to grab
the markets of these powers. After the first war of aggression against Iraq and
prior to 9/11, the US had built a network of facilities in six Gulf countries.
And after 9/11, it had succeeded in entering into new agreements for stationing
forces in Pakistan and the countries of Central Asia.

In the name of fighting terrorism, mass frenzy is being whipped up against
the Islamic countries throughout the world and against the immigrants in the
US and Europe. A sense of mass insecurity is created by the media through a
barrage of fabricated lies and myths about impending attacks by the terrorists
on innocent citizens and, under this cover, fascist laws are being promulgated
virtually in every country. Fundamental rights and personal freedoms are being

snatched away in the name of security, and a massive reign of state terror is let
loose on people’s movements, national liberation struggles and revolutionary
movements. This global campaign against terror is actually an international
conspiracy hatched by the imperialist powers and their reactionary lackeys in
the Third World to drown the national liberation struggles, the growing militant
people’s movements against imperialist war designs and globalization, and
democratic  and  revolutionary  people’s  movements  in  rivers  of  blood,
particularly the advancing wave of protracted people’s war in India, Nepal,
the Philippines, Peru and Turkey. Thereby the imperialists want to carry out
their plunder of the world people through their rapacious neo-liberal policies
and to establish their own domination using their military might.

4. The so-called war against terror by US imperialism has actually ignited
the sparks of anti-imperialist struggles and fanned the flames of struggles
throughout  the  world,  particularly  in  the  Middle  East,  South  Asia,  Latin
America, North Africa, including in the capitalist and imperialist countries.
To overcome the deepening economic, political and social crises, the
imperialists and the US imperialists in particular, have unleashed the most
brutal offensive against the countries, nations and oppressed people of the
world. Utilising the attacks on the WTC and the Pentagon, the US imperialists
began to put into effect their long-cherished dreams of global hegemony. The
plan for establishing undisputed world hegemony through aggression and war
over the strategic regions in the world was drawn up long before 9/11 attacks.
The latter were used only as a smoke-screen to step up the bloody campaign
at a faster pace by misinforming and misleading the American people.

The US imperialists are desperately trying to control the strategic oil
reserves in the Gulf region and their invasion of Iraq is a well-laid out plan to
control the second largest reserves of oil. With over half of their oil needs
dependent on imports which are estimated to grow to two-thirds within the
next few years, the US imperialists had decided to unilaterally invade Iraq.
Cheap and abundant supply of oil is essential for any imperialist country to
compete in the world market and is a prerequisite for world hegemony. Iraq,
under Saddam, had moved towards the EU, Russia and China to whom huge
oil contracts were given. Moreover, the payments on oil sales were switched
to Euros. If unchecked, this would have led to a massive erosion of the value
of the dollar due to the worldwide rush to the Euro may create an acute crisis
for  the  American  economy  that  is  surviving  on  the  dollar-stocks  held  by

8

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

9

defeat is dependent on the strength or weakness of the revolutionary forces.
The proletariat should fight all types of fascism, including social fascism,
through militant and uncompromising struggles by isolating and fighting the
extreme right-wing reactionary forces on the one hand, and the social fascists
who act as scabs within the working class movement on the other. The final
defeat of fascism, however, is possible only by overthrowing bourgeois-feudal
rule through proletarian revolutions, establishing genuine working class states
and eliminating the capitalist-imperialist system as a whole. If the working
class does not seize the initiative, if it becomes a victim of social chauvinism
and  social  pacifism,  it  cannot  check  the  fascist  onslaught  on  people’s
movements and the basic human rights. Hence constant struggle should be
waged by the working class and the oppressed masses against the growing
fascist danger.
Utilize the Excellent Revolutionary Situation!
Build the Subjective Forces and Advance the
World Proletarian Revolution to Victory!!
14. Today an excellent revolutionary situation exists world-wide, and as
a result of the further deepening of the General Crisis of capitalism, all the
fundamental contradictions in the contemporary world are sharpening day-
by-day  and  imperialism  has  become  further  weakened.  The  monster  of
imperialism, even by combining all its forces, is finding it impossible to check
the growing tide of people’s struggles all over the world. Masses are displaying
their wrath against wars of aggression and bullying by imperialism, particularly
US imperialism; against imperialist oppression of nations and people, against
imperialist  globalization  and  the  neo-liberal  policies,  and  against  fascist
measures and suppression.

Although imperialism is caught in severe all-round crisis and the objective
situation in the present-day world is highly favourable for advancing the world
socialist revolution, the Maoist revolutionary forces are not yet strong enough
to carry out this task successfully.

The absence of strong revolutionary forces to lead the armed revolutionary
struggles, including the various types of people’s struggles on various issues,
has  resulted  in  the  growth  of  petty-bourgeois  and  bourgeois  leaderships,

and chemicals. The world output gap-between industrial capacity and usage-
is now close to its highest levels since the 1930s.

Debt- dependent growth today characterizes every economy in the world

thus further extending the crisis in space and time.

While the US national debt was equal to its GNP by 1985, the average
debt GNP ratio of the G-7 countries (USA, Japan, Germany, Britain, France,
Italy and Canada) reached 60% by the beginning of the 1990s. The entire debt
of the 24 OECD countries in 1994 was $ 13 trillion, with the US leading at $
5 trillion and EU at $ 4 trillion. Japan’s economy is now at its lowest level for
six years. Prices are now back at 1990 levels. Such trends have not been seen
since the 1930s. Japanese national debt is at 130% of GDP. The countries of
Asia, Africa and Latin America are facing the most severe debt crisis with
many countries declaring their inability to pay the debts incurred.

The massive intervention by government in order to come out of the
crisis through huge borrowings and deficit financing are turning futile. Today
the prospects of a crisis of the speculation driven world financial and banking
system have greatly increased. This will further accentuate the crisis of the
capitalist economy as well as the debt-ridden backward countries. All these
factors point to the unfolding of a revolutionary crisis on a world scale in the
future.

7. The complete opening up of the economies of East Europe, Soviet
Union and China due to their total integration into the world market has hardly
been able to mitigate the severity of the world economic crisis. Their economies
are  still  suffering  from  chaos  and  living  standards  are  declining.  As  a
consequence, not only are they not in a position to absorb commodities and
hence expand the imperialist market, they have not yet been able to attract
much investment from the imperialists.

China has become the fastest-growing market for imperialist capital and
consumer goods and has been attracting massive foreign investment. It is also
likely to increase its political and economic assertion thereby intensifying its
contradictions with the imperialist countries.

8. All the fundamental contradictions in the world are getting sharpened,

viz.:

i) The contradiction between imperialism and the oppressed nations and

peoples;

32

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

17

ii) The contradiction between the bourgeoisie and the proletariat in the

capitalist and imperialist countries;

iii) The contradiction among imperialist countries and among monopoly

capitalist groups.

The fourth fundamental contradiction – the contradiction between the
socialist camp and the imperialist camp – disappeared with the degeneration
of the last socialist base China. After comrade Mao’s demise in 1976, because
of the betrayal by the renegade Deng clique, the proletariat failed to prevent
the capitalist restoration. The struggle between socialism and capitalism will
continue to exist through out the era of imperialism and proletarian revolution.
Today it is manifested chiefly in the ideological, political and cultural spheres
and  as  a  struggle  between  the  two  contending  classes  -  the  proletariat,
representing  the  forces  of  socialism,  and  the  bourgeoisie,  representing
capitalism. The victory of revolutions in one or a few countries and the re-
emergence of a socialist camp will once again bring the fourth fundamental
contradiction into existence.

Out of these contradictions, the contradiction between imperialism and
the  oppressed  nations  and  people  is  the  principal  one.  At  present  this
contradiction influences and determines the other contradictions.

It is in the context of the intensifying general crisis of capitalism that
one has to analyse the great changes that are taking place in world politics,
particularly the collapse of the Soviet Union as a superpower and its political
disintegration, the weakening of US imperialism and the inter-imperialist
collusion and contention, the growing worldwide fascist offensive, the wars
of aggression by imperialism led by the US for the exclusive control of world
market and resources, the danger of world war and the increasingly favourable
situation for developing revolutionary struggles all over the world.

SHARPENING OF THE FUNDAMENTAL

CONTRADICTIONS

Asia, Africa, Latin America: The Storm-Centres of the world
revolution

9. As imperialism had to beat a hasty retreat due to the unprecedented
people’s upsurge in the colonies and semi-colonies in the wake of the decade-
long revolutionary crisis following World War II, it began to adopt neo-colonial

The higher the concentration and centralisation of capital and production,
the greater is the political reaction of these super monopolies. The TNCs have
established military fascist regimes in several backward countries whenever
their interests required it. The 200-odd TNCs that control the fate of the world
today  and  dictate  terms  to  the  backward  countries  can  pull  down  elected
regimes  and  suppress  even  nominal  democratic  rights  through  fascist
dictatorship in virtually every country of the world.

It has become imperative for the TNCs and the ruling classes of the
various countries to install fascist regimes in order to make super profits; to
extract  the  maximum  possible  surplus  value  from  the  working  class;  to
restructure the economies; to shift the burden of the imperialist crisis onto the
backs of the people and, most important of all, to suppress people’s revolts.
The September 11 attacks came in handy for the imperialists to enact
Black Acts and fascist legislation in virtually every country in the world. The
Patriot Act, the Homeland Security Act and other such laws are introduced in
the US; anti-immigration laws and restrictions have become commonplace in
entire  Europe.  POTA  is  enacted  in  India,  and  Black  Acts  curbing  the
fundamental rights have become the common feature in all the Gulf sheikdoms,
Turkey, Jordan, Pakistan, Indonesia, the Philippines, Malaysia, China, countries
of Eastern Europe, Baltic Republics, and all the countries of Latin America
particularly in the past two years.

US imperialism is in the forefront in pulling down the defiant regimes
and installing puppet fascist regimes everywhere. In Venezuela, it is trying to
pull down the Chavez regime and install a puppet fascist regime. In Columbia,
the US is training, funding and organizing Right-wing para-military groups
that  killed  thousands  of  peasants  and  others  suspected  to  have  “Left”
sympathies. In Israel, the fascist Ariel Sharon government assumed power
and is overseeing the massacre of the Palestinians and running a reign of
terror in all Palestinian territories. In Nepal, King Birendra was murdered
along with his entire family members in a plot hatched by the US imperialists
and their stooge King Gyanendra was installed on the throne.

A fear psychosis is being created in the minds of the people about terrorist
bombings and the fear is used to unleash reactionary violence and to impose
fascist rule everywhere.

Thus fascism is emerging as a worldwide phenomenon in order to crush
people’s struggles and to divert them into reactionary channels. Its victory or

18

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

31

only  Europe,  but  also  even  heads  of  state  of  Africa  openly  flouting  US
restrictions.

Moreover, with American imperialists desperately striving to keep NATO
completely under its hegemony and forcing the member-countries to endorse
its  policies  and  to  involve  their  armed  forces  in  the  US-led  wars,  the
contradictions between the US and other members of NATO, particularly
France and Germany, are growing. In addition, as NATO has been trying to
extend its control to the frontiers of Russia by utilising the vacuum created
after the collapse of the Warsaw Pact (Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic
are the latest entrants to NATO), the contradictions between Russia and the
US-led NATO are also growing acute. U.S. imperialism is taking best advantage
of the further decline of Russian imperialism. It has begun to encroach into
the Southern CIS countries such as Georgia and Azerbaijan.

These inter-imperialist contradictions will also help the world proletariat

and the oppressed people to isolate and hit at the US war-mongers.

American imperialism, as Mao had repeatedly pointed out, is only a

“paper-tiger”. It is a “colossus with feet of clay”.

The oppressed people and nations of the world should unite and wage
relentless struggle against US imperialism that is causing untold misery and
suffering to millions upon millions of people. While hitting out at the US
monster from every side, we should not lose sight of the grave threat posed by
the European, Russian and Japanese imperialists to the world people.
Fascisation and Worldwide reactionary offensive on People’s
Movements

13. Fascism has become a typical response of the ruling classes to the
intensifying  crisis  of  capitalism  that  has  afflicted  every  sphere  of  life.
Restructuring  the  economies  has  to  be  inevitably  accompanied  by  fascist
repression in every country that implements it. As the contradictions between
the people and the ruling classes intensify; as unemployment, inflation, hunger,
homelessness, insecurity and crime increase; the ruling classes are utilising
the frustration among the people to bring in fascist forms of rule in order to
crush all forms of people’s struggles, particularly the growing revolutionary
movements.

policies and methods of indirect rule, plunder, exploitation and control of
these oppressed nations in place of direct colonial rule and plunder. Through
its  lackeys  -  the  comprador  ruling  classes  in  these  oppressed  countries  -
imperialism increased its exploitation of entire nations by shifting the burden
of its own crisis on to the backs of the vast majority of the oppressed people.
As imperialism got bogged down in the most serious crisis in its post
World War II history, particularly from 1973, it further intensified its attacks
on the oppressed nations trying to undermine even their so-called sovereignty.
Through  privatisation  and  liberalisation,  sharp  cuts  in  government
expenditures, scrapping of subsidies, credit squeeze, devaluation, debt-to-
equity swaps, free and unhindered flow of imperialist goods, services and
capital, export-oriented strategy and such other anti-people policies, indigenous
industry is being systematically eliminated creating unprecedented economic,
social and political crisis in these countries. Unemployment and inflation have
become permanent features of these economies, poverty and malnutrition have
become the real growth sectors in the oppressed countries. Countries, which
were self-sufficient in food grains, have been reduced to chronically famine-
ridden regions dependent totally on imports for their very survival. Such a
pathetic situation has been brought about due to the treachery and outright
surrender of the ruling classes of the oppressed nations to the imperialists
after the latter were compelled to adopt the neo-colonial policy of indirect
rule, control and exploitation when they found it impossible to continue their
direct colonial rule in the face of the growing tide of people’s struggles.

The crisis in the oppressed countries had become particularly acute since
the beginning of the 1980s as they were compelled to repay the massive debts
they had incurred during the preceding decades especially during the 1970s
as a result of the excessive lending by the private commercial banks of the
West, and more particularly, due to the high spending on armaments encouraged
by the superpowers as part of their rivalry for world hegemony. As the acute
recession in the advanced capitalist countries brought down the demand for
bank loans since 1973, the commercial banks began to lend to the oppressed
countries in order to find profitable outlets for their vast accumulated cash
reserves. The total debts of oppressed countries in 1973 were $130 billion. It
increased to $ 1.90 trillion in 1995 and to….at present. Most of these debts
were used by the ruling classes either for arms imports and increasing their
defence, or for importing luxury goods for the tiny upper elite or tucked away

30

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

19

in Swiss Banks and converted into personal property as exemplified by Marcos,
Suharto, Mobutu and the like. In turn, these comprador ruling elites, bowing
to the dictates of the imperialists, sold out the interests of their countries to the
omnipotent TNCs. Starting with Chile, several debt-ridden oppressed countries
have been compelled to sell off their assets to reduce their external debts and
to encourage foreign direct investment in every sector of the economy.

Earlier, until the onset of the crisis in the early 1970s, imperialist capital
in the oppressed countries was mainly concentrated in mining, light industry
and in the processing of key raw materials for their industries abroad. But in
the past two decades, and particularly in the globalisation phase since the
1980s, most of the production units have begun to be shifted to low-wage
countries.

In Mexico, two-thirds of state-owned enterprises have been privatised at
throw-away prices. Seven out of 10 Africans suffer from malnutrition today.
Malnutrition had spread to more than a third of the population of Brazil,
Indonesia and Mexico. In oil-rich Venezuela, 80% of the population now lives
below poverty line. In Peru, only 25% of the workforce is employed and 83%
of the population is underfed.

In  countries  like  Myanmar  (Burma),  Nepal  and  Bangladesh,  under
employment is as high as 40 to 50%. Exploitation of women and children is
taking bizarre dimensions through the Export Processing Zones or Free Trade
Zones  and  sub-contracting  firms  in  the  oppressed  countries  such  as  the
Philippines, South Korea, Taiwan, Singapore, and Thailand.

By 1996, out of a total world population of over 6 billion, 3.5 billion
people (70%) shared a mere 5.6% of global income between themselves. The
annual income of the world’s top 350 billionaires in that year was equal to the
wealth of 2.5 billion of the world’s poorest people, representing 45% of the
global population. 2.4 billion of the 6 billion people of the world lived below
the poverty line.

Immeasurable wealth is being transferred from these countries to the
imperialist countries through profits from imperialist investments in industry,
service, trade, through technology transfer, royalties, monopoly prices, brain
drain and numerous other ways.

Through  their  total  monopoly  over  information  technology,  the
imperialists have launched aggressive cultural invasion of the countries of

An important feature in the war strategy of the US imperialists during
the decade of the 1990s is the shift in emphasis to hi-tech war i.e., first bombing
the target country from the skies thereby destroying the latter’s economy, basic
infrastructure, the entire environment, terrorizing the civilian population and,
only after these cowardly bombings from the air, advance its ground forces
“bravely” into the territory of the country devastated by incessant bombing.
Such carpet-bombing has been repeatedly resorted to in Iraq since 1991 by
the US-British imperialists culminating in the most inhuman bombing in human
history in March-April 2003; in the war of aggression by the US-led NATO
forces against Yugoslavia in 1999; and in the incessant bombing of Afghanistan
since  October  2001.  The  nightmare  of  the  Vietnam  War  still  haunts  the
American psyche and hence the American ruling classes do not want to take
the risk of involving their troops in ground war directly without carpet-bombing
from above.

By killing thousands and even lakhs of innocent people including children
through the most brutal and crude bombings made possible ironically by the
most sophisticated technology, the US imperialists have become the No.1
international terrorists and the greatest threat to world peace. Through all
these heinous and dastardly acts, US imperialists have become more isolated
than ever in world politics and have earned the wrath of the vast majority of
the people the entire world over. The decade of the 1990s and the early years
of the New Millennium, have seen a worldwide resurgence of massive anti-
American  protests  by  the  oppressed  people  and  nations  condemning  the
American misdeeds.

Starting  with  the  American  aggression  on  Iraq  in  1991  to  the  latest
invasion of that country in March 2003, the American imperialists have earned
the wrath of millions of people around the world who came into the streets
burning US flags, attacking its embassies and expressing their anger through
various forms of protests. The growth of anti-American sentiment and rage
among the people of the Islamic world has compelled the governments of
those countries to adopt on overtly anti-American stance. In the latest invasion
of Iraq in March 2003, unlike earlier, the US was totally isolated with only
Britain lending it full support. The entire Arab world, excluding Kuwait,
opposed another attack on Iraq. Frightened by the growing anti-US protests
by their people, even the most servile governments of Saudi Arabia, Egypt
and Turkey opposed US policy and refused their territory for US attacks on
Iraq. Its attempts to isolate Cuba, Iran and Libya have totally failed with not

20

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

29

which  are  actually  sponsored  by  the  imperialists,  particularly  the  US
imperialists. Thus, just as during the colonial period, even today the armies of
the oppressed countries are being used as cannon-fodder in the wars that
actually protect the strategic interests of the imperialists. In the same context,
the arming to the teeth of some other countries like India, Pakistan, Israel,
Argentina, Mexico, Taiwan, etc., is also increasing the destabilisation in the
current world.

AMERICAN IMPERIALISM - THE NO.1

ENEMY OF THE WORLD PEOPLE
12. But even as the economic hegemony of America declined and its
political hegemony is facing rough weather, it has been striving all the more
desperately to establish through military means a ‘new world order” under
its overall hegemony. While world imperialism is further weakened with the
collapse of the Soviet Union as a superpower and intensification of the inter-
imperialist contradictions, the American Superpower is scheming and chalking
out gruesome plans to drown the people’s militant and just struggles in rivers
of blood.

In order to safeguard its positions in the world market and its declining
hegemony on the oppressed countries, US imperialism has been launching
wars of aggression as in the case of Iraq and Afghanistan. It is indulging in
interference, subversion, bullying and black-mailing as in the case of Libya,
Iran, Syria, North Korea, Cuba, Sudan, Yemen, Somalia, Venezuela, Ecuador,
Bolivia,  Argentina,  Paraguay  and  several  other  countries.  It  is  directly
suppressing revolutionary struggles of the oppressed people and nations as in
Colombia. It is using surrogate states like Israel to suppress the legitimate
struggles of the Palestinian nation.

To cover up their ugly deeds of subversion, intervention, bullying and
direct aggression on the countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America, the US
imperialists are propagating the myth of defending democracy, preserving world
peace and stability, suppressing terrorism, protecting the weak and helpless
nations, so on and so forth. They are also using the United Nations as an
instrument to fulfill their nefarious designs as seen in the war of aggression
on Iraq in 1991 and sanctions for over a decade as well as in Bosnia, Kosovo
and other places.

Asia, Africa and Latin America on a scale unheard of in world history. Just a
handful of imperialist companies control virtually the entire electronic and
print  media,  the  Internet,  and  all  sources  of  information  that  spread  the
imperialist-sponsored programmes, propaganda and culture throughout the
world. Local cultures are being swamped and destroyed along with the national
economies with the onslaught of globalisation.

By shifting the burden of its economic crisis on to the oppressed nations,
imperialism has not only created social, political and cultural crises but also
ecological crisis in these countries. The narrow short-term motives for profit
of these TNCs has led to land, water and atmospheric pollution in most regions
of the third world, to acid rain as in South Korea, to genocides through poison
gas  leaks  as  in  Bhopal,  destroying  plant,  animal  and  marine-life  through
dumping of hazardous industrial wastes into the seas, rivers and forests of the
oppressed countries.

With the active support and financial help from imperialist agencies,
NGOs  (Non-Governmental  Organisations)  are  spreading  their  net  in  the
oppressed countries. Governments are deliberately reducing expenditure on
welfare schemes and thus providing greater scope for such organisations. The
NGOs try to create illusions among the masses and divert them, thereby helping
imperialism.

The indiscriminate exploitation and plunder of the Third World countries
by the imperialists has given rise to massive people’s movements, national
liberation struggles and revolutionary movements led by the proletariat. It
had accentuated the contradiction between imperialism and the oppressed
nations and people of the world.

Vast areas of Asia, Africa and Latin America are continuing as the storm-

centres of world revolution.

(We will add the details of the ongoing people’s wars, national liberation

struggles and other democratic people’s movements later on.)
Resurgence of the proletarian movements

10. The capitalists have been resorting to various methods to counter the
falling rate of profit and to shift the burden of their crisis onto the backs of the
working class. These include: mergers to cut costs through the elimination of
a part of the work force; increasing labour productivity through speedups;

28

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

21

closure of less-profitable industry; and finally shifting entire production units
to low-wage areas thereby exploiting the cheap labour of backward countries
along with intensifying the rate of exploitation of the workers at home. Through
restructuring the monopolist bourgeoisie aims at creating a high degree of job
insecurity among the workers by creating a vast reserve supply of labour and
thereby depressing the real wages to a miserable level.

The workers in the imperialist countries are forced to wage bitter battles
against wage cuts, speed-ups, retrenchments, scrapping of welfare measures
and for other lost rights. Most of the states in the US run huge deficits and
have scrapped most of the welfare measures. As a result, the blacks and the
coloured people in the US have become the hardest hit. The inner city ghettos
(slums) are growing in number. The living conditions of even middle class
people  are  declining  drastically.  Contract  labour  and  part-time  jobs  have
become the feature of all the industrialised countries today.

The disparities between the rich and the poor in the capitalist countries
had never been as acute as today. The top 1% of American families have
never held so much of the nation’s wealth in this century as now. While they
owned one-third in 1945, which fell to 22% in 1976, it had increased to around
43% today. The world’s richest man, Bill Gates, the owner of Microsoft,
personally owns more wealth than the bottom 40% of US population. Whereas
in 1980, the salaries and bonuses of the top business executives were 42 times
larger than the pay of the average American factory worker, now they are 419
times larger. And, in sharp contrast, between 1983 and now, the poorest 40%
of Americans saw their wealth shrink from $4,400 to just $900.

In  the  entire  West  Europe,  Japan  and  America,  workers  are  getting
organised into more militant unions to win back their lost rights as the danger
of losing jobs threatens every worker.

In East Europe and the former Soviet Republics (particularly Russia and
the Ukraine), the working class struggles have gained momentum against
privatisation, price rise, unemployment and the free market policies.

Social Democracy and modern revisionism are still a force in the working
class movements in the imperialist countries and in the oppressed countries.
In some of the countries like France, Germany, Italy, Spain, etc., the Social-
Democrats are the direct representatives of the ruling classes. But the objective
basis for the flourishing of Social-Democracy is gradually getting weakened
due to the intensity of the General crisis of capitalism and globalisation of

any of the imperialist blocs will have a significant impact on the world balance
of power.

Thus while contending and colluding for a redivision of the world, the
imperialist powers are, at the same time, united on the question of suppressing
the struggles of oppressed nations and people. Hence the collusion among the
various  imperialist  powers  as  in  the  brutal  US-led  aggression  on  Iraq;  in
enforcing TRIPS, TRIMS, GATS etc., on the oppressed countries; or in the
IMF, World Bank, ADB, NIGA, IFC, IDA etc. (which are not the tools of
American imperialism alone but of international capital - of imperialism - as a
whole) should be understood as part and parcel of their contention for redivision
of the world which is growing fiercer with every passing day. The TNCs of
the  various  imperialist  powers  are  united  in  their  goal  of  destroying  the
indigenous industry of the oppressed countries, in opening up the latter’s
markets to international capital, in exploiting their cheap land, labour, raw
materials and other resources, and in enforcing trade sanctions, intellectual
property rights etc., but, at the same time, all these TNC hawks are engaged in
severe contention for grabbing a greater share of these markets.
Collusion  is  temporary  and  relative  while  contention  is
permanent and absolute

The crisis of world capitalism has not only increased the danger of world
war but also of local wars. Since 1945 until 1990, at least 125 local and civil
wars and armed conflicts have taken place in the countries of Asia, Africa and
Latin  America  leading  to  40  million  deaths  and  many  more  maimed  and
grievously injured. Along with the total number of casualties, if we take into
account the total number of troops involved in these 125 wars, the quantity of
weapons used, the destruction of property, the ruination of economies, and
the total expenditure involved, it far surpasses the figures of the Second World
War. The Superpowers were involved, either directly or indirectly, in most of
these wars in the backward countries both to undermine the influence of each
others’ adversary as well as to increase their weapon sales. Some of these
countries which aspire to be regional powers are also stockpiling chemical
and  biological  weapons  along  with  an  enormous  arsenal  of  conventional
weapons and are preparing for local wars.

Some of these countries like India, Pakistan, South Africa, Brazil etc.,
are sending their troops in the so-called peace-keeping missions of the UN

22

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

27

struggle for the re-division of the world. Of late, it has been having defence
deals and agreements with countries like India and is gradually trying to assert
itself more forcefully in world politics. Its alliance with any of the other
imperialist powers could lead to a significant tilt in the world balance of power.
Today, though US imperialism is still acting as a superpower, it is not in
a position to achieve complete world hegemony. And at the same time no
other imperialist power is in a position to achieve world hegemony. Beset
with  severe  crisis,  every  major  imperialist  power  is  busy  establishing  or
consolidating regional trade blocs in order to achieve global hegemony based
on the strength of their respective blocs.

The acute competition for the world market has intensified the economic
and political contradictions among the major powers-the US, EU, Russia and
Japan. As a counter to the EU, America had set up the North American Free
Trade Area (NAFTA) with Canada and Mexico as partners. Japan, on its part,
is going ahead with plans to form its own regional trade bloc.

Protectionism has now become the general feature of virtually every
capitalist country. Farm subsidies and steel subsidies have become particularly
contentious issues. The US ruling class has been dictating ‘free trade’ to the
rest of the world, while announcing protectionist policies for itself. A tariff of
30 percent on imported steel is now being imposed on its foreign competitors
in an attempt to revive the decaying US steel companies. At the WTO summit
at Cancun, Mexico, last October, the issue of farm subsidies by the US and
the EU pushed the Summit into a stalemate.

The problem of overcapacity now plagues the world with products from
East Asia and Latin America competing with those of the imperialist countries.
Hence a new wave of protectionism is now sweeping across the world.

Besides the major imperialist powers, China too has emerged as another
important player in world politics after the restoration of capitalism. It is a
major military power in the present-day world possessing the largest armed
force of around 30 lakh and para-military force of 12 lakh. It has the third
biggest  military  budget  after  the  US  and  Russia  and  has  taken  up  the
modernization of its armed forces on a massive scale. It has been continuing
with nuclear testing despite protests from other countries. Its claim over the
entire Sprately group of 250 islets, Coral reefs and atolls, rich in oil and gas,
has become a source of conflict with South East Asian countries like the
Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia, Taiwan and Brunei. China’s alliance with

cheap labour. It has created more favourable conditions for the unity of the
socialist revolutionary current in the advanced capitalist countries and New
Democratic Revolutions in the oppressed countries.

The working class in the capitalist countries has been waging militant
struggles  not  only  on  their  class  demands  but  also  against  imperialist
globalisation  and  war.  The  massive  mobilisations  in  Seattle,  Prague,
Washington, Nice, Genoa and elsewhere against the WTO, World Bank, IMF,
and the G-8 summits shows the growing disillusionment among the workers
towards  the  capitalist  system  despite  the  unending  propaganda  by  the
reactionaries  about  the  final  triumph  of  capitalism.  The  worldwide
demonstrations in millions against the US-led war against Iraq and Afghanistan,
particularly in the very heartland of capitalism such as the US and Western
Europe, shows the increasing awareness of the workers regarding their world-
historic role.

The unfolding of revolutionary struggles by the proletariat in the advanced
capitalist countries will be of great significance in the worldwide militant
people’s struggle against imperialism. Genuine proletarian parties based on
MLM have already emerged, and are emerging, in several capitalist countries
and it is certain that these parties and the working class parties in the oppressed
countries that are spearheading the revolutionary struggles against imperialism
and local reaction will unite and also forge a worldwide united front against
imperialism and their lackeys.
Collusion and Contention among the Imperialist Powers and the
danger of war

11. With the intensification of the General Crisis in the world imperialist
system  from  the  early  1970s,  the  contradictions  between  the  American
Superpower and the West European and Japanese imperialists began to surface
openly in their economic rivalry for a greater share of the world market. They
have become further sharpened during the 1980s, particularly after the collapse
of the Soviet Union as a countervailing superpower in the world arena. The
inter-imperialist contradictions are getting acute due to the falling average
rate of profit and the near-stagnant world market resulting from an overall
decline in real incomes all over the world.

While the US’s share of the world’s stock markets was 70% in 1966, it
dropped to 32% by 1990; while Japan’s share increased form 3% to 31% in

26

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

23

the same period and Europe from 20% to 30%. In 1997, the total GDP of the
USA was $ 8.1 trillion, while that of EU’s was $ 8.2 trillion. In the share of
world trade - exports - the USA had 16% against the EU’s 20%. Of the total
world’s debt securities, the US issues 37% to the EU’s 35%. And of the total
foreign exchange transactions the US accounted for 42% to EU’s 35%

The first official US trade deficit in this century occurred in 1971. The
US trade balance in manufactured goods fell from a surplus of $ 11.8 billion
in 1981 to a deficit of $ 133.4 billion in 1986. Correspondingly, the global
power of the dollar declined spectacularly since the early 1970s. By 1984, the
US was transformed into a net importer of capital for the first time since the
First World War. And in 1985, after serving for 65 years as the world’s creditor,
the US became its largest debtor with $ 110 billion of foreign debt. By 1991,
the  external  debts  of  the  US  reached  a  staggering  $  400  billion.  Military
expenditures and debt servicing became the two most important components
for the mounting federal deficit together accounting for 50 to 60% of the
Federal budget. The US public debt quadrupled in the Regan-Bush era.

The 15-member European Union (EU), with Germany and France playing
a prominent role, has emerged as a powerful force in world politics and is
attempting to develop the biggest market in the world stretching up to the
Russian borders. Currently the EU’s population of 37 crores is equal to the
combined population of the US and Japan. 11 more countries of Eastern Europe
and Baltics have applied for membership of the EU, some of which have the
status of the Associate members.

Stronger unification of Europe will make it a strong challenge to the US
in all spheres of the economy. The Euro can emerge as a strong challenge to
the dollar; the European Central Bank can soon equal the international financial
clout of the Federal Reserve of the USA; the EU is fast emerging as the world’s
largest trading bloc accounting for one-fifth of the world’s income and an
expected 40% of world trade; etc.

Japan has been the leading banker in the world and a close second to the
US in being home to the world’s top 500 companies which include service as
well as industrial enterprises. In 1994, 149 were Japanese while 151 were
American. Of the top 20 companies 12 were Japanese and six were American.
However, the severe recession, over the last few years has temporarily eaten
away much of Japan’s lead. In 1997 of the top 500 TNCs, Japan accounted
for 112 to US’s 175, and of the top 20, Japan had 9 to US’s 6.

Trade wars became particularly fierce between the US and Japan during
the 1980s though US trade sanctions and pressures to import more of US
goods had begun by 1973 itself. Japan had therefore begun to shift both its
trade and direct investments from the US to other parts of the world. There
has been a phenomenal increase in Japan’s trade surplus with the US and
other countries of the world since the late 1970s. This made it the world’s
biggest investor, lender and aid donor by the end of the 1980s.

After serving as the bulwark of reaction for almost three decades both as
an oppressor of various nations at home and of the national liberation struggles
in the third world, the Soviet Union collapsed as a superpower by 1990 and
disintegrated after the August 1991 coup into several sovereign Republics.
Though a loose coalition, called the CIS led by Russian imperialists, came
into existence, comprising 11 former Republics, virtually each of the Republics
is independent. The Soviet Union’s deceptive garb of socialism came apart
and state monopoly capitalism, fascism and Russian chauvinism, which lay
hidden behind the socialist mask for years, came out in their true colours. At
last the correctness of comrade Mao’s remarks that revisionism had usurped
power in the Soviet Union and East Europe after comrade Stalin’s death in
1953  and  that,  consequently,  capitalism  was  restored  and  these  were
transformed into capitalist countries have been incontrovertibly proved by
the above developments. In spite of the non-stop malicious propaganda by the
reactionary bourgeoisie that communism is dead with the demise of the Soviet
Union,  the  world  proletariat  and  the  struggling  people  are  increasingly
becoming aware that the crisis in the Soviet Union and East Europe was a
crisis  of  state  bureaucratic  capitalism  and  what  was  dead  was  phony
communism.

Russia which took over the mantle of the former Soviet Union has half
the total population of the latter, retains 92% of the nuclear weapons, three
quarter of its natural resources, and the largest oil reserves in the world. It
continues to be a contending imperialist power in spite of losing its Superpower
status. Yet it is caught in the most severe economic and political crisis and is
not in a position at the present juncture to regain its control and domination
over East European countries and over the oppressed countries that were
formerly in the grip of the Soviet Superpower.

Notwithstanding the severity of the internal crisis, Russia still remains a
formidable military power and a contender, however weak it may be, in the

24

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

25

at  greater  pauperization  of  the  Indian  peasantry,  along  with  more  tightly
integrating it with the vulture-like net of the imperialist world market. These
pockets  have  been  more  tightly  interwoven  or  integrated  in  to  the  most
strangulating net of the imperialist dominated MNC, just like Pepsi. The much
trumpeted slogan “from the farm house to the seaport” is nothing but the
proclamation for the new market oriented policy to serve the above process.
 The increasing incidents of “suicides” by the poor and a section of the
middle peasants in some parts of India are reflecting the severity of the over
all deepened agriculture crisis. In India today food crisis is once again posing
on the agenda along with the news of draught in one part and floods in another,
while the stored stock of food-grains are increasingly rotting in the warehouse.
All these contradictory features are the clear symbols of the semi-colonial
and semi-feudal set-up under neo-colonial form of indirect rule, exploitation
and control.

In  various  parts  of  the  country,  where  capitalist  relations  have  been
developed to some extent, vast sections of the peasant masses including some
sections of the rich and middle peasants continue to wage peasant struggles
on various issues while focusing their attention on demanding here crises for
their produce. The increase in the crises of fertilizer as a result of the reduction
or withdrawal of subsidies, the lifting of infra-structural subsidies and the
enormous increase in water, electricity, transport and diesel rates at the dictates
of the imperialists institutions like IMF and World Bank, has also brought the
peasant  masses  increasingly  into  such  struggles.  During  the  struggles
mobilization of the vast section of the peasants, firing on these struggles at
various places and killings of a number of peasants highlight the importance
of the struggles. The increasing cost of agricultural production, adverse terms
of trade and direction towards virtual scrapping the remunerative price system
along with closing down the FCI, including the strangulating net of the usurers
and  other  credit  due  to  the  imperialist  sponsored  policies  is  increasingly
deepening and widening the objective bases of such like militant peasant
struggles  against  the  ruling  classes  and  their  state  machinery  including
imperialism. Our Party must support and intervene more forcefully in such
struggles no doubt on a clear cut revolutionary basis with the clear cut purpose
of re-orienting these struggles in the direction of and as a part of the anti-
imperialist and anti-feudal NDR struggles already advancing in various parts

strengthening of the religious fundamentalist forces, and fascist, social fascist
forces. Most of these forces have been using the mass upsurge and wrath of
the people to come to power and to divert the people from the revolutionary
path.

The restoration of capitalism in the Soviet Union and East Europe after
the  death  of  comrade  Stalin  in  1953  and  the  usurpation  of  power  by  the
revisionist Khrushchovite clique by the mid-1950s, the degeneration of CPC
after the death of comrade Mao in 1976 and the consequent restoration of
capitalism in China under the modern revisionist Deng clique are serious
setbacks to the world revolution and the proletariat. These serious setbacks,
besides  the  brutal  suppression  of  the  revolutionary  movements  in  some
countries, have created vacillations, pessimistic and defeatist tendencies at
least for a while among certain sections of the oppressed people worldwide,
particularly among the middle classes, about the future of socialism.

The imperialists and the reactionaries all over the world have unleashed
the most vicious propaganda against socialism, communism and Marxism-
Leninism-Maoism especially since 1989, following the mass upsurge in Eastern
Europe and the former Soviet Union and the collapse of the bureacratised
capitalist regimes led by the revisionist parties there. Desperate attempts are
made to project these discredited regimes as communist. Post-modernism,
post-Marxism etc., have come to the fore that deny the relevance of social
classes, dub class analysis as economic reductionism, and claim that identities
such as race, gender, caste, nationality are the contemporary reality. They
assert that we have reached a period marked by “the end of ideologies”, ‘end
of history’ and so on, that capitalism has finally triumphed as the only viable
system, and that “there is no alternative”. They claim that the struggle for
state power is corrupting and will invariably lead to authoritarian regimes,
that central planning leads to bureaucracy. They project “civil society” as an
alternative to the State and that in the economic sphere, market should be the
regulator. Thus all these trends, some of which still don a “Left” garb, are
apologists of the neo-liberal policies of international capital, neo-colonial forms
of control and exploitation, and have emerged as a great obstacle to revolution.
In the context of such a systematic attack by imperialism and the various post-
modernist and post-Marxist trends against Marxist ideology, socialist system
and communism, we must step up our effort to expose the bankruptcy of these
theories take up campaigns to propagate MLM on a wide scale.

48

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

33

In fact, the massive anti-Communist and anti-Marxist propaganda by
the reactionary media and the post-modernist talk of the “triumph of capitalism”
following the debacle in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union, ran out of
steam within a very short period. In almost all these former bureaucratised
capitalist states, the newly formed bourgeois parties became discredited and
the ousted revisionist parties came back to power. Moreover, in almost all
countries  of  the  world  massive  anti-capitalist  movements  are  on  the  rise,
revealing the deep disgust and frustration of the toiling masses towards the
rapacious capitalist system that has widened the cleavage between the rich
and the poor as never before.

The temporary set-back in the socialist bases has not mitigated the crisis
of capitalism even an iota but, on the contrary, has only exposed the cruel,
exploitative, oppressive, inhuman, unjust nature of a system that cannot provide
employment  to  millions  upon  millions  of  impoverished  people  who  are
prepared to sell their labour power just for a square meal a day, a system that
destroys the productive forces and keeps its enormous productive machine
idle even as the vast majority of people continue to perish, lacking the minimum
necessities of life.

In fact, today, the development of productive forces has reached such a
stage that conditions for socialism have become more mature. The high degree
of concentration of production, which has been growing even more rapidly in
recent times through mergers and acquisitions, has brought a high degree of
concentration  of  workers  in  each  industry.  Monopoly  capitalism  in  the
imperialist countries and comprador bureaucratic capitalism in the countries
of Asia, Africa and Latin America have further matured the conditions for the
speedy  transformation  into  socialism  after  the  victory  of  the  proletarian
revolutions in these countries.

The objective situation, thus, is giving rise to new Marxist-Leninist-
Maoist parties worldwide and to a clear polarisation among the revolutionary
forces. During the 1980s and 1990s, a few international initiatives were taken
up by some of the Marxist-Leninist parties to bring together ideologically
closer forces into a common platform. It is certain that the further advance of
the people’s wars in the countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America on the
one hand, and socialist revolutionary movements in the capitalist-imperialist
countries on the other, would lead to a polarisation of the Maoist revolutionary
forces worldwide. Meanwhile, it is another urgent task before the Communist

12. Apart from the age-old semi-feudal exploitation and oppression, the
condition of the peasant masses, particularly the poor and landless peasants,
including the village workers, Adivasi and Dalit sections are being further
deteriorated because of the imperialist sponsored policies. Now the agriculture
sector is mostly placed at the mercy of the imperialists and CBB for seeds,
pesticides, fertilizers and machinery. Government allocations for the agriculture
sector have increasingly cut down from 2.6% to 1.5% in 1997-98 itself. Public
sector investment in agriculture has come down from 14.1% in 1981/82 to
4.9% in 2000/01. Its share in gross capital formation has sharply declined
from 11.2% to 7.1% in the same period. The Banking reforms by reducing
priority sector lending have left the peasantry, particularly the poor and even
the middle peasants at the mercy of the private moneylenders more than ever
before.  Peasant  masses  get  65%  of  their  loans  from  these  usurious
moneylenders, including the rapacious traders, where as they get only 13.5%
loans from the public sector Banks. The price hike of water, electricity, diesel,
fertilizers, pesticides, machinery and all the agriculture inputs on the one and
negligible on non-remunerative price for there produce, on the other has led
to the virtual handing over of the lands of the entire poor peasantry including
a sizeable sections of the middle peasants to the big landlords.

In some belts of so-called green revolution capitalist relations have been
further  introduced  to  some  extent  but  they  are  very  much  distorted  and
disarticulated. These relations were introduced in the so-called name of reforms
but their real purpose was not only creating and extending the market for
imperialist goods, and mitigating the food crisis the country was then facing,
but also for derailing the people from revolutionary struggles. Because of the
some new class forces have emerged in these pockets but the land question is
no longer fundamentally resolved.

The ruling classes has already stated encouraging further concentration
of  land  by  diluting  and  circumventing  the  nominal  land  sealing  acts  for
removing upper limits under different pretexts. The agri business consortia,
the hue and cry about the crop diversification and the contract farming in the
name of helping the poor peasants are nothing but directed towards devastating
the poor peasantry and a ‘section’ of the middle peasantry thus the so-called
globalization of the Indian agriculture and the talks of initiating second green
revolution, through introducing genetic modified crops, are nothing but aims

34

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

47

traditional trade union boundaries. In a word various section of the working
class has not only largely expressed their pent-up wrath against these policies
but is also expressing their revolting mind. They have no other alternative but
to wage a life and death struggles against these policies and sweep away the
existing boundaries. But the working class can advance towards realizing its
historic mission only if primarily the deep-rooted influence of revisionism,
reformism and economism is routed, concrete initiative and revolutionary
policies are adopted within the working class and they are freed from the
chains of the ruling class run trade unions, including those of the revisionist
CPI/CPM. Thereby only under the steadfast leadership of its Maoist party,
working class will be more forcefully able to mobilize and channelize all the
struggles of the various sections of the people, particularly the struggles of the
peasantry against imperialism and feudalism and leading towards establishing
a new democratic India by smashing old India, and thereby advancing towards
building socialism and communism on a world scale. That is, by advancing,
strengthening and expanding the flames of the already going on protracted
people’s war in various parts of the country under the leadership of our Party.
11. In India today after 57 years of so-called independence monopoly
over land by big landlords still continue despite some changes. Vast majority
of the peasantry is still the most exploited and oppressed class. They are forced
to live in most wretched and extremely poor conditions. Despite the hoax of
all land reforms more than 30% of the land is concentrated in the hands of the
landlords who constitute only 5% of the population. Extreme forms of semi-
feudal exploitations are still continuing in the countryside. Some of the major
prevailing forms of such exploitation are extortion of their produce through
share cropping, which is robbing them of their produce up to 50%, bonded
labour, usurious and merchant capital and other forms of extra economic
coercion. The countryside is dominated by landlords, usurers, merchants and
religious institutions. These class enemies continue to protect and instigate
casteism, communalism, superstition and even maintain private armies or
Goonda forces and perpetuates medieval oppression on the rural masses and
Dalits, Adivasis and women through often perpetrating massacres, rapes etc.
It is this class of oppressors who hold social and political power and act as a
prop for imperialism ensure perpetuation of decadent feudal culture along
with paving the way for rotten imperialist culture in the vast countryside. This
is still the overall dominant aspect of the rural society of India today.

revolutionary forces worldwide to forge a fighting front with all the anti-
imperialist  forces,  i.e.,  the  communist  revolutionary  forces,  the  national
liberation  movements,  and  the  genuine  anti-war  and  anti-globalisation
movements, with the Maoist forces acting as the nucleus in the direction of
providing leadership, to unitedly fight and defeat the new imperialist offensive
led by US imperialism against the world people in the wake of September 11
attacks.

The revolutionary forces the world over should stand by each other,
build solidarity movements, and help and learn from each other’s experiences.
Unity  of  all  the  Marxist-Leninist-Maoist  and  anti-imperialist  forces  will
undoubtedly weaken imperialism further.

The formation of the Coordination Committee of Maoist Parties and
Organsiations of South Asia (CCOMPOSA) is a path-breaking advance in
the direction of coordinating the Maoist movements of South Asian region
against Indian expansionism, imperialism and the reactionary ruling classes
of the countries of the region and will help achieve the unity of all the fighting
forces in the region and hasten the ongoing people’s wars.

The present crisis of the world imperialist system, particularly of the US
imperialists, and the resultant war-mongering posture of the US imperialists,
along  with  the  countervailing  results  of  the  imperialist  globalization,  has
sharpened  all  the  fundamental  contradictions;  the  contradiction  between
imperialism  and  the  oppressed  nations  and  people  is  an  important  factor
determining the present turbulent situation. That is why, the storm-centres of
revolution  are  increasingly  providing  extremely  favourable  situation  for
advancing the New Democratic Revolution as part and parcel of the World
Proletarian Revolution. It is in this backdrop that the storm-centres in the
South Asian countries, particularly in Nepal and India, are developing towards
a new turning point in history.

The world proletariat and the fighting people are taking lessons from the
failures  in  building  socialism;  and  will  continue  the  revolution  until  the
establishment  of  communism  world-wide  with  redoubled  conviction  and
confidence. The oppressed people are fast realising that these defeats are but
temporary in the zig-zag course of the protracted new democratic and world
socialist revolution which will advance by breaking, first, the weakest links in
the imperialist chain. No power in the world can stop this irresistible trend of
ultimate doom of imperialism and victory of socialism in the near future.

46

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

35

Domestic  Situation
Domestic  Situation
Domestic  Situation
Domestic  Situation
Domestic  Situation

1. We have noted that the present world situation is marked by great
disorder, turbulence and instability rarely witnessed in world history. The U.S.
imperialism has not only declared but also started wars of aggression against
the world oppressed people and nations in the deceptive name of “war against
terrorism”.  There  evil  designs  are  nothing  else  except  to  establish  their
undisputed and naked rule over the world oppressed people and nations to
recast the existing world relations according to their sole imperialist interests.
This is the naked imperialist logic to tide over their deep rooted economic
crisis. Another most glaring feature of the situation is that the people of the
whole world, including the people of the imperialist countries along with the
U.S. people themselves came forward in resisting these war-designs on a
massive scale. The mighty wave of struggles against imperialist’s globalization
is also continuing. The mounting resistance of the Iraqi people and the people
of  Afghanistan  including  the  continuity  of  the  glorious  struggle  of  the
Palestinian people shows that the U.S. imperialists are increasingly caught in
the quagmire. Today it is US imperialism that is the no.1 enemy of the world
people resorting to blatant aggression, domination and bullying of countries
through out the globe.

2. The changes in the world situation generally play a more determining
role in setting the course of changes in the internal situation of a country. This
phenomenon continues to reveal itself more markedly in the socio-economic
and political set-up of India. Recently this process has assumed a more naked
and direct dimension. It is because of this fact that ever since the transfer of
power in 1947, the comprador bureaucratic capitalist and feudal classes of
India, continue to apply the policies serving the needs of the imperialists, are
the main social props of imperialism. The comprador big bourgeoisie is a
class that serves imperialism and is nurtured by them to survive and grow.
Today, particularly after 1990 with a major offensive of finance capital under
the banner of LPG, they have more brazenly started acting according to the
naked dictates of the imperialists.

After the World War II the imperialist forces faced the anti-imperialist
struggle in an unprecedented scale throughout the world and brought forth
the more sophisticated, more deceptive and “more sinister” policy of neo-

the peasantry. Number of people migrating to the cities for their livelihood is
increasingly swelling the city population. The condition of the middle classes,
including the women, students, intellectuals, youths and even a sizable section
of the national bourgeoisie have been seriously affected. Number of people
living below the actual poverty line has increased up to 48%. Overall situation
is that the countervailing effects of these imperialist sponsored policies have
already started simmering on the surface in the form of a new wave of people’s
struggle, particularly the struggles of the workers and peasants.

10. The working class has become victim of lay-off, retrenchments, wage-
freeze and wage cuts, scraping of social security benefits and casualization of
labour and speed-ups etc. including restrictions on even minimum trade union
activities. There is a significant change in the composition of working class in
the wake of globalisation policies. The composition of contract and casual
workers among the industrial proletariat is on the increase. The jobs from the
larger factories of the organized sector are being shifted to small factories in
the unorganized sector. Besides, there is an increase in the proportion of the
women workers in the low wage sectors. All these changes should be taken
into account while formulating our tactics for work in the working class.

The over all crises are so-deep that the ruling classes are no longer in the
position of providing even the minimum relief by accepting their mostly just
minimum demands. As a result the workers in organized sectors, transport,
Banking, insurance, power sectors including state and central employees and
in other sectors are coming out or bursting in strikes at the state and all India
level  in  spite  of  the  threat  of  the  reprisals  by  the  management,  including
governments of all the ruling class parties. Today almost all the major trade
unions are dominated by the revisionists and the pro-establishment sections
but  because  of  the  growing  working  class  struggles,  emanating  from  the
disastrous counter effects of the new economic policies, the pro-working class
masks of these sections are increasingly getting exposed. Actually in the hearts
of the vast sections of the working class the age old leadership of these sections
has almost lost their credibility.

During the last few years the working class in the different sections and
in different parts of the country has waged many valiant struggles, particularly
in the mining sector against the imperialist sponsored new economic policies
of the ruling classes. Moreover these struggles have generally outstripped the

36

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

45

funds required for even repairing the roads used by them.

Recently,  the  imperialists,  particularly  the  US  imperialists  and  their
financial  institutions  have  been  allowed  to  directly  deal  with  the  state
governments. That is why they continue to directly sanction conditional loans
for setting up industries for constructing luxurious roads, hi-tech parks and
hi-tech cities such as - Hyderabad and Bangalore - and others such infra-
structural  projects  which  are  mostly  benefited  to  imperialists  and  their
henchmen in India. Various state Governments of various brands, including
the so called left government of West Bengal led by CPM, are in the race of
achieving such strangulated loans. They are crossing all the limits in providing
every kind of concessions and facilities to the imperialists and at the cost of
sweat  and  blood  of  the  people.  In  the  same  direction  the  BJP-led  central
government has decided to establish some special economic zones (SEZ) in
some  states  where  no  Indian  law  will  be  operative.  Apart  from  the  US
imperialists, the EU, Japan and other imperialist countries are also in the race
in sanctioning huge amounts as loan for the power sectors, expressways and
telecommunications etc.

9.  But  the  domination  of  U.S.  imperialism  does  not  mean  that  the
penetration of other imperialist forces in the economic and political fields
does  not  exist.  Rather  the  influence  of  the  E.U.  countries,  particularly  of
Germany, France along with Russia and Japan continue to increase. All of
these have also meant that India has become more and more tightly interwoven
into the whole world imperialist system. That is why today Indian people are
more and more subject to the shocks and dislocations emanating from the
motion of development of the imperialist system itself. The further penetration
of all the imperialists in India has not only heightened the pressure below,
thereby sharpening the class contradictions in the country, but has also increased
the cracks and along with sharpening of the contradictions among the ruling
classes themselves though it has yet to get crystallised.

Because of the imperialist dictated economic policies, particularly the
policies of imperialist sponsored globalization, liberalization and privatization
by both the central and state governments have not only greatly deteriorated
the overall Indian economy but also the living conditions of the Indian people.
These policies have not only squarely affected the living conditions of the
working class but also all the labouring sections of the society, particularly

colonialism  by  replacing  direct  colonialism.  Thereafter,  the  process  of
accumulation and regeneration of capital advanced under this deceptive policy.
During this process different imperialist capitals predominantly reflected the
feature  of  high  degree  of  integration,  with  the  leading  role  of  the  U.S.
imperialists in it. The imperialist institutions like World Bank, IMF, GATT
and UNO etc. were brought forth with this motive.

In India this process was reflected in the form of opening all its doors for
the penetration of more than one imperialist country in economic, political
and all other fields. Another notable factor is that during the subsequent years
of so-called independence, these comprador bureaucratic big bourgeoisie and
big  landlord  ruling  classes  continue  to  serve  the  imperialists  faithfully.
Subservient to the imperialist the Indian ruling classes kept the doors open for
the loot and plunder of our country by the imperialist powers while fulfilling
their own interests also by utilizing the imperialist contradictions.

As a result, just after the British imperialist went behind the curtain, the
U.S. imperialists continue to assume the more dominant position in India for
a period of more than a decade. There after, starting from the late 60’s the
Soviet imperialists continue to exercise more dominant position for a period
of more than two decades. Now again the U.S. imperialists are in the helm of
the affairs. It is a fact that changes and shifts in the world situation played a
more determining role in the shifts of these tilts.

3. Despite the shifts in the tilt, it is a fact that all the major imperialist
powers continue to penetrate and extract wealth produced by the Indian people.
It is also fact that after 70’s both the rival blocks of imperialist continues to
operate in India, even though the social imperialists were in the dominant
position. Both of them succeeded in establishing their hidden and open links
among  various  sections  of  the  ruling  classes  including  there  political
representatives. The age-old “private sector” created and nourished by the
British imperialists continues to be dominated by the western imperialists,
particularly the U.S. imperialists. Another fact is that even though the total
amount of the Soviet imperialists capital continues to remain less than those
of the other imperialists powers, particularly the British and more particularly
the U.S. imperialists, yet they exercised a commanding role in the over all
economic and political set-up of India. The reason is that the Soviet capital
was mainly concentrated in strategic and key sectors of the Indian economic.

44

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

37

Hence their grip on the key sectors of the Indian economy, along with the
more favourable geo-political position in this part of the globe, were the major
factors which helped the Soviet imperialist in gaining more dominant position
in India. Moreover, the Soviet capital was mainly concentrated in the so-called
“public sector”, which was particularly encouraged by the Soviet imperialists
and hence provided huge loans in the garb of “aid”. During this process they
obtained not only a large number of preferential trade agreements but also
succeeded  in  marginalizing  the  influence  of  the  rival  imperialists  to  a
considerable extent. They also instigated the expansionist designs of the Indian
ruling classes to establish their hegemony and monopolistic control over entire
South Asia through them. The signing of Indo-Soviet military pact in August
1971 and creation of Bangladesh immediately after it were the events which
clearly reflected the Soviet domination in the economic, political, military
and all other spheres of India. In the economic sphere this disguised cozy
relationship was brazenly named as a “non capitalist road of development”
and a “step towards socialism”. The chieftains of the so-called communist
parties of CPI & CPM brand also continue to sing the same tune, when the
fact  is  that  it  was  nothing  but  a  typical  and  another  form  of  imperialist
domination.

4. In India the comprador capitalist class, which emerged in the colonial
system itself, has their long history of existence. They were created, nurtured
and brought up by the British imperialists themselves and were organically
linked to feudalism from the very beginning. After the transfer of power the
fusion of this comprador capital with state capital resulted in the comprador
bureaucratic bourgeoisie which assumed state power along with the big landlord
class.  During  the  period  of  Soviet  domination  this  class  was  further
strengthened due to the strengthening of the so-called public sector under
Soviet domination. The nationalization of banking along with some other
sectors, including the closure of privy purses of the princesses, were the steps
taken in the above direction. Just as today this process is being reversed, under
the naked directions of the U.S. led financial magnates, with the purpose of
strengthening their control in the Indian economic and political system.

5. Beginning with the late seventies and eighties, as the Soviet imperialist
economy was being stretched to the extreme limits, because of the over bearing
military budgets, along with its technological lag and some other reasons, it

 There after the difference between sick and healthy units have lost their
meaning. Now the sick one are being closed while the shares of the most
profitable are being sold, that too at the throw away prices.

Examples  of  such  selling  of  PSUs  are  numerous.  Balco  project  of
thousands of crores rupees in Chhatishgarh has been recently sold by the BJP
rulers at through away prices. This project has been sold despite the strong
resistance of the workers and employees of this project and despite the fact
that it was earning huge profits and producing items for defence department.
Now  some  major  ports  and  airports  are  on  the  sale  in  the  name  of
modernization. Airlines companies, oil corporations and projects and even
further reforms in banking sector are on the list. Several PSU unites, even the
thriving one’s, under the control of state governments are either being closed
or sold of or are on the sale. All these anti-people steps of the central and state
governments have aroused and arousing mounting protests from the workers
and employees including wide sections of the people. The glorious struggles
of the electricity employees in UP set-forth a glaring example against imperialist
dictated steps of privatizing electricity board. But despite this the production
and distribution of electricity in many states has been either all ready privatized
or are in the list. In this regard the BJP-led central government has already
cleared the deck by establishing a regulatory Authority and by empowering it
with a new law to expedite these deals. Hence in several states this process is
going on at various levels.

The same process is going on in the transport and communication sectors
under the direct and open instructions of the US-led WB, in almost all the
states. For constructions of roads too private companies and MNCs are being
invited under the Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) schemes. Under this deal
such companies are being authorized to collect high taxes directly from the
vehicles playing on such roads. Besides this the BJP-led central government
has proclaimed a high sounding scheme of constructing an express way for
linking all the four corners of the country, that too, at the dictates of the
imperialists and mostly for their benefit. The estimated cost of this scheme is
said to be Rs.20, 000 crores, when actually it will cost nearly Rs.60,000 crores.
For this scheme a huge loan with stringent conditions is already under way.
Apart from this loan, already scarce funds from the public works schemes are
being taken away. Hence vast majority of the people are being deprived of the

38

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

43

At the same time they have removed most impediments to the penetration
of imperialist capital in almost all the sectors. They have speeded up the pace
of “modernization” of industry and thereby sold away some major industries
which were earning even huge profits even. They have encouraged increasing
export-oriented production along with opening all the gates of the Indian market
by relaxing import restrictions. They have removed all import duties form
more them 1400 products of daily usages. They took this step even before the
W.T.O. time limit to please the U.S. imperialists. They have removed all
restrictions on the entry of imperialist banks. They have reduced or even
scraped subsidies in the agriculture sector. Most of all they have adopted and
started implementing new labour policy for freezing and banning strikes. They
have surpassed all the previous Governments in acting as more faithful brokers
to the imperialists, particularly the U.S. imperialists in providing then free
access to the Indian market. Hence they allowed the imperialists to openly
loot our cheap labour, land, raw materials, infra-structural facilities, people’s
savings and other Indian sources. They have opened up even the thriving
insurance sector to the imperialist capital along with providing numerous
concessions in every trade.

8. The new congress government is trying to hoodwink the people by
raising  hue  and  cry  that  they  well  gave  ‘human  face’  to  reforms,  that  is,
imperialist dictated policies. But actually they are bound to quicken their pace.
Their out right subservient character and the growing needs of the imperialist,
because of their deepening crisis, will force them to do so. Moreover, it is the
same congress and the same Man Mohan Singh (now PM then FM) who
brazenly brought forth and forcefully implemented these imperialists sponsored
economic policies and that is why it began to be called as Manmohanomics.
The  naked  support  of  the  so-called  left  parties  to  the  present  congress
government with the fake posture of opposing its economic policies is a new
fraud with the Indian people. Hence there left posture is bound to be exposed
more than ever. Though the Congress government made a mock show of doing
away with the disinvestment ministry, which, under BJP rule was selling the
country’s assets (i.e.PSU) at throw away prices, it has been as actively allowing
imperialist capital into even newer spheres of the economy. In fact one of its
very first acts was to allow foreign capital take over India’s major airports.
The budget proposals of 2004 too were an indication of the extent to which
they are prepared to go in this direction.

became increasingly difficult for them to meet all the growing requirements
of  the  Indian  economy.  In  this  back-drop  the  dominant  sections  of  the
comprador Indian ruling classes began to explore other imperialist sources
for technology, capital goods, loans and flow without shifting their political
orientation. This process was firstly reflected when the India government
obtained a five billion dollars loan from the IMF with stringent conditionality.
There after some other steps were taken by Rajeev Gandhi Govt. in the same
direction. This process was more clearly enhanced by the PVN congress Govt.
by adopting the new economic policy. After the collapse of the Soviet super
power the Indian ruling classes began to tilt towards the US super power. This
process further intensified both economically and more particularly politically
when  the  BJP  led  NDA  Govt.  came  to  the  fore.  In  this  process  the  U.S.
imperialists assumed an even more dominant position in almost all the affairs
of the Indian polity.

After that the US imperialists began to give more and more attentions
towards India. Whereas before the collapse of the Soviet Union “India was
really off the radar scope” of the US imperialists. But after that things began
to change. When the BJP Govt. assumed office in Delhi the changing scenario
took a new turn. Just after that US president Bill Clinton visited India, whereas
before that no US president visited India for more than two decades. After
that India became a hunting ground for the US dignitaries. This process was
further accelerated after 11 Sept. Events, because these events proved to be a
new turning point in the world situation. Hence the US imperialists declared
India as their new “strategic pillar” in Asia. Specifying the significance and
contours of this emerging relationship the US ambassador to India R.D Black
Will himself stated on 27 November, 2002 that “twenty months ago, America
and Indian policy makers did not address together the important issues of co-
operative high technology trade, civil space activity, and civilian nuclear
power. Today all three of these subjects are under concentrated bilateral
discussion, and the top of both governments is determined to make substantial
progress.” Not only that an unprecedented stream of Washington policymakers
have traveled to India to reinforce these high level discussions, that too after
Sept 11, 2001. Among them five top members of the Bush cabinet have traveled
to India, some more than once. Their efforts have been underpinned by more
than 100 high US official visitors at the rank of Assistant Sect. of state or
higher, including chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Richard Myers

42

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

39

and direction of the FBI Robert Mueller. “These US policymakers, while
robustly  engaging  with  their  Indian  counterparts,  have  given  attention  to
diplomatic collaboration, counter terrorism, defense and military-to-military
teamwork, intelligence exchange, law enforcement, development assistance,
joint scientific and health projects etc.” He also stated that, “Twenty months
ago the American and Indian militaries conducted no joint operations, today
they have completed six major training exercises”. Another fact is that US
imperialist have waived almost all the sanctions which they impose on India
after Pokhran II in 1998. Moreover the US imperialists have established their
new military bases in Afghanistan and Pakistan which are very close to India
while the Vajpayee Govt. have not objected over it.

6. All these facts speak themselves that the Vajpayee Govt. has crossed
all  the  previous  limits  in  toeing  the  political  and  military  policies  of  the
imperialists, particularly the US imperialists. This limit has been more blatantly
crossed after the 11 Sept, 2001 events. Actually, these events proved to be a
blessing in disguise to them. When the US imperialist declared and launched
a most vicious war of aggression against Afghanistan. Indian rulers brazenly
declared their “unconditional support”, when it was not demanded even. Then
they kept mischievous silence when the U.S.-British combined armed forces
trampled underfoot the Iraqi sovereignty and subjugated it with their military
might. After this occupation instead of asking the U.S. imperialist to leave
Iraq, they continuously searched for an excuse to send their armed forces as
mercenary forces to join this occupation. Not only that they also began to sing
the U.S. tune of “war against terrorism” and “terrorism as the biggest danger”
by simply adding the term “every kind of terrorism.” They promulgated the
most draconian law POTA by replacing TADA in line with the anti-terrorist
laws being pushed throughout the world by the imperialists, particularly US
imperialists. They promulgated this law with the clear purpose of suppressing
the rising wave of the people’s struggles including the Maoist led People’s
War along with the nationality struggles and religious and other minorities. At
the same time and in the same breath they declared our two Maoist parties/
organizations  -  MCCI  and  CPI  (ML)  [PW]  along  with  many  other  mass
organizations as banned. Moreover, they let-loose the reigns of RSS-led Hindu
fundamentalist and fascist type forces which organized a most horrific and
dragon like dance of death over the corpuses of the Muslim minority in Gujarat.
There  after,  the  BJP  stalwarts  brazenly  declared  to  repeat  the  Gujarat

“Experiment” in other states. The mischievous silence of the US imperialist
over these flagrant events removed all doubts about their tacit approval. In the
same ways the BJP Govt. kept mischievous silence over the vicious carnage
let-loose by the Israel watch-dogs of the US imperialists against the Palestinian
people’s National liberation struggle. Not only that they welcomed the top
dog of US imperialism and butcher the Israel PM Sharon with red carpet in
Delhi.

7. In the matter of economic policies, rulers of the BJP led NDA Govt.
has beaten all the previous records in opening the flood-gates to imperialists
plunder. They continue to implement all the policies dictated by the U.S. led
financial magnates, while they chanted the “swadesi” mantra all the while. In
these regards they have left the PVN Govt. far behind in implementing these
policies in the name of the “second phase of the reforms.” They have brought
forth new industrial policy, the new agricultural policy, new trade policy, new
textile  policy,  new  coal  policy  and  financial  sector  reforms  etc.  The  new
government is also toeing the same line.

  In January 1991 the value of rupee to a dollar was 18.20, but dropped to
31.40 by May 1995. It further dropped to a record level of 48.50 during the
year 2003, i.e. a drop of 170%. and the devaluation of rupee has touched a
new low level. Not only that the Indian economy continue to drift in the debt
trap. In 1980 the external debt was around rupees 30,000 crores. But by the
time of PVN congress government it quadrupled to Rs. 1, 32,000 crores. There
after during the BJP-led Govt. it crossed the new high level of rupees 5, 00,000
crores. Only 40% of that debt is at concessional rate of interest, while the
remaining is being paid back at market rates. By 2001 the debt-servicing
charges (i.e. repayment plus interest) have gone up from $8.2 billion (Rs.15,000
crores) in 1992 to $14 billion (Rs.65,000 crores) in 2003.

In recent years the dominant shape of capital inflow has mostly assumed
the form of FDI and FII (Foreign institutional investors) ‘investment’, which
is also known as portfolio investment. By the year 1997 the total amount of
this ‘investment’ was about $9 billion (Rs. 36,000 crores), but today (By
December 2003) it crossed the record level of $25 billion (Rs. 100,000 crores).
In the year 2003 FIIs pumped $7.43 billion (nearly 30,000 crores), which is
ten time high than the previous year. Not only the return on such capital is
much higher but its nature is speculative also.

40

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

41

problems,  events  and  phenomena,  occurring  from  time  to  time,  there  by
changing both the objective as well as subjective world. Without fighting these
two  trends,  particularly  revisionism  ideologically,  politically  and
organisationally  it  would  be  impossible  to  advance  the  new  democratic
revolution in the country to victory and go on moving forward toward achieving
communism on a world scale.

25. The NGOs seek to divert the more advanced sections from the path
of revolution. With their post-modernist and revisionist ideologies they seek
to divert the revolutionary movement into acceptable and peaceful channels.
A  massive  network  of  imperialist  funded  NGOs  have  been  set  up
throughout the country, particularly focussing in conflict and potential conflict
areas to sabotage revolution. They play a counter-revolutionary role, utilising
the vast funds at their disposal, to corrupt a section of the masses and wean
them away from revolutionary activity. Not surprisingly a large number of the
NGOs are being absorbed into the welfare schemes of the government itself
at both central and state levels. It is our urgent task to thoroughly expose the
ideology of these NGOs and isolate them from the masses.

26. Being subservient to imperialism, the CBB’s rapacious role is not
confined to India alone. It has its eyes on the neighbouring countries of South
Asia  too  and  quite  often  intervenes  in  their  political  affairs.  Backed  by
imperialist powers, India is playing an expansionist role, which is a great
menace  to  the  neighbouring  countries  of  India.  Through  this  aggressive
expansionist role, the CBB of India, while serving the imperialists principally,
has its own interests also in the region. The Indian comprador ruling classes
continue to pursue their expansionist interests in South Asia. They seek to
grab their markets and sources of raw materials. Not surprisingly, barely one
week after coming to power the Congress External Affairs Minister went on a
3-day trip to Nepal, threatening the Maoist people’s movement there and
blatantly interfering in the internal affairs of the country.

The Congress government continued the BJP’s policy of supplying even
more arms to the reactionary monarchy and its genocidal RNA. Earlier the
GOI directly sent its army into Bhutan, utilising the Bhutanese army as cannon-
fodder  to  crush  the  nationality  movements  based  there.  Through  their
expansionist activities the Indian rulers are getting more and more isolated
from the people of entire South Asia. Some of these South Asian countries

of the country. With the aggressive intervention of imperialism in the agrarian
economy, not only the middle peasantry, but even large sections of the rich
peasantry are being badly hit. As a result we see mainly a growth of the rich/
middle peasant movement against imperialism and the state, It is incumbent
that we unite with these movements to target imperialism, while at the same
time to draw them into the overall anti-imperialist, anti-feudal movement,
while  exposing  and  isolating  any  opportunist  leadership  that  takes  a
compromising stand on that issue.

13. Apart from the working class and the peasantry the conditions of
other labouring section of the people is also increasingly getting more and
more miserable because of these new economic policies. Due to enormous
increase in unemployment, threat of further retrenchment, wage freeze, price
rise, forced retirement in the so-called name of “golden hand shake”, cuts in
social welfare scheme including subsidies, increase in work load and increasing
repressive measures on the union activities, the living conditions of teachers,
electricity workers and employees, and other various sections of the middle
class employees are increasingly getting miserable and insecure. These sections,
including doctors, college and University lecturers etc. are increasingly forced
to take up the course of struggle for the realization of their demands. Recently
the ruling classes had adopted more stubborn attitude in accepting even their
most just demands. They take some flimsy steps only before election to cash
in on their votes while afterwards not only do away with these gains but throw
more burdens upon them. That is why the struggles of these sections are
increasingly out stripping the usual trade union boundaries. But these struggles
are being systematically reined in and betrayed by the revisionist and other
reactionary leadership of these movements. Unless this leadership is thoroughly
exposed and ousted and the reformist thinking that has deeply penetrated a
section of the working class eradicated, it is hard to bring the working class
within the stream of new democratic revolution. Yet, the increasing repressive
measures by the ruling classes and their state machinery towards the struggles
of these sections is widening the scope of support and even unity with the
revolutionary democratic movement and also the advancing people’s war led
by our party in various parts of the country.

According to the new education policy, again dictated by the imperialist,
cuts in subsidies and grants have paved the way fore increasingly privatizing

64

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

49

the educational institutions. This process is continuously increasing the cost
of education because of more and more rise in the already exorbitant fees.
Moreover, the complete bar on new jobs and increasing unemployment due to
privatization the student and youth are facing a completely uncertain future.
Thus the increasing pace of the commercialization of education is not only
depriving the weaker sections of the society from the education but also drawing
the student into a new wave of the student struggle the struggle including the
struggle of the youth id bound to intensify more and more because of increasing
cuts in the budgetary allocation for education including the further deepening
of the processes of anti-imperialist and anti-feudal consciousness among the
student.

Because of the new industrial, financial and trade policies sponsored by
the imperialist are continuously being pursued by the Indian ruling classes,
large number of indigenous, small and medium industries are being closed or
declared sick. By 1985 more than 1, 30,000 such like industrial units were
declared as sick. By Feb. 2001 near about 40% of such units (i.e. nearly 52
thousands) were either closed or non traceable. Because the BJP government
has crossed all limits in adopting these policies and all the restrictions for the
penetration of the imperialist finance capital has been thrown open in all the
industries, including the small consumer goods industries, as well as due to
restrictions of Bank lending, increasingly larger number of such industries
are bound to be hit hard. Recently, due to the new a textile policy, luck of
handloom and power-loom units have closed down throwing out lakhs of
weavers into the streets all over the country. This process has also affected
some sections of the small and medium bourgeoisie forces, which are bound
to take the course of struggles at least to some extent against these policies
sponsored by imperialism and pursued by the Indian ruling classes.

14.  Moreover, the living conditions of all the sections of the masses,
particularly the poor and middle sections are continuously being tightened
because of the spiraling rise of the prices of all essential commodities due to
the more and more devaluation of the Rupee linked with the imports becoming
dearer and dearer. Inflation had already touched the record level during the
decade of 1990s itself. By encouraging exports at the cost of domestic need,
essential consumer goods too have almost gone out of rich of the common
man. Even the middle class sections are finding it extremely difficult to cope

separately. But now we have also succeeded in uniting into a single all India
party based on MLM line thus we have succeeded in achieving the long and
highly cherished need by the revolutionary minded and other people of the
country including all our ranks and South Asian and international revolutionary
Maoist forces.

Moreover, we have also developed closer relation with the international
MLM forces. Though the storm centres of world revolution continue to be
Asia, Africa and Latin America, the revolutionary movements in South Asia,
particularly Nepal and India, have, for the present, become an important centre
of the revolutionary movements of the world. Protracted people’s war in Nepal
led by the CPN (Maoist) is triumphantly marching forward by resisting and
defeating the vicious repression by the ruling classes of Nepal openly backed
by the imperialists, particularly the US imperialist and the Indian expansionists.
The  position  of  the  Marxist-Leninist-Maoist  forces  in  South  Asia  is  also
relatively better. More encouraging fact is that they are also coming closer.
The formation of CCOMPOSA as a part of the developing coordination and
growing trend of unity amongst international Maoist forces and is a step forward
in this direction.

24.  With  the  setback  in  the  International  communist  movement,
particularly with the reversal in China, the imperialists have sought to portray
communism  as  dead.  As  an  alternative  to  communism  they  have  been
aggressively promoting theories of post-modernism, subaltern studies, etc.
All these have been linked with the dissent movement in the world with the
purpose of negating the role of class struggle in changing society. Though
they have a radical and left appearance they act to diffuse organized attacks
on the system and negate the only possible alternative i.e. socialism.

And as for revisionists, they hold a considerable influence over large
sections of the organised working class. It is important to liberate this section
form the stranglehold of the revisionists so that they can play their due role as
a  part  of  the  proletarian  vanguard.  Countering  and  defeating  these  post-
modernist and revisionist trends, particularly revisionist trends are a prime
task of the Party. While revisionism remains the main danger in the world
today, hence it can be most effectively fight out and defeated only by our
ideology Marxism-Leninism-Maoism, along with widely propagating it and
more particularly by creatively applying it to the concrete situations, i.e. various

50

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

63

Indian ruling classes. With the change of the colour and faces of the rulers in
Delhi the Sangh Parivar are bound to continue their nefarious designs in fanning
fundamentalism to gain back lost power. Hence the party of the proletariat
continue the struggle against these forces as desired by the circumstances
while keeping the edge of the people’s struggles directed against the new
rulers along with CPI/CPM and their imperialist chieftains.

It is one of the major reasons that the dog fight among them is getting
very sharp. Even if the polarization among them about who will ally with
whom imperialists powers is not clearly crystallized. This may only take place
when clear-cut blocs materialize at the international level. But one thing is
clear enough that the contradiction among the US - British imperialists on the
one hand and the EU and Russian imperialist on the other is also increasingly
interacting behind this dog fight. That is why this dog fight is likely to intensify
further and further. Our party along with other Maoist and revolutionary forces
must utilize the favourable situation created by this dog fight. They must do
so not only exposing the parliamentary politics and parliamentary system
altogether, including the ruling class parliamentary parties, but they must also
build  a  strong  mass  movement  around  the  slogan  “boycott  election  is  a
democratic right” of the people. More than that, they must also continue to
concentrate their attention in advancing the protracted people’s war through
appropriate military means, particularly during the election. It is only then
they can effectively highlight the fact that the embryo of the real people’s
democratic power growing in the countryside through the PPW is the only
alternative which can lead the people towards smashing the old and establishing
a new India.

Secondly, the deep going crisis ridden situation continues to provide a
most favourable fertile ground for the newly rising tide of the peoples struggles.
The burning flames of the great Naxalbari movement developing and gaining
ground in Andhra, Jharkhand, Dandakaranya, Bihar and the adjoining areas
are spearheading these struggles. Today the Naxalbari movement has developed
to the unprecedented level in the whole history of the communist movement
in India. A new and high phase of spring thunder has already begun. Both the
force and flow of our movement are advancing towards accomplishing it’s
historic mission. Most importantly, our two parties or two out standing Maoist
streams have succeeded in building and strengthening PPW while operating

with the skyrocketing prices. The much trumpeted present growth rate of the
Indian economy as highlighted in the statistical term is mostly deceptive. Actual
fact is that the fiscal deficit has touched the record level of rupees 93,656
crores and the trade deficit to rupees 66,300 crores ($14, 430 million by January
2004). Besides this the Indian economy is increasingly being oriented on the
lines of the so-called “tiger economies” of Sought Asian countries with the
increasing pace of ‘portfolio investment’, hence the fate of this concocted
growth rate is no longer different then these economies. It is bound to burst
sooner or later. Much trumpeted “Feel good factor” proved to be the biggest
and most humiliating fraud with the Indian people in the recent elections.

At the same time unemployment is soaring at a rapid pace. The number
of people at the live register in the employment exchange itself has long before
surpassed  4  crores.  Where  as  the  number  of  both  the  urban  and  rural
unemployment has crossed the number of 14 crores. The ongoing neo-liberal
policies are further aggravating this mounting problem. This is leading to
slashing of the real wages of the workers due to the over supply of the cheap
labour in the market. The retrenchment of workers and a bar on recruitment
and new jobs including the forced retirement schemes are already in full-
swing through subcontracting, automation and rationalization measures. Most
of the industries, mines, services have been increasingly shedding their staff.
More than two crores children under the age of 14 are working under
sub-human conditions and more than half the world’s illiterates live in India.
Subsidies on health, education, transportation, drinking water, irrigation and
electricity are being systematically eliminated and cost recovery schemes are
being falsely introduced. The proliferation of the EPZs has been pushing more
and  more  women  into  in  human  working  conditions  where  they  are  both
economically and sexually exploited.

14A. The imperialist-sponsored economic policies pursued by the ruling
classes are also leading to terrible environmental degradation and ecological
crisis and are increasingly placing the people’s lives including the plants and
animals’ life in constant peril to the proliferation of dangerous pollution-
emitting and chemical industries polluting land air, water, and climate.

15. Apart from the imperialist-feudal exploitation and oppression women
are also subjected to male oppression and suppression through patriarchal
institutions, like family, cast system, property relations and culture. Sexual

62

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

51

harassment and other atrocities on women have increased in recent years,
particularly because of so-called liberalization and imperialist Globalization
and Consumerism. The so-called constitutional laws in providing equality to
women have proved to be a hoax. The women masses, particularly the women
from  the  landless  and  poor  peasants  are  increasingly  receptive  to  the
revolutionary  democratic  politics  and  ideology.  The  fact  is  that  “women
represent half of the sky”. Without unleashing the fury of women as a mighty
force of revolution, victory in revolution is impossible. Hence, the mobilization
of toiling women in the revolutionary people’s war against imperialism and
feudalism is a must. The equality between men and women can be realized
mainly in the course of the revolutionary war and then further “in the process
of socialist transformation of society as a whole”.

However, taking into consideration the deep-rooted ideology of patriarchy
and family institution in backward semi-colonial, semi-feudal countries like
India Comrade Mao warned that the final solution of the women’s question
will  require  a  fairly  long  period  of  time  even  after  the  establishment  of
socialism. Hence, he stressed on the need to continue the class struggle in the
superstructure to uproot the old decadent feudal and bourgeoisie ideas, culture,
customs and habits related to patriarchy and male domination even during the
course of new democratic revolution. A large number of women are already
playing and coming to play a powerful role in the armed agrarian revolution
in the form of PPW led by our party. Their role in student movement, cultural
and literary fields including all other struggles is increasing day by day. Maoist
party must pay added attention in rousing, mobilizing, organizing and helping
the women to come forward in joining various struggle, particularly the people’s
war including the revolutionary women organizations.

We must continue our efforts in imbuing the policies of new democratic
revolution among them and thereby help them realizing that there cannot be
women’s  liberation  without  the  liberation  of  the  oppressed  masses  from
imperialism, feudalism and CBB. We must also continue to give our added
attention  in  developing  communist  leaders  from  among  them  including
promoting them to the appropriate party committees.

16. Besides the feudal and imperialist class exploitation and oppression
the Dalit masses are also caught in the age-old vicious grip of the caste system.
That is why they are also the victims of untouchability, cast discrimination

engaged in maligning this PPW led by our party as terrorist and anti-social
and even try to link it with the notorious ISI etc. when the truth of the fact is
that it is they and their armed forces which are acting as terrorists and that too
at the dictates of the imperialists, particularly the biggest terrorist of the world
-the U.S imperialists. But despite their mountains of lies slanders and more so
most ruthless and wicked suppressive campaigns the peasant war in the form
of PPW led by our party is continuously surging forward and will surely
continue to do so until victory, that too, with the active participation and support
of the people, particularly the peasant masses.

23.  Overall  situation  in  India  today  is  passing  through  an  extremely
explosive  period.  All  the  major  contradictions  of  the  Indian  society  are
increasingly intensifying. The contradiction between imperialism and broad
masses of the people (including nationalities) along with the contradiction
between feudalism and great masses of the people are assuming alarming
dimension where as the latter is more determining the overall situation. The
contradiction among the different factions among the ruling classes is also
interacting as well as intensifying very sharply along with these contradictions.
As  a  result  of  the  increasing  intensification  of  these  contradictions  two
outstanding favorable features are clearly reflecting in the developing situation.
Firstly, India is increasingly and more deeply engulfing in spirit of a most
critical economic and political crisis. Because of this there is no sign of recovery
and permanent political stability in the whole ruling and parliamentary system
parliamentary  system  and  parliamentary  ruling  parties  including  the
parliamentary politics stand exposed to a considerable limit. The faith of the
toiling  masses  has  been  shattered  from  this  system  more  than  ever.  The
phenomenon of tearing apart including forging and breaking apart and nakedly
opportunist alliance in the ruling class parties has assumed alarming dimension.
The question of one party stable rule has already become a part of the history.
They  are  devoid  of  any  viable  slogan  to  dupe  the  people.  In  the  case  of
corruption one big scandal after another has utterly uncovered their ugly faces.
Even the so-called left parties are fast loosing their ground. They are more
and  more  openly  resorting  to  severe  repression  to  suppress  the  people’s
struggles erupting on even most ordinary and just demands. Nakedly relying
on vicious repressive measures and fanning of communal frenzy, particularly
the fascist Hindu fundamentalism is the latest and almost last weapons of the

52

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

61

Suraksha Dal still continue to operate but its influence and strength has been
considerably reduced. The struggle to eliminate to it is going on at a rapid
pace.

In some parts of our struggle areas the State and Central governments are
forming black hundred type organizations like Green Tigers, Kranti Sena etc,
since the 90s, as part of the numerous repression forms. Such covert operations
are part of the general counter-insurgency offensive against the Maoists.

In  fact  this  is  part  of  the  multi-pronged  all  round  offensive  being
undertaken  by  the  JOC  (Joint  Operational  Command)  of  the  Central
government, and backed by imperialism. A counter-insurgency scheme of
Low Intensity Conflict strategy is being adopted by the rulers to crush the
movement  through  a  policy  of  reforms  and  ruthless  repression  with  ever
increasing intensity. Massive funds given by the imperialists is used to wean
away the masses from the Maoists and entice comrades to surrender, while at
the same time fascist repression is unleashed on the fighting forces, particular
the leadership. In this AP was selected as a model by the World Bank and
imperialists to crush the Maoists in India.

22. Moreover we have achieved these initial successes by facing and
resisting and even giving a befitting replay to the most ruthless repressive
campaigns let-loose by the reactionary ruling classes and their imperialist
chieftains in the last 36 years. They have left no stone unturned in their nefarious
and most ruthless campaign in exterminating our party and the advancing PW
led by it. During these campaigns they have used most vicious and sanguinary
methods, such as searching, looting imprisoning torturing and even raping
women and above all killing thousands of heroic sons and daughters of the
Indian people through the wicked method of fake encounters, thereby trampling
underfoot all the civil laws including the international conventions.

Today they have established, a joint operational command comprising
nine  states  under  the  command  of  central  government  and  permanently
deployed thousands of paramilitary forces including Grey Hound type special
command forces specially trained by Mossad and under the surveillance of
the FBI. They have also declared that they will deal our movement just like
they are dealing the Kashmiri people’s movement. Actually, they have declared
a permanent war to exterminate the PPW led by our party without even openly
declaring  so.  They  and  there  print  and  electronic  media  are  continuously

and upper caste chauvinism. The attacks on Dalits by the upper caste landlords
and their goons along with the state machinery have increased recently. Due
to deeply ingrained casteist thinking, particularly against dalits, even amongst
backward castes, in many parts of the country there have been a growing
number of attacks by a rising section of new feudal lords of these backward
castes against dalits. This is particularly manifest in those areas where feudal
authority is threatened by the increasing assertion of dalits, specially of their
landless and poor sections. This is to be witnessed in Tamil Nadu, Gujarat,
Bihar, UP, Haryana, Maharashtra, AP, MP and elsewhere. Many are unable to
tolerate any rise in status, whether economic or educational of the dalits, or
their increased assertion.

The  obnoxious  caste  system  and  casteism  is  continuously  being
perpetuated by the ruling classes including imperialism for thousand of years.
They continue to use and instigate this system to also divide the poor people
so that they may continue their class exploitation and oppression. They use it
for derailing their actual struggle directed against imperialism, feudalism and
CBB.

Dalit section of the poor people is mostly the victim of these intrigues.
Accordingly, the Dalits are being treated as second rate citizens. Even today
90 to 95% from among them are either landless and poor peasants or village
labourers. Even today their struggles against the ruling classes for getting
equal status in the society are being treated inhumanly and make victims of
these vicious attacks by the ruling classes and their state machinery. These
attacks are being manifested in the form of massacres and mass gang rapes.
Dalit question is in essence a class question. Hence the Maoist forces
should carry on the struggle against caste oppression as a part of the NDR and
also fight for their equal place in the society in all spheres by abolishing the
caste system. They should also fight for equal rights and for special privileges
including reservations for Dalits and other backward caste while exposing the
hollowness of the ruling class politics in this regard. The struggle against
casteism  and  untouchability  should  also  be  carried  on  in  the  ideological,
political and cultural spheres.

17. India is a vast multinational country comprising various oppressed
nationalities and tribes. In India no nationality occupying the overall dominating
position likes China and also Russia. More so these nationalities are going

60

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

53

through different stages of their development. India’s present boundaries were
drawn by British imperialists. The current “unity” is based on the subjugation
of many people and nationalities to an arbitrary central authority. Hence, this
unequal and reactionary “unity” is very fragile. In such a situation what will
replace  present  day  India  will  also  definitely  depend  on  the  ongoing
revolutionary war and Marxist-Leninist-Maoist understanding. In this context
it is one of the most basic tasks before our Party today.

In India today many nationality struggles in various parts of the country
assuming various forms, including armed struggle, are going on and advancing.
The overall picture reflects the rousing mood of the masses. The reactionary
ruling classes and their imperialist chieftains, particularly the US imperialists,
are desperately engaged in ruthlessly suppressing these struggles. The struggles
of various nationalities, particularly the Kashmir, Naga, Assam, Manipur and
other nationalities in the North Eastern region are continuing the armed struggle
against the Indian state. These struggles continue to strike powerful blows
against the most repressive armed forces of the reactionary ruling classes.
Until now over 60 thousands toiling people have been killed in Kashmir in
the last 15 years alone. Recently in Indo-Bhutan border, the Indian army in
connivance with Bhutanese army has killed hundreds of ULFA, KLO, BODO
etc. supporters and cadres in a military operation. Millions of Indian armed
forces are deployed in these nationalities to suppress their movements brutally
under the iron heel of the military might, but even then the burning flames of
these struggles could not be extinguished. The people of these nationalities
are struggling not only for their identity but also for the just cause of achieving
their honourable right of self-determination including the right of secession.
No doubt devoid of MLM ideology and some other unfavourable factors are a
serious cause of concern but even then it is a fact that these struggles are
striking powerful blows to the armed might of the Indian ruling classes, thereby
objectively weakening them. In this context they are playing a positive role.
Moreover these struggles are integrated part of the NDR.

Comrade Mao stated that “In the final analysis national struggle is a
matter of class struggle.” National oppression in essence falls upon all classes
comprising a nation except a small section of exploiters directly or indirectly
in league with imperialism and the oppressors. But it is the masses of toiling
people particularly the peasantry who bear the largest burden of the oppression

revolutionary  guerrilla  war  towards  establishing  red  base  areas  from  the
developing GZS and guerrilla bases in the near future. This is the for-most
task before our united party.

 To some extent we have been able to build the rudimentary forms of a
United Front through armed struggle and for armed struggle and on the basis
of worker peasant alliance at the local level in these regions of armed struggle
in the form of revolutionary peasant committees. This is being strengthened
by advancing the armed struggle and the establishment of the new political
power of landless and poor peasants, agricultural labourers, middle peasants
and a section of the rich peasants as part of advancing the agrarian revolution.
It is these rudimentary organs of power that must grow with the perspective of
becoming the core of the NDF. In addition we have mobilized masses and
different categories of mass organizations in anti-imperialist and anti-feudal
movements at the country level which needs to be consolidated further in the
direction of a tactical united front who also will serve the NDF and will act as
its complimentary part. In addition to that and in the same direction we have
also succeeded in building several mass organizations through revolutionary
and other mass struggles, including revolutionary women organizations. We
have also succeeded in mobilizing, organizing and recruiting a large number
of women particularly from among the landless and poor peasants into our
mass and other organizations including the army and the party. As a whole we
have also succeeded in expanding and extending several areas of our strong
influence in various parts of the country ranging from Assam to Punjab and
from Uttarakhand to Kerala.

21.  In  building  such  a  powerful  movements  thousands  of  our  heroic
martyrs have led down their lives while many other continue to come forward
to take up their guns. And carry forward their unfinished mission. During the
tedious course of preserving while advancing our guerrilla war we have also
succeeded in thwarting and almost smashing the private armies of the landlords
and evil gentry like Bhumi Sena, Bramharashi, Sunlight and Ranvir Sena and
government sponsored counter-revolutionary organization like Gram Suraksha
Dal. These Senas continue to be backed and instigated by the ruling class
parties like BJP and their state machinery with the apt purpose of terrorizing
the masses, particularly the peasants masses and to keep them away from our
party and the PPW led by it. Today a section of the Ranvir Sena and Gram

54

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

59

under the leadership of our Maoist party these flames are touching a new
height in Andhra, Jharkhand, Dandakaranya, Bihar and other parts of India.
That is why the reverberating slogan – “Naxalbari - Ek Hi Rasta” has assumed
unprecedented importance in the present day high time.

Recovering  from  the  initial  and  temporary  set-back  our  two  parties
continue to stick to the path of protracted people’s war. This path was already
illuminated by the great Mao Tse-tung and brought forth by our outstanding
and front-ranking leaders like comrade CM & KC in the concrete condition
of India. During the subsequent course of building and advancing the armed
agrarian revolutionary war, that is the protracted people’s war, we have to
traverse a very zigzag course in resuming our advancement. We also continue
to face and resist the vicious repressive campaign of the ruling classes. Despite
this we have achieved many remarkable successes. Starting from small pockets
and with a small number of comrades and weapons we have succeeded in
building many large and extensive areas of our struggle. We have built a
relatively strong and valiant party based on a correct revolutionary MLM line.
We have also succeeded in establishing red & staunch PGA/PLGA with the
firm direction of building full-fledged PLA. Moreover the fighting spirit of
our armed forces has reached the high level by capturing over 500 hundred
arms through a daring campaign at the district headquarter of Koraput (Orissa)
along with six PS and other targets and a daring ambush in the West Singhbhum
district of Jharkhand. This Koraput campaign and Saranda ambush signify a
qualitatively new level of our movement. This level has been reached during
the valiant course of conducting many heroic raid and ambushes against the
enemy forces by our red armed forces, no doubt with the active participation
and help of the masses. Our forces have developed several GZS and are in a
process towards establishing some guerrilla bases, with the immediate and
clear direction of establishing red base areas.

Besides this the peasant masses led by our party have succeeded in seizing
and distributing many lakhs acres of land in our struggling areas. This land
has been distributed by keeping in mind the slogan “land to the real tillers
and political power to the revolutionary peasant committees” in the forefront.
These committees are developing as a center of new power at the local level.
These  committees  are  in  the  process  of  developing  as  full  fledged
“revolutionary people’s committees”, with the further development of the

of  a  nationality.  Undoubtedly  it  is  true  that  this  is  the  real  material  basis
operations  beneath  these  struggles,  viewing  from  this  angle  also  these
nationality  struggles  can  achieve  genuine  liberation  and  the  right  of  self
determination including the right of succession as a part of the larger struggle
directed  against  the  Indian  ruling  classes  and  their  imperialist  chieftains,
particularly the US imperialists. Our party must unequivocally support these
nationality struggles and the struggle, for separate statehood and resolutely
oppose the vicious attempts of the Indian ruling classes to suppress these
nationality movements. While, firmly uniting with the people, each and every
struggle of the nationalities should be supported if it is directed against the
Indian state.

We  must  support  the  nationality  struggles  including  the  right  of  self
determination along with the right of secession, on the basis of a common
programme that targets the Indian ruling-classes. We must also firmly keep in
mind that a section of the dominant leadership of these movements have time
and again deserted these struggles sooner or later and joins the ranks of the
ruling classes by striking a compromise with them for electoral gains. We
must also continue to demarcate and also expose in positive terms the anti-
people  and  negative  tendencies  often  revealing  themselves  during  these
struggles. On the basis of our programme and independent initiative we must
thereby seek to expose the compromising leadership and draw the movement
as part of the new democratic revolutions in the Indian sub-continent.

18. On the other hand, the Indian ruling classes and their imperialist
chieftains, particularly the U.S. imperialists are desperately engaged in keeping
the broad masses, particularly the poor and landless peasants, comprising
destitute Dalits, women, Adivasies and other oppressed section under the iron
heal of their already rotten exploitative and oppressive imperialist-feudal set-
up. With this purpose they are also engaged in perpetuating, wiping up and
fanning caste and communal passion particularly the Hindu fascism. Because
they are increasingly loosing their credibility, hence they are desperately using
the British policy of “Divide and rule”, so that they may let the people kill the
people by fighting among themselves. That is why their desperately engaged
in setting up and instigating the counter revolutionary gangs like RSS, Bajrang
Dal and Shiv Sena type openly organized gangs which danced a dragon like
dance of death previously in Bombay and Gujarat and recently all over Gujarat.

58

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

55

These Hindu fundamentalist forces must not only be opposed, exposed and
fought politically and ideologically, but also the masses should be aroused to
isolate the leadership. Though the Hindu fascist policy of the ruling classes is
to turn the class struggle into a fratricidal war between communities, this is no
simple divide - and - rule but a systematic thorough fascist policy of whipping
up hysteria amongst the majority community making a scapegoat against the
minorities, particularly Muslims. To fight this conspiracy of the Sangh gang
including BJP it is first and foremost necessary at the local level to stand with
the sections under attack - the minorities, particularly Muslims - and defend
their rights, including that to their religion and as equal citizens of the country.
But, while defending the minorities locally the Party must expose that section
of the leadership that spreads the venom of fundamentalist ideology and at the
same time must also continue to expose the fundamentalism of other religions.
If  the  Party  of  the  proletariat  does  not  continue  to  focus  its  attention  in
advancing the actual class struggle, that is, the PPW, which will finally put an
end to this threat, the mass of Muslims will be drawn into the clutches of the
fundamentalists  thereby  facilitating  the  fratricidal  war.  In  addition  an
intensification of the class struggle and people’s war in the country and its
extension to areas involving minorities will prevent the Hindu fascists from
raising their head, at the very start.

19. On the whole the accumulating effect of all the factors regarding the
political and economic policies of Indian ruling classes, sponsored by the
imperialists, briefly touched upon here having greatly intensified the economic
and political crisis in the country. This crisis is increasingly rendering the
Indian people’s lives, particularly the lives of the peasantry, working class
and  urban  poor  to  extremely  miserable  conditions.  As  a  result  of  it  their
struggles and clashes are clearly intensifying in the social and political sphere.
The ongoing and advancing people’s war led by our party in various parts of
the country is emerging on the central political stage. In this overall context
including  the  context  of  the  prevailing  world  situation  all  the  major
contradictions in the country are getting further sharpened. They are –
(i) The contradiction between imperialism and the Indian people;
(ii) The contradiction between feudalism and the broad masses;
(iii) The contradiction between capital and labour; and
(iv) The contradiction with in the ruling classes.

Because  all  these  major  contradictions  are  getting  more  and  more
sharpened hence the people’s struggles too are mounting against the exploitative
and oppressive imperialist-feudal system in India today. But from among all
these contradictions the contradictions between feudalism and the broad masses
continue to be principal contradiction today.

Today the resolution of these contradictions is posed more than ever.
This resolution requires that the reckless exploitation and unbridled rule of
the Indian ruling classes along with the strangulating control and exploitation
of imperialism needed to be put end. Only then chains of slavery can be
shattered and there by the course of the solution of the most basic problems of
the people can be illumined. Advancing in this direction the Indian people
can achieve not only real independence and real democracy but also continue
to advance towards realizing socialism and communism on a world scale. But
this resolution or you can say the only alternative is to carry on and advance
and complete the already going on protracted people’s war, the axis of which
is armed agrarian revolutionary war, presently centering on the slogan “Land
to the tiller and power to the revolutionary peasant committee” will constitute
the main slogan in the period till the establishment of the guerrilla zone.
Thereafter, in these Guerrilla Zones, with the development of the embryonic
forms of people’s political power, the central slogan will be transformed into
“Land to the Tiller - All Power to the Revolutionary People’s Committee”. In
the course of the development of the Guerilla Zones towards Base Areas, this
latter slogan will assume the main form.

20. The brave Indian people have a very rich legacy of such struggles.
After the mighty Telangana movement of 1947-51, the great “Red Hurricane”
like armed revolt of Naxalbari delivered a thunderous blow not only to the
reactionary ruling classes along with their imperialist chieftains, but also greatly
exposed the revisionist and reformist forces of the CPI and CPM brand. This
revolt also illuminated the general path of the protracted people’s war for the
long-cherished need of the Indian revolution. Thus this revolt opened a new
chapter in the history of the real and going through revolutionary movement
in India.

Although this movement suffered a temporary set back in the immediate
aftermath yet the burning red flames of Naxalbari led by genuine Maoist forces
continue to shine in India in one form or the other since last 36 years. Today

56

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

57

fear that they may even be annexed like Sikkim. Through the nuclear blasts
and the launching of the Prithvi and Agni missiles, the Indian ruling classes
aim at instilling fear among the people of the countries of South Asia and to
subdue them.

The anti-Pak war hysteria, though temporarily subdued due to US dictates,
must also be exposed, while being on guard that the Pakistani ruling classes
acting as the stooge of the US imperialists too have the need to arouse anti-
Indian passions in order to divert people’s attention from the acute domestic
crisis. For the present the US seeks peace between the two countries as part of
its geo-political interests in Afghanistan and its economic interests to pipe
Central Asian oil through Pakistan to India and beyond.

The Indian working class and its Party should support all the struggles of
the people of South Asia against Indian expansionism and there imperialists
chieftains and must expose and fight against all expansionist actions of the
Indian ruling classes.

They have been using the SAARC primarily for the setting up a Free
Trade Area to allow the free flow of goods from India, thereby seizing their
markets. Of late, they also seek to use it for their so-called anti-terrorist policies
throughout South Asia, to suppress people’s and nationality movements in
the region.

The  Indian  working  class  should  also  expose  the  conspiracies  and
aggression  unleashed  by  the  Indian  ruling  classes  to  suppress  the  Eelam
people’s struggle through such acts as banning the LTTE, and should extend
support to the Eelam struggle and condemn the brutal genocide that was carried
on by the Sri Lankan government on the Eelam’s people’s struggles.
Conclusion

27. The current situation in the country is marked by a deepening crisis
and possibilities of great revolutionary advance. The prime reason for the
change in Delhi was the policies of economic reforms which has a devastating
impact on the lives of the masses. It is these same policies that also saw the
downfall of Congress governments at the state level. Another factor for the
defeat of the BJP led coalition was aversion of the masses against the crude
policies of Hindu fascism, which saw the bulk of its stalwarts being defeated.
Finally, the brutalities on the revolutionary movement, particularly in AP, Bihar,

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

65

Jharkhand, Chhatishgarh, Orissa, etc took its toll on the NDA votes. But with
the victory of the Congress neither is Hindu fascism nor economic reforms
actually  defeated.  Immediately  after  coming  to  power  the  Congress  has
continued with the ‘reforms agenda just as the BJP. With defeat and out of
power, the Sangh Parivar is likely to intensify their Hindutva agenda once
frustration with the new Congress dispensation develops.

Besides, by introducing a budget that serves imperialist interests and
intensified the destitution of the masses the Congress has bowed completely
to  imperialist  dictates  by  passing  the  Fiscal  Responsiblity  and  Budget
Management Act. The imperialists have been consistently demanding reduction
of the fiscal deficit. Now, with the FRBM Act the government is required to
reduce the fiscal deficit by 0.3% every year and if this is not achieved it is
forced by this legislation to cut public expenditure - which means further
affecting the livelihood of the masses. Such a blatantly servile Act is unheard
of in the entire post-47 history of the country and was passed with excessive
haste just 3 days before the introduction of the 2004/05 budget. So, we see no
matter which parliamentary party is in power all act to servilely implement
World Bank / IMF/WTO - imperialist dictated economic policies in the country.
 The so-called modernisation and hi-tech policies of the governments is
only for a small elite class. The vast section of the masses, particularly the
rural  poor,  are  being  pushed  deeper  into  backwardness.  Even  this
‘modernisation’ is taking place with outdated equipment being dumped by
imperialists in the country at inflated costs. Extreme poverty, whether rural or
urban, deprives the masses of the very basic amenities, let alone modern living
conditions.

The growing dog-fights in the country by the ruling class parties does not
concern policies but is a reflection of the increasing crisis and squabbles over
a diminishing cake. Besides, the growing contention amongst the imperialists
internationally, will, continue to reflect in intensified ruling class squabbles.
This growing instability in the enemy camp can be of great advantage for the
people’s forces if it is effectively used for advancing the people’s war. Not
only are the UPA and NDA at loggerheads but also within each formation the
squabble are growing.

In addition, as a result of the policies of economic reforms the already
impoverished masses are being pushed even further to destitution. The reforms

66

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

towards final victory. It is the most pressing need and demand of the day. The
people  of  the  whole  world  including  the  international  Maoist  forces  will
certainly take our side actively. Road is certainly tortuous but future is definitely
bright.

* Long live the CPI(Maoist)!
* Intensify the people’s War! Establish People’s political Power!
* Strengthen the PLGA and advance toward PLA and Liberated Areas!
* Build a mighty mass movement against the imperialist war designs
and imperialist-dictated privatisation, liberalisation and globalisation!
* Expose, Isolate and defeat the more dangerous Hindu fascist forces,

while exposing all other fundamentalist forces also!

* Fight out the growing state repression!
* Fight the expansionist designs of the Indian ruling classes and their

imperialist chieftains!

* Support the ongoing struggles of nationalities for self-determination,

including the right to secession!

* Fight imperialism, particularly American imperialism - the No. 1 enemy

of the world  people!

* Educate and prepare the people against the danger of imperialist  world

war!

* Hold high the people’s war in Nepal, Peru, Philippines and Turkey!
* Long live the Indian New Democratic Revolution!
* Revisionism is the main danger-fight out and defeat it!
* Hold high the great red banner of Marxism-Leninism-Maoism!
* Workers and oppressed people of all countries unite !
* Long live World Proletarian Revolution !
* Long live Proletarian Internationalism!

_______

will also badly impact the middle classes and even a section of the small
bourgeoisie and traders. Employees and workers will continue to be retrenched.
The rural population will be devastated and entire new generations will grope
in the dark without fruitful employment or sources of income. Such a massive
attack on the lives of the people will result in growing discontent breaking out
into agitation and revolts. To suppress this revolt they are introducing the twin
policies of ruthless repression and Hindu fascism.

It is to suppress this growing discontent that the rulers have been equipping
themselves with draconian powers and continuously expending the strengths
of the police, para-military, army and also the intelligence forces. The Congress
for all its rhetoric is - likely to merely replace POTA with another legislation.
It is silent on the most notorious Malimath Committee recommendations which
defacto institutionalises POTA-type judicial methods. Not surprisingly the
Congress PM’s National Security Advisor is India’s top counter-insurgency
expert.

As part of its strategy of Low Intensity conflict the Congress government
is preparing for massive attacks on revolutionary and nationality forces, just
as the BJP did, while making a show of Talks. As part of its LIC strategy it
utilises, alternatively both - ruthless repression and talks for ‘peace’ - in order
to disarm the masses and revolutionary forces. Whatever immediate policy it
may adopt for varied political expediency, the essence of state policy will be
growing and intensified repression and ruthless attacks on the revolutionary
and nationality forces.

So, today there is urgent need for the Party of the proletariat to mobilise
the widest sections of the masses against the growing onslaught of imperialism
on the country, against state repression together with support for all movements
against imperialism and feudalism. This will be in addition to the central task
of advancing the people’s war in the countryside. Such unity is inconceivable
without exposing and isolating the leadership of the revisionists of all hues
and imperialist-funded NGOs in the country and winning over their rank-and-
file. These two forces, specially the revisionist, act as ruling class Trojan Horses
within the people’s movement whose only purpose is to deflect and divert it
into acceptable and peaceful channels.

In the light of the temporary decline in the nationality movements, with
the desertion of the Naga leaders and ruthless crushing of most others, the

74

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

67

enemy attacks are likely to be more focused on the Maoists and the people’s
war led by them in the country. Therefore, the situation calls for great degree
of alertness, intensification and extension of the people’s war and the opening
numerous more political fronts to deflect and divert enemy concentration.
While the situation today is fraught with danger, the opportunities for advance
are immense.

In the light of the above excellent revolutionary situation when all the
fundamental  contradictions  at  the  domestic  and  international  level  are
sharpening at a rapid pace, it becomes all the more important for the Indian
proletariat to sharpen all the appropriate and necessary weapons in its arsenal
and seize the initiative firstly to carry on and advanced the armed agrarian
revolutionary war that is protracted people’s war to build up the army and
base areas and also mobilize the masses on a massive scale to create country-
wide revolutionary mass upsurge. The ever-increasing revolutionary situation
in the country can be effectively utilised to advance the ongoing People’s
Democratic  Revolution  to  victory  only  by  consolidating  the  entire  Party,
establishing proletarian leadership at all levels from the grass-roots to the
national level; purging the Party of all alien trends as and when they appear
thereby Bolshevising it further; unifying all the communist revolutionary groups
and individuals and spreading the proletarian politics and the ideology of
Marxism-Leninism-Maoism; building the broadest united front of all anti-
imperialists and anti-feudal forces under working class leadership based on
worker peasant alliance revolutionary class line and mass line in building
guerilla zones and people’s army with the aim of establishing liberated areas
which is our immediate task.
28. Our Principal and immediate political tasks :

A) Principal Task of the Party :
While adhering to the above basic orientation, our Party must take up the
following basic, principal and immediate task to advance the ongoing People’s
Democratic Revolution:

* Develop and intensify the people’s war throughout the country. Take
up  the  basic  and  principal  task  of  building  PLA  and  Liberated  Areas  by
advancing armed agrarian revolution. Take up concrete, time-bound plans to
transform guerilla zones into base areas.

imperialists are increasingly caught in the quagmire in Afghanistan and more
particularly in Iraq. The surging new tidal wave of the struggles of the world
people, including the people of USA and other imperialists countries, against
US imperialist war designs and also against imperialists globalization is greatly
helping in surcharging the over all atmosphere of the globe. The conflict among
the imperialist is also getting sharp and concentrating in the Middle East,
although still under the over all control of temporary collusion. No doubt very
recently the US imperialists have stepped up their interventionist activities in
India and particularly in Nepal. Firstly they brazenly declared CPN(Maoist)
as terrorist now they have listed MCCI and CPI(ML)(PW) – that have now
merged into the new Party, CPI(Maoist) – in the same category. They have
already sent some military forces there in the name of joint exercises & training.
It is certainly a new cause of concern and challenge to the people of Nepal
and India including the people of whole south Asian countries but it is certain
that  if  they  will    not  desist  themselves  and  move  forward  to  send  their
sanguinary armed forces in Nepal to suppress and extinguish the burning red
flames of the surging Maoist PW, then both the people of Nepal and India
including the people whole the South Asian countries will definitely come
forward more forcefully to give them a befitting reply by joining their hands
more closely. It is also possible that there after they will not be able to easily
extricate themselves from the burning flames of mounting conflagration of
the people’s wars in this part of the globe. Then the people of the whole world
including the people of USA itself will definitely stand by our side.

Lastly, taking into account all the features of the over all situation although
there are some negative factors and hence high dangers and challenges involved
in the situation but favourable factors giving rise to more greater possibilities
are greater than any times in the past history. No doubt, our party is facing big
challenges and high times. But the overall situation is just like Comrade Mao
Tse-tung’s fiery statement “A single spark can start a prairie fire” and “armed
revolution is countering with armed counter-revolution”. In such a situation
if we boldly but with utmost conscientiously move forward in advancing the
protracted people’s war towards establishing full fledged PLA and red base
areas the NDR will definitely advance by setting up a number of guerrilla
zones and Base Areas throughout the country our forces and the brave peasant
masses and the people of our country will definitely come forward to defend
it, consolidate it and expand it further and further through wave upon waves

68

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

73

secession and condemn brutal state repression on these nationalities. Support
the  struggles  of  various  nationalities  like  Kashmiris,  Assamese,  Nagas,
Manipuris, Tripuris for the right of self determination including the right to
secede and the struggle of the people of Telangana, Vidarbha and others for
statehood, while at the same time the necessity of comprehensive programme
for  emancipation  from  exploitation  and  oppression  should  be  propagated
amongst the people.

 10. Isolate and defeat the Hindu fascist forces; concentrate the attacks in
particular on the BJP, RSS, VHP, Bajrang Dal, Shiv Sena and other Hindu
chauvinist  and  fascist  organisations.  Support  the  struggle  of  the  religious
minorities against the Hindu chauvinist policies of the Indian State.

C) Political Tactical Slogans :
The political tactical slogans to be focused on are:
i) Intensify and advance the people’s war! Establish people’s political

power!

ii) Build a mighty mass movement against the imperialist war designs
and  imperialist-  dictated  privatisation,  liberalisation  and
globalisation!

iii) Expose, Isolate and defeat the more dangerous Hindu fascist forces,

while exposing all other fundamentalist forces!

iv) Resist and defeat growing state repression and for the repeal of POTA

and other Black Laws!

v) Fight the expansionist designs of the Indian ruling classes and their

imperialist chieftains, particularly the US imperialists!

While taking up these immediate tasks and political tactical slogans, we
must subordinate them to the question of seizure of state power through armed
struggle and the establishment of the New Democratic State.

By steadfastly taking up the above immediate tasks and political tactical
slogans our Party, in spite of being weak today, will grow into a strong and
mighty force, and provide a real revolutionary alternative and leadership to
the people of India.

29. Today the crisis-ridden world situation and the situation in India are
very much favourable for accomplishing revolution. The war mongering US

Orient all activities to precipitate implementation of the central task. Foil
every attack of state and central governments, aimed at liquidating our party
and PLGA and suppressing the peasant revolutionary struggles, by waging
people’s war. Strengthen the Party, PLGA, and United Front and intensify the
guerrilla war with the perspective of liberated area.

With the above perspective, all areas should be developed step-by-step
in this direction. Where struggles are at a low level, they have to be intensified
and expanded with the perspective of focusing towards building guerrilla zones.
Build and strengthen the organs of political power and the Revolutionary United
front.

While the entire Party must focus its attention on the basic, principal and
immediate task of building the PLA and establishing Liberated Areas, the
masses of the entire country must be mobilized extensively and militantly on
the current political issues and political tactical slogans and thereby be drawn
into  the  over-all  anti-imperialist,  anti-feudal  movement  in  the  country.  In
addition, all sections and classes must be mobilized on their own demands,
orienting these to the tasks of the New Democratic Revolution.

B) Other Immediate Tasks :
1. Widely propagate Marxism-Leninism-Maoism; that Socialism is the
only alternative before the oppressed people of the world, explaining that the
crisis in East Europe, Soviet Union and Yugoslavia is a crisis of state bureaucrat
capitalism. Masses should be thoroughly educated regarding the reasons for
the restoration of capitalism in all the erstwhile socialist countries, particularly
expose the modern revisionists who are in power in China, Vietnam, North
Korea  and  Cuba,  and  thereby  raise  the  revolutionary  consciousness  and
vigilance of the masses of the world. In this particularly the Chinese revisionists
who come with the fake slogan of “Marxism with Chinese characteristics”
need to be exposed.

We have to expose before the masses the real face of the revisionist CPI
and CPI(M) and all types of the neo-revisionists particularly ‘Liberation’ hiding
behind the ideological mask of Marxism-Leninism and Marxism-Leninism-
Mao Tse-tung thought.

2. Warn the people that the end of superpower rivalry has not eliminated
the danger of World War, that the underlying causes for inter-imperialist war

72

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

69

i.e., the intense inter-imperialist contradictions in their contention for redividing
the world market still exist and hence we should educate the people of the
need to intensify the ongoing revolutionary civil war and to extend it throughout
the country in order to advance the NDR to victory by utilising the revolutionary
crisis arising in case of outbreak of world war.

3. Expose, oppose and fight back the bullying, blackmailing and arm-
twisting tactics of the US superpower in India and other oppressed countries;
support the struggles by the proletariat, oppressed nations and the world people
against imperialism, particularly American imperialism; mobilise the people
against the preparations of American imperialism to launch wars of aggression
against oppressed countries; demand the withdrawal of all American military
bases throughout the world; and expose that the real aim behind the imperialists’
(particularly US imperialist’s) talk of disarmament is to cover up the attempts
for wars of aggression and their monopoly control of nuclear weapons in
order to keep the oppressed countries under their control.

4.Mobilise the people politically against the new economic policies, the
structural  adjustment  programmes  and  imperialist  policy  of  globalisation
pursued by the Indian ruling classes under the dictates of World Bank, IMF,
WTO and other imperialist agencies, which have been driving the country
into the complete stranglehold of imperialism. While concentrating our attack
on  American  imperialism,  we  must  also  thoroughly  expose  and  fight  the
attempts by the European (particularly Germany, France and Britain), Japan,
and Russia to gain control of the Indian economy and the state. Imperialist’s
role in the mass impoverisation of the people, the destruction of its natural
resources and environment has to be thoroughly exposed and fought against.
  5. Towards forming the national democratic front in the country the
party will undertake the necessary steps for forming a frontal organisation of
the unified party that will not only propagate the revolutionary politics openly
but also build a strong and broad based mass movement against imperialism
and feudalism and thereby project the revolutionary alternative before the
people of the country. Party will also form a Tactical United Front (TUF)
based on the wide mobilisation of various anti-imperialist, anti-feudal and
democratic  organisations  and  individuals.  This  TUF  should  unite  various
people’s movements and mobilise the broad masses of the country against
imperialist war designs and globalisation, growing state repression and the

communal fascist offensive led by the Hindutva forces. This alliance should
declare its unequivocal support to the various democratic demands of the
peasantry including their anti-imperialist and anti-feudal demands and the
struggle of the masses. This front should thoroughly expose the fake opposition
of  those  foreign-funded  NGOs  and  the  revisionist  and  their  counter-
revolutionary role of stabbing the people’s movements in the back. In addition
to this the oppressed classes and sections must also be widely mobilized on
their basic demands linking these to the anti-imperialist, anti-feudal tasks. In
addition to based, the oppressed classes and sections must also be widely
mobilised on their basic demands orienting these to the anti-imperialist, anti-
feudal tasks.

  6. Develop class struggles in the urban areas paying special attention to
the working class. Since urban areas have great potential to become powerful
centres of anti-imperialist, anti-CBB, anti-feudal struggles especially in the
background of growing imperialist exploitation and stranglehold over our
country’s economy due to the policies of globalisation and liberalisation. Party
units in various states have to formulate specific plans for depolying forces in
the urban areas. The needs of the armed struggle in the countryside should
also be taken into the forefront while planning our urban work. As urban
areas are strong centres for the enemy forces, strict precautions have to be
observed.

 7. Expose and resist the expansionist designs of the Indian ruling classes
along  with  their  imperialists  chieftains  in  South  Asia,  their  big-power
chauvinism and the acts of aggression in the neighbouring countries; oppose
anti-Pak war hysteria being whipped up by the Indian ruling classes and their
political representatives; fight against the arms race in the Indian sub-continent
fuelled by the Indian ruling classes and their sinister attempts to enhance India’s
nuclear capabilities; support the struggles of the people of South Asia against
Indian expansionism.

 8. Mobilise the people against the fascist repression being unleashed in
all spheres by the Indian ruling classes, fight against all black acts such as
POTA, NSA, ESMA, Disturbed Area Act, Armed Forces Special Powers Act,
ban on strikes etc. and fight for the withdrawal of all cases under POTA,
TADA and other draconian laws.

  9. Uphold the struggle of nationalities for self-determination including

70

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

POLITICAL RESOLUTION

71

