 

Press Statement of CPI(Maoist): 

OBSERVE VIDARBHA BANDH ON 8TH DECEMBER [2006] 

CONDEMN THE KHAIRLANJI DALIT KILLINGS AND POLICE BRUTALITY ON PROTESTING 
MASSES! 

FARMERS DEATHS ARE NOT SUCIDES! IT IS GENOCIDE BY THE DALAL INDIAN RULERS 
AND THEIR IMPERIALIST MASTERS!! 

  
The Maharashtra State Committee and the Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee (DKSZC) of the 
CPI(Maoist) calls upon the oppressed and exploited masses of Vidarbha to enforce a general Bandh on 
8th December 2006. This Bandh is to express our outright condemnation of the Maharashtra government and 
the ruling classes on the following two issues— 
 
a)         The killing of dalits in Kairlanji village, the utter failure of the government to promptly take action on 
the main culprits , the attempt to cover up the casteist killings and protect the real culprits, and the brutal and 
violent suppression of the heroic dalit masses who protested against the casteist killings. 

b)         The implementation imperialist globalisation which is compelling the farmers to commit suicide. In 
reality these farmer‘s deaths are not suicides but cold blooded mass murders by the lackey Indian ruling 
classes. 

The killing of dalits in Khairlanji and the daily ‗suicides‘ of farmers in Vidarbha, more clearly than any other 
events in the recent past, bring out the true character of the Indian ruling classes – that not only are they 
casteist and feudal but also utter lackeys to the imperialist. These events also clearly point out to the utterly 
anti people and reactionary character of the Indian state apparatus. 

That events like Khairlanji continue to occur even 59 years of Indian „democracy‟ – speaks volumes about the 
character of this so called „democracy‟. Immediately after the casteist killings in Khairlanji we saw how 
this „democracy‟ moved into action to deliver ‗justice‘. The entire police department was active to protect the 
culprits. The hospital administration, doctors and everybody in authority tried their best to conceal the real 
facts, throw blame elsewhere, or dilute the extreme seriousness of the event. The „democratically‟ elected 
government of the day exerted every effort to ensure that the incident was forgotten and buried. The so called 
dalit ‗leaders‘ living off the tit bits and left overs from the dining tables of those presiding over 
this „democracy‟ thought it prudent to keep quiet and not rock this „democratic‟ boat lest their masters get 
annoyed. 

But then the dalit masses upset their calculations and came on the streets. The dalit masses throughout 
Vidarbha followed by the dalit masses in rest of the state came out in their hundreds and thousands to demand 
justice, to question this democracy. The government greeted the masses with the lathis and bullets. The chief 
minister and home minister issued threats to the dalit masses – ―be tame and quite or else we will treat you like 
we treat the Naxalites‖. But the dalit masses continued to come out in larger numbers braving the arrests, lathis 
and bullets. The ruling classes had to pretend to do something about the killings and therefore after shedding 
some crocodile tears, some token arrests were made and the token transsfers of officials was done. Token 
amounts and jobs were offered to the surviving member of the Bothmange family. The „brave and daring dalit 
leaders‟ now came out to shout some empty slogans and pretend to be at the forefront of the dalit masses. But 
the dalit masses had gone far ahead by then and no amount of tricks by these leaders to pacify and tame them 
could succeed. The dalit masses had decided that they had enough of these sham leaders. 

 

1 

 

The Congress/NCP government in connivance with the BJP and Shiv Sena have tried to mobilise the non dalit 
castes against the dalits in order to crush their struggle. But they have not so far been able to have significant 
success in these efforts. We call upon the oppressed and exploited among the Kunbi, Maratha, OBC and higher 
castes to see through these tricks and come forward to support the democratic and just struggle of the dalit 
masses. We call on them to join the struggle to eradicate caste oppression and exploitation. 

The police have been dealing with the dalit masses in an extremely casteist manner. The lathi charges have 
been extremely brutal inspired by anti dalit sentiment; they have fired on the masses with the intention of 
killing. In order to prevent any propaganda of the Kairlanji killings or of the police brutalities on the protesters, 
the police have been arresting anyone circulating pamphlets or booklets condemning these atrocities. Printing 
presses have been threatened not to publish any material in favour of the agitating masses. In this way 
Indian „democracy‟ implements the fundamental right to freedom of speech and assembly. 

Now the Chief Minister and home minter are making hectic plans to crush and prevent any display of dissent 
or protest in Nagpur at the time of the winter state assembly session. Thousands of additional police and para-
military forces have been brought there to prevent the protest which are due to take place at the time of the 
assembly winter session. They are also going to raise the bogey of some “naxal” or “terrorist” attack to 
justify their repressive measures. 

It is clearly evident how the ruling class parties and the state apparatus are defending and preserving the 
authority of the feudal and caste elite. Not a single day goes by without news of farmers‘ suicides. While the 
largest number is in Vidarbha the incidence of severely indebted farmers being driven to suicide are taking 
place in all other parts of the state. Recently there have been incidents in Nasik, Thane and Nanded 

The fact that thousands of farmers have been driven to suicide not only in Maharashtra but also in other parts 
of the country indicate that the reasons for this act of desperation is social and not individual. The pro 
imperialist policies of the Indian ruling classes and their governments are at the root of this. At imperialist 
dictates the subsidies to farmers have been gradually withdrawn, the costs of agricultural inputs has kept on 
increasing, the farmers have not been given even the cost of production for their produce, all protection for the 
farmers have been removed and they have been left open to face the ill effects of the changes in the 
international market. It is these policies which have driven the farmers to deep indebtedness from which they 
are never able to come out. It is these policies which are killing the farmers as surely as if someone was 
holding a gun to their foreheads and pulling the trigger. 

Each day as the numbers of farmers dying from these policies increases the government refuses to do anything 
to either reverse these policies or even to provide any immediate relief. The various ‗relief‘ measures 
announced by the central and state governments are nothing but a joke. 

The ‗relief‘ announced by Manmohan Singh a few months back made no dent in the deaths of the farmers. The 
‗relief‘ package announced a few days ago is likewise a laughing matter. The amounts promised to the farmers 
will not be enough even to feed the cows that they are being gifted with. The government is totally unwilling 
to cancel all the debts of the farmers to the financial institutions as well as to private money lenders who are 
fleecing the peasants. Immediately first aid and relief can only really be in the form of canceling all debts of 
the entire peasantry and making it illegal for anyone to recover the debts of the peasant masses. The 
government is willing to give tax relief to the imperialists and big capitalists who invest in the new SEZ to the 
tune of over 1,00,000 crore rupees. But is unwilling to give such relief (which will only cost a fraction of the 
above amount) to the farmers who are on the brink of death. It is clear whom the government and the ruling 
class parties represent. 

To add insult to injury, the jokers like Sri Sri Ravi Shankar have taken time off from servicing their ruling 
class patrons and have taken it upon themselves to teach the farmers the ―art of living‖. As if the farmers are 
dying because they don‘t know how to live or are suffering from some psychological imbalance. Ravi Shankar 

 

2 

 

and his type should restrict themselves their elite class clientele whose corrupt, lazy, empty and vacuous lives 
may require such services. 

We call upon farmers to unite and fight against the pro imperialist policies being implemented by the 
government. This is only way to get out of the conditions which are driving them to suicide. Farmers should 
realise form this experience that the Indian ruling classes are only representing the interests of the big feudal 
landlords, the dalal capitalist of this country and the imperialists. Therefore they should join the fight to 
overthrow the rule of these exploiters and establish a worker-peasant rule. 

Immediately the peasants should unilaterally cancel all their debts to either the financial institutions or money 
lenders. They should mobilise in large numbers and seize all debt related records with the financial institutions 
and the money lenders and burn them. In order to tide over the immediate crisis the farmers should raid the 
godowns of the landlords and the government and take the food grains and other materials that they need to 
farm the next season without taking loans. Suicide is no alternative. If life has to be taken it should be that of 
those who have forced us into to such conditions. 

We draw your attention to the fact that in all the areas where the peasantry is being led by the Maoists, the 
masses have never had to resort to suicide. They have attacked the enemies, punished them and seized what is 
necessary for their existence from the exploiters and government. 

1)         Make the Vidarbha bandh on 8th December a complete success. 

2)         Punish the Kairlanji killers! Arrest the NCP/BJP leaders behind the killings! 

3)         Red Salutes to the dalit masses who have uncompromisingly struggled. Carry on the militant struggle! 
Exploited and toiling Kunbis, Marathas, OBC support the struggle of the dalits! 

4)         Fight the imperialist policies which are killing the farmers! 

5)         Seize all debt records and burn them. Loot the big traders and government godowns for our needs. 

6)         Demand the resignation of the Chief Minister and the Home minister! 

7)         Without armed struggle we can neither achieve immediate needs or achieve political power of the 
exploited! 

The two state committees – Maharashtra State Committee and the Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee 
pledge to avenge the death of the struggling dalits and the farmers who have been forced to death by the ruling 
classes pro imperialist policies. The people will always pay back their blood debts. 

Chandrakant, Secretary, Maharashtra State Committee 

Kosa, Secretary, Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee (DKSZC) 

Dec. 2, 2006 

 

 

[From People's March, January 2007] 

3 

