 

Post-Election Situation—Our Tasks 

 
The  so-called  people’s  mandate  for  stability  and  neo-liberal  reforms  is  meant  to  legitimize  the 
brutal state terror and economic oppression on the people! 
 
Prepare the Party, PLGA and the people for the new brutal offensive being unleashed by the UPA 
government!! 

 
 

The drama of elections to the 15th Lok Sabha and three state Assemblies of Andhra Pradesh, Sikkim and Orissa, 
enacted at a massive cost of over Rs. 15,000 crores, had been the dominant event in the country for  almost four 
months  of  the  current  year.  An  artificial  atmosphere  was  built  up  by  the  media  and  the  reactionary  rulers  by 
projecting this farcical drama as  the biggest  democratic  exercise  in the  world  with 714 million  voters said to be 
choosing the next government.  
 
In  many  ways,  Election-2009  had  been  a  record  of  sorts.  Never  before  had  India  witnessed  such  a  degree  of 
apathy,  aversion  and  disgust  among  the  voters  towards  the  Parliamentary  elections  as  during  Election-2009. 
Never before had the reactionary ruling classes and the media indulged in such a massive propaganda campaign 
spending  hundreds  of  crores  of  rupees  just  to  convince  the  voters  that  their  votes  “decide”  the  destiny  of  the 
country and that they should not stay away from the polls. Never before had elections been so much fragmented 
and  unpredictable  regarding  the  outcome.  And  never  before  had  an  election  seen  such  mind-boggling  non-stop 
publicity blitz in the electronic media and meaningless chatter that is completely devoid of any real issue facing 
the country and people. The Parties and the media were totally silent on the real issues facing the people and the 
country.  To  the  vast  majority  of  the  people  of  India  the  elections  were  a  meaningless,  irrelevant,  pseudo-
democratic  exercise  that  had  only  aggravated  the  casteist,  communal,  regional  and  factional  strife  and  tensions 
across the length and breadth of the country.  
 
None  of  the  Parties  had  touched  upon  any  issue  of  importance.  The  electronic  media  went  on  howling  and 
speculating  round-the-clock on irrelevant questions  such as: Who will become the Prime Minister? Which party 
will  emerge  as  the  single  largest  Party?  Which  Party  will  get  how  many  seats?  Which  coalition  of  parties  will 
form  the  government?  Who  will  align  with  whom  during  the  elections?  And  how  will  be  the  shift  in  the 
allegiances after the declaration of results on May 16? And so on. The media channels had deliberately avoided 
going into the burning issues of the people for that would have meant calling into question the irrelevance of the 
very  system  in  the  daily  lives  of  the  people.  This  fact  also  showed  how  divorced  and  disconnected  has  the  so-
called  democratic  election  become  from  the  lives  of  the  people.  The  poll  boycott  by  the  majority  of  the  Indian 
people itself is an indicator of this truth.  
 
In  such  a  situation  the  reactionary  rulers  naturally  became  panicky  with  our  Party‟s  call  for  the  boycott  of 
elections.  They tried by all means  to  foil our call  and to recreate  illusions about the sanctity of the vote  and the 
virtues of parliamentary democracy: bollywood actors, cricket stars, industrialists, and other popular personalities 
were  mobilized  into  this  campaign  to  refurbish  the  image  of  parliamentary  democracy;  several  NGOs  were 
engaged to raise the “awareness” among the people and to convince the skeptics; websites and blogs were used to 
spread  the  lies.  And  to  make  the  campaign  look  more  credible  some  NGOs  and  media  channels  called  on  the 
people  not  to  vote  for  criminal  and  corrupt  elements  but  to  choose  sincere  candidates  who  worked  for  the 
country‟s  progress  and  so  on.  What  the  voter  should  do  when  all  the  candidates  are  corrupt  or  criminal,  which 
usually is the case, is not answered. 

 

 

1 

The  day  the  first  phase  of  elections  to  the  Lok  Sabha  was  completed  on  April  16,  the  media  tried  to  show  how 
democracy had  won  against  anarchy, how ballot proved to be superior to bullet,  how people defied the Maoists 
and came forth to exercise their franchise braving the bullet, and such endless rhetoric.  “Bullet vs ballot: Voters 
give  mandate  on  Maoist-hit  LS  seats”  wrote  a  paper.  “Maoist  warnings  fail  to  deter  voters  in  Red  zone” 
claimed  another  pointing  to  the  45  per  cent  votes  polled  in  Gaya  district.  “Despite  red  terror  50  %  polling  in 
Jharkhand” crowed another paper. “Ballot wins against Bullet” ran  another headline. There is no limit to such 
hollow claims and empty phrases to prove that so-called democracy got the upper-hand in this sham drama. Chief 
Election  Commissioner-designate  Navin  Chawla  howled  that  “democracy  triumphed  over  naxalism  on  April 
16.”  

 

Election-2009 has earned the distinction of being the most discredited election  held so far in the country. People 
everywhere, and not merely in the areas under the influence of our Party, resorted to boycott as a form of protest 
and  struggle.  Overall,  the  majority  of  the  Indian  people  showed  a  higher  level  of  consciousness  this  time  by 
rejecting  the  contesting  candidates,  the  political  parties,  and  the  pseudo-democratic  parliamentary  system.  They 
gave the rulers sleepless nights, and all the tricks played by the reactionary rulers and their propaganda blitz and 
appeals to voters to exercise their “fundamental right” to vote, came to nought.  More people stayed away from 
the polling booths than those who went to cast their votes. And even among those who voted the majority had 
little trust in the candidate or the party who can change loyalties after the votes are cast.  
 
Of the 714 million total registered voters, hardly 50 % had actually cast their votes whether it was out of coercion, 
or monetary and material incentives, or caste, community, ethnic, regional considerations, or for other reasons. Of 
the total votes that  were actually cast,  the Congress, which obtained 206 seats and emerged as the single largest 
Party, had obtained a vote share of just about 29.67 per cent with an increase of 61 seats from the 2004 elections. 
The  BJP  lost  22  seats  and  received  19.29 per  cent  of  vote  share.  BSP  came  third  with  its  vote  share  of  6.27 % 
followed by the CPI(M) with 5.52 %. Thus the Congress, with just over a hundred million votes or roughly 15 % 
of the total votes, has formed the government with a few other Parties all of which had a combined share of  not 
more than 5 to 6 per cent or another 20 million votes. Yet, our rulers want us to believe that it is a government of 
the majority. But can one call this process democracy when 85 % voters had rejected the so-called single largest 
party and yet have to put up  with a  government  that is formed on a minority of votes? This  stark fact has to be 
propagated widely to expose the myth of rule by majority.  

 

The reactionaries  always hush  up the  actual truth that the majority of the population  has  hardly  any faith in the 
parliamentary system or  the political parties  that contest the election.  The fact  is those  who reject this so-called 
parliamentary  system,  whether  consciously  or  unconsciously,  always  constitute  the  majority.  But  recognition  of 
this fact and propagating this would jeopardize the legitimacy of the ruling class to rule. Hence the entire political 
spectrum  is  united  in  underplaying  this  crucial  fact  and  sings  in  chorus  about  the  success  of  “parliamentary 
democracy”  in  India.  Such  a  lie  is  indispensable  for  the  survival  of  these  political  parties  and  the  reactionary 
rulers they represent.   

 

In our propaganda and education on the "victory of democracy" claimed by the rulers, we have to focus on how 
the  very  election  exercise  is  an  undemocratic  exercise  held  under  semi-feudal  conditions  where  it  is  more  the 
caste,  communal,  regional,  ethnic,  gender  factors  along  with  money  power  and  muscle  power  that  play  the 
principal  role  in  ensuring  the  victory  of  a  candidate.  The  fact  that  300  of  the  543  MPs  are  declared  crorepatis 
shows the role of money power in elections. We must show how notorious criminals and communal fascists had 
won the elections by utilizing these. The elections this time saw more number of criminals as MPs than any time 
in the past with 150 MPs having criminal cases and 73 having serious charges. The dissolved Parliament had 128 
MPs  with  criminal  cases  and  55  of  them  facing  serious  charges.  BJP  and  Congress  vied  with  each  other  in  the 
number of criminal MPs with 42 and 41 respectively.  

 
 

 

 

2 

Election Results and the Myth of a Decisive Mandate 

 
With the declaration of election results  on May 16 and the UPA securing a majority in Parliament a big hype is 
being  created  that  people  had  given  a  “decisive  mandate”  for  stability  and  economic  reform  i.e.,  liberalization, 
privatization  and  globalisation  or  LPG.  Some  election  analysts  and  commentators  as  well  as  leaders  like  LK 
Advani had even gone as far as to predict that these elections marked the beginning of the end to the phenomenon 
of  regional  parties  and  that  they  foreshadowed  a  two-party  system.  The  number  of  seats  secured  by  the  two 
biggest coalitions—the UPA and NDA—are shown as proof of this so-called emerging trend. However, nothing 
can  be  farther  from  truth.  The  election  results  prove  neither  their  claims  of  stability  and  pro-LPG  sentiment 
among the people nor the demise of the regional parties. An analysis of the voting pattern  in the 15th Lok Sabha 
elections  shows  that  the  two  biggest  All  India  parties—the  Congress  and  the  BJP—are  only  relatively  bigger 
regional  parties  than  others.  In  several  states  these  parties  have  a  nominal  presence  while  regional  parties 
dominate the political scene. 
 
The Congress and the BJP together received just 47 percent of the votes polled while the regional parties and the 
Left  together  obtained  more  than  50  per  cent  of  the  votes.  The  Congress  had  a  ten  per  cent  lead  over  the  BJP 
compared  to  4  per  cent  last  time  thereby  giving  it  206  seats.  But  the  overall  increase  of  vote  share  for  the 
Congress  from  that  of  2004  elections  was  just  3  per  cent  and  the  decline  of  BJP‟s  vote  share  was  2.9  per  cent. 
This marginal gain on one side and loss on the other sides is being interpreted by election pundits and experts as a 
decisive mandate. The vote share of the Congress is almost the same as in 1996 and 1999 and nearly 8 per cent 
less  than  in  1991.  The  myth  gets  more  exposed  when  we  analyse  the  showing  of  the  so-called  big  parties  in 
individual states.  
 
Much  hype  was  created  about  the  revival  of the  Congress  in  the  Hindi  belt  with  its  seat  share  in  UP  increasing 
from 9 seats in 2004 to 21 this time, and its voting percentage increasing from 12 to 18 per cent. The BSP which 
has  been  played  down  by  the  experts  for  getting  just  20  seats  had  actually  received  2.7  per  cent  more  than  last 
time  with  its  vote  share  going  up  to  27.4  per  cent  in  UP.  In  Bihar,  another  state  in  the  Hindi  heartland,  the 
Congress  obtained  just  two  seats;  in  Chattisgarh  and  Jharkhand  just  one  seat  each;  and  6  each  in West  Bengal, 
Orissa and Karnataka. In Maharashtra the Congress got 17 out of 48 but this gain too was on account of the MNS 
eating into the vote share of Shiv Sena; and in Andhra Pradesh the Chiranjeevi factor helped the Congress gain 33 
out  of  42  Lok  Sabha  seats  and  to  get  a  majority  in  the  Assembly  though  its  vote  share  had  fallen  from  41.6  in 
2004  to  39 per  cent  this  time.  In West  Bengal  it  was  the  Trinamul  which  gained  most  from  anti-Left  sentiment 
while  the  Congress  only  played  a  second  fiddle.  The  states  where  the  Congress  made  significant  gains  were 
Punjab, Haryana, Kerala and Rajasthan while its performance was better than expected in BJP-ruled states of MP 
and Gujarat.  
 
In fact, it was factors such as the entry of PRP into electoral politics in Andhra Pradesh and MNS in Maharashtra 
which  had altered the balance in favour of the Congress by splitting the votes of TDP and Shiv  Sena in the two 
states where the Congress had won almost a quarter of its seats. In AP, the Congress got just 1.75 % more votes 
than the Grand Alliance. Much of the 16.22 per cent vote share of the PRP and 1.8 % of vote share of Lok Satta 
was said to have been the traditional vote base of the TDP thus giving the Congress an advantage. To describe this 
as a positive vote for the performance of the Congress is as deceptive as saying the re-election of Narendra Modi 
in Gujarat was a positive vote for his development work as claimed by the BJP.    
 
It is clear that the Congress and the BJP are only like two big regional parties. Regional parties like the JD(U) and 
BJD  gained  in  Bihar  and  Orissa;  BSP  had  increased  its  vote  share;  Trinamul  gained  in  West  Bengal.  The  BJD 
which  got only 61 seats in the 2004 Assembly elections in alliance  with the BJP which obtained 32 seats, fared 
better  this  time  by  contesting  alone  and  won  103  seats.  The  BJP  got  just  6  seats  in  the  Assembly  elections. 
Naveen Patnaik‟s BJD made the gains only after it had dissociated itself from the BJP and its communal attacks in 
Khandamal.  
 

 

 

 

3 

The so-called Left Parties were the biggest losers. The CPI(M) faced a rout in West Bengal and Kerala where it 
obtained  only  16  Lok  Sabha  seats  against  the  41  it  had  earlier  thus  losing  25  sitting  MPs.  In  West  Bengal  the 
CPI(M) won only 9 out of the 32 seats it had contested in the state, its worst showing in the 32 years since it first 
rode to power in the state with other Left partners. The post-election analysis and conclusions drawn by the CPI 
and CPI(M) also endorse the logic of political pundits that the people had voted for stability.   

 

The Third Front fell apart with the TRS first shifting allegiance to the BJP-led NDA soon after the last phase of 
elections and the BSP and JD(S) declaring unconditional support to the UPA after the declaration of results. The 
dream of Karat ad Yechuri of playing the role of a king-maker (broker) if not the king were dashed to the ground. 
In fact, so confident was the CPI(M) of playing a crucial role in the formation of a new government at the Centre 
that  their  leaders  repeatedly  asserted  that  no  government  can  be  formed  without  the  support  of  the  Third  Front. 
The CPI(M) leader  Sitharam Yechuri admitted that it was  a mistake on  the part of his Party to have formed the 
Third Front as a “cut & paste” alliance without testing the commitment of these parties. He termed the Parties of 
the Third Front as neither credible nor viable. The experiment with the so-called anti-BJP, anti-Congress secular 
forces conducted by the bankrupt Left collapsed like a pack of cards.  
 
No single Party could mange to obtain a majority by itself. While the Congress received 206 seats out of the total 
543, the BJP got 116 seats. As has been the dominant trend for over two decades it was only through a coalition 
of several Parties that a government could be formed at the Centre. And even the formation of the Union Cabinet 
has been a dog-fight among the various constituents of the UPA. There was a scramble for the cabinet posts with 
the  DMK  staying  away  sulking  that  its  demands  for  five  cabinet  berths  and  four  Ministers  of  state  were  not 
conceded.  Mamata  Banerjee  had  a  hard  bargaining  and  finally  got  the  posts  it  wanted.  The  UPA  is  clearly  a 
divided  lot  and  has  managed  to  show  a  semblance  of  unity  after  much  bargaining  and  accommodation  of  its 
constituents in the posts they coveted. On May 22 the Prime Minister along with 18 other Ministers were sworn 
in. It was only on May 28 when the names of another 59 Ministers were announced that the DMK came around 
after it was given three Cabinet posts.  
 
The  results  led  to  an  intensification  of  wrangling  and  dog-fights  within  every  Party  and  alliance  including  the 
UPA. The BJP chief LK Advani resigned as the Leader of the Opposition in Parliament taking responsibility for 
the debacle but was convinced within 24 hours to continue thus ending the drama. The pro-Narendra Modi lobby 
in  BJP  consisting  of  senior  leaders  like  Arun  Shourie,  Arun  Jaitley  and  Yashwant  Sinha  began  recounting  the 
prime  ministerial  qualities  of  Modi  during  the  election  campaign  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  just  a  few  days 
before  the  Supreme  Court  had  asked  the  SIT  to  investigate  into  the  involvement  of  Modi  in  the  2002  Gujarat 
genocide and to submit a report. Now there is a strong section in BJP which thinks it was wrong to have projected 
Advani  as  PM  candidate  or  to  have  endorsed  Varun‟s  inflammatory  communal  speech  against  Muslim 
community.  With  the  line  of  non-BJP,  non-Congress  secular  Third  Front—the  brainchild  of  Prakash  Karat—
taking a severe beating there has been a virtual revolt against him in the Party and demand for his replacement as 
the chief of the Party.  
 
While it is a fact that the Congress acquired more seats than it had earlier and the UPA received a majority in the 
15th Lok Sabha more out of default than support for its policies as claimed by them, it is also an equally important 
fact that the Congress is now in a better position as it is not as desperately dependent on the allies as before. With 
the BSP, RJD and SP extending support even if they are not part of the UPA government, thereby taking the total 
MPs supporting the Manmohan Singh government to 322, the Congress will be more assertive vis-à-vis its allies, 
more authoritarian and repressive in its policies.       

  

 
 
 
 
 

 

4 

The  so-called  decisive  mandate  is  meant  to  justify  the  cruel  state  repression  and  the 

 

imperialist-dictated LPG 
 
As  regards  the  claim  of  some  election  pundits  that  it  was  a  vote  for  economic  reform  (a  euphemism  for  selling 
away the natural and human resources of the country to the imperialist MNCs and the corporate big business), we 
can  say  it  is  a  figment  of  their  imagination  or  a  deliberate  distortion  of  the  facts.  Is  the  BJP  lagging  behind 
Congress in carrying out the so-called economic reforms at the behest of the imperialists  and the CBB? Is a LK 
Advani, Arun Jaitley or a Narendra Modi any less trustworthy in the eyes of the imperialists and the CBB than a 
Manmohan Singh or Chidambaram or YS Reddy? If so one would not find all the top comprador business houses 
in the country and the MNCs praising Hindu fascist Modi and queuing up to open up their companies in Gujarat 
or  rushing  to  exploit  the  natural  resources  in  Raman  Singh‟s  police  state  of  Chattisgarh.  In  West  Bengal, 
ironically,  it  was  Mamata‟s  Trinamul  Congress  which,  for  its  own  reasons,  had  bitterly  opposed  the  “economic 
reforms”  initiated  by  the  Left  Front  government  led  by  the  CPI(M).  Tatas  had  to  shift  their  car  factory  from 
Singur and the Left Front government had to withdraw its plans to hand over the land to the big business houses 
in Nandigram.  
 
One cannot differentiate Buddhadeb‟s government in West Bengal with a Congress or a BJP government in any 
other state in the matter of the neo-liberal reforms. In fact, the CPI(M)-led government had gone a step ahead by 
acquiring land for industrialists like Tatas, Jindals, etc and granting it free or for a nominal price. Then how did 
Trinamul gain in West Bengal if the people had voted for  “economic reform”? Anyone  with minimum common 
sense  would  not  venture  to  draw  such  ridiculous  and  hilarious  conclusions  as  our  election  pundits,  media 
commentators and political leaders have been doing.   
 
The media is carrying on a non-stop hype regarding the decisive mandate for reform and asserting with glee that 
Manmohan  Singh  government,  in  its  second  stint  in  office,  has  a  free  hand  to  carry  out  reforms  without  any 
hindrance whatsoever, unlike last time when it had to cow down before the demands of the Left.  
 
The logic of decisive mandate for economic reform is deliberately put forth according to a pre-hatched conspiracy 
of the reactionary ruling classes and international capital. By placing this logic and repeating it ad nauseum, these 
exploiters  want  to  justify  and  legitimize  their  agenda  of  globalization,  liberalisation  and  complete  privatization 
which  had  become  unpopular  and  drew  militant  mass  resistance  in  many  areas.  Showing  the  logic  of  decisive 
mandate for “reform”, they are clamouring for carrying out the agenda of economic reforms at a faster pace.  
 
Hence  it  is  very  much  necessary  to  effectively  counter  the  argument  that  it  was  a  mandate  for  stability  and 
economic reform. The real cruel essence of this argument has to be exposed; and all attempts to step up repression 
in  the  form  of  state  terror  and  state-sponsored  terror  with  the  claim  of  bringing  stability  have  to  be  unitedly 
opposed  and  militantly  resisted.  Likewise,  its  attempts  to  implement  the  traitorous,  anti-people,  imperialist-
dictated economic reforms have to be bitterly opposed and militantly resisted. A broad-based mass movement has 
to be built against privatization, against  handing over land and resources to the MNCs and CBB in the name of 
SEZs, against displacement of the peasants  and other sections of people through so-called development projects 
that benefit the imperialists and big business, and so on. Through such militant mass movements we have to show 
how the people of our country are bitterly and totally opposed to the imperialist-dictated economic reforms.  
 
 
Emergence of election boycott as a significant trend 
 
Boycott  of  polls  has  emerged  as  a  dominant  form  of  struggle  in  the  elections  held  in  April-May  2009.  And  our 
Party  has led this  struggle in several  states in the  country.  All the antics  to refurbish the image of a system that 
had lost all credibility in the eyes of the vast majority of the Indian population and to pour new life into a rotten, 
stinking institution called Parliament had failed to create any interest whatsoever in the voter. The most publicized 

 

 

5 

campaign by the NGOs, film actors, industrialists and eminent personalities in Mumbai  saw only 43.52 per cent 
of the voters turning up, the lowest ever in the city.  
 
Overall, the majority of the voters this time  showed a  greater awareness by staying away  from the polls despite 
the  24-hour  non-stop  appeals  by  the  media  to  the  voters  to  exercise  their  franchise.  In  Chattisgarh,  Bihar, 
Jharkhand, Maharashtra, MP, Orissa, and Kashmir, polling has been quite low with more than 50% of the voters 
rejecting the elections. If elections were held without the shadow of the gun, the percentage of votes polled would 
have been much lower everywhere. The presence of the police, para-military and army does make a difference for 
it creates  a sense of fear and apprehension among the voters that if they did not vote  they would be singled out 
and victimized. There  are  several cases of people being herded together  and driven to the  polling booths to cast 
their votes. In Kashmir, with a population of just over 80 lakhs and six seats to the Parliament, election was held 
in  five  phases!  Just  to  ensure  that  the  security  forces  overwhelm  the  voters  and  thereby  ensuring  a  greater 
percentage  of  votes.  Every  visual  of  the  elections  in  Kashmir  Valley  showed  a  sea  of  security  personnel  with  a 
few civilian voters here and there. And hardly any of the faces lined up at the polling booths exhibited a feeling of 
enthusiasm  or  interest.  The  feeling  on  their  faces  was  clearly  one  of  fear  and  apathy.  It  is  not  difficult  to  
understand as to how and why they came to the polling booths if one knows the ground reality in Kashmir which 
is a territory under Indian Army occupation just as Iraq. 
 
 
Our Boycott Campaign 
 
The reactionary rulers had tried by every means at their disposal to foil the call for boycott of elections given by 
our  Party.  They  made  elaborate  plans  to  counter  our  campaign:  elections  in  most  of  the  areas  in  our  guerrilla 
zones and main areas of armed struggle were held in the first phase itself. Two dozen choppers were pressed into 
service  in  Maoist-dominated  States  for  surveillance  and  to  provide  operational  support  to  the  security  forces  in 
countering the Maoist revolutionaries who had given a call for boycott of the poll.   
 
The aim of the ruling classes in holding the elections in our areas in the very first phase was to deploy the central 
forces several weeks prior to the elections and create an atmosphere of terror among the population so that polling 
is enforced in the areas of Maoist dominance thereby proving the victory of democracy over terrorism.  Thus the 
plan of the EC was: deploy all the available central forces for at least three weeks in the areas under the influence 
of  Maoists;  stage  as  many  fake  encounters  as  possible  in  order  to  eliminate  Maoist  cadres  prior  to  the  election 
justifying  these  in  the  name  of  maintaining  a  free  and  fair  atmosphere  for  the  voters;  establish  area  domination 
and  achieve  better  coordination  with  the  anti-Naxal  commando  units  and  special  forces  in  various  states;  and 
enforce voting under the shadow of the gun thereby ensuring a higher percentage of polling and a higher score for 
democracy in India. 
 
Notwithstanding the presence of a huge  contingent of central  and state police forces for over three  weeks in the 
areas  under  Maoist  influence  and  their  attempts  at  area  domination,  our  Party,  PLGA,  revolutionary  organs  of 
people‟s  power  in  the  countryside,  and  mass  organsiations  carried  out  a  mass  political  propaganda  campaign 
besides undertaking several tactical counter-offensives against the gun-toting enemy forces who were desperately 
trying  to  coerce  people  to  vote.  Our  propaganda  campaign  was  so  effective  that  there  was  hardly  any 
electioneering  by  the  political  parties  in  most  parts  of  the  countryside  in  Dandakaranya  (Dantewada,  Bijapur, 
Narayanpur, Bastar  and Kanker districts, and some parts of Rajandgaon district); in many districts of Bihar  and 
Jharkhand  where  the  polling  percentage  had  come  down  drastically  from  that  in  2004;  in  West  Midnapore, 
Bankura  and  Purulia  and  near-total  boycott  in  Lalgarh  area  in West  Bengal;  in  Malkangiri,  Koraput,  Gajapathi, 
Ganjam, Rayagada and other districts in Orissa; and other places. 
 
 
 
 

6 

 

Heroic tactical counter-offensives by our PLGA unnerves the reactionary rulers 
 
The ten days that ended in the first phase of election on April 16 witnessed one of the biggest and most successful 
campaigns by Maoists in the electoral history of the country. They saw massive strikes by PLGA guerrillas across 
the  states  of  Chattisgarh,  Jharkhand,  Bihar,  West  Bengal,  Orissa  and  Maharashtra.  The  period  also  saw  mass 
political propaganda across the length and breadth of the country by our Party calling upon the people to boycott 
the elections and to establish their own revolutionary-democratic organs of political power as in the vast tracts of 
Dandakaranya.  The  ten  days  became  a  virtual  nightmare  for  the  reactionary  rulers  of  India  and  the  media 
commented that the violent attacks by Maoists prior to, and on the day of, the first phase of the polls showed that 
it was “one of the bloodiest elections in recent times”. “They (Maoists) are doing everything to disrupt elections,” 
howled the home minister P Chidambaram in a Press meet. 
 
The Election Commission, under the guidance of the Union Home Ministry, drew up an elaborate plan especially 
for the guerrilla zones  and other areas under  Maoist influence.  It decided to concentrate all the central forces in 
these areas right from the day of announcement of notification of election dates i.e., at least three to four weeks in 
advance,  in  what  it  described  as  a  plan  to  achieve  area  domination  by  the  police  and  central  forces  prior  to 
polling. It meant carrying out as many fake encounters as possible in order to eliminate Maoist cadres prior to the 
election and justifying these in the name of maintaining a free and fair atmosphere for the voters to cast their votes 
freely.  Hence  polling  was  conducted  in  most  of  these  areas  in  the  first  phase  itself.  Due  to  this,  the  state‟s 
repressive forces had ample time to create terror in the areas whereas in other areas where polls were held in the 
subsequent phases they could be deployed for hardly a week. 
 
Despite the massive deployment of the central forces and concentration of the entire police force in the states in 
the Maoist-dominated areas, and their desperate attempts to create an atmosphere of terror among the people, they 
could  not  achieve  their  objective.  The  people  led  by  the  CPI(Maoist)  and  PLGA  resisted  the  onslaught  by  the 
central-state police forces, carried out daring  attacks on these mercenary forces, and foiled their Operation Area 
Domination.  No  candidate  or  Party  representative  dared  to  venture  into  these  areas  for  electioneering.  Only 
Maoist posters, banners and leaflets were seen in vast tracts of Bihar, Jharkhand, Chattisgarh, Orissa, West Bengal 
and Maharashtra besides parts of other states in the country.  In the Maoist guerrilla attacks during the period 
starting from April 6 when three C-60 commandos were wiped out in Maharashtra to the annihilation of a 
BSF  jawan  near  Kone  village  in  Latehar  after  the  completion  of  the  polling  on  April  16,  a  total  of  43 
central-state forces were wiped out in Maoist counter-offensives. By the time the last phase of polling was 
completed on May 13, our PLGA carried out several more attacks on the enemy forces annihilating a total 
of over 70 enemy troops. As on June 12, when the present circular  of our Politbureau  is being released, a 
total of 112 police personnel, most of them central forces, were wiped out in the heroic actions carried  out 
by our PLGA guerrillas.     
 
Some of the major counter-offensives during the election period were: the Mugner ambush in Dhanora tehsil of 
Gadchiroli on  April 6 wiping out three C-60 commandos; land-mine explosion near Bijapur on April 7 n which 
the district SP narrowly escaped while two policemen died; the daring attack on the CRPF-police force near Minta 
village  under  Chintagufa  PS  in  Dantewada  on  April  10  in  which  11  CRPF  personnel  including  one  Deputy 
Commandant and a Sub-Inspector were wiped out; the ambush in Khunti in Bihar eliminating 5 jawans on April 
11 on  the  day  of  the  visit  of  Sonia  Gandhi  to  the  district;  wiping  out  11  CISF  jawans  in  a  daring  attack  by  our 
guerrillas on a well-guarded armoury in South Asia‟s biggest bauxite mines of NALCO in Damanjodi in Orissa‟s 
Koraput  district  on  April  12;  the  daring  attack  by  PLGA  on  a  BSF  camp  in  Rohtas  district  of  Bihar  in  the 
intervening night of April 14/15; the April 15 attack on the CRPF personnel in Badhania Ghati in Latehar district 
of Jharkhand which wiped out two jawans and injured several others;  attack on a bus carrying BSF personnel in 
Latehar  when  they  were  returning  after  the  first  phase  of  polling  on  April  16  wiping  out  six  BSF  jawans;  
annihilation  of  another  BSF  jawan  in  a  mine  explosion  in  the  same  district  on  April  16;  annihilation  of  a 
homeguard  and  a  policeman  in  Sighpur  under  Banke  Bazaaar  PS  in  Gaya;  annihilation  of  the  candidate  of 

 

7 

regional „Samruddha Odisha‟ party for the Assembly elections in Malkangiri on April 9 coinciding with the visit 
of Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik to the district. 
 
In the second phase of polling to the Lok Sabha elections on April 23 our guerrillas triggered a landmine blast in 
Muzaffarpur  district  of  North  Bihar  wiping  out  four  policemen,  including  a  sub-inspector;  in  Dantewada  seven 
policemen were wiped out in an ambush near Vinjaram base camp on May 6; annihilation of two leaders of BJP, 
Darabara  singh  Mandavi  in  Rajnandgaon  district  and  another  Narayan  Haldar  in  Koilbeda;  annihilation  of 
Farasgaon SI in a daring day-light attack in the Farasgaon market in Narayanpur district on May 7; wiping out of 
12 CRPF jawans on May 10th in a daring attack in Dhamtari district in Chattisgarh; and several more actions on a 
smaller  scale.  Over  a  hundred  policemen  were  injured  in  all  these  incidents  carried  out  during  the  period  of 
election.  
 
There  were  some  unfortunate  incidents  too  such  as  the  death  of  five  polling  officials  also  along  with  two 
policemen  in  Rajnandgaon  district  of  Chattisgarh,  three  in  West  Bengal,  and  also  in  Jharkhand.  We  lose  the 
sympathy of the people through such incidents and the enemy will try to utilize these mistakes to turn the people 
against us and to justify his brutal offensive against Maoist revolutionaries. Hence the serious mistakes committed 
by  our  comrades  due  to  which  innocent  lives  were  lost  should  be  thoroughly  reviewed  and  the  comrades 
responsible  for  this  should  be  warned  and  if  it  is  proved  to  be  gross  negligence  disciplinary  action  should  be 
initiated against those responsible.    
 
 
Centre’s priorities: A brutal Fascist military and economic offensive   
 
As soon as he assumed office as Prime Minster, Manmohan Singh declared that the foremost priorities before his 
new  government  at  the  Centre  were:  tackling  terrorism  and  Left-wing  extremism;  and  bringing  the  ailing 
economy on to right track.  Home Minister Chidambaram  was  even more  forthright. He declared that the Centre 
was determined to deal with  Left-wing  extremism with  an iron hand.  Without mincing  words he  made clear his 
government‟s  goals:  first  carry  out  police  action  to  flush  out  Naxalites;  then  follow  it  up  with  development 
measures. This is a very important point to take note of as the entire stress is on police action or military solution. 
So-called development is sought to be carried out only after carrying out massacres and establishing peace of the 
graveyard. Chidambaram also said that para-military forces would only play a secondary role in Kashmir which 
means  some  of  these  central  forces  would  be  withdrawn  from  Kashmir  and  redeployed  in  our  areas  of  armed 
struggle. Terrorism and “Left-wing extremism” are used by the reactionary ruling classes  as a pretext to step up 
their fascist offensive on the people at large.  This is necessary for the reactionary rulers in order to  enforce their 
imperialist-dictated anti-people market fundamentalist policies on a reluctant population.  
 
We have to understand that our revolutionary war is a cruel class war. The reactionary rulers will show no mercy in 
suppressing the revolutionaries and the masses of people who support them. The principal instrument in their hands is 
the oppressive state machine—police, para-military, military, jails, torture chambers and so on. They aim to contain the 
Maoist movement and all struggles of the masses principally through military means and go to any extent committing 
mass murders, tortures, arrests, abductions and illegal detentions, mass rape of women, use of private armed militias or 
vigilante squads,  destroying  entire  villages  and  rendering  lakhs of  people homeless, carrying out  psychological  war, 
etc.  And,  assisted  by  the  imperialists,  they  have  been  refining  their  counter-insurgency  tactics  as  part  of  their  LIC 
strategy,  continuously  increasing  and  modernizing  the  police,  para-military  and  other  armed  forces,  deploying  more 
and  more  battalions in  the  areas of  armed struggle,  spending huge sums  for setting up and  further  strengthening  the 
intelligence machinery and informer network, setting up scores of private gangs, and so on. The experience of LTTE‟s 
setback in Sri Lanka is very important for us to study and take lessons. The mistake of LTTE lay in its lack of study of 
the changes in the enemy tactics, capabilities, international support and open assistance by imperialist powers, etc i.e., 
an underestimation of the enemy along with an overestimation of its own forces and capabilities.    
 

 

8 

The  baton  of  terrorism—whether  it  is  branded  as  Islamic  terrorism  or  Left-wing  terrorism—is  very  much 
necessary for the rulers to unleash the worst forms of state terror and state-sponsored terror. Just as a George Bush 
tried to justify the inhuman atrocities by his CIA and mercenary troops in Guantanamo, Abu Ghraib and several 
torture chambers in the name of containing terrorism and his „global war on terror‟ which itself is a product of the 
criminal  brains  of  the  military-industrial  elites  ruling  the  US,  our  Manmohan  Singhs  and  Chidambarams  too 
justify, in the name of containing the “threat of terrorism and Left-wing extremism”, their savage, unconstitutional 
salwa judum in Chattisgarh, Sendra in Jharkhand, various mercenary senas in Bihar, and the limitless atrocities by 
the  CRPF,  ITBP,  BSF,  ERF,  and  other  central  para-military  forces  jointly  with  Greyhounds,  SOG,  STF,  C-60 
commandos, and local police of various states. Burning of adivasi hamlets, displacement of lakhs of adivasis from 
their traditional lands and homes, mass murders of youth, torture and rape of women, destruction of houses, crops 
and other property of the poor adivasis, forced closure of the weekly bazaars, are all justified as collateral damage 
in the so-called “determined fight” against terrorism.   
 
On April 28 the fascist Raman Singh regime in Chattisgarh imposed a ban on the CPI(Maoist) and six other mass 
organizations  in  the  state.  These  are:  Kisan  Mazdoor  Sangh,  Krantikari  Mahila  Sangh,  Krantikari  Kisan 
Committee, Janathan Sarkar, Mahila Mukti Manch, Krantikari Balak Sangh. The ban was imposed for one year 
by invoking the Public Security Act. While fake encounters, mass murders and arrests of innocent adivasis have 
been going on without a let up irrespective of whether there exists a ban or not, the imposition of the ban is meant 
to scare away the democratic and civil rights organizations and individuals from condemning the state and state-
sponsored atrocities on Maoist revolutionaries and innocent adivasis in the name of sympathising with the banned 
organizations. 
 
Thus the unfolding state terror and state-sponsored terror under Sonia-Manmohan-Chidambaram combine will be 
far more brutal, deadly and savage than under any other regime hitherto witnessed. Just as the reactionary fascist 
rulers  everywhere  carry  out  such  savagery  by  imposing  curfews,  not  permitting  media  personnel  and  feeding 
information  and  police  version  selectively,  the  criminals  who  have  been  re-elected  to  power  at  the  Centre  are 
conspiring  to  carry  out  the  same  in  the  forests  of  Maad  (or  Abhujmaad  as  is  known  to  outside  world).  All  the 
preparations are nearing completion on a war-footing. 
 
 
Let us prepare the entire Party, PLGA and  the masses at large to defeat the criminal  plan of the 
central-state governments to launch a massive brutal fascist offensive against Maad 
 
In  the  past  few  months,  particularly  from  its  re-election  in  November  2008  elections  to  state  assembly  in 
Chatisgarh, Raman Singh government had intensified its attack on the revolutionary movement. Abducting militia 
and mass organization members and even ordinary youth from the villages, torturing and murdering them, raping 
adivasi  women,  have  become  a  common  feature  in  Chatisgarh.  Singaram  massacre  of  18  adivasis  by  Raman 
Singh-Manmohan Singh‟s mercenary police on January 8, 2009 stands out as an example of the brutal face of the 
state  and  central  governments  that  have  the  least  regard  for  the  Indian  Constitution  and  provisions  of  law. 
Abducting and murdering people is the meaning of „rule of law‟ in Raman Singh-Manmohan Singh‟s dictionary. 
Several  more  mass  killings  and  indiscriminate  attacks  on  adivasi  villages  such  as  the  murder  of  five  militia 
members in Dondem Paara hamlet in Indravati area on January 24 revealed how brutal the reactionary rulers can 
become when faced with a threat to their exploitative, oppressive rule.  
 
After  the  daring  ambush  and  wiping  out  of  12  policemen  near  Risgaon  in  Dhamtari,  Home  Minister  Nankiram 
Kanwar assured the media that  he would suppress the Maoists within one year or else  will resign from his post. 
Raman Singh declared that there is no scope of holding talks with the Maoists and that his government is prepared 
to take on the Maoists in a straight fight. DGP Vishwaranjan, who was asked to cut short his long leave and take 
charge,  boasted  off  that  he  would  suppress  the  Naxal  movement  in  Bastar  within  six  months  if  the  Centre 
provided him with 55 battalions. Joint meetings between the  top police brass of the states of Chattisgarh, Andhra 
Pradesh, Jharkhand, Orissa and Maharashtra are taking place more frequently to co-ordinate their attacks.  

9 

 

 
At  around  the  time  of  our  successful  counter-offensive  in  Dhamtari,  a  delegation  from  the  American  consulate 
had arrived in Raipur and had consultations with the chief minister, representatives of the government as well as 
the  opposition  congress.  The  American  officials  enquired  regarding  the  steps  taken  by  the  government  in 
suppressing the Naxals and also on the potentialities of making capital investments in Chattisgarh. It is not a mere 
coincidence  that  soon  after  these  secret  discussions  with  the  US  delegation  the  plans  of  launching  an  attack  on 
Maad region have come out in the open.  
 
A  blue-print  for  a  massive  military  offensive  was  prepared  by  the  Centre  for  gaining  an  upper-hand  over  the 
Maoists.  A  senior  officer  was  appointed  in  Chattisgarh  by  the  Centre  for  coordination  of  the  CRPF  forces  and 
local  police.  All-round  preparations  are  in  the  final  stage  for  launching  the  massive  brutal  offensive  on  the 
guerrilla zones and guerrilla bases.  The Governor of Chattisgarh, ESL Narasimhan—a former top official of the 
IB— has been busily carrying out secret parleys with the Union Home Minister, Army and para-military officials 
and bureaucrats in Delhi in the second week of June. He has been impressing upon the Centre for the immediate 
dispatch  of  several  battalions  of  CRPF  and  other  central  forces  to  Maad.  The  scanning  of  the  entire  area  by 
satellites  is  almost  on  the  verge  of  completion  and  the  satellite  images  and  the  concrete  topographical  map  of 
entire  Maad  will  be  ready  in  another  month.  Based  on  this  map  complete  with  all  hamlets,  forest  tracks,  water 
points, etc the police and central forces will carry out their operations. They are also claiming that preparations are 
also on to check the retreat of Maoist guerrillas into neighbouring areas in Jharkhand and Orissa.  
 
Maad  is  home  to  one  of  the  oldest  indigenous  tribes  known  as  Madia  gonds  who  have  survived  to  this  day 
preserving their way of life, culture, customs etc. The UPA govt at the Centre and Raman Singh govt in the state 
have drawn up a plan to create a reign of terror in this area, burn and destroy tribal hamlets, and drive them out of 
the  area  to  govt-organised  camps  as  it  had  done  in  Dantewara  and  Bijapur.  It  is  thus  conspiring  to  vacate  the 
Madia  adivasis  from  the  area  thereby  endangering  the  way  of  life,  culture,  customs  and  resources  of  one  of  the 
oldest surviving tribes of India. 
 
Encompassing roughly an area of around 4,000 sq kms Maad is one division of Dandakaranya. Adivasis residing 
in this region have a heroic history of militant armed resistance against British and other exploiters. The spirit of 
Gundadur still prevails and every year madia gonds celebrate the martyrdom of Gundadur and the anniversary of 
Bhumkal rebellion which he led against British imperialism in 1910.  
 
To justify its proposed attack on Maad the BJP government is propagating that Maad has become the military HQ 
of the Maoists. The fascist Raman Singh government in the state,  with the active assistance of the Congress-led 
UPA government at the Centre,  had unleashed the notorious salwa  judum by arming vigilante  gangs since June 
2005. And now it is itching to directly send the police and central forces into Maad and unleash similar terror in 
accordance with its policy of “Loot all! Kill all! Destroy all!”  
 
As  our  CC  had  pointed  out  several  times  in  the  past  the  reactionary  rulers  are  having  their  greedy  eyes  on  the 
mineral  wealth  of  the  adivasi  areas  right  from  Bankura-Purulia-Midnapur  to  Vishakha-Srikakulam  Agency  in 
north Andhra. That is why they have been crying hoarse that they are losing control over the natural resources of 
the country due to Maoist presence in the adivasi areas which the Centre had named as the “Red Corridor”.    
 
Prime Minister himself focused on this real aim of the reactionary rulers in launching the brutal offensive against 
adivasi population. Commenting on the danger posed by “Left-wing extremism” he said on June 7 that Naxals are 
controlling the mineral wealth and other resources of vast backward regions in the country. Mittals, Tats, Jindals, 
Essars and the like are offering huge funds for the suppression of the Maoists so as to swallow the entire resources 
of the region without any hindrance. That is the rationale behind the proposed attack on Maad and the decision to 
create a blood-bath. To justify this brutal offensive the rulers have also been playing up their fabricated lies that 
Naxals are against development. Just as development (or rather the obstruction to development by Maoists) was 
made into an issue when the notorious salwa judum was launched by Mahendra Karma of the Congress and the 

 

10 

Raman  Singh  government  in  June  2005,  they  are  trying  to  show  that  Maoists  are  destroying  schools,  roads, 
industries, etc and keeping the region in backwardness.  
 
We  have  to  once  again  prepare  the  people  of  the  area  to  resist  the  marauders  and  mercenaries  sent  by  Sonia-
Manmohan-Chidambaram combine to subdue them, destroy their culture, and loot the resources of the region for 
the benefit of a  handful of exploiters.  This  time the fight  will be more  long-drawn and more bitter than the one 
against the British imperialist armies.  
Every proposal placed by BJP‟s Raman Singh government in Chattisgarh before the Centre is readily accepted by 
the  Congress-led  UPA  government.  So  much  is  the  cooperation  between  the  two  sides  that  some  reporters 
commented  that  it  was  very  difficult  to  see  that  there  were  two  different  parties  in  the  state  and  Centre.  The 
Congress and BJP became indistinguishable in the tone, tenor and war against the Maoists. Never before was such 
a degree of coordination and cooperation achieved between the Centre and state on the Naxal issue.  
 
 
Post-Election situation and its relation to our tactics 
 
The  fact  that  the  Congress-led  UPA  has  been  re-elected,  with  the  Congress  improving  its  seat  tally  and  in  a 
position  to  play  a  more  decisive  role  compared  to  its  last  stint  in  office,  has  given  the  UPA,  and  its  biggest 
constituent Congress, greater scope for unleashing  a more brutal and bigger military offensive against our Party 
and  movement.  In  the  last  government,  where  it  had  a  smaller  number  of  seats,  the  Congress  was  totally 
dependent on its various allies in order to continue in power, and the Left too exerted some amount of pressure on 
Manmohan  Singh  government  for  almost  four  years.  But  today  Manmohan  Singh‟s  government  has  acquired  a 
majority  with  the  support  of  just  four  other  Parties.  And  other  Parties  like  BSP,  SP  and  RJD  have  expressed 
support to the government from outside. They will act as reserves if any of the existing partners in the UPA opt 
out. Thus overall,  we  can say that the present government  will remain relatively more stable than the preceding 
one  and  will  be  in  a  position  to  carry  out  the  pro-imperialist  policies  and  suppression  of  the  revolutionary-
democratic  movements  more  ruthlessly.  We  have  to  keep  in  mind  that  the  results  have  given  scope  for  the 
UPA  government  to  enact  more  draconian  legislation,  and  implement  more  fascist  measures  and 
suppression of the people’s struggles.  
 
Besides,  the current political situation  in South  Asia  arising out of the geo-strategic  needs of US  imperialism  is 
also likely to provide some flexibility to the rulers to use the state‟s forces for carrying out fascist repression on 
revolutionary  struggles, nationality movements and other people‟s movements.  The situation in  Afghanistan has 
been deteriorating rapidly in spite of deploying more US troops after Barack Obama took charge. The number of 
casualties suffered by NATO troops is growing higher and higher like a spiral with every passing week. There is 
virtually no government in Afghanistan in the real sense of the term and most of it is under Taliban‟s control. The 
supply routes for NATO troops are continuously disrupted by the Taliban which has close coordination with the 
Pakistani  Taliban.  In  Pakistan  too  the  Taliban  has  control  over  large  tracts  of  Northwest  frontier  Province  and 
Swat  Valley  with  extensive  network  throughout  the  country.  Hence  the  US  imperialists  have  been  exerting 
pressure on Pakistan to concentrate all its forces on the western border to finish off the Taliban.  The US  cannot 
think of losing  Afghanistan  which is the gateway to the oil-rich Central  Asian  region.  It is also essential for the 
US to keep South Asia under its thumb as part of its designs for global hegemony and  its rivalry with China, the 
newly emerging global competitor to the US. 
 
It is trying to mediate between  India and Pakistan to reduce the tensions between the  two countries so that both 
can free their forces from the borders and concentrate on what the US imperialists think are the real threat—the 
Taliban  and  other  Islamic  fundamentalist  forces,  Maoist  revolutionaries,  anti-American  movements  and  other 
people‟s  movements.  If  the  Americans  succeed,  and  most  likely  they  would,  then  the  Indian  ruling  classes  will 
have some flexibility on the western front and in Kashmir. It can relieve some of the central forces from Kashmir 
and re-deploy them in our guerrilla zones  and other  areas of armed struggle.  The setback  suffered by the LTTE 

 

11 

and the Tamil liberation struggle in Sri Lanka also has a negative effect on the revolutionary movement in  India 
as well as South Asia and the world at large.  
 
We have to correctly grasp this objective situation in the post-election period in order to evolve correct tactics and 
tasks.  
  
 
Immediate Tasks 
 
In order to defeat the new offensive by the enemy and to protect the gains of our people‟s war it is very essential 
to  rouse  the  masses  throughout  the  country,  stand  up  in  support  of  the  struggles  in  Dandakaranya,  Bihar-
Jharkhand,  Orissa,  Andhra  Pradesh,  West  Bengal,  Maharashtra,  Karnataka  and  other  places,  and  build  a  broad-
based  countrywide  mass  movement  against  the  fascist  offensive  by  the  reactionary  rulers  with  the  active 
assistance and guidance of the imperialists. To defend our guerrilla bases in Dandakaranya and BJ and to advance 
the armed struggle in the guerrilla zones we have to carry out the following immediate tasks: 
 
Prepare the people, the Party and the PLGA politically to confront the brutal enemy onslaught; educate the people 
regarding the scale and intensity of the enemy offensive, its cruel nature and the need for enormous sacrifices on 
the part of the Party, PLGA and the masses; take initiative to unite with other struggling organizations and forces 
to  forge  strong  united  fronts  on  every  issue  and  at  every  level  possible;  enthuse  them  with  the  daring  counter-
offensives  carried  out  by  our  forces  in  various  parts  of  the  country  and  prepare  them  to  undertake  similar 
operations;  enhance  the  initiative  and  involvement  of  the  masses  in  fighting  and  defeating  the  superior  enemy 
forces.  The  manner  in  which  we  had  defeated  the  salwa  judum  should  be  projected  as  a  model  to  be  emulated 
elsewhere.  
 
Prepare  and  mobilize  the  entire  Party,  PLGA  and  the  people  for  carrying  out  tactical  counter-offensives  and 
various forms of armed resistance and inflict severe losses to the enemy forces; attacks should be organized with 
meticulous  planning  against  the  state‟s  khaki  and  olive-clad  terrorist  forces,  SPOs,  police  informants,  and  other 
counter-revolutionaries and enemies of the people; these attacks should be carried out in close coordination with, 
and in support of, the armed resistance of the masses; these should be linked to the seizure of political power and 
establishment of base areas; it is the combined attacks by all the three wings of the PLGA and the people at large 
that can ensure the defeat of the enemy offensive;  
 
Purge the non-proletarian trends prevailing in our Party and the movement by conducting Rectification Campaign 
in an effective manner so as to provide capable proletarian leadership to the Indian revolution;  
 
Protect the leadership and preserve  the Party  cadres  and PLGA fighters by  avoiding unnecessary  losses;  expand 
our  Party  by  recruiting  new  members  and  train  up  comrades  at  every  level  to  build  new  leadership;  rectify  the 
weaknesses in the existing mechanism and strengthen it by avoiding everything that is likely to be exposed to the 
enemy through betrayers, arrested persons and our Party records;  
 
The  aim  of  the  enemy  will  be  to  isolate  us  from  the  broad  masses  engaging  us  in  continuous  military 
engagements, then to pin us down militarily  using  his  superior armed force and other infrastructure;  we  have  to 
foil  this  tactic  of  the  enemy  by  taking  up  the  basic  issues  of  the  people,  mobilising  them  into  militant  mass 
struggles, taking up wide propaganda exposing state terror and state-sponsored terror and making serious attempts 
to build broad-based united fronts with all those forces who oppose the state‟s brutal offensive;  
 
Though the enemy is itching to suppress our Party and movement by deploying a huge force in all our areas, he 
has severe difficulties in implementing this at present; he has plans to increase the number of central forces in the 
next few years, to set up and train special forces like the Cobras, but in the immediate context it is quite difficult 
for the Centre to send the forces required by each state to control our movement. Keeping this in mind, we have to 

12 

 

further aggravate the situation and create more difficulties to the enemy forces by expanding our guerrilla war to 
new areas on the one hand and intensifying the mass resistance in the existing areas so as to disperse the enemy 
forces  over  a  sufficiently  wider  area;  hence  the  foremost  task  in  every  state  is  to  intensify  the  war  in  their 
respective states while in areas of intense enemy repression there is need to expand the area of struggle by proper 
planning by the concerned committees; tactical counter-offensives should be stepped up and also taken up in new 
areas so as to divert a section of the enemy forces from attacking our guerrilla bases and organs of political power.  
 
Any mistake on our part will be utilized by the enemy to isolate us, rally a section of the masses, and also justify 
his attacks on us by pointing to our mistakes, magnifying them and branding them as anti-people and terroristic; 
hence we should take extra precautions not to take up reckless actions, not to cause damage to people‟s property 
or  cause  inconvenience  to  the  people  by  our  actions,  and  to  apologize  for  our  mistakes  promptly  assuring  the 
people that such mistakes will not be repeated in future;  
 
As far as the offensive on Maad is concerned we have to mobiise all adivasi organizations throughout the country 
to protest against the destruction of one of the oldest tribes of India;  we have to mobilize all forces cutting across 
all political and other lines to save Maad region;  
 
The conspiracy of the ruling classes in planning their attack on Maad should be exposed thoroughly and its real 
intentions  and  motives  should  be  laid  bare.  The  link  between  Raoghat  mines  and  the  attack  on  Maad  should  be 
explained and the people should be educated as to how the entire region is being handed over to the  comprador 
big business houses like the Tatas in Lohandiguda, Essar in Dhurli, NMDC‟s proposed steel plants in Nagarnaar 
and  Dilimili,  Raoghat  mines  and  Bodhghat  project.  The  bigger  conspiracy  of  the  reactionary  rulers  to  extend 
mining from Raoghat to the innumerable hills in Maad and to loot the natural mineral wealth of the region should 
be exposed and a broad-based movement should be built against displacement.   
 
 
Comrades! 

 

Today we are facing an extraordinary situation.  
Immense  possibilities  are  unfolding  in  front  of  our  eyes  to  advance  the  revolution  at  a  rapid  pace.  The  entire 
world is caught in neck-deep crisis and there seems to be no let up particularly since the past one year after the US 
was engulfed in the worst-ever economic crisis in its history. Industry after industry is closing down throwing out 
millions of workers onto the streets. Poverty  and homelessness, starvation  and destitution  have become a global 
phenomenon  providing  an  excellent  condition  for  advancing  the  people‟s  struggles  and  revolutions  everywhere. 
National liberation struggles are erupting in various regions.  

 

On the other hand, the reactionaries led by US imperialism have unleashed the most brutal fascist offensive in the 
economic,  social,  cultural  and  political  spheres  using  brute  force.  In  West  Asia,  the  focal  point  of  national 
liberation  struggle  in  the  contemporary  world,  the  situation  continues  to  resemble  a  burning  volcano  with  Iraq, 
Afghanistan  and  Palestine  engulfed  in  flames  of  national  liberation.  The  fighters  in  Iraq  and  Afghanistan  are 
inflicting heavy blows on the imperialist invaders and their armies of occupation.  The Palestinian fighters led by 
Hamas  in  Gaza  Strip  and  Hizbollah  in  Lebanon  have  shown  enormous  courage,  put  up  bold  resistance  to  the 
Israeli Zionist aggression and bombardment of their territories.  

 

In South Asia, the second focal point of national liberation struggles in the contemporary world, the situation has 
continued to be explosive with militant uprisings in several parts of Pakistan such as the Swat Valley, North West 
Provinces,  FATA,  and  other  regions.  In  Sri  Lanka,  non-stop  aerial  bombardment  of  civilian  areas  has  created 
graveyard in the Tamil-inhabited areas of Eelam. Lakhs of people are displaced from their homes and thousands 
of LTTE fighters including its leader Prabhakaran were killed. In Nepal, the Indian expansionists with the backing 
of US imperialists, have interfered to overthrow the government headed by the CPN(M).  

 

 

13 

In  India,  the  Philippines,  Bangladesh,  Turkey  and  elsewhere  deadly  attacks  are  launched  on  revolutionary 
struggles.  Thousands  of  people,  national  liberation  fighters,  and  Maoist  revolutionaries  are  massacred  by  the 
reactionary  fascist  forces.  As  the  crisis  deepens  and  people‟s  dissatisfaction  is  rising  at  an  unheard  of  pace,  the 
reactionary offensive too is being stepped up at an unprecedented pace. Such is the situation in the contemporary 
world that is unfolding before our eyes.  

 

Let us utilize the excellent situation arising out of the ever-deepening crisis in the world economy, overcome the 
negative  factors  like  the  setback  in  Sri  Lanka,  lull  in  Nepal,  massive  offensive  on  Islamic  jihadist  forces  in 
Pakistan.  

 

Let us prepare the entire Party, PLGA and mass organizations to  face the brutal offensive the enemy is planning 
to launch on a massive scale in our areas of armed struggle! Let us mobilize the people politically and militarily to 
face  this  new  offensive,  strengthen  and  expand  our  military  formations,  consolidate  and  expand  our  areas  of 
struggle and build strong solidarity movements throughout the country.  

 
 

Politbureau 
CPI(Maoist) 
June 12, 2009   
 

 

14 

