CPI(Maoist): 9th Congress 
 
 

Resolution on Prisoners’ Struggles 

 
A movement of various classes and sections is breaking out against 
the imperialist-dictated policies of globalization, liberalization and 
privatization and other anti-people policies being implemented by 
the ruling classes of India. In a bid to suppress these movements, 
the Indian Government has increasingly carried out repressive 
policies and become increasingly fascist. Several draconian laws 
have come about and are already in force. The main target of this 
repression campaign has been the struggles being waged against 
imperialism, feudalism and comprador bureaucrat capitalism under 
communist revolutionary leadership. Among these revolutionaries, 
particularly the leadership comrades, those who escape the 
inevitable fake encounters somehow or the other, find themselves 
thrown behind bars with numerous false charges heaped upon 
them. 

Six comrades in AP, 26 in Tamil Nadu are detained under POTA, 
and 16 in Karnataka, and about 25 comrades in North Chhattisgarh 
have been languishing in jails. In many other states also the 
situation is not different. Hundreds of women comrades have also 
been incarcerated in different jails in the country. Besides them, 
thousands of other comrades and people have also been thrown 
into jails. Arrested comrades are not produced in court for days on 
end in stark violation of civil rights; any kind of protest by prison 
inmates is prohibited while depriving them of all their rights; lathi-
charges are conducted to suppress any organized protest; 
leadership comrades are banished to distant jails; locked up in cells 
or harassed in other ways; visitors are denied permission to meet 
the inmates; they are not provided with medical treatment; bribes 

are extracted too often than not; false charges are framed against 
imprisoned comrades in instalments; “fast-track trials” are 
conducted to serve sentences without much ado even by the dint of 
false supporting evidence. These and other nefarious means have 
become common occurrence. 

Besides comrade Tapas, Central Committee member of our Party 
and another important comrade Pratul, five comrades from 
Asagarh, five from Bhamragarh and five from Tipragarh areas of 
Gadchiroli division and five peasants of Gondia division 
(Maharashtra), five comrades from Chhattisgarh, four comrades 
each from Orissa and Andhra Pradesh, and some comrades from 
Bihar and Jharkhand have been served with life imprisonment. 
Some ordinary villagers from Bihar, languishing in jail on charges 
related to Bara (Gaya) and Meral (Garhwa) incidents, have been 
served life sentences. 

In spite of tremendous torture, our comrades languishing behind 
bars have kept alive the ever-inspiring revolutionary legacy of 
resistance and struggle against repression and oppression in jails. 
The struggle of 1995 that broke out in various AP jails all at once 
and the solidarity struggle from outside were indeed historic in 
terms of their impact and spread. Our comrades in West Bengal, 
Karnataka and Tamil Nadu jails have also launched movements in 
demand of the rights of political prisoners and against various 
repressive measures of the authorities. We earnestly believe that 
even while bearing with the most inhuman, tough and hapless 
conditions in these torture chambers, our comrades shall leave no 
stone unturned to forge unyielding unity among themselves and to 
carry ahead the revolutionary legacy of roaring aloud, as caged 
lions would do. 

The Congress urges you to: 

  Form secret Party units even in prison and carry on the task of 

running them regularly through secret methods. 

  Build action committees such as „Jail Bandi Sanghursh Samiti‟ 

behind bars. In case comrades are kept in separate prison 
barracks, then form barrack committees, and press with 
demands to keep all revolutionaries in the same barrack 
depending upon the concrete situation. Such action 
committees are quite helpful in further enhancement of the 
spirit of unity and sacrifice, and in identifying vacillators and 
coverts. 

  Transform the prisons into political universities. 
  In order to enhance your own theoretical-ideological and political 
levels, continue holding a series of study and political classes 
as far as possible. 

  Arouse and mobilize common prison inmates, forming cultural 

teams, aid committees and various types of organizations. 
  Develop the prisons as centres of struggle against the ongoing 
widespread extortion, corruption and atrocities as well as 
against the attacks on democratic rights. At the same time, 
unite and create a huge outcry in support of the revolutionary 
struggles being waged on the world scale, and against the 
repression campaigns aimed at them. 

 

This Congress hereby adopts a resolution to take up every possible 
programme so as to express solidarity with the „struggles of prison 
inmates;‟ to lend strength to their struggles; and to form suitable 
organizations. The Congress resolves to: 

  Form organizations, such as „Committee to Release Prisoners‟ 
along with intellectuals, democracy-lovers and members of 
the families of imprisoned comrades, in solidarity with 
prisoners‟ struggles and to lend them strength. Such an 
organization shall conduct struggles on various demands 
related to the jail by establishing coordination between 
various Prisoners‟ Action Committees. Employing different 

means, such committees shall help create public opinion 
about the assault upon the civil rights of the prison inmates. 
In this direction efforts are already underway. 

  Organize progressive lawyers to provide legal support to the 

prisoners. Some efforts have been made in this direction. Yet 
we shall lay stress upon forming such organizations in 
different cities. These organizations shall provide legal 
support to imprisoned comrades as well as generate public 
opinion against draconian laws. 

  Mobilize „Committees to Release Prisoners,‟ lawyers 

organizations, civil liberty organizations and the common 
masses against „Fast Track Trials‟ and such other outright 
anti-people provisions. 

  Pay special attention to raise protest against and organize 

resistance to atrocities perpetrated upon women prisoners. 
  Rope in various means of propaganda in order to highlight the 

inhuman conditions in prisons. 

  Conduct signature campaigns on various demands of the 

prisoners and in support of their struggles in order to arouse 
and mobilize the masses. 

  Strive to punish the prison officials who carry out atrocities upon 

the prisoners. 

  Constitute a Prisoners‟ Fund to help secure their release. 
 

This Congress resolves to strive to carry out every possible means 
to free our comrades from the jails besides waging different forms 
of struggle within constitutional limits. With support from the 
masses, we had carried out historic actions such as the Jehanabad 
and R Udaigiri Jailbreaks. The Congress calls upon the entire Party 
ranks and the mass organization rank and file to prepare in this 
direction and educate the masses. 

